Contents CEO Message 2 2014 Highlight 4 aT at a Glance 6 aT Vision 2018/Participation of Stakeholders 8 Interview with Stakeholders 10 Evaluation of Importance 12 Ethical Management 14 Business 17 Argo-Fisheries Value Chain and aT Main Businesses 18 Enhancement of Export Growth Engine of Agricultural Products 19 Securement of Stable Supply & Demand of Agricultural Products 22 Improvement of Distribution Structure of Agricultural Products 24 Encouragement of Food Industry 27 Sustainability 31 Customer Satisfaction 32 Investment & Development of Local Communities 35 Talent Management 38 Environment Management 42 Shared Growth 44 Operation & Achievement 47 Corporation Introduction 48 Corporate Governance 49 Risk Management 50 Financial Performance 51 Sustainable Management Performance 52 Appendix 53 Awards and Membership Status 54 23 Principles of UNGC Advanced Level 55 Verification Report 56 GRI G4 Index 58 Nurture Dear aT Stakeholders, I sincerely appreciate all of you who paying attention to the Korea convenience, the distribution structure of micro enterprises who did the Agro-Fisheries & Food Trade Corporation. aT has issued the 7th Sustainability Report that contains the performance and efforts of pay relatively higher purchasing costs is revamped. Just like the direct transaction festival and the idea contest on how Agro-Fisheries sustainable management for a year of 2014. Since established as the to improve the distribution structure, aT will endeavor to convert the Agriculture & Fishery Development Corporation in 1967, aT has been distribution structure from the current ‘high-cost and low-efficiency’ responsible for food of the Korean people and provided a variety of structure into the ‘low-cost and high-efficiency’ one by utilizing diverse Products of support to increase incomes farming households and achieve a welland creative ideas. balanced national development by stabilizing the supply and demand of main agricultural products, improving the distribution system and Third, Increase the agro-fisheries value chain by nurturing Korea extending the export of domestic agro-fisheries products. In January, 2012, under the new vision of realizing a ‘reliable public organization the food industry The market scale of the global food industry is bigger than that of IT CE O Message specialized in nurturing global agro-fisheries products’, we changed and automobile. Considering 144 trillion KRW of theannual added value the name to Korea Agro-Fisheries & Food Trade Corporation and and 1.86 million employees, the domestic food industry is important embarked on a new journey. In September 2014, aT faced a sea change and highly promising. For nurturing the domestic food industry, aT has after moving its head office to the Gwangju-Jeonnam Innovation City. To launched the Young Agri-Food Fellowship where talent who will lead follow the balanced national development policy, aT took the initiative the future of agricultural food industry is fostered. Also, we are going in the organization move project by purchasing land for new buildings to focus on increasing the added value of agriculture and food industry and holding a groundbreaking ceremony, and successfully opened a and strengthening competitiveness through the establishment of a new prospect of preparing for the 6th industrial era of agriculture. As ‘Korean-style Food Valley Model’, like the food valley of Netherland in a public organization offering hope to the Korean agricultural product tandem with related organizations that we moved together in Naju. industry, aT promises all stakeholders as below in order to achieve the sustainable growth and fulfill the responsibilities. Forth, Endeavor to stabilizethe supply and demand of safe agricultural products First, Open a new exporting era of 10 billion dollars in While supply and demand of agricultural products are getting agro-fisheries food products stabilized, the price falls of Chinese cabbage caused by a sudden As seen in the extension of the FTA, the agricultural product industry increase of output last year damaged many farming households. faces a full-fledged opening time. Especially, the agreement of aT will be committed to securing an efficient supply and demand the Korea-China FTA is expected to increase the trade volumes of management system through the private-public supply & demand agricultural food products between the two countries. Under these control committee and the operation of a supply & demand control circumstances, aT has been actively entering into the Chinese food manual in a flexible way. Centering on the ‘distribution management market by establishing an advanced base for exports in Qingdao and commission of imported agricultural products’ launched last year, we an aT center in Chengdu as well as holding the Korea Excellent Food will check application status of the origin country labeling system of Exhibition with ‘Alibaba’, the world’s largest online company. Also, for imported agricultural products and perform the education of origin securing the highly promising Islamic market, a branch was founded country labeling system to relieve the anxiety of people toward food. in Indonesia in 2013 to prepare for the upcoming all-out entrance. This year, aT has a plan to establish a branch in the UAE and enhancing the Dear Stakeholders, , support for Halal certification which is required to enter into the Islamic The term of ‘food security’ represents how important the stable market. aT will strive to reach an export volume of 10 billion dollars in food production and the supply and demand are in the world. Major agricultural food products by targeting the huge markets of China and advanced countries devise a long-term plan to extend the support for India with a population of 1.4 billion and 1.7 billion respectively. agriculture. aT has been pondering over how Korean agro-fisheries product industry and food industry can be armed with competitiveness Korea Agro-Fisheries & Second, Build a ‘low-cost and high-efficiency’ distribution as well as making utmost effort to find the solutions. All of the Food Trade Corp. Sustainability Report 2014 structure based on creative ideas. executives and employees bearing a sense of duty in mind will work Improvement of the distribution structure of agricultural food products out for development of agricultural product industry and increase is one of the national top priorities, and aT is the organization that the incomes in farming households, and stabilize food access for all executes the comprehensive measures to reinforce the distribution people. With a communicative and open mind, we will pay attention to structure suggested by the government. The revenue of theCyber what happen in the field and listen to your opinions. aT promises to leap Exchange of Agro-Fisheries Food Products was recorded at two trillion forward to be a leading organization in sustainable management and KRW in 2014, making a splendid achievement in 6 years since its abiding by the principles of UN Global Compact that we joined in 2007 establishment in 2009. 60% of the food ingredients used in the school on corporate social responsibility. lunch program was purchased through the cyber exchange. With Wish your encouragement and attention to Korea Agro-Fisheries and the opening of POS-Mall lowering purchasing costs and improving Food Trade Corporation for further development. Thank you. 2 3 aT at a glance Export Support Distribution Innovation ·Nurturing export leading organizations ·Support for direct trade and fair trade of ·Fostering export specialized talent agricultural products ·Composition of export committees ·Nurturing distribution organizations in production areas ·Overseas export network ·Consignment management of public wholesale ·Support for participation in international markets exhibitions ·Guidance to foster wholesale markets ·Buyer invitation ·Operation of flowering plant joint market ·Providing export information ·Operation of cyber exchange ·Financial support for exporter’s operation fund ·Inspection on agro-fisheries product prices ·Inspection on distribution status of agro-fisheries products Management of Nurturing Food ·Introduction of Singsing market Food Supply & Demand Industry ·Introduction of TRQ(Tariff Rate Quotas) and sales ·Consulting and education support for management Food Service Company ·Introduction of MMA(Minimum Market Access) ·Financial support for facility rice and sales management modernization ·Management of purchase and storage ·National promotion of right food life ·Analysis of international grain information ·Business to invigorate Korean food and ·Analysis of overseas agricultural product import food tourism information History 1967 ~ 1969 1970 ~ 1979 1980 ~ 1985 1986 ~ 1996 1997~2008 2009 ~ 2012 Sustainability Report 2014 Lead the Korean people’s Give hope to farming and fishing villages and Write a new history of agro-fisheries Until the day we feed global people with 21th Century, Go toward the world Go to the World with New Vision agro-fisheries and modernization develop dream of farmers and fishers distribution Korean agricultural products 1967.12 founded Agriculture & Fishery 1972.12 built a direct office 1980.04 Completed a new food R&D center 1986.12 Changed the name to Agricultural and 1999.01 Developed Korea Ginseng and Kimchi 2009.10 Opened Cyber Exchange Development Corporation 1973.01 established a food R&D center 1982.12 Completed an agro-fisheries product Fishery Marketing Corporation 2002.11 Opened aT Center 2011.07 Opened Agricultural Product 1968. 05 e stablished an investment 1974.06 introduced overseas loans sales office 1991.11 Opened a Flowering Plant Joint Market 2007.12 Established the new vision as an organization Assistance Center company 1978.12 launched price stabilization committee for 1983.05 Opened an IT center of agro-fisheries 1992.03 Established overseas Korea Trade and specialized in promoting agricultural products 2012.01 Name changed to Korea 1969. 12 received a presidential citation agro-fisheries products product distribution information Distribution Center(KTDC) 2008.01 Expanded the food industry support and Agro-Fisheries & Food Trade 1984.11 Opened an agro-fisheries product 1955.12 Started KATI service Korean food globalization Corporation / direct outlet Declaration of the new vision and CI 1985.08 Opened a distribution training institute 4 5 Philosophy & Vision aT Vision 2018 Participation of Stakeholders As a world-class public corporation leading the future agricultural product industry through exports Classification of stakeholders and communication channels and distribution, aT offers specialized support for the agro-fishery industry to be equipped with aT classifies stakeholders depending on characteristics of interested issues and influence, and makes diverse channels to meet competitiveness at home and abroad and contributes to achieving well-balanced national development the needs of stakeholders for better communication. Targets that have contacted to aT more than one time or those who are by increasing the incomes of farming and fishing households. considered having potential to be affected by are included into the stakeholder category and their opinions will be reflected in management activity to solidify cooperative relationships. aT will enhance communication activities consistently to collect opinions of stakeholders. Vision Statement Mission Structure Vision: Reliable public organization specialized in nurturing global agro-fisheries product industry Promoting Securing ·Securing a solid trust from Korean people, which is a Agro-Fisheries product stable food products Employees prerequisite to play a role as a public organization industry ·Nurturing a global business structure by extending the scale Employee Satisfaction and function of overseas network in the mid-long term Business Extension/Capacity ·Strengthening its role in promoting the industry to Enhancement/Salary/Welfare/ consistently execute the establishment objectives specified Labor-Management Relation in the Mission Increasing Local Employee satisfaction survey/ Customer quality of Labor-management joint ·Solidifying its position as an expert in agro-fisheries food as well as growing to be a company that achieves its public life Community workshop/Labor-management purposes Sharing with Local council/aT Magazine/Intranet Community participation/Grievance Establishment of committee/CEO Strategic Extension of Growth Engine Contribution to Local Community/ meeting Customer Trust Directions Extend businesses that fulfill the policy requirements of food & demand/supply Environment Management Customer Support System Facilitate business developmentcontinuously to secure new growth engine Local residents inviting events/ Customer satisfaction survey/ Local community meeting/ Customer meeting/Customer One company– One community proposal system/Management Enhancement of Business Expertise 3UP Improvement of Management Innovation sponsorship/ Social contribution Info announcement/Sustainable management report Enhance business expertise by utilizing Pursue sustainable management by activity knowledge, experiences, information, achieving the efficiency of H/W and S/W talent and business network that have been functions of management, customer accumulated in export and distribution satisfaction, ethical management and extension of social responsibility Media/NGO Establishment of Enhancement of External Partnership Cooperation with Core Value Management philosophy that conveys the corporate mission and ultimate goal is defined as positive Social Contribution/Sustainable Related Organizations thinking(Yes), expertise(Excellence), customer satisfaction(Surprise), execution-focused(Action) and Management/Ethical ManageResponse to Agricultural Product Export ment/ISO26000 Environment/Structural Reorganization/ mutual trust(Trust). These five core values represents aT’s conviction and corporate spirit Demand&Supply Stabilization/ Press release/Participation in seminar & forum/ Campaign & Improvement of Distribution Structure Attitude that overcomes Attitude that realizes the Attitude that surprises uncertain environmental industry-best performance customers, external social contribution activity/ Regular meeting with government/ Sustainability Report 2014 changes with positive thinking through creative business stakeholders and internal NGO partnership activity Employee dispatch/Contact office to of ‘Can Do’ spirit development and execution employees, not just satisfying Mutual Cooperation Ministry of Strategy and Finance/ them Business Extension/SME Support/ Participation of national Financial Stability organizations Positive Customer ExecutionExpertise Mutual Trust Thinking (Yes) (Excellence) satisfaction (Surprise) oriented (Action) (Trust) Partner proposal system/ Government/ Complaints procedure & Partners feedback/Partners meeting/ Public Organizations Attitude that executes the business Attitude that builds and develops Business promotion meeting independently with an ‘owner’ sprit mutual-trust relations with and a ‘challenging’ spirit customers, external stakeholders and internal employees 6 7 Philosophy & Vision Evaluation of Importance Evaluation of Importance Results of the Evaluation of Importance aT conducts the Evaluation of Importance every year to select major interest issues of stakeholders. Business Influence ①M  utual growth of agro-fisheries The Evaluation of Importance is performed based on two aspects of business the corporation carries industry with food industry Key Issues out and stakeholders. The importance from the business perspective is evaluated along with a variety ②E  ffort to improve the customer 1 of sustainable management global guidelines including GRI G4, media analysis, benchmarking and satisfaction ③S  ecuring the supply/demand stability 2 analysis of internal materials, and the stakeholder importance is derived from survey results. The of agro-fisheries products Evaluation of Importance results in a total of 15 core issues selected, and aT publicizes the activities ④S  trengthening of capacity through 6 and performances related to those issues through this report in detail. fostering talent 5 3 7 4 ⑤S  ecuring new growth engine by promoting new business 12 10 9 8 Business Impact ⑥S  trengthening social contribution 11 The Business Impact is to assess how such individual issue relates to businesses aT is involved in activity with employees participated 13 and how it influences on strategy, policy and process of the organization based on four criteria of ⑦S  trengthening practice programs for 15 14 ethical management sustainable management global guideline, media analyses, bench making and analysis of internal ⑧S  trengthening the export Potential Issues materials. competitiveness of agro-fisheries products Sustainable management global guideline Media Analysis ⑨S  trengthening the safety of agro-fisheries products ● Purpose: Identify globally important issues and ● Purpose: Identify aT major issues mentioned in Other Issues ⑩E  ncouraging distribution of trends related to sustainable management news, newspapers and other media environmentally friendly by analyzing the sustainable management ● Period: 2014.01.01 ~ 2014.12.31 agro-fisheries products global guidelines ● Target: Nationwide daily newspapers, Daily ⑪N  urturing food industry and ● Target: GRI G4, ISO 26000, UNGC economy newspaper, TV news etc globalization of Korean food Stakeholder Influence ⑫S  ecuring the balance of work and life ⑬S  ecuring diversity and equality Benchmarking Analysis of Internal Materials Key Issues GRI G4 Aspect Reporting ⑭ Innovating the distribution structure ● Purpose: Identify major issues and trends in ● Purpose: Identify issues that aT deals with of agro-fisheries products ③S  ecuring the supply/demand Business stability of agro-fisheries products Strengthening the competitiveness of each industry by analyzing sustainable internally and mainly by analyzing various ⑮D  eploying sound organizational ⑤S  ecuring new growth engine by agro-fisheries products management reports on the same documents such as business plan, growth culture promoting new business Extending the export growth engine of industry or public organizations vision etc. ⑧S  trengthening the export Economic agricultural products ● Target: Pulmuwon, CJ Cheiljedang, Lotte Chilsung ● Target: Business promotion plan, management competitiveness of agro-fisheries products Performance Securing the supply/demand stability Beverage, Kotra, K-water, Korea Rural evaluation report etc. ⑪N  urturing food industry and of agricultural products Community Corporation globalization of Korean food Improving the distribution structure of ⑭ Innovating the distribution structure agricultural products of agro-fisheries products Nurturing the food industry Influence on Stakeholder ①M  utual growth of agro-fisheries Indirect Economic industry with food industry Impacts Sustainability The Influence on Stakeholders is to evaluate how much each individual issue influences on the Local community investment & ⑥S  trengthening social contribution activity decision-making and evaluation of stakeholders and how much interest stakeholders have on such Local Communities development with employees participated issues. aT collects opinions of stakeholders through offline surveys. Energy / Emissions / ⑩E  ncouraging distribution of environmentally Sustainability Effluents and Waste / friendly agro-fisheries products -E  nvironmental Management Transport Stakeholder Survey Results (Top 5 issues/out of 5) ⑫S  ecuring the balance of work and life Employment Sustainability Report 2014 ④S  trengthening of capacity through Internal stakeholders External stakeholders fostering talent Training and Education Securing the supply/demand stability of Mutual growth of agro-fisheries industry Sustainability 4.66 agro-fisheries products and food industry 4.59 ⑬ Securing diversity and equality Diversity and Equal -T  alent Management Opportunity Innovating the distribution structure of Innovating the distribution structure of 4.64 agro-fisheries products agro-fisheries products 4.56 ⑮D  eploying sound organizational Freedom of Association and Strengthening the export competitiveness of Securing the supply/demand stability of culture Collective Bargaining 4.63 agro-fisheries products agro-fisheries products 4.55 ⑦S  trengthening practice programs for Philosophy & Vision Anti-corruption Extending a local purchasing ratio to ethical management -E  thical Management 4.60 Deploying sound organizational culture invigorate local economy 4.49 ⑨S  trengthening the safety of Strengthening the safety and health Product and Service Sustainability 4.60 management system of employees Building the fair trade culture 4.48 agro-fisheries products Labeling  ustomer Satisfaction -C ②E  ffort to improve the customer satisfaction 8 9 Philosophy & Vision Ethical Management Strengthening the Foundation of Ethical Management Practice of Ethical Culture For the fair and transparent ethical management, aT has strived in many ways, to serve its duty as an Efforts to spread ethical management ethical management leader with employees practicing righteousness by themselves and spreading the aT makes efforts to reinforce the ethics of employees by spreading diverse ethical practice programs and ethical culture, not just following legal procedures. applying company-wide ethical management. To improve the participation ratio of employees, it converted the paradigm of ethical management activities from ‘mandatory activity’ to ‘enjoyable ethics as a culture’. Ethical Management Promotion System The employees produce contents related to ethics in person from planning to shooting of ethical dramas and As a leading organization in ethical organization culture, aT has made effort to advance ethical posters, make ‘Webtoon’ that shows how to resolve ethical dilemmas in cartoon style and then promote them management. In 2014, under a goal of ‘becoming the most ethical and righteous organization by promoting internally and externally through ‘Ethics Webzine’, an ethics magazine. In particular, it enhances the ethical Righteous and Good Ethical Management’, aT sophisticated the 3C system (rules, supervising body and education monitoring with ‘Ethics EQ (Participation score of ethics education)’, which is accessible all the time building common ground). Especially, it produced an aT Ethical Management Brand’ to facilitate the in the Ethical Management Homepage. After designating November 11 2011 as ‘aT Ethics Day’, the week of Ethical Management Brand execution of ethical management. ‘Righteous and Good aT’ representing its own determination toward the day is also reserved as the ethics week during which a variety of internal and external programs including the ethical values(righteous management and good practice) was adopted to strengthen its identity in the festivals are held for all employees. ‘Ethics Tok-Tok’, a quiz contest, Ethics 10 Commandments Contest (157 ethical management activity and to lay a foundation from which aT will leap forward to be the most ethical items were received) and Ethics Quiz Event (1,885 participants) made a high participation rate of internal and organization. external stakeholders. The CEO and commissioner gave souvenirs to employees to facilitate the communication channels between the executives and employees. With such efforts, aT won the grand prize of Korea Ethical Events of the Ethics Week Management hosted by The Korean Ethics Studies Association. Ethical Vision Righteous and Ethical Global Corporation aT Goal of Ethical Becoming the most ethical and righteous organization by promoting Efforts to prevent corruption Management Righteous and Good Ethical Management As a righteous and innovation organization, aT is committed to fulfilling its role with employees practicing Practice Sophistication of ethical Arrangement of ethical Spread of ethical righteousness in person and leading the righteous culture. To prevent corruptive actions of the executives and Strategy management system management promotion system management practice culture employees, aT revises the operation guidelines of the code of conducts to strengthen the punishment level ·Spread the vision through the ethical ·Enhancement of execution capacity ·Customized education to each of corrupted public officers, also the information publication of business expenditures and records, and the brand of anti-corruption system participant Practice ·Arrangement of the ethical rule ·Intensive improvement of ·Enhancement of participatory monitoring system of corporate credit cards are introduced to raise transparency and creditability of antiMission system corruption-vulnerable tasks programs corruption policy. The external lecture reporting system is adopted to eliminate blind spots of corruption so that ·Activation of the ethical management ·Improvement of transparency by ·Share of best ethical facilitating organization increasing information casesmanagement facilitating a culture of declaring all lectures is accepted, and a high payment of lectures could be prevented accordingly. publicationmanagement facilitating organization Since the anonymous report system and mobile report channels are created to eliminate the possibility of organization Righteousness Concert information leakage, anonymity and report accessibility can be secured. In 2014, through the ‘Anti-Corruption Resolution Campaign’, all employees pledged to work for righteousness and solidified the companywide will Organization of Ethical Management toward righteousness, and the Righteous Concert was held for the first time to provide an experiencing program that covers all employees regardless of titles and generations. In addition, the Ethics Day is appointed once a Designated Organization Advisory·Monitoring Organization month to keep the executives and employees awake to ethics and righteousness. Issuing an alert to ethics, selfEthical Management Anti-Corruption · Righteousness diagnosis of righteousness and writing comments to the code of conducts are conducted. As a result, aT was Righteous Ombudsman appointed as the best organization(1st grade) in the anti-corruption policy evaluation by The Anti-Corruption& (Sustainable Management Ethical Management Committee Righteous Innovation Promotion Committee Civil Rights Commission of Korea(ACRC) Advisory Committee) Head of committee: CEO Head of committee: Commissioner (Members: each director, general (Members: 1st grade head of Ethical Management Monitoring & Evaluation (KoBEX, Anti-Corruption) manager, head of department) department) Audit/Advisory Committee aT obtained an AAA rating which is the highest one in the sustainable management survey for the three Righteous Innovation Practice/ (External expert) consecutive years. In virtue of active development of ethical systems and improvements, it was appointed by Promotion Office ACRC as an excellent organization with the 1st grade which is two grades higher than that of 2013. Moreover, in Ethical Management Secretariat Office leader, head of commissioner office the aT Ethical Management Index, a survey to investigate the awareness of ethical management by the executive Sustainability Report 2014 (CS Management Team) /head of each department in charge Management Committee and employees, the score was raised by 2.7 to 91.6 compared to 2013. For the settlement and effectiveness of Righteous Innovation Team (Subcommittee in the board of the ethics system revised in 2014, aT promises to do the best by reinforcing the ethical education infrastructure. Righteous Innovation Practice Leader & Righteous Group (First-class water) directors) In 2014, aT strengthened its promotion committee to secure the effectiveness of ethical management for 3 years activities. For more activated advisory and monitoring functions, the Sustainable Management Advisory Committee which is an advisory body was decided to be convened once in every quarter of a year, rather than in every half year. Especially, by reinforcing the operation of Righteous Innovation Leader, an active AAA Best Good Excellent 96.2 96.1 98.3 89.4 88.9 91.59 body of sustainable management, and the righteous group (First-class water),aT tries to foster them as a 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 frontier of ethical and righteous activities, and contributing in advancing the ethical organizational culture. AAA for the 3 consecutive years Anti-corruption policy evaluation Righteousness Survey by aT aT Ethical Management Index by KoBex SM by ACRC 10 11 Enhancement of Export Growth Engine of Agricultural Products Business others 18% Leading the export extension of agricultural products with efforts to diversify exports Japan Due to the long-term weakness of the Yen of Japan, the largest exporter of agro-fisheries products, 32% aT has ameliorated the exporting environment by seeking promising markets such as China and Halal Islam 12% 2008 market and removing non-tariff barriers which are getting higher due to market liberalization. The EU Qingdao export logistic center, a bridge for entering into the mainland China market, is completed and 6% USA China aT has cooperated with the China Certification & Inspection Group (CCIC) to resolve customs-related Asia 12% 10% 10% difficulties like labeling,and promoting new customs support services. To target the Halal food market worth 1 trillion dollars, negotiations with Indonesia to make the Halal certificatesof Korea as effective as the original one are in progress, at the same time marketing is being widened by supporting exporters to acquire the certification and holding exhibitions and export consulting meetings in major Islamic others countries. As a result, the export volume to Halal market increased by 26% year on year. 16% Japan 25% Islam Exploring the Chinese new online market in response to changes in export 12% 2014 environment EU The Chinese online market amounted to 1.85 trillion Yuan(329 trillion KRW) as of 2013 grew more than 15 China 5% USA 16% times for five years from 2008 and became the largest market in the world, outpacing the USA in 2013.It 10% Asia is also expected that the market volume will grow further to 4.14 trillion Yuan (700 trillion KRW) in 2017. 16% To follow the explosive growing trend of Chinese online market, the marketing paradigm is required to Decreasing be changed, especially since it is predicted that the exports to China will increase due to the Korea-China Japan 32% ⇢ 25% market share FTA, the focal point of marketing must be diversified from the existing offline marketing like exhibitions China 12% ⇢ 16% increasing and promotions to online marketing. For this, aT has sought to penetrate the Chinese online market in Asia 10% ⇢ 16% market share tandem with Alibaba, the world’s largest online company. On October 24 2014, a cooperation presentation was held with Alibaba(1688.com), a B2B market, to extend the entrance of Korea’s excellent agricultural Agro-Fisheries Products Exporting Country Status products into the China online market, and a designated website for the Korean agricultural product was opened in the Alibaba B2B site in October 27 along with promotion events. On the day of event, the sales revenue was recorded at 10 million Yuan(1.8 billion KRW) and 1,008 items of 29 Korean agricultural product 70.20% 41,500 companies were joined, and then reaching 3.2 million Yuan in sales revenue by the end of December 2014. 75.30% 66.10% 36,000 30,200 Performance of the Korean Agricultural products in Alibaba B2B website 42.00% 24,500 18,500 40 1,200 35,000 32,496 1,008 30,000 13,030 32.40% 23.30% 29 1,000 19.20% 30 25,000 15.00% 800 7,845 4,610 20,000 20 600 466 13 15,000 11,685 400 10,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014(p) 2015(p) 2016(p) 2017(p) 10 200 5,000 Market Size growth rate 0 0 0 2013.10.27~12.31 2014.10.27~12.31 2013.10.27~12.31 2014.10.27~12.31 2013.10.27~12.31 2014.10.27~12.31 Market size and growth rate of Joined Company(#) Sales product(#) Sales revenue(1,000 Yuan) Chinese online market In addition, major B2C online promotion events like 1st Store, WomaiWang were held (4 times in total) Sustainability Report 2014 so that the Korea agricultural products were promoted and its awareness was enhanced. As for 1st Store, a Korean actor Kim Woobin participated in the promotion event to have a fan meeting and the sales revenue for 8 days (3.20~4.15) was recorded at KRW 300 million. Also, 15 MD of Chinese major online malls such as 1st Store and Alibaba were invited to the 1:1 export consulting service pairing with domestic exporters. (Dec. 4 2014)In result, a total of 70 consultations were made and 1.8 million USD worth consultations were achieved. Since the export volume to China is expected to highly increase in virtue of the Korea-China FTA, it is required to occupy the fast-growing Chinese online market in advance. For this, aT enlarges the Korean agricultural product webpage in the Chinese online market and holds online promotion campaign to boost up the trade volume of Korean agricultural products as Alibaba Cooperation Presentation well as increasing the awareness of Korean food products. 13 Business Securement of Stable Supply & Demand of Agricultural Products Supporting infrastructure to enhance the market competitiveness of Efficient and stable supply/demand management agricultural product exporters clean In response to the simultaneous over-supply of domestic agricultural products in 2014, vegetables were not aT endeavors to support export infrastructures to enhance the competitiveness of agricultural product SEIRI up allowed to distribute in the market but purchasing and discarding were only possible measures along with exporters. In response to export environmental changes like a sudden fall of the Yen-KRW exchange suppressing the imports. For spiceries, the supply/demand control methods were diversified into processing, arrange rate, it introduces a new foreign exchange risk insurance that reduces an amount of repayment an SEIDON purchasing and exporting, and the TRQ import was minimized. 145 thousand tons of five items were purchased wash but market access was prohibited, and aT performed the supply/demand business in consideration of features export should pay when an exchange rate goes up. Also to relieve the financial burden on logistics by SENJYOU clear of each item such as the case of importing 307 thousand tons (2013:356) through state trading with purposes small and medium sized exporters, the number of joint maritime logistics routes increases from 20 to up SEISO to back up the incomes of farming households and to encourage the stabilization of supply/demand. In spite 30, and it operates 20 overseas joint logistics centers in 11 countries. clean In addition, aT seeks to extend the export scale by nurturing specialized export organizations affiliated with of the growing production of Korean rice, the stabilization of domestic rice prices were achieved by adopting SATIKKIN cleanliness farming households. For this, export leading organizations and export commissions are being operated. and releasing MMA 409 thousand tons of rice in a flexible way(2013:43,343KRW ⇢ 2014:41,033KRW), and the By fostering the export leading organizations with 16 items/17 bodies in charge of producing and even supporting measures for extending domestic rice exports protected the supply/demand trend against the habituation SEIKETSU exporting of each item, the quality of exporting products gets higher so that the export competitiveness aggressively liberalized rice market. Especially, in accordance with the APTERR agreement dealing with the is strengthened and the export volume is enlarged. Also, since its export-oriented policy is based on food crisis in the Southeast Asia regions, 42 thousand tons of rough grains were stored successfully so that SHITSUKE improving the quality of exporting items, R&D, quality management, logistics improvement and support the business area was expanded. By establishing the ‘aT Quality and Safety Management System of Stockpiled grouping, it contributes to increasing export incomes by making an affiliated relation between producers Agricultural Products’ including regular hygiene and safety inspection of stored agricultural products, guide and exporters and creating a close connection between exporters. Along with these actions, aT operates 7S and inspection of hygiene management rules(4times/year), mandatory possession of “medical report’ by 17 export commissions in a way to prevent excessive competition between domestic companies in the warehouse employees and handlers (142 people), resetting of quality standards based on scientific evidences market and builds cooperative relationships with exporters. The commissions set export guidelines such (a germination rate of bean sprouts and others are improved) and 7 activities for hygiene management, the as export prices, quality standards to avoid unnecessary competition, and they support joint marketing safety of imported stockpiled agricultural products was strengthened, and with continuous improvements, that fits features of each item and contribute to establishing order in the export market. customer complaints actually went down. (2013:316 cases ⇢ 2014: 238 cases) Reinforcing overseas marketing 316건 Investigating and spreading of customized domestic/ K-Food promotion marketing overseas agricultural products distribution information Global K-Food Fair combined with export consulting meetings(B2B) and consumer experiencing events 238건 Investigation of domestic distribution information was held in 2014 in 7 cities of 4 countries(Vietnam, China, Hong Kong, Singapore). The convergence aT investigated daily wholesale/retail prices of major agro-fisheries & livestock products in 57 markets marketing that covers culture and food achieved 1.86 million USD worth of export consulting of 17 cities and publicized the price information to support the decision-making of shipping, trading and performance, and the media marketing that publicizes the excellence and safety of Korean agricultural Decreasing supply/demand policies. It studied costs of each distribution channel including new distribution tactic and products through TV programs, CF, magazines, SNS and outdoor advertisement boards raises the shared the data with the government that will use it for upgrading distribution. Also, weekly money-saving Shanghai Food Exhibition awareness of Korean agricultural products. shopping information, monthly Kimchi index, prices & purchasing timing of main seasonal items and other customer-oriented information are provided together. In 2014, aT increased a publication level of the KAMIS International exhibitions host and support 2013 2014 price information in cooperation with municipalities, media and external organizations in order to facilitate aT collects Korea’s promising exporters to participate in international exhibitions since 1992. In 2014, reasonable consumptions and stable sales as well as contributing to the stabilization of supply/demand in it participated with exporters in a lot of exhibitions (a total of 16 times in comprehensive exhibitions, 9 number of consumer complaint reports agricultural products. times in local promising exhibition, 7 times in vendor exhibition and 159 times in individual exhibition) to help exploring the market by discovering foreign buyers, collecting overseas market information and Investigation of overseas distribution information promoting its products. aT analyzes the international trends of major grains such as rice, soybean, corn, wheat and others on a Spain Food & Beverage Exhibition regular basis. The collected and analyzed international grain information is used for making daily, weekly Operation of overseas antenna shops and monthly reports which is shared with external parties. In addition to grains, major agricultural Unit: 1000$ Antenna shops are run in an area to which Korean agricultural products are not exported in order to products are included in analyzing overseas market trends and supporting state-trading businesses, and Sustainability Report 2014 1,000 1,192,557 1,200 1,028,398 discover new markets and reinforce a foundation of export. In 2014, 17 shops were joined to distribution any information required to import agricultural products is accumulated and managed. In particular, aT 800 1,000 600 786,466 800 stores located in Korea’s new export target areas of 11 countries, including 7 shops in China, 3 shops in keeps a close eye on the Chinese market trend having a big impact on the Korea agricultural products 914 400 600 Latin America, 3 shops in EU/CIS and 4 shops in Southeast Asia/Middle east. In result, such efforts and distribution to control the domestic supply/demand and to execute state-trading stably. aT’s international 200 843 400 newly discovered customers led to a 7.4 million USD worth of export. Also Korean food related events grain information and import information of agricultural products are publicized in a report format through 0 752 200 were held to contribute to boosting up the consumption trend of Korean food. the website, emails and mobile app, and other necessary information is delivered to related organizations 0 2012 2013 2014 as required. To eliminate illegal and expediential import declarations which badly affect the agriculture Establishment of direct export network with overseas big distributors Number of Participants industry, aT investigates private import prices and transfers the information to Korea Customs Service with Consulting Performance For securing reliable overseas markets and increasing exports, aT established MOUs with overseas big Number of participant companies and which it is working closely. Such information offered by aT led to a surprising achievement of increasing distributors(as of 2014, 45 distributors in 15 countries) and carried out comprehensive promotion events An appreciation plaque received from consulting performance in exhibitions tax revenue by KRW 635.2 billion. As a result, aT was awarded a certification of merit for the cooperation in as well as supporting promotion expenditures. SBS for providing price information customs administration by the commissioners of Korea Customs Service in December 2014. 14 15 Business Improvement of Distribution Structure of Encouragement of Food Industry Agricultural Products Direct Transaction Extending the direct transaction channels between farms and households YAFF! Inauguration of Young Agri-Food Fellowship and its representative Channels aT made a variety of efforts to settle down the direct transaction of agricultural products as an alternative activities in distributing agricultural products and invigorating the direct transaction business. As diverse direct For the agricultural product industry which is considered as a future food industry, aT launched the transaction channels like a direct store of local food are disseminated nationwide, they gain higher Young Agri-Food Fellowship(YAFF)’ in June 2014 with the goals of discovering new ideas, activating national attention, becoming one of the distribution axes, not just a one-off channel. A direct store of policy communications, creating jobs and fostering talent specialized in future agricultural products. 2012 3 local food was selected as are representative model of the direct transaction and the number of stores in Unlike other supporters’ activities restricted to a small number of active participants, YAFF is open to 2013 31 operation has increased from 3 in 2012, 31 in 2013 and to 71 in 2014 by the virtue of aT’s extended support. any young people who have interests in agricultural product industry. Currently, 1,507 members from 2014 71 25 regular direct trading markets are opened and actively being operated in tandem with municipalities. 121 universities are working and it is growing as a nationwide youth network. Moreover, 11 business operators in 6 types were discovered through direct transaction contests and Under the motto of nurturing field-oriented agricultural product talent, it operates field capacity programs, Direct stores of local food (Unit: ea) aT helps such beginner-operators in direct trading business by carrying out integrated marketing that discovers agricultural product ideas and promotes policies on agricultural products. Particularly, YAFF individual operators cannot perform easily such as TV, radio, newspapers and other media marketing members planned and operated events in the government’s representative business like Korea Food promotion. Direct transaction festivals and consumer exchange businesses offering a place where Show as well as participating in policy idea contests hosted by the government, from which 360 cases of producers and consumers can meet increase the understandings of consumers. Also anyone can easily Inauguration of Young Agri-Food ideas were discovered. YAFF will endeavor to resolve miss-matching issues occurred between young job participate in direct trading through an online platform for direct trading. In result, the selling prices of Fellowship seekers and food companies and offer practical programs to foster field-oriented talent. direct trading business operators get 20.6% cheaper than those of large marts and accordingly farming households can have 19.5% higher price benefits. YAFF, Young Agri-Food Fellowship 2013 62 Enhancing distribution competitiveness of producers and consumers Future Talent Development Program with new and aT assists distribution facilities located in main production areas, which are enlarged and specialized 2014 68 differentiated concepts by features of each item and production area, and it also develops such facilities into focal points in the Scales of production area systemization process of production and distribution. For this, it conducts an evaluation plan which is organizations with more than KRW called ‘production area distribution master plan' focusing on municipalities larger than city or Gun(small 15billion in sales revenue(Unit: ea) Cooperative city), or product items, and the municipalities and product items selected based on the evaluation plan Nationwide program with Diverse Free 2012 \ 197 are entitled to participate in the production area distribution facility business. Until 2014, production participation in university agricultural experiences area distribution master plans of 57 municipalities were selected along with 12 APC business operators student product in agricultural activities 2013 \ 227 network organizations products for 2015. Moreover, aT encourages the integration of production area businesses by evaluating and 2014 \ 248 assisting them based on integrated marketing organizations in order to enhance the competitiveness of Average trading amount of production area distribution organizations. According to the evaluation and operation results in 2014, 419 production area organizations production area distribution organizations were cooperated with 88 integrated organizations so that the (Unit: KRW 100 M) production area distribution organizations were enlarged and systemized further. aT plans to increase the number of key production area businesses up to 150 by2017. Based on understanding and Support talented young people to experience on REAL food products be employed in promising SMEs 2012 \ 1,066 Invigorating wholesale market and operation By unifying annual operation performance evaluations that have aimed at operators of nationwide public 2013 \ 1,069 wholesale markets, wholesale market corporations (joint markets) and wholesalers, aT can relieve 2014 \ 1,057 evaluation pressures under which market people have been. Depending on the evaluation results, good Korea Food Show 2014 companies are rewarded with incentives like prime interest rates when receiving policy funds, on the Since the enactment of Food Industry Promotion Law in 2008, several small scaled food related events Auction volume of flowering plant joint markets other hand, companies with poor performance are subject to management consulting and punishments were integrated into Korea Food Show,which is part of the presidential report,now it has been developing like recommending canceling the appointment. With these actions, aT induces continuous innovation of Sustainability Report 2014 (Unit: KRW100M) into a full-fledged Korea’s representative food exhibition. In early days, it begun as an exhibition focusing wholesale markets. on promoting food policies but at present it plays a role to strengthen the capacity of Korean traditional 2012 682 In addition to laying a foundation on which transactions could be activated with fixed prices and private food companies and provides practical business opportunities. In 2014, with the theme of traditional 2013 716 trading in 2013, best practices contests, field educations and production& release of education video fermented food festival, 369 traditional food companies participated produced a sales revenue of KRW clips as to fixed prices and private trading were carried out by aT for a purpose of raising awareness 817 million in the exhibition. 15 times of consultings with buyers produced about KRW 3.7 billion worth 2014 721 in 2014. In result, a fixed price and private trading ratio against the total trade amount of agricultural of benefits to distribution stores. Moveover, international academic forums and events publicized how Shipping volume of wholesales product wholesale market went up to 14.1%. Also, by lowering a market use fee and making lowexcellent Korean traditional food is. aT will invite foreign buyers and develop the food show to make it markets (Unit: 10,000 tons) temperature warehouse as a mandatory facility, it facilitates invigoration of wholesale markets. Facility Korea Food ShowLogo more contributive inextending exports, beyond fostering domestic demands of Korean traditionl food. modernization, field inspection, progress report meeting are contributive in solidifying the facility modernization business of public wholesale markets. 16 17 Customer Satisfaction Efforts to improve customer satisfaction 2012 2013 2014 95.2 93.7 Customer satisfaction survey For better public services that can be accomplished by objective evaluations on CS quality, aT performs 91.1 call answering monitoring, internal survey of customer satisfaction and survey on customer satisfaction phone answering of public organizations on a yearly basis. It has been selected as a best organization for seven consecutive years until last year from the survey on customer satisfaction of public organizations, and this year, its score is increased by 1.2 points year on year. aT strives to obtain over than 90 points in all evaluation 2012 2013 2014 91 categories by keeping the customer service at an excellent level. Sustainability 91.1 91.17 VOC collection and analyses internal customer aT utilizes interactive communications with on/offline customers to collect and manage VOC. In addition to satisfaction level online VOC collected automatically at customer-contact points, offline VOC that could be missed without recording is collected together and then it reflects such data to realize the customer-oriented management. 2012 2013 2014 93.1 92.1 Feed-Back 91.19 VOC collection VOC processing VOC analyses customer satisfaction level Standard classification identified by aT [online] system VOC pattern analyses VOC employee customer center Classification Internal Customers -customer consulting Organ Work employee ization classif Busi VOC statistics/analyses Manager 2012 2013 2014 95.1 office classif ication ness class -customer proposal ication ification Monitoring Internal employee -electronic civil 93.5 complaints Assignment of System 94.7 Organizations [offline] VOC department in charge improvement Data or self-processing -CEO field visit government customer -customer advisory Processing Answer/inspection Proposal Proposal Registration(KMS) recommendation committee satisfaction level -cs management Result Proposal evaluation Related workshop notification(SMS, mail) organizations -field board of directors Discovering customer Review by satisfaction B/P department in charge Improvement CS idea contest Improvement reject employees Groupware Utilization execution System -receiving VOC work (improvement) Identifying improvement improvement targets groupware Customer KMS e-audit Sharing activity management system Operation of CS capacity building programs For building a common ground of BP, aT conducted branch circulation educations(Apr.), special phone answering educations for communications that surprise customers(Jul.) and CS management workshop(Sep.) for CS leaders and heads of departments. aT make efforts all the time to become a public organization delivering advanced services by carrying out enjoyable programs that solidify CS mind Sustainability Report 2014 CS management workshop Creative economy B/P contests aT has hosted the best practice contest for management innovation since 2009, aiming for improvement of the quality of customer service. This year, with participation of 47 departments, the “exploration of new market for agricultural products with Alibaba” case won a grand prize, targeting the Chinese online market which is growing explosively. The presentation of the grand prize awarded case dealing with customers’ needs rapidly and preemptively in the changing environment offered an opportunity to share know-how at a company level. aT will make efforts to discover ideas and ameliorate services that BP contest maximize customer satisfaction all the time. 19 Sustainability Investment & Development of Local Communities Development of talent specialized in global agricultural products Market supply of Enhancing customer reliability by strengthening food safety aT nurtures global talent in agricultural products so as to boost up incomes of farming households, spread imported agricultural Reinforcement of stockpiled agricultural products hygiene and safety management Korean food and facilitate exports of excellent agricultural products. aT’ employees teach foreign languages products after passing aT executes the safe supply measures of stockpiled agricultural products, which have highly reinforced to local young students for free, and it recruits capable university students majored in agricultural 4 steps of hygiene& hygiene and safety management standards to fulfill the expectation of people on food safety. For more reliable products then dispatches them as global youth marketers to countries where aT has a branch so that they safety inspections and safely stockpiled agricultural products, aT created a ‘quality safety designated organization’ and applied can experience trade on the ground, including overseas market development, information search and the aT-style hygiene and safety management system through a variety of activities such as ‘regular hygiene exhibitions. Also, aT offers a chance for them to work as field agents in local special products trade consulting & safety inspection system’ centering on the 7S activity and ‘agricultural product hygiene & safety committee multilateral MOU for meetings like Geumsan ginseng trade exhibition in which foreign buyers participate, Korea Food Show and ’constituted with diverse experts. Also, to resolve consumers’ complaints and encourage communication, aT CRS support other domestic exhibitions in order to have them experienced in various fields of global agricultural product a ‘stockpiled agricultural product complaints call center(080-900-0277) is in operation. In addition to the industry and let them design their own future. 1st strengthened ‘grade standards’ that fulfill higher customer requirements, the ‘grade check at a shipping place’ system that inspects the quality, hygiene and safety status of imported agricultural products prior to shipment Development of talent specialized in local agricultural products was contracted out to an international authorized organization to secure the specialty and external reliability. aT establishes a variety of networks to discover talented human resources from around the country. In step shipping addition to making MOUs with 13 key universities in each region, with purposes of fostering and discovering at exporting country valuable human resources, it operates agricultural product industry experience programs and scholarship Stringent management of lunch programs with school lunch e-procurement system programs including YAFF, an agricultural product outernship program, in which 1,500 university students of ‘School lunch e-procurement system(eaT system)’ is an agent system for schools to select and contract food ingredients of school lunch. eaT has been introduced in Aug. 2010 with purposes of eliminating any risk factors 122 universities participate by themselves. 2nd agricultural products specialized that could arise from face-to-face private contracts of food ingredients as well as increasing the efficiency book café,‘Hello aT of school food administration. Since notified as a designated information processing unit by the Ministry of Local community support Government Administration and Home Affairs(MOGAHA), at present, 7,200 schools in 17 regions and 5,000 aT pays constant attention on neighbors of local communities around the Naju head office and Yangjae customs at aT centers, and conducts social contribution programs such as foreign language teaching service for arriving port companies are using the system and the number of users is getting increased. The eaT system prevents inappropriate companies from participating in bidding processes by utilizing the country of origin violation educationally alienated classes, photo-taking service for senior citizen living alone and assistance to families information offered by the National Agricultural Products at risk, and for more effective support, it established a CSR network. After moving to the Gwangju-Jeonnam Quality Management Service and National Fisheries Early alert system of Early alert system of Innovation City, its efforts to support aged, multi-cultural, youth and patient families have never stopped. aT food poisoning 3rd Product Quality Management System, and the food hygiene, food poisoning established a ‘multilateral MOU for aT CSR support’ with local council on social welfare, local universities Ministry of Food and Public Procurement permission, license & punishment information from ‘Seall’ Drug Safety Cyber Service and 3 welfare organizations of each beneficiary‘and as a result, the corporation received an appreciation Exchanges of “Food safety Kimchi with hope event plaque from local welfare organizations in Jeonnam and Seocho-gu. aT will make more efforts to develop stockpiled information system by MOGAHA and illegal business Agro-Fisheries improvement” at warehouse registered in the Public Procurement Service on a real Municipalities Products NAQS / NFQS local communities through these networks. Meanwhile, aT opened a book café named ‘Hello aT’ at the (MOGAHA) time basis. From 2013 to November 2014, 260 companies square between the Yangjae Citizen’s Forest Station and the aT Center underground tunnel to offer a resting Detection & punishEarly alert system of out of the companies with a violation history were actually ment results food poisoning place for every customer and citizen. Agriculture books, periodicals and many materials were displayed at the café to help people understand agricultural products. A variety of culture events are planned for local 4th restricted to use the procurement system. residents so that the café has become a cultural place where people can read, meet and communicate. Strengthening protection system of private information CSV creation with its unique capacity storage Managing the supply/demand of agricultural products, one of aT’s main business capacities, is to control Establishment and operation of private information protection & management system volunteer activity in farming aT keeping in mind the fact that private information of each and every person is important establishedthe communities the production and supply of agricultural products to secure the prices of products at a reasonable level as ‘information security team’ consisting with security experts to strengthen the information protection function of well as encouraging customers to purchase Korean agricultural products. In the course of performing this main businesses. In 2014, a CPO(Chief Privacy Officer) was designated and internal management plan of private job, agricultural products restricted to market are occurred to prevent an excessive supply and to protect information was revised to block off cyber-attacks and to keep private information safely. Moreover, it built the farming households. aT donates such stockpiled agricultural products and Kimchi to underprivileged market supply private information protection system that detects and deletes personal information, and also deleted 490 thousand families across the country. While performing its own capacity in managing supply/demand, it helps farming Sustainability Report 2014 cases of unnecessary information from PCs and adopted the anti-leakage system of private information inwebsite. households and poor families at the same time. In 2014, such efforts were acknowledged with an award from the Ministry of Health and Welfare as well as the appointment as a best organization in the ‘Food Enhancing education and inspection for private information protection Bank’ category by national social welfare resource sharing contest. In addition to the donation of stockpiled Not just equipping with the private information protection system at the highest level, aT tried to strengthen Grand prize in public agricultural products produced by excessive production, business-specific CSV activities will be expanded. the executing power to protect private information with reinforcededucation and inspection process. Through organization by Next Society companywide educationsabout private information protection and special educationsfor employees in charge, CSR Summit 2014 Support for farming and fishing communities it keeps information security being on the alert and checks on management status of private information. aT acquired a certification of ‘farming and fishing community contribution company’ by the Ministry of Moreover, aT carries out examinations of private information processing files and maintenances including a Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs in virtue of continuous support for farming and fishing communities which are a foundation of agricultural product industry. To facilitate and promote the consumptions of total of 6 times field inspections to confirm the status of private information management. As a result, not a single private information leakage occurred in 2014. 원고 너무 good agricultural products, it established a food cooperative within the company, where joint purchasing of agricultural products is made regularly. Also employees help farming villages when natural disasters 많음 occur or during busy farming season. In result, the Next Society CSR Summit evaluated aT as the most 20 excellent company that performs socially responsible management among other public organizations. aT 21 will endeavor to practice sincere sharing spirit and become the ‘aT growing with local communities’ with an open mind and warm heart. Sustainability Talent Management Open recruiting and ideal talent types 90.6% 92.6% Enhancing capacity by nurturing human resource woman (person) The ideal talent who leads the future of agro-fisheries product industry with aT is defined as 88.1% According to the human resource development system, aT deploys systemized talent nurturing activities 144 ‘3Ps(Professional, Passion, Partnership) and this is standards aT considers when hiring employees based on the capacity and needs of executives and employees. After deciding main contents and key (24.24%) who could achieve the mission and vision of the corporation. The 3Ps is an acronym for Professional, directions of the talent education based on four types of capacity such as basic capacity, leadership Total Passion and Partnership, standing for a professional employee learning expertise and technology and capacity, job capacity and global capacity, it designs 37 education courses. For stronger innovation capacity 594 achieving results in a creative way, a challenging employee dealing with a new environment actively and 2012 2013 2014 in each job title, which is required to foster next-generation leaders, it broadens the education target down man(person) attaining a goal with positive thinking and passionate attitude, and a communicative employee thinking increase of an education to employees lower than senior managers including newly promoted employees, increasing the number of 450 participation ratio against T.O from customers’ perspective and realizing customer surprise through attentiveness and cooperation. education participants from 51 in 2013 to 149 including employees higher than assistants in 2014. (75.76%) Especially, in 2014, aT executed an open recruiting process by rejecting the document-screening process In particular, to secure educational effectiveness that copes with changes of managerial environment, aT that selects applicants based on school records and language test scores, and allowed more applicants 100.9시간 pursues to foster human resources in terms of moving to the local area and extend overseas business. number of executives and to be subject to a writing examination in order to hire challenging, communicative and specialized talent. 94.4시간 Compared to before moving to the local area, the budget of cyber education has increased from KRW employees (unit: person) aT prohibits any discrimination against gender, age, religion, academic ability, physical disability and 16 million in 2013 to KRW 49 million in 2014, and aT newly created degree courses (Master, MBA) in the region, and abides by the Labor Standard Act, rule of employment and ILO’s forced labor prohibition cyber graduate school to support employees to develop themselves. Also, for faster settling down in the 81.0시간 regulations, and also strictly bans forced labor and child labor. newly moved region, specialized education programs with five categories like healing, culture, art are Furthermore, aT makes a lot of efforts to secure socially fair employment for the disadvantaged in the 2012 2013 2014 provided and 213 employees are participated in the program. Meanwhile aT increases the number of society by hiring 52.4 % of local applicants, 3 disabled applicants and 2 war veterans. As part of providing average education hours employees in charge of foreign language education to secure more global human resources required to an opportunity to develop careers, it added a job position of flowering plants auction assistant available per employee extend overseas business. for high school graduates. aT established MOUs with local universities from an academic-industrial cooperation’s perspective so as to nurture future talent, laying a foundation for capacity building in aT human resource development system terms of job creation. To encourage the business activity of career disrupted women, aT seeking 1,127천원 femaleemployees to promote gender equality did hire two regular employees working flextime for the 963천원 937천원 HRD Development of best talent in agricultural products to achieve aT vision first time. mission Experts (Professional) ·Person who has expertise and technical capability required in work Strengthening Improving core capacity Activating a bottom-up 2012 2013 2014 Main promotion specialized HR to meet Operating flexible through customized education by creating ·Person who achieves progress by utilizing related expertise and technology in a creative way subjects in 2014 the mid-long term education to fit the capacity-building self-directed education new HQ era { average education cost strategy education atmosphere Challenging talent (Passion) per employee ·Person who attains a goal passionately with a sense of ownership 3Ps Need Mid-long term CEO management Career goal C.C based organization direction learning plan individual ·Person who predicts and identifies changes of environment and deals with work actively management goal development system Internal/external environment Stakeholder Capacity diagnosis Education need Communicative talent (Partner) analysis interview survey ·Person who has a clear understanding on internal and external customers’ requirement and processes them rapidly and accurately Establishment/execution of education trainings in 2014 ·Person who improves the corporate image with a customer-surprising attitude that places Education Common capacity Leadership capacity Job capacity Improvement customers first monitoring execution & Execute education to applied Promote necessary education Execute job capacity edureturn system solidify customized core for growing coaching skill and cation by phase to achieve (e-HRD based) values by class B/L operation by year career goal Open recruiting status (unit: persons) Type 2012 2013 2014 Evaluation of performance by Education satisfaction survey individual education course /BSC management Sustainability Report 2014 Total number of persons employed 41 43 42 80 unit: person Female 23 22 17 Fair evaluation aT performs fair and transparent personnel management based on capacity and performance. 71 60 66 The disabled 0 1 3 56 64 managers participated in the education courses to build coaching and evaluating skills at a managerial 40 Persons majored in science & engineering 9 7 5 level, and the C.C (individual performance management) results based on MBO is applied to increase the fairness of evaluation system. Also, with the purposes of facilitating changes in leadership, job capability 20 Persons from non-capital areas 15 21 22 and working attitude of employees, and motivating them, multi-dimensional evaluation(once in a year) is 0 2012 2013 2014 Persons from the new HQ region 0 0 4 performed to all executives and employees and used for the evaluation data as references. In addition, aT the number of female employhas a system that allows employees to exert maximum capacity and creates organizational performance, High school graduates 8 9 6 ees higher than manager like an open job position contest based on performance and capacity for a head of department or higher. 22 23 Sustainability Environment Management 62명* Realizing sound organization culture Green dining table with eco-friendly agricultural products 38명 42명 Balance of work and life aT supports employees to strike a balance between work and life through family-friendly management. Eco-friendly agricultural products? Green(honest) food life Environment, For better child-caring conditions and lower daycare burden, it operates a daycare center within the new Agricultural products grown with a minimum health and thoughtful food life or none of synthetic chemical substances like Food life that appreciates environment and company building and allows pregnant employees at the early and last stage to reduce the working time pesticides, chemical fertilizers and feed additives cares others by reducing energy and resource 2012 2013 2014 by 2 hours. The corporate established a policy about alternative worker employment for employees who to preserve environment and supply safe consumption(environment)from production to (*현원의 10.4%) take child care leave so that it is possible to create an organization culture where maternity leave and agricultural products. consumption, practicing nutritionally excellent honest food life logo flexible working time system baby break are encouraged. Especially, aT has various flexible working systems that enable employees Korean style food life as well as experiencing a status to keep the balance between private life including child care, family care and self-development, and work variety types of food life. in a harmonized way. As a result of introducing the new working time selection system (12 employees), By supporting the establishment of sales stores that connect the production and consumption of ecothe remote working system and encouraging the flexible working system, the rate of employees with friendly agricultural products, aT contributes the extension of sales channels and the price stability of flexible working system increased by 47.6% year on year. And it decided every Wednesday as a family eco-friendly agricultural products. Also, it funds lease deposits, facility costs and other expenses of ecoday so that all employees are required to leave the office on time. And the company turns off all of lights friendly agricultural products sales stores in order to relieve the financial burdens of companies and at 7 every day to avoid unnecessary overtime working. Additionally, aT provides family-friendly education organizations hoping to run such sales stores. And to raise the awareness about honest food life among programs that fully utilize the feature of agriculture such as farming experience to give chances to people, aT provides more opportunities to experience the honest food life and supports the education and employees’ family to know more about farming and fishing communities. training of honest food life involving environment, health and caring. For this, it produced documentary films (Docuprime of MBC, Secrets of life, aging, disease and death of KBS etc) aired in public TVs, issued Spread of reasonable management-labor culture special articles on green food life in major daily newspapers, operated “food life experiencing booth” in aT’s labor union, established in 1989 has never been on strike for 26 years, becoming an exemplary case exhibitions for child, youth and food and supported academic and civil symposiums about food life with a in the management and labor relationship. For building a reasonable and appropriate management and honest food life experiencing zone purpose of spreading the honest food life. labor relation, the company, under the law and principles, builds the 4 principles in terms of management and labor relations such as improvement of unreasonable practices between management and labor, Minimization of environmental impacts through cyber exchange acknowledgment of justifiable labor union activities, preemptive management of management and labor The logistic cost of agricultural products includes basic costs of transportation, delivery, storage, relationship and establishment of management and labor culture with coexistence and communication. selection, package and loading/unloading and support costs spent for information and standardization. Along with the managerial philosophy that put the top priority on communications about every issue In case that a product loss cost occurred during distribution is included, the logistic cost of agricultural company and labor partnership boosting workshop between leaders of each side, aT runs diverse communication channels to build common grounds, for products going through a wholesale market accounts for 29.8% of the distribution cost so even if example, management and labor partnership boosting workshop, one-minded workshop, the executives the special features of agricultural products are considered, the rate is too high compared to that of of company and labor PISA workshop and commission of the executives of company and labor. Moreover, general commodities of around 12%. However, if the cyber exchange of agro-fisheries products is used, it enhances the management capacity of company and labor relationship by using internal and external since physical distribution and commercial distribution are separated, a back-flowing in logistics like experts including labor advisory attorney and internal labor attorney. In result, aT was selected as a transportation between wholesale markets is reduced so that the efficiency in the process of wholesale ‘company with excellent company and labor culture’ by the Ministry of Employment and Labor in 2014 market covering loading/unloading, transportation and delivery will be upgraded. In result, the logistics with the working place innovation award in 2013. cost can be lowered and a food mileage(move distance) can be shortened so that 4.1% of the cost will be saved. (based on B2B, cyber exchange operation diagnosis& future strategy building service/Agro food Labor union members status(unit: person) Marketing & Management institute, 2012) Type 2012 2013 2014 Environmental cost reduction in 2014 Total employees 574 590 594 type value unit remarks Reduced amount of logistic cost 13,989,000,000 KRW Based on B2B,KRW 341.2 billion, 2014 Labor union membership available employees 451 471 474 Diesel purchasing cost 4,756,000,000 KRW 34% Sustainability Report 2014 Labor union members 451 471 474 Diesel consumption amount 2,882,424 Liter KRW 1650/L(avg), 2014 Vehicle travel distance 34,595,088 km 12km/L Health and safety management Reduced amount of environmental cost 69,190,176 KRW KRW2/km For mental and physical stability of employees and accident prevention, aT operates a variety of support programs including the Employment Assistance Program(EAP) that provides customized psychological consulting programs and stress-relieving classes as well as systemized health care programs(metabolic Since commercial Producer producer Mid-distribution center in a big city syndrome care), and also built a fitness center in the company to keep employees healthy. distribution and physical distribution move together, >>>>>>>> a back-flowing in logistics (unrea>>>>>>>> aT decides a safety check day to accomplish a safe work place. During this event, the company encourages unreasonable logistic costs <<<<<<<< sonable logistic costs) <<<<<<<< workers to check on safety of vulnerable facilities and gives instructions applied on holidays and by season. occur i.e.a back-flowing in logistics consumer retail distribution In particular, it made ‘emergency response plan (aT center)’ in 2014 to prevent negligent accidents. center 24 25 Corporation introduction Introduction With a vision of becoming a reliable public organization specialized in global agro-fisheries product industry, aT opens a new era of 20 billion exports in agro-fisheries products to grow agro-fisheries Operation & products for human, nature and future. Name Location Establishment Achievement { Korea Agro-Fisheries & { 227, Munhwa-ro, Naju-si, { 1967.12.1 Food Trade Corporation Jeollanam-do Increase the incomes of farming and fishing households to develop the national economy in Objectives balance through export promotion, improvement of distribution structures, development of food industry and stabilization of supply/demand Type Quasi-government organization that executes consigned business Korea agricultural and fishery product distribution corporation law(Act 11690, 2013 3 23 Establishment ground partially revised) Korea agricultural and fishery product distribution corporation law (Act 11690, 2013 3 23 partially revised) Type Organization \ Asset Revenue Debt 631persons 4divisions / 13offices / 1,182,170 299,919 1,001,973 (as of 4Q 2014) 6business offices / (unit: KRW million (unit: KRW million) (unit: KRW million) 11regional HQs / 9overseas branch offices Organization chart Board of Secretary’s directors CEO Auditor CEO office public relations office 비서실 홍보실 Planning & Marketing support Food industry & Future business management division division export division division -Planning & budget -Marketing support office -Export strategy office -aT center Sustainability Report 2014 department -Supply & demand -Export business office -Agricultural products cyber -Management support office management office -Food industry office exchange -Financial affairs -State trading office -Food business support -Agro-food marketing management office -Grain management office center training institute Emergency planning office -Flower marketing center Seoul/Gyeonggi regional HQ, Daejeon/Sejong regional HQ, Gwangju/Jeonnam regional HQ, Daegu regional HQ, Regional Headquarters Busan/Ulsan regional HQ, Jeju regional HQ, Incheon regional HQ, Gangwon regional HQ, Chungbuk regional HQ, Gyeonnam regional HQ Overseas branch China(Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu, Hong Kong,), Tokyo, Osaka, Jakarta, Hanoi, New york, LA, Paris offices 27 Operation & Achievement Corporate governance Risk management Composition of Board of directors Based on risk management guidelines, aT selects types of possible crisis related to the corporate A board of directors is, as a top decision-making organization, in charge of supervising decisions and business to prevent risks, and defines responsibilities, roles as well as measures to be taken by the management affairs about key strategies and polices in economic, environmental and social issues. The board company in case of any risky situations so as to respond it systemically and rapidly with a minimum of directors consisting of 4 executive directors and 5 non-executive directors selects experts depending on damages. Ultimately it contributes to stabilize the people’s livelihood and increases the incomes of features of the organization along with a female non-executive director to pursue balanced development. farming households through the stabilization of supply/demand, prices of agricultural products and the export support businesses. (As of 2014 12) type name role career Gender Kim President President of Rural Development Administration, M Risk factors classification and responses Jae-soo (chairperson) 1st Vice-Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries and Food Kim Vice president Regional director of Tokyo aT Center, Head of food M type type Jin-young (planning director) industry office Executive directors Co-chairman of national movement headquarter for Credit crisis Disaster crisis Negative press report Kim Director of distribution Korean agriculture protection, member of Gangwon M Dong-ryul provincial assembly Financial liquidity crisis Farmers’ strike on Yu Head of planning office, director of new growth imported rice Director of food export M Management Chung-sik business center Management Conflicts with environmental change Auction rejection by Jang Education & international Chairwoman of Korea women farmer association, F crisis business Jung-ok agriculture vice-chairwoman of Asia farmers’ associate crisis brokers/wholesalers stakeholders Jung Agro-management & Representative of Korea Chamrice corp. M Import crisis Freight labor union/cargo Jong-soo agricultural field adm labor union federation Moon Promotion of policy Vice director of MBC, head of policy practice committee of Export crisis NonJin-young business Gangnam-gu office M executive Damage by storm, directors Director of R&D policy bureau of Rural Development Kang Agriculture policy & Administration, director of National institute of Highland M flood and heavy snow Sang-jo management strategy Agriculture Terror attack on exhibition Park CheolAgriculture policy & Director of consumption safety policy office of Ministry of Disaster crisis soo Agri-Fisheries product Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Head of fisheries policy M Kidnap of foreign distribution office of Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food employees Cyber-attack and IT failure Operation of board of directors aT has two subcommittees of ‘Management Committee’ that advises on corporate management as a whole Risk management process and ‘Executives Recommendation Committee’ that recommends candidates of the executives with an intention to improve the efficiency of decision-making. It has a flexible operation method like a ‘paper-based meeting’ to progress agendas quickly and also draws up performances on key issues by conducting policy debate. For in-depth experiencing in the business site, the board of directors is operated in the field to understand the Normal Attention Caution Alert Emergency agricultural food industry in a better way as well as seeking a direction of the development. Board of directors Secretariat of board of directors Composition A total of 6 persons (Head of planning Crisis signal is two times Call an initial response Call the crisis counterplan Activate the crisis office, Team leader, team members(4)) of board Management Committee Executives Recommendation Committee Crisis control planning stronger than that of team center management support the operation of the board of of directors Budget/operation plan Candidate recommendation directors and the management of committee normal situation committee Management execution review Independent operation Head of committee: In case of occurring crisis In case of increasing crisis non-executive directors vice-president Progress reporting Assistant administrator: A department in charge pays signals, calls the team within signals, call the center within In case of happening risk D-30 D-7 D-3 D-1 D-day Plan/performance executive head of attention to the situation 1 hour and shares 1 hour to reduce damage. situations, the crisis Describe on person Send additionally departments(head of reporting Fix next Hold the board of emergency plan office) the situation to minimize Other required measures counterplan center Notify meeting Confirm requested Operation schedule participation document directors damages. Other required should be followed conducts measures to Sustainability Report 2014 Members: heads of board of of departments in charge measures should be followed reduce damages, if required, directors Feedback Result notification Minutes analysis Evaluation Crisis Counterplan Center activates the crisis Reflect feedback to the next Notification of management Management proposal, department: head of commissioner office Initial response team ●d  irector of center: vice-president management committee board of directors information, intranet analysis of requested doc Cooperative if required (crisis control executive) Quarterly evaluation result Leader: head of ● Assistant director: head of relation report/notification department in charge department in charge Cooperative Operation performance by the board of directors in 2014 organization Crisis counterplan working level meeting Crisis Management Committee Situationteam Response Central administration (2persons) team(3persons) Head of department in type unit 2012 2013 2014 body/municipality/police, cooperative organization charge/related ● Head of committee: president number of meetings of the board of directors Times 12 12 15 ●M embers: crisis management executive, Situation team Response team Support team executive directors, heads and Number of proposed agendas (resolutions) Cases 48 (19) 44 (18) 42(24) executive head of departments in charge Participation rate % 75.0 91.7 85.8 Crisis spokesperson Head of PR team Share of remarks by non-executive directors % 97.2 97.2 77.7 28 29 Operation & Achievement Financial performance Consolidated Consolidated profit and financial statement UNIT: KRW MILLION loss statement UNIT: KRW MILLION Type 2014 2013 Type 2014 2013 Current asset 574,960 804,111 Turnover 299,919 288,621 Noncurrent asset 607,210 531,725 Cost of sales 275,976 262,385 Total asset 1,182,170 1,335,836 Gross margin 23,943 26,236 Current liabilities 620,343 685,691 Sales/Admin. expense 13,925 16,868 Noncurrent liabilities 381,630 421,032 Total liabilities 1,001,973 1,106,723 Operation profit 10,018 9,368 Appendix Capital 68,338 130,440 Non-operating profit 15,307 6,918 Earned surplus 110,879 97,501 Non-operating expense 1,189 2,332 accumulated other 980 1,153 comprehensive income Income before income taxes 24,136 13,954 Non-controlling interest 19 Corporate tax 4,906 4,232 Total capital 180,197 229,113 Current net profit 19,230 9,722 Asset and liabilities in total 1,182,170 1,335,836 Separate Separate profit and financial statement UNIT: KRW MILLION loss statement UNIT: KRW MILLION 구분 2014 2013 구분 2014 2013 Current asset 573,404 793,707 Turnover 299,610 288,405 Noncurrent asset 605,088 541,556 Cost of sales 276,476 263,495 Total asset 1,178,492 1,335,263 Gross margin 23,134 24,910 Current liabilities 618,125 686,475 Sales/Admin. expense 12,702 13,925 Noncurrent liabilities 380,180 417,487 Operation profit 10,432 10,985 Total liabilities 998,305 1,103,962 Non-operating profit 14,108 6,606 Capital 68,338 130,440 Non-operating expense 2,789 1,703 Earned surplus 112,437 101,428 accumulated other Income before income taxes 21,751 15,888 -588 -567 comprehensive income Corporate tax 4,890 4,310 Total capital 180,187 231,301 Current net profit 16,861 11,578 Asset and liabilities in total 1,178,492 1,335,263 30 Appendix UNGC Advanced Level 23 Principles Type Principles GRI G4 Index Describe the discussion on the strategic aspect of global compact 1 G4-1 execution at the executives and board of directors’ level Explain the decision-making procedure and governance system 2 G4-34 for corporate sustainability. 3 Describe the participations of all important stakeholders. G4-24 ~ G4-27 Describe the activities to support comprehensive UN objectives and 4 G4-15, G4-16 issues 5 Describe a strong intention, strategy or policy on human rights Describe an effective management system to integrate the human 6 right principles G4-11, G4-15, Describe an effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism for G4-16, HR4 7 human rights Apply a standardized performance index(including GRI) about 8 human rights 9 Describe a strong intention, strategy or policy on labor issue Describe an effective management system to integrate the 10 laborprinciples G4-10, LA1~LA3, Describe an effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism for the LA9 ~ LA11, LA12 11 labor principles 12 Apply a standardized performance index(including GRI) about labor Describe a strong intention, strategy or policy on environment 13 management Describe an effective management system to integrate environment 14 EN3, EN6, EN15, management EN16, EN19, EN22, Describe an effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism for EN23 15 environment management Apply a standardized performance index about environment 16 management 17 Describe a strong intention, strategy or policy on anti-corruption Describe an effective management system to integrate 18 the anti-corruption principles G4-56, SO3 ~ SO5 Describe an effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism to 19 integrate anti-corruption 20 Apply a standardized performance index about anti-corruption Explain the execution of global compact principles within the value 21 G4-12 chain Provide the corporate profile and the information on operation 22 G4-3 ~ G4-16 environment 23 Include the transparency at a high level and notification G4-28 ~ G4-33 32
