TSKB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 INDEX About This Report 3 Chairman’s Message 5 CEO’s Message 6 Company Profile 7 TSKB’s Subsidiaries 8 TSKB’s Products and Services 9 Sustainability at TSKB 10 Sustainability Perspective 12 TSKB’s Sustainability Structure 16 Stakeholder Analysis 17 Financial Performance 21 Support to Sustainable Development 23 Sustainability Finance 25 Thematic Global Funds 30 Corporate Governance 31 Sharing Experience with Initiatives 34 Sustainability Management at TSKB 35 Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts 37 Management of Internal Environmental Impacts 38 Human Resources 40 Investment in Human Resources 43 Occupational Health and Safety & Supplier Relations 47 Social Responsibility 48 Sustainability Literacy 50 Goals and Performance Objectives 51 GRI G4 Content Index 55 TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT NEW REPORT BY SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE 5th SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TSKB continued its sustainability efforts via the Sustainability Committee. TSKB presents its 2015 sustainability Sustainability performance was reported by the performance in its fifth sustainability workgroups affiliated with the Committee. report. This report is ‘In Accordance’ with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 TSKB took its first steps towards this objective last Guidelines Comprehensive option. year by preparing the 2013-2014 sustainability report without external consultancy. Doing the same while preparing the 2015 sustainability report, TSKB pursued a model that involved collaboration between different workgroups and experience sharing. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 3 OUR VISION & MISSION Our Vision To be the pioneering bank for Turkey’s sustainable development. For Turkey’s sustainable development, supply entrepreneurs with medium and long-term financing, brokerage and Our Mission advisory support, play a continuous role in the development of capital markets in Turkey, create increasingly more added value for our shareholders, customers, employees, and all other stakeholders. Support Provide brokerage and sustainable advisory services to development entrepreneurs OUR GOALS Strengthen the Ensure sustainable Communicate effectively corporate structure growth and profitability with stakeholders OUR STRENGTHS Solid capital structure and strong partners Professional and highly experienced human resources Trust of international and supranational fund providers Ability to reach customers with high operational efficiency Access to long-term thematic funds and competency in transferring Reliable and advanced technological infrastructure these funds to business world TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 TSKB Sürdürülebilirlik Raporu 4 2015 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE Rapidly increasing demand and infinite options to meet We believe that our experience and expertise on these demands lead to consequences that will shape our sustainability gain value when shared. We hope that our 2015 future. Climate change is the most far-reaching one among sustainability performance report will be of interest to our these consequences, and is at the top of agendas of not only shareholders and the sector in general. governments or nongovernmental organizations but also the business world. Kind Regards, Promising global collaborations such as the Paris Convention should be supported with sustainable business models; companies have to integrate the concept of sustainable production into their business processes, and every industry has to be transformed with a sense of sustainability. Considering the amount of investments required for this transformation, the importance of financial sector as a provider of funding comes to the forefront once again. Having pioneered in many fields through its history of development for 66 years, TSKB has adopted the concept of sustainability early, and turned its experience in sustainability into an advantage. In this sense, TSKB is a distinctive institution with its financing solutions and expertise. ADNAN BALİ Chairman TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 5 CEO’S MESSAGE Tackling climate change is one of the most important topics in opportunities. We are glad to be listed in the BIST Sustainability the agenda for almost every country, sector and organization. Index thanks to joint efforts of our colleagues in the sustainability Governments take new measures in order to mitigate economic, workgroups. social and environmental risks; sectors that want to achieve compliance with regulations develop new strategies, and We are aware of the importance of collaboration with other organizations make long-term plans to gain competitive advantage. international organizations to achieve sustainable development Sustainability is at the core of these strategies. targets. As part of COP21, we support tackling climate change on global level by signing the ELTI (European Long-Term Investors Believing that the concept of sustainability is the foundation of Association) and IDFC (International Development Finance Club) our development banking mission, TSKB works for a sustainable declarations that will spread the efforts to the financial sector. development in Turkey. Our new Sustainability Report is prepared ‘In Accordance’ with For this purpose, we shoulder responsibility by supporting the GRI G4 Guidelines Comprehensive option and presents our renewable energy, resource efficiency and sustainable tourism sustainability performance in 2015, which also marks our 65th year projects that may help reduce foreign dependency, realize in our development journey. Although the report only covers our innovative initiatives that make a difference, align different sectors 2015 operations, we know that sustainable development is a very for the competitive atmosphere of “Industry 4.0” and create new job long journey. We will continue to create financial solutions that opportunities. help our partners reach their sustainability goals, and will support productivity by protecting the future. While measuring environmental and social risks of the projects, we also analyze environmental effects of our own operations, Kind Regards, consume 100% green energy, and offset our carbon footprint. As the first carbon-neutral bank in Turkey, we continue to raise carbon awareness through our social responsibility projects, communication channels, educational activities and events. We are integrating the concept of sustainability into all of our business processes in TSKB. We expand our sustainability initiatives across all functions through our Sustainability Committee and workgroups, and review innovative practices and collaboration SUAT İNCE CEO TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 6 COMPANY PROFILE Sustainable value for Turkey’s economic growth TSKB’s shareholder structure since 1950... TSKB was established in 1950 in Istanbul with the support of World 50.33% Bank and the Central Bank of Turkey and shareholding of private commercial banks, with the mission of supporting the Turkish 41.29% private sector development. Since the day it was founded, TSKB has been supporting Turkey’s sustainable growth with its deep knowledge and experience as well as the broad array of corporate banking, investment banking, and consultancy services that it provides its customers. Through subsidiaries offering real estate and sustainability solutions, TSKB also adds value to its customers’ investments. Ever since its inception, TSKB has been engaging in business partnerships with supranational financial institutions, international development agencies, and banks and financial institutions all over the world through which it brings qualified and themed global funds together with investments undertaken by the Turkish 8.38% business world. With a wide range of credit options that include corporate lending, T. İş Bankası A.Ş. Group project finance, and much more, TSKB provides financing support to sustainable investment projects in many different sectors. At T. Vakıflar Bankası T.A.O. the same time and in its capacity as an investment bank, TSKB also Free Float and Others gives its customers the benefit of its international-class investment banking experience with products and services that have been carefully crafted to meet their specific needs. Detailed information pertaining to TSKB’s capital structure can be found at the following web link: http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/about-us/general-overview TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 7 TSKB’S SUBSIDIARIES Yatırım TSKB Finansman Gayrimenkul Menkul Değerleme A.Ş. Değerler A.Ş. Appraisal Turkey’s first With subsidiaries active in services at brokerage the fields of capital markets, international www.tskbgd.com www.yf.com.tr firm real estate investment standards partnership, real estate valuation and sustainable consultancy, TSKB provides its clients integrated and high-added-value solutions. Escarus Sürdürülebilir TSKB Danışmanlık A.Ş. Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. Sustainability solutions Other affiliates: targeting An investment • Affiliates in Türkiye private portfolio www.escarus.com İş Bankası Group sector concentrating • Industrial affiliates www.tskbgyo.com on commercial • Foreign affiliates real estate (share in European Investment Fund) Detailed information pertaining to TSKB’s subsidiaries and affiliates can be found at the following web link: http:// www.tskb.com.tr/en/subsidiaries TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 8 TSKB’S PRODUCTS AND SERVICES TSKB offers a rich portfolio of products and services, which is designed and structured in line with the country’s development and Turkish business world’s goals, in the fields of Corporate Banking, Investment Banking and Consultancy. Corporate Banking Investment Banking Consultancy Contribution to the Country’s economy and Support to improve clients’ assets... Added value based on expert knowledge... employment... Corporate Lending Corporate Finance Strategic Finance Consultancy Industrial Investments Equity Public Offerings and Transactions Company, Brand and Licence Valuation Energy and Resource Efficiency Debt Security Offerings and Transactions Feasibility Analyses & Studies Environment Friendly Investments Mergers & Acquisitions Financial Restructuring Renewable Energy Asset Purchases & Sales Advisory Strategic Roadmaps Sustainable Tourism Privatization Advisory Sector Analyses Health and Education Investments Project Finance Consultancy Capital Markets* Project Finance Equities Brokerage Services Real Estate Valuation* Power Generation and Distribution Fixed Income Securities Brokerage Services Real Estate Appraisal Commercial Real Estate FX Transactions Machinery and Equipment Appraisal Logistics Warrant Transactions Bidding Consultancy Transportation/Infrastructure Repo Transactions The Highest and Best-Use Analyses Public Private Partnership Projects Derivative Transactions in International Markets Collateral Appraisal Mergers & Acquisitions Forex and Leveraged Trading Feasibility, Project Development & Monitoring Loans Against Securities Sector Analyses and Market Research Report Other Loan Products Asset Management Green Building Analyses Wholesale Banking Investment Advisory Urban Renewal Consultancy • SME Finance Concept Development Consultancy • Export Finance Derivatives Foreign Trade Finance Forwards Sustainability and Environment* Country (ECA) Loans Options Sustainability Management Working Capital Finance Caps & Floors Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Financial Leasing Swaptions Technical Consultancy Swap Transactions Climate Change Management • Currency Carbon Consultancy • Interest Rate Environmental and Social Risk Management • Cross Currency Investment Monitoring for Financial Institutions Renewable Energy Consultancy *TSKB provides a part of its services in investment banking and advisory services within the scope of cooperation with its subsidiaries; Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş., TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme A.Ş. and Escarus Sürdürülebilir Danışmanlık A.Ş. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 9 SUSTAINABILITY AT TSKB 10% of TSKB employees take part in the sustainability workgroups Sustainability investments affiliated with the Sustainability supported by TSKB Committee together with two More than 50 % of reduce the carbon footprint of Turkey by 8.3 million tons. Board Members and two Vice Presidents. TSKB’s credit portfolio is composed of sustainability investment projects. 100+ TSKB supports more than 100 renewable Financing more than 100 energy projects energy and resource efficiency projects, TSKB which account for 13% of the BIST saves enough energy to provide heating to a city of renewable energy capacity in Turkey. D20 1.5 million people for one TSKB joined the BIST (Istanbul year. Stock Exchange) Sustainability Index that was established by Istanbul Stock Exchange to list the Long-term financing institutions companies with the highest of G20 came together at the D20 corporate sustainability Conference hosted by TSKB. performances. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 10 SUSTAINABILITY AT TSKB TSKB facilities have been using Sustainability Caring about efficiency, TSKB saved 100% green energy since at TSKB on many consumables between 2005-2015. 2009. 27% 48% less electricity less paper 42% 29% less natural gas less water After attending Paris Climate Change Conference (COP21), the TSKB Sustainability Management Team developed new strategies for tackling climate change. TSKB strives to build a sustainable future, increase awareness on climate change and carbon management among Sustainability performance of TSKB businesses and universities has received many awards. with its social responsibility Highest Corporate Report Transparency rating given COP21 projects, and organized the to a bank by Transparency International 2015 first zero-carbon concert in Climate Disclosure Leadership CDP-2015 56% of TSKB’s Turkey. Low Carbon Hero Award SÜT-D-2015 Highest Corporate Governance Rating TKYD employees are women. 2011-2013-2014 TSKB increased its support on women’s employment by signing the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs). TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 11 D20 TSKB celebrated its 65th year by hosting a very special development banking event. After the 2013 D20 conference in Moscow and 2014 conference in Rome, the third D20 conference was hosted by TSKB in İstanbul. Executives of development banks in G20 member states, long-term investment organizations and major financial institutions came together at the 3rd D20 Conference held in Istanbul on May 26, 2015. In this conference themed “Infrastructure as a Long-Term Investment Tool for Sustainable and Comprehensive Growth”, business models on granting long-term funding to infrastructure investments from non-bank sectors and priority social infrastructure investments that are important for improving the lives of people were discussed in detail. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 12 CARBONNEUTRAL BANKING Being TSKB believes in the importance of transition to a low-carbon economy in the sense of tackling climate change. Saving 8.3 million tons of CO2 the first carbonevery year by making investments in sustainability, TSKB applies this neutral bank of carbon-neutral approach to events and stakeholders, and reinforces its passion with awareness campaigns: Turkey, TSKB manages its carbon efficiency principle Within the scope of internal environmental impact management, TSKB Head Offices consume 100% clean energy and achieve zero-sum carbon by funding investments footprint every year. and social responsibility All events and organizations are conducted with a zero-carbon projects, and supports approach. TSKB’s recruitment program Career Workshop, its globaltransition to a lowparticipation event D20 Summit and many other events are among these activities. carbon economy. Organized every year as part of İKSV Music Festival and sponsored by TSKB, the first zero-carbon concert event of Turkey aims to offset the carbon footprint generated due to the transportation of artists and the audience. As a New Year’s gift, TSKB offsets the annual personal carbon footprint of all stakeholders and presents them with a certificate that they have been carbon-neutral for the year. Sources such as wind power and landfill gas are used for this carbon footprint offsetting campaign. Valuing every opportunity to increase awareness on tackling climate change, TSKB supports the WWF Earth Hour campaign that aims to draw attention to global warming. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 13 Representatives of TSKB Sustainability Management Team attended Paris Climate Conference (COP21) that took place on 30 November – 11 December 2015 in Paris. The objective of the conference was assessing the progress in tackling climate change and discussing the activities and investments for a low carbon, flexible and sustainable future. The conference ended up with the Paris Agreement signed by 195 countries on 12 December 2015. This agreement has a historic significance in terms of bringing all countries together on the basis of COP21 TSKB their historical, current and future responsibilities. Before the agreement, each country presented its own action plan in accordance Sustainability with the goal of keeping the global warming below the 2 degrees Celsius limit. Management Although it has been calculated afterwards that these plans are not sufficient for Team works on new the 2 degrees Celsius goal, they can be considered as declarations of goodwill. According to the agreement, these plans are going to be updated and improved sustainability strategies in the light of technological progress every 5 years. after attending one of the most important events of 2015 Based on their observations at COP21 and the results of the Paris Agreement, TSKB Sustainability Management Team projects that renewable energy, energy regarding tackling climate and resource efficiency investments are expected to gain more importance change –the Paris Climate in the near future considering the fact that 70% of carbon emmissions stem from the energy use in Turkey. TSKB Sustainability Management Team also Change Conference emphasizes that what actions will be taken by the energy-intense sectors to (COP21). comply with the new legislations in the upcoming period, how they will manage these issues, how they will decrease their energy intensity and their greenhouse gas emissions need to be closely monitored by the finance sector as well. TSKB’s connection with international financial institutions is as strong as its determination in tackling climate change. As the only Turkish member of Considering the European Long-Term Investors Association, TSKB commits to follow ELTI’s that 70% of carbon principles that support transition to a low-carbon economy. These principles are: emissions stem from the Measuring and reporting our capacity to finance a low-carbon and sustainable energy use in Turkey, TSKB economy, taking actions to improve our climate performance by 2020; Sustainability Management Increasing the support for innovative tools as part of our low-carbon and Team projects that renewable climate-compatible economic targets; Discussing on how to provide large amount of funds to realize climate targets; energy, energy and resource TSKB’s Paying attention to carbon intensity of our portfolio, making climateefficiency investments are Climate Change compatible investments, evaluating the environmental and social impacts expected to gain more Paris Climate Summit of business models, strategic decisions and performance of the financed importance. (COP21) Report can companies. be found at the link: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/ TSKB also supports the volunteering principles created by IDFC (International content/2963_1_COPDevelopment Finance Club) to popularize efforts on the climate change among report-2016-son. pdf financial institutions. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 14 BIST Sustainability TSKB Index joined the BIST (Borsa Istanbul) Sustainability Index that lists the companies operating in Istanbul with the highest corporate sustainability performances. TSKB was listed in the BIST Sustainability Index, which was one of the most important events for TSKB in 2015. BIST Sustainability Index was established last year to recognize understanding, knowledge and ongoing efforts in terms of sustainability; companies listed in this index are evaluated based on some criteria including environment, bio-diversity, climate change, human rights, structure of their board of directors, anti-bribery acts, and occupational health and safety. This evaluation is carried out by an independent research company in London – Ethical Investment Research Services Limited (EIRIS). TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 15 TSKB’S SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURE Sustainability Sustainability Committee Sub-Committee 2 Executive 2 Board of Task Vice Directors’ Groups Presidents Members TSKB’s Sustainability Structure TSKB’s Sustainability Policies Sustainability Finance Sustainability Management Stakeholder Communications • Sustainability Policy • Renewable Energy • ISO 14001 • Clients • Environmental and Social Impact • Energy Efficiency • ISO 14064 • Employees Policy • Resource Efficiency • Zero-Carbon Banking • Shareholders • List of Restricted Activities • Sustainable Tourism • Environmental and Social Risk • Government and Regulatory • Occupational Health and Safety • Environmental Investments Evaluation (ERET) Bodies Policy • Financial Institutions • Human Rights Policy • Suppliers • Sustainable Procurement • Subsidiaries Management Policy • NGOs • Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption • The Media Policy • Banking Sector For detailed information: http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainablebanking/tskb-surdurulebilirlik-yonetimorganizasyonu/our-sustainability-policy TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 16 STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS Focusing on creating value for Turkey’s sustainable economic development, TSKB Clients determined all of its corporate priorities in Employees Client Visits and Meetings the field of sustainability in the light of its Department Meetings Manager Meetings Sector Meetings Seminars and Conferences TSKB Website and Social Media Channels stakeholders’ expectations. Focus Group Meetings Online Transactions Platform MT Development Program Client Communication Form Development Workshop In its sustainability report, TSKB shares its Intranet Regulatory Documents Platform approaches and business results pertaining Banking Sector Press Meetings to these priorities. Public Disclosure Platform and Press Releases Meetings as part of sector association memberships Columns Collaborations In this report TSKB focuses on economic, The Media environmental and social components of GRI G4 and those human rights and Annual Ordinary General Assembly Meeting product responsibility aspects where the Board Meetings Bank creates added value. All the dialogs Periodical Reports TSKB Website and Social STAKEHOLDER Board Meetings Joint Project Operations of TSKB with stakeholder groups and the Media Channels COMMUNICATION Manager Meetings results of stakeholder analysis carried Shareholders out with participation of representatives PLATFORM Subsidiaries of stakeholder groups are reviewed in prioritization matrix. NGOs Boards STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION Task Groups Reporting requirements of General Assemblies the law and legislation and Co-organized Events regular follow-ups of other TSKB places great emphasis on establishing Cevreciyiz.com information exchange Participation to relevant meetings and maintaining a sustainable dialog Company Meetings Government and Regulatory Bodies with all stakeholder groups via various Capacity Building Meetings Field Visits communication platforms. Feedback Suppliers Thematic Seminars and Conferences Participation to Annual Meetings received from stakeholders sheds light to Company Meetings Intern Exchange many aspects ranging from identifying Feedback to Satisfaction Surveys Periodical Reports and Assessments Periodical Reporting and TSKB’s strategic priorities to creating Assessments Financial Institutions relevant policies, and from business model to social responsibility projects. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 17 PRIORITIZATION ANALYSIS Dimensions of Prioritization Analysis Prioritization and Stakeholder Analysis A. Financing of tackling climate change and supply of themed funds • Theme Diversity, Including Renewable Energy, Energy and Resource Efficiency, In addition to contacts and meetings with all stakeholder groups Sustainable Tourism, Waste Management and Innovation in the framework of its business model, TSKB carried out a • Effective Cooperation with National and International Financial Instutions stakeholder analysis in the scope of its sustainability report. B. Evaluation of environmental and social risks of the investment projects and Prioritized fields that were identified considering GRI-G4 Technical management of these impacts Protocol were analyzed with a widely-participated survey that • Compliance with Environmental Regulations • Efficiency included practices under 7 headings. • Biodiversity • Human Rights • Occupational Health and Safety C. Full compliance with corporate governance principles and effective risk management Our Clients • To be Ethical, Fair, Transparent, Responsible & Accountable • Risk (Capital, Operational, Loan, Asset-Liabilities) Management Our Business Partners D. Customer orientation Financial • Cost Effective Institutions • Effective Lending • High Service Quality E. Responsible profitability Our Suppliers • Return on Equity • Sustainable Growth • Strong Capital Adequacy Ratio Our Employees • High Quality Assets • Effective Management of Liquidity Position Stakeholders F. Investment in human resources and respect to human rights Participating • Training/Development • Remuneration in Stakeholder Associations • Effective Performance Management • Ensuring Work/Life Balance Our Subsidiaries Analysis and Initiatives • Language, Religion, Ethnicity, Race, Gender Discrimination Prevention we subscribed to G. Social responsibility projects in creating awareness in the field of sustainability Sharing Sustainability Experience with Different Stakeholder Groups: Academia • Our Employees The Media • Business World • Universities • Initiatives • Non-Governmental Organizations • Public TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 18 PRIORITIZATION ANALYSIS Prioritization Analysis Results In review of the findings from TSKB’s stakeholders and senior Employees 1. Investment in human resources management’s prioritization analysis, Financial Institutions and respect to human rights 1. Evaluation of environmental and it is evident that stakeholder social risks of the investment projects 2. Financing of tackling climate groups and Bank’s Board and senior change and supply of themed funds and management of these impacts 3. Evaluation of environmental and management have the following first 2. Financing of tackling climate social risks of the investment projects three priorities: change and supply of themed funds and management of these impacts 3. Full compliance with corporate governance principles and effective risk management Customers 1. Evaluation of environmental and social risks of the investment projects and management of these impacts 2. Customer orientation Initiatives 3. Responsible profitability 1. Full compliance with corporate governance principles and effective First three priorities of the Bank’s risk management Board and senior management: 2. Investment in human resources 1. Full compliance with corporate and respect to human rights governance principles and effective risk 3. Evaluation of environmental and management social risks of the investment projects 2. Investment in human resources and and management of these impacts respect to human rights 3. Evaluation of environmental and social risks of the investment projects and management of these impacts TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 19 PRIORITIZATION MATRIX Findings from examination of the Prioritization Matrix The fact that all criteria, from financing to governance and from human resources to social responsibility, are located on very close and similar area mutually on the graph both by stakeholder High groups and by TSKB Board of Directors and senior management, Evaluation of reveals that the Bank’s policies and business model in this regard Environmental and has met the high expectations of stakeholder groups. Social Risks Sustainability Highest priority given by stakeholders to “Evaluation of Finance environmental and social risks of the investment projects and Human Corporate management of these impacts” strengthens TSKB’s commitment Resources and Governance to measure environmental and social risks involved in any lending Customer Human Rights facilitation and to refuse providing funds to high risk investments. Orientation Importance to Stakeholders The fact that stakeholders’ high expectations for “Financing of Responsible tackling climate change and supply of themed funds” which is Profitability expressed as “Sustainability Finance” has met TSKB’s priorities is especially important as it reflects the awareness in the business Social world and among the other players in the economy. Responsibility As a missionary bank that supports investments for the purpose of the country’s economic development, TSKB has highest priority of “Corporate Governance”, which further underlines the Bank’s unvarying policy towards being fair, transparent, responsible and accountable. Having long-term relations with its clients both in terms of financing and consultancy activities, TSKB places great emphasis on expert and competent human resources, which is reflected on TSKB axis of stakeholder analysis. Covering 360 degrees of all economic, environmental, managerial and social aspects of the journey of sustainability, TSKB will continue to have interactive dialogs with all of its stakeholders Low High and to create added value. Importance to TSKB TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 20 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE A key player among development and TSKB’s sustainable profitability and growth targets: investment banks Total asset size of TSKB reached 20.7 billion TL as of 2015, with a 32% pick up compared to the previous year. In terms of asset size, the Bank ranked as second largest bank in the development and investment banking sector. Strong loan book that fuels the real economy TSKB’s loan portfolio which is quite robust grew by 24.5% in TL terms and 5% in FX-adjusted terms. Thanks to its FX-loan growth Increasing Efficient cost Growing Maintaining Efficient which was in line with the banking sector, the total loan book size equity control and market the asset management of TSKB reached 13.7 billion TL. Consequently, TSKB maintained its and asset improvement value and quality of the Bank’s 45% market share among the development and investment banks profitability investor-base liquidity and regarding the long term FX-loans. positions The asset quality which sustains TSKB’s growth targets With its sound capital structure, TSKB continues to bolster its stakeholders’ trust. Having recorded an NPL ratio of 0.4% as of 2015 year-end, the Bank maintains its NPL ratio quite below the banking sector’s. Sustainable growth of net profit TSKB, which shows a sustainable financial performance, generated a net profit of 406.9 million TL with an 10.2% annual increase as of 2015 year-end. The Bank delivered a ROE of 17% and ROA of 2.2%. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 21 FINANCIAL INDICATORS Main financial parameters (TL million) Main ratios (%) Asset Size Loans Shareholders’ Equity Net Profit Average Return Average Return Capital Adequacy on Equity on Assets Ratio 20,735 20.4 19.4 19.7 19.1 17.9 18.2 17.7 18.1 15,701 17.0 13,675 12,911 14.9 10,290 10,981 9,456 9,177 6,895 6,395 2,288 2.489 1,755 1,885 2.9 3.1 2.8 2.6 2.2 1,366 255 307 326 369 407 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 How did we share the value* that we created in 2015 2013 and 2014, and with whom? (TL) Gross profit 508,455,560 Tax 101,610,408 Cash dividends distributed to shareholders and Board of Directors 52,501,546 Dividends distributed to employees 9,468,693 Undistributed profit (**) 344,874,913 Employee termination benefits 823,710 Personnel expenses 62,492,062 Total operating expenses 38,143,000 *Gross profit is deemed to be the value created by TSKB as a result of banking services cycle. **In 2015 TL 300 million were distributed as bonuses and TL 44,874,913 were set aside as reserves. The above figures were received from TSKB’s solo financials and profit distribution statements as of December 31st, 2015. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 22 SUPPORT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT With proactive business strategies, TSKB constantly improves its TSKB’s targets to support sustainable development: level of support to sustainable development. • Weight of loans provided to investments with the theme of sustainability in the Bank’s total loan portfolio excluding the finance sector reached 50% as of the end of 2015. • 133 clean energy projects with total of 4,177 MW installed capacity, corresponding to approximately 13% of Turkey’s renewable energy capacity, were financed. • The energy saved through more than 100 energy and resource efficiency projects financed by TSKB is the equivalent of yearlong heating of a city of 1.5 Supporting Expanding Increasing loan Increasing Efficiently million people. climate client-base and foreign short and transferring • With all these renewable energy, energy efficiency and resource efficiency change trade volumes medium term funds investments, Turkey’s annual carbon emissions have been reduced by 8.3 tackling with free fund secured from million tons. a responsible volumes supranational • TSKB focuses on investments in areas such as resource efficiency including financing institutions to energy efficiency, renewable energy, logistics, infrastructure and Public-Private approach business world Partnership Projects (PPP). • In addition to providing financial support for Turkish private sector’s transition to low-carbon and high-efficient production economy, TSKB offers companies consultancy services in these fields. As a requirement of its growth strategy, TSKB deepens its relationships with current clientèle while aiming to gain new clients from various business lines. In this context, the following projects and sectors are on TSKB’s agenda going forward: • Public-Private Partnership Projects (PPP), mainly in the fields of health and education • Renewable energy projects, in particular solar, wind and geothermal energy projects • Energy and resource efficiency projects • SME loans • Environmental projects • Acquisition of publicly held electricity generation plants and other assets under the scope of privatization and investments related to these privatizations. Planning to place greater emphasis on investment loans in the near future, TSKB aims to grow its loan portfolio as well as maintaining its strong asset quality while supporting Turkey’s economic development. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 23 LOAN INDICATORS Most important business lines: ¨ Corporate Lending Project Finance ns 19% market share in Loan portfolio Strong asset quality the development and with an NPL ratio A P E X lo a amounting to g d i re c t l y investment TL 13.7 billion of 0.4% n v ia Investment loans 25% banking sector m illio f fu n d in ing Working capital loans 0 an c In the last five years, USD 50 no li o fin APEX bil illi the real sector was .2 on U SD 7 .7 b 68% Sectoral Diversity of Loan Portfolio supported by A t ot al U S D7 9% 2% 3% 4% 33% Energy Production REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF LOANS (FACILITATION-LAST 5 YEARS) 5% Electricity-Gas Distribution As of the end of 2015... Finance 5% Tourism 2% 2% 2% Logistics 8% 8% 5% Non-residential Real Estate 10% 28% 13% Metal and Machinery Treasury APEX 44% Chemistry and Plastics 11% Guaranteed Loans 5% Construction Food Loans 14% Automotive 6% 9% 18% 23% Other 17% 12% Marmara Mediterranean Central Anatolia Aegean A gradual decrease is expected in the share of energy production due to Black Sea Eastern Anatolia Southeastern Anatolia Bank’s focus with respect to renewable energy projects shifting to wind and solar power projects. Finance sector loans mainly consist of APEX loans. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 24 SUSTAINABILITY FINANCE TSKB believes in the transformative power of the financial sector in tackling climate change. Sustainability financing in TSKB focuses on following fields: 1. Renewable Energy 2. Energy and Resource Efficiency 3. Sustainable Tourism 4. APEX Loans TSKB supports transition to a low-carbon economy by financing such projects. It also contributes to increasing energy efficiency and reducing our foreign dependency via efficiency programs in Turkey. Thus, TSKB focuses on reduction and compliance investments in terms of climate change. TSKB mainly focuses on reduction, but it plans to increase its compliance activities in the forthcoming years. TSKB believes that collaboration is important for fighting climate change. As the only Turkish member of the European Long-Term Investors Association, TSKB signed ELTI’s declaration to support transition to a low-carbon economy. TSKB also supports principles created by IDFC to popularize efforts on the climate change among financial institutions. A detailed review of TSKB’s operations is available in the page titled Sustainability Perspective COP21. Climate Change Mitigation refers to efforts to reduce or prevent emission of greenhouse gases. http://www.unep.org/climatechange/mitigation Climate Change Adaptation means anticipating the adverse effects of climate change and taking appropriate action to prevent or minimize the damage they can cause, or taking advantage of opportunities that may arise. http://ec.europa.eu/ clima/policies/adaptation/index_en.htm TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 25 SUSTAINABILITY FINANCE As of the end of 2015... Renewable Energy Aiming to be the leading bank of the sector in relation to sustainability and 133 projects with total environment, TSKB has been financing of 4,177 MW estimated 97 projects with Projects financed renewable energy investments since 2002. installed capacity were total of 3,662 MW correspond to The Bank thus plays an important role financed installed power approximately 13% in tackling climate change in Turkey and started operation of Turkey’s renewable Turkey’s transition to low-carbon economy energy capacity while indirectly contributing to the decrease of the Country’s dependence on abroad in energy production and reduction of current deficit. Total investment amount Loan amount that was Reduction of greenhouse of energy projects that committed to these gases equivalent to 6,140,000 were financed in the projects by TSKB was tons/year is achieved by Having a share of 7% the sector’s overall period of 2003-2015: approximately TSKB’s renewable energy energy loans, TSKB funds diversified energy USD 7.8 billion USD 2.9 billion investments projects ranging from hydroelectric power plants to solar power plants. While solar power, wind power and geothermal power Wind plants in particular receive greater emphasis Projects: 20 Total Installed in 2015 in terms of renewable energy, the Capacity (MW): 779 total weight of energy sector in TSKB’s loan portfolio remains at the same level as of Geothermal Biomass Projects: 5 Projects: 6 year end. TSKB aims to provide investment Total Installed Total Installed Capacity (MW): Capacity (MW): 95 financing to solar power plant projects which 326 are expected to increase in the near future in the scope of its sustainable banking mission. Solar Projects: Hydroelectric 23 Projects: 79 Total Installed Total Installed Capacity (MW): Capacity (MW): 27 2,950 Total Installed Projects Capacity (MW) Total 133 4,177 TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 26 SUSTAINABILITY FINANCE As of the end of 2015... Energy and Resource Efficiency Believing in the important role played by USD 63 million efforts in energy and resource efficiency loans disbursed 63 energy efficiency projects of 38 companies in tackling climate change, TSKB has been supporting the energy efficiency projects were financed 40 resource efficiency projects of 11 companies of many enterprises that manufacture in an USD 424.7 million were financed array of industries, with medium and longterm loans. loans disbursed Share of energy and resource efficiency loans in TSKB’s total loan portfolio has reached 10% as of the end of 2015. TSKB aims to finance new energy and resource efficiency projects in the upcoming period. The Bank so far provided a total of almost USD 500 million financing to more Energy Efficiency = heating of 212,700 homes per year Resource Efficiency than 100 projects ranging from energy efficiency to raw material efficiency, and production processes efficiency to waste management efficiency. USD 230.5 million projects’ total USD 965 million investment amount projects’ total Reduction of greenhouse gases investment amount equivalent to 2,120,000 tons/year 3,818,000 Gcal heating of a city of of energy = 1.5 million people TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 27 SUSTAINABILITY FINANCE As of the end of 2015... Sustainable Tourism Sharing its experience in the field of sustainable banking with the tourism sector, TSKB supports both the protection of environment and the tourism investments to be sustainable. 9 sustainable Loans offered by TSKB in the field of tourism projects of tourism aren’t merely loans for facility 8 companies were investment, facility renovation or financed expansion investments, but also cover aspects such as energy efficiency, resource efficiency and investments to mitigate the environmental impact that are vital for tackling climate change. Loans disbursed: The use of sustainable USD 82.7 million tourism loans is being continued TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 28 SUSTAINABILITY FINANCE APEX Loans As of the end of 2015... TSKB applies its sustainable banking principles also to its efforts in the fields of creating new business opportunities, increasing the exports and employment. As the leader and role-model practitioner of APEX banking in Turkey, TSKB finances SMEs and exporters via banks and financial Total of leasing companies. Being provided under USD 40.1 Synergetic structure Total of USD 1.2 billion million in loans APEX banking, this service is offered in the with 29 intermediary in loans provided to 649 provided to scope of the World Bank’s EFIL (Export Finance institutions within the companies within the 44 companies Intermediary Loan) programs and APEX loans framework of APEX scope of EFIL within the obtained from EBRD, KfW and EIB. scope of IA2F in 2015 As of the end of the year, APEX credits represent 7% of TSKB’s credit portfolio. Within the scope of APEX, USD 250 million worth of Innovative Access to Finance Project Loan (IA2F) was Total of USD 452 million Contribution to in loans provided to employment in SMEs: obtained in 2014 from the World Bank and it 1,036 SMEs within the Approximately 5,567 is being used for financing SMEs and medium scope of SME loans people scale export companies via participation banks and factoring companies. Thus, TSKB is the first to act as mediator for facilitation of a loan by the World Bank via participation banks and factoring companies in Turkey. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 29 THEMATIC GLOBAL FUNDS TSKB enables Turkish investments to benefit from the global funds. Willing to continue supporting investments promoting Turkey’s sustainable Strong and well established international relations network is one of growth with the additional funds secured by the various types of debt the distinguishing aspects of TSKB as well as one of the most important capital market products as well as ECA transactions, trade finance loans and privileges it offers to its clients. syndicated facilities, TSKB will keep working to increase the diversification of its overseas funding base. Being one of the recognized Turkish banks in international finance markets, TSKB works in close cooperation with development finance TSKB aims to provide financing at favorable conditions to investment institutions including but not limited to the World Bank (IBRD), European projects promoting Turkey’s sustainable economic development as well as Investment Bank (EIB), Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB), KfW contributing to improve the competitiveness of private sector companies. Development Bank (KfW), Islamic Development Bank (IDB), Agence With the funding secured from Development Finance and Financial Française de Développement (AFD), International Finance Corporation Institutions, TSKB continues to finance renewable energy, environmental (IFC), Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG (OeEB), Japan Bank for protection, sustainable tourism, energy efficiency and resource efficiency International Cooperation (JBIC) and European Bank for Reconstruction projects. and Development (EBRD). Thematic Loans secured by TSKB in 2015: On the other hand, the relationship management and monitoring Japan Bank for International Cooperation undertaken with international banks globally represent another (JBIC) important component of TSKB’s international cooperation network. USD 150 million – JBIC GREEN Untied Loan to TSKB (Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency TSKB secured approximately USD 2.2 billion from international markets Loan to reduce GHG emissions in Turkey) via its thematic loan agreements, syndicated loan facilities as well as debut Eurobond issuance in years 2013 and 2014. In year 2015, TSKB successfully rolled the syndicated loan facility by 200% to USD 256 million with the contibution of 17 banks of which 5 of them are the European Investment Bank (EIB) new participants and executed its second eurobond issuance.The USD 109 million – TSKB Loan III for “SMEs, funds obtained by TSKB in 2015 from international markets amounted Midcaps and Innovation” in Turkey/A approximately USD 950 million. TSKB broke new ground in 2014 with its inaugural Eurobond execution. The year after, in 2015 the Bank established its MTN programme amounting USD 750 million and issued its second Eurobond under that International Finance Corporation (IFC) programme as the first drawdown.The strong investor appetite for the USD 75 million – IFC Climate Smart Loan bond issuance, despite the volatile market conditions, which resulted (Renewable Energy, Resource and Energy with a successful closing is an indicator of high credibility of TSKB in the Efficiency Loan) international debt markets. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance and full conformance to laws constitutes TSKB believes that adopting the basic principles and becoming fair, power source of sustainable economic performance, framework of transparent, responsible and accountable are highly important for the ethical and honest banking, and the primary tool for balancing and development of both national and international capital markets, and also in maintaining stakeholders’ interest. terms of the interests of the bank and all stakeholders. TSKB adopts the corporate objective of providing banking services TSKB has clearly defined policies, procedures, risk management principles with a management approach that tends to its all stakeholders’ and systems for business lines, services and products. With the information expectations and provides to them the highest possible benefit, and technologies infrastructure it has, TSKB ensures that policies, procedures to constantly develop its prestige in the market and brand power. and systems are rapidly and efficiently internalized in the service cycle. Information technology infrastructure further allows that all management TSKB believes that adhering to all ethical values in addition to reporting functions can be carried out in the most efficient way, helping conforming to laws and legislation is necessary and contribution to internal and external audit functions can be performed without omission. society, environment and social life is essential in order to achieve this objective. Equal treatment of all stakeholders, protecting their rights, sharing accurate, open and comparable information with public and fair use of their authorities by the senior management are prioritized by TSKB. Board of Directors, CEO, senior management team and committees constitute TSKB’s company governance structure. The Bank also strives to provide structures where all stakeholders, especially employees and shareholders, have the ability to participate in management. Detailed information pertaining to TSKB’s Corporate Governance, Board of Directors, senior management, and committees can be found on pages 50-65 of 2015 Annual Report published at http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1609_1_ TSKB_EN_2015.pdf. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Since the day it was included in BIST Corporate Governance Index in 2009, TSKB maintains its position among the companies with highest corporate governance rating of Turkey. On 20 October 2015, TSKB’s Sustainable corporate governance rating was increased to 9.52/10. It was granted the “2nd Highest Corporate Governance Score” award by the Corporate Governance Association of Turkey. Responsible Fair Sub Categories Weight (%) 2015 Shareholders 25 9.49 Public Disclosure and Transparency 25 9.65 Stakeholders 15 9.85 Board of Directors 35 9.31 Total 100 9.52 Transparent Report authored by SAHA Kurumsal Yönetim ve Kredi Derecelendirme Hizmetleri A.Ş. in relation to corporate governance rating can be found at http://www.tskb.com.tr/ Accountable en/investor-relations/corporate-governance/corporate-governance-rating-report. TSKB Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report is on pages 56-65 of 2015 Another star to our corporate governace Annual Report, published at the address of http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1609_1_ TSKB_EN_2015.pdf. understanding... We are proud to be “The Company with the Second Highest Corporate Governance Rating Score in BIST Corporate Governance Index”. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk Management team carry out their activities as a unit that is directly Risk Management connected with the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee through the Executive Vice President who is responsible for the Internal Systems TSKB considers risk management to be one of the fundamental of the Bank. The team monitors and measures the risk level that the Bank components of added value cycle towards sustainable banking and is exposed to in the scope of risk management strategies that are vital for development targets. Structured in line with best practices and legal sustainable performance, in adherence to international standards and as arrangements of international arena, TSKB’s risk management process per the formal risk policies. Whilst TSKB continues to measure and monitor serves in creating a common risk culture throughout the organization. credit risk and market risk, which are the major risks of the Bank, legally Risks encountered by the Bank are defined in a way that conforms with according to the Standard Approach legislation, it also measures and international arrangements and measuring, analysis, monitoring and reports with the use of its own advanced software and internal models. reporting activities are carried out in this framework while continuous At TSKB, risks are monitored not only statically but also through dynamic and systematic input is provided to the Bank management’s decision analyses. For this, short and mid-term projections based on various stress making process. and base scenarios are made. Furthermore, the Bank uses software and analyses that incorporate advanced measurement methodologies for the purpose of effectively managing its assets and liabilities. Preventions of Laundering Criminal Income and Financing of Terrorism To ensure compliance with all related laws and regulations, TSKB Internal In Turkey , the fight against “laundering proceeds of crime” and Control Department carries out regular control activities over customer “financing of terrorism” is essentially conducted by MASAK (Financial accounts and transactions on daily, monthly and quarterly basis and any Crimes Investigation Board), which is directly attached to Ministry of findings/potential risks are regularly reported to Board of Directors. TSKB Finance.The legal framework of this fight consists of “Law No. 5549 adopts the principle of full compliance to Turkey’s governing legislation on Prevention of Laundering Proceeds of Crime ” that was adopted about “prevention of laundering proceeds of crime” and “financing of in 2006 and “Law No. 6415 on the Prevention of the Financing of terrorism” and strives to ensure that all necessary contol and warning Terrorism” that was adopted in 2013. A set of regulations published mechanisms are in place and integrated to its business processes. in 2008 required banks (Development and Investment Banks Entirety of TSKB’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy can be found at the following excluded) to develop programs to bring themselves into compliance link: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB_anti_bribery_and_anti_ with efforts to prevent money-laundering through the Turkish corruption_policy.pdf. banking system. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 33 SHARING EXPERIENCE WITH INITIATIVES TSKB carries out collaborations with INTERNATIONAL NATIONAL many national and international organizations, believing in the importance of sharing experience CDP Carbon Disclosure Project TBB The Banks Association of Turkey for a sustainable future. WDP Water Disclosure Project TKYD Corporate Governance Association of Turkey First Turkish bank to become a UNEP FI member UN Declaration of Human Rights TSPAKB Turkish Capital Markets Association Participation to Carbon Disclosure Project since GRI The Global Reporting Initiative DEIK Foreign Economic Relations Board the year it was established UNEP FI UN Environment Program TUSIAD Turkish Industry and Business Association Finance Initiative One of first two financial institutions from Borsa Istanbul Sustainability Index Advisory ComTurkey that signed Water Disclosure Project United Nations Global Compact mittee ADFIMI Association of National First Turkish development and investment Development Finance Institutions in bank that subscribed to United Nations GIF Global Relations Forum Member Countries of the Islamic “Global Compact” Development Bank SKD Business Council for Sustainable One of the two institutions in finance IIF International Institute of Finance Development sector in Global Compact Turkey Network ICC International Chamber of Commerce İKSV Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts Board of Directors LTIC Long-Term Investors Club Money Managers Association Signatory of WEPs (Women’s IDFC International Development Finance Empowerment Principles) Club Risk Managers Association ELTI European Long-Term Investors Chair of Finance Sector’s Role in Sustainable Association Growth Task Group established at the Banks Association of Turkey (TBB) since 2009 TSKB supports its activities in associations subscribed with various task groups. In this context, the Bank participates in special task groups of associations such as DEIK, TUSIAD, TBB and SKD. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 34 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AT TSKB Sustainability Management at TSKB focuses on 6 objectives: As the leader of sustainable banking in Turkey, TSKB aims to support Turkey’s sustainable economic development Assessing and managing systematically the environmental and growth by defining the concept of sustainability in risks originating from the activity of loan facilitation economical, environmental and social axes. TSKB adopts the following policies as fundamental principles that shape Control and systematic management of internal its sustainability efforts: environmental impacts, such as electricity, water, natural gas consumption, paper consumption and CO2 emissions, • Sustainability Policy originating from TSKB’s operational services • Environmental and Social Impact Policy • Occupational Health and Safety Policy Developing TSKB’s products and services from a • Human Rights Policy sustainable banking perspective and financing renewable • Sustainable Procurements Management Policy energy, energy efficiency and environment investments • Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Continuously informing all TSKB employees and Detailed information pertaining to this issue is shared at the following web link: stakeholders about sustainability issues, and increasing http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainable-banking/tskb-sustainability-managementorganization/tskb-sustainability-management-system their sensitivity to these issues by ensuring their active participation in processes Preparing sustainability reports periodically in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards to be shared with the Bank’s stakeholders and supporting stakeholders for good sustainability practices Periodically calculating the Bank’s carbon footprint as a part of ISO 14064 requirements and pursuing the banking activities with zero carbon principles by offsetting its carbon footprint TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 35 SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Having launched its first efforts in the field of sustainability in 2005, TSKB established the same year its Environmental Management System, which was a very important step in the finance sector. Further developing this system in Sustainability Sustainability 2012, the Bank took it to next level as its Sustainability Committee Sub-Committee Management System. TSKB later established Sustainability Committee in order to address the issue with broader participation within the Bank in 2015. 2 Executive 2 Board of Task Vice Directors’ Groups Presidents Members Sustainability Committee Sustainability Sub-Committee • The Committee consists of two Board Members and two Executive Vice Comprised of managers from various departments of TSKB, Presidents elected by the Board of Directors. the sub-committee reports to TSKB’s Sustainability Committee. • Two Executive Vice Presidents in Sustainability Committee also serve as “Coordination Officers”. • The Committee has a sub-committee that is comprised of different department representatives. Responsibilities: Responsibilities: • Bank’s sustainability strategy, vision and action plans • Management of sustainability activities • Following international developments, public regulations and trends • Internalizing and capacity development of sustainability • Providing recommendations on new business opportunities and social • Monitoring of national and international legislation responsibility projects • Integration of sustainability in banking products and processes • Expanding Bank’s sustainability network • Management of internal/external environmental impacts and social responsibility • Communication of sustainability • Sustainability measurements and reporting TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 36 MANAGEMENT OF LOANS’ ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS Climate change, which is one of the most important agenda items TSKB measures the environmental and social risks throughout the world, is in first place in TSKB’s Sustainability of all investment projects that it’s been assessing Policy. TSKB supports investment projects with products that ERET with ERET since 2005. contribute to prevention of climate change, while adopting an Environmental Risk approach that tends to environmental and social issues and ERET is created on a voluntary basis and offers a mitigates the impacts at their origins. TSKB defines the sole Evaluation Tool unique piece of software.TSKB’s strong banking objective for a habitable future as a “low carbon economy”. discipline forms the foundation of ERET. Paying attention to provide loans to investments that’ll support In 2015, the approach to the social subjects in ERET is enhanced by Turkey’s economic and social development, TSKB adopts increasing the number of the total environmental conservation, tackling climate change and social criteria from 35 to 45. Therefore the development as its fundamental objectives. weight of the social subjects like 9 Company 9 Company 42 Company 27 Company employee rights, occupational health TSKB provides guidance to its clientèle in relation to defining, and safety, public disclosure and land 6 Project 7 Project 47 Project 27 Project accurately managing and mitigating environmental and social acquisition by force is increased. impacts of the projects to be financed. Project evaluation is made in accordance Environmental and Social Impact Policy Bwith 45x5 criteria. ERET identifies technical, financial and legal obligations that might arise from current and TSKB considers measuring and managing the indirect risk potential environmental/social originating from its service activities to be the most difficult and most important aspect for a financial institution in relation to C impacts of investment project subject to evaluation and those of the other activities of the project owner. Results management of environmental and social risk. Environmental are considered in project assessment, and social impacts that may originate from TSKB’s activities are B+ financing and investment monitoring A assessed and managed in the scope of Environmental and Social processes. Impact Policy: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKBENVIRONMENTAL-AND-SOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf In cases where environmental and social risks are considered to be Medium high, how the environmental and Projects and activities that are not to be financed by TSKB are High Sensitive Medium Low Risk Risk Risk social impacts can be mitigated and likewise discussed in the aforementioned policy. Detailed information Risk monitored is structured with a plan on this issue can be found at the following web link: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/ that is prepared jointly with the client. assets/document/pdf/TSKB-List-of-activities-that-are-not-to-be-financed.pdf Information pertaining to projects analyzed by TSKB using ERET model since 2007 can be found here: http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainable-banking/sustainability-finance/environmental-riskevaluation TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 37 MANAGEMENT OF INTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS TSKB, Turkey’s first carbon-neutral bank, has been measuring the environmental impacts of its internal banking activities and defining strategies in order to mitigate them since 2005. In this context, electricity, water, fuel, paper and other waste materials generated at the Bank’s service buildings are periodically measured. As a volunteer party of Carbon Disclosure Project since 2010, TSKB continues to provide periodical information. 2008: (For detailed information regarding Carbon Disclosure Turkey’s first carbon-neutral bank Project: http://cdpturkey.sabanciuniv.edu) (the Bank measures, reduces and offsets its carbon footprint by What does “carbon footprint” mean for a bank? purchasing carbon credits every Emissions of greenhouse gases due to transportation of year regularly) employees and their heating, cooling, illumination in the buildings all together constitute the carbon footprint. 2006: 2012: First institution from First Turkish Bank to banking sector to have ISO 2015: First audit in have ISO 14001 14064-1 Certificate (Control Turkey according to Carbon Environment ISO 14001 Standard Management System and Approval of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Certificate Emissions) updated in 2015 and (tonCO2e) (renewed with success recertification of every year) ISO 14001 Scope-1 735 600 413 440 807 Scope-2 0 0 0 0 0 Scope-3 382 350 352 373 442 Total 1,117 950 765 813 1,249* *In 2015, extra 423 tons of CO2 emissions in Scope-1 have occurred due to ISO 14001 Standard has been revised in 2015 and TSKB had a successful audit the one-time leakage of 231.4 kg refrigerant gas, caused by a large-scale following the completion of its Sustainability Management System revisions maintenance necessity on our cooling units which were installed in 1988. Greenhouse gas emissions in Scope-3 have also increased due to the increase accordingly. By completing the first audit according to ISO 14001:2015 in the number of flights for business, caused by the increase in the business Standard in Turkey in December 2015, TSKB has been awarded Turkey’s first volume of the Bank. ISO 14001:2015 certificate. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 38 INTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS INDICATORS TSKB’S Carbon Footprint (%) 2015 In 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL 2015 compared 0.47%.......... Paper INDICATORS to 2005... Generator.......... 0% Electricity Consumption Electricity Consumption (kWh) 1,034,876 0% .......... Electricity 27% Electricity Consumption (Mj) 3,725,554 Natural Gas..........11.37% less Electricity Consumption / m 2 60 electricity Electricity Consumption / person Natural Gas Consumption 3,184.23 42% Natural Gas Consumption (m3) 71,299 less Transportation..........40.89% 47.27%.......... Ventilation Natural Gas Consumption / m2 4 natural gas Natural Gas Consumption / person 219 Water Consumption Water Consumption (m3) 8,534 48% less Water Consumption / m2 0.50 Water Consumption / person 26 paper Paper Consumption Paper Consumption (kg) 5,467 Electricity Consumption (kWh) Natural Gas Consumption (m3) 29% Paper Consumption / person 17 less Waste Paper Consumption water Waste Paper Consumption (m3) 15,450 1,067,232 84,668 2009 to date: Waste Paper Consumption / m2 48 CO2 Emissions 1,076,471 1,030,978 75,484 64,879 100% CO2 Emissions (kg) 1,248,201 1,073,916 60,871 green CO2 Emissions / profit 0.0090 1,034,876 71,299 energy CO2 Emissions / person 3,846.54 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Service Building Area (m2) 17,236 Number of employees (average) 325 Paper Consumption (kg) CO2 Emissions (kg) Water Consumption (m3) Income (US Dollars) 138,021,000 6,541 1,117,370 8,094 7,195 950,495 8,095 6,735 764,161 7,999 6,325 812,380 7,149 5,467 1,248,201 8,534 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 39 HUMAN RESOURCES TSKB sees its highly competent and expert human resources as its most important corporate power. TSKB provides a modern working environment with full respect to TSKB’s Human Rights Policy human rights while encouraging equal-opportunity participation. In all of TSKB’s human resources and talent management applications, the sustainability of training and Aiming to fully comply with UN Declaration of Human Rights, UN Global development, mechanisms encouraging initiative-taking and a workplace that evaluates Principles Act and Turkey’s legislation that arranges human rights and the performance in the best possible way and rewards success, can be considered as business life in Turkey, TSKB is against forced labor and child labor in Turkey tangible indicators of success. and worldwide and supports the initiatives towards prevention of such illegal practices. • A workplace with full respect for human rights TSKB prioritizes the sustainability of its human resources, focuses on sustaining its Never discriminating among its employees, all assessments related to modern workplace where participation is encouraged and human rights are fully employees are free from all prejudice or discrimination (of gender, mental respected. / physical handicap, age, race, religion, language, sect, belief, cultural or social class). TSKB takes measures against the types of conduct that might • Recruitment cause ill treatment or abuse, while allowing its employees to share their TSKB, has taken the approach of “Creating a TSKB family” and training its own managers complaints anonymously. itself, employs recent graduates with management potential through recruitment programs specifically designed for the bank’s dynamics. The employees’ occupational and personal development is continuously supported through feedback and trainings in a way that’ll encourage • Training and development programs their dedication to the organization and participation and creativity of the TSKB always invests in its human resources its greatest strength with personalized employees are encouraged via transparent communication channels. assessment and development programs. Complete text of TSKB’s Human Rights Policy can be found at the following web link: http:// • Effective performance management www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf Taking into account that the most important goal in developing human resources is increasing efficiency, objective evaluations of all employees are conducted through the Supporting the women’s participation in the economy: WEP’s Performance Management System in order to achieve this. Various training programs are provided to employees for their continuous development alongside these evaluations. 56% of TSKB’s banking employees are women and this fact is one of the most tangible indicators of TSKB’s human rights policy that is based on • Career management diversity and equal opportunity. With 55% women in management staff, At TSKB, career management is applied effectively. Employees who have the knowledge, TSKB stands out and acts as a role model in the sector in terms of women’s experience and capability required for a position are promoted and further progress participation in economy as well. in their careers. The bank’s highly capable and expert team plays an important role in sustaining corporate performance. Believing in the great importance of women’s active participation in the economy, TSKB signed “Women’s Empowerment Principles” (WEP’s), most • Compensation and benefits important international initiative for this purpose. Thus, TSKB took its TSKB employs a market-sensitive compensation policy that is coordinated with the support to gender and opportunity equality to an international level. performance evaluation system. • Strong employer brand and internal communication Women’s Empowerment Principles, which is the most important TSKB strives to create a dynamic and highly motivated team with a sense of belonging international initiative, established by partnership of the United Nations and carries out strong employer branding practices. These practices include many Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women in the Society internal communication projects for its employees. Structured collaborations with (UN Women) and UN Global Compact, aims to empower women in all universities aim to increase TSKB’s recognition among recent graduates and make the areas, especially in health, safety, education and development. bank a preferred organization. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 40 HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS Gender, Education and Age Distribution (Banking Employees) Gender Distribution in Top Management and Committees Education Total PhD 3 3 MSc/MA 50 43 93 Board of Directors University 106 83 189 Chairman 1 College 6 6 Vice Chairman 1 High School 2 1 3 Member 2 6 Audit Committee Total 164 130 294 Member 2 Sustainability Committee Age Total Member 2 2 21-30 43 35 78 Sustainability Sub-Committee Member 8 6 31-40 77 61 138 Corporate Governance Committee 41-50 42 25 67 Member 3 512 9 11 Senior Management Total 164 130 294 Chief Executive Officer 1 Executive Vice President 3 5 Total Total Secretary General 1 Number at The End of Year 164 130 294 Average Number 162 130 292 Of the Bank’s employees, 56% are and 44% are Average employee age is 35, average seniority 7.6 years 97% of the Bank’s employees are university graduates Average age of recruits of last year is 29 33% of the Bank’s employees have MSc/MA or higher academic degrees 87% of employees speak English TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 41 HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS Gender distribution of employees who Gender distribution of recruits in the were recruited and those who have quit Service group distribution Regional distribution of TSKB’s reporting period: of employees (end of 2015): Banking employees (end of 2015): within the past year: * 94 ing İstanbul 2 es 287 15 18 2 a nk oye al ot es 3 B pl t Ankara em KB’s oye İzmir 4 l TS mp 2 e 33 Gender and cause of departure distribution of resignees in the reporting period: 2015 Age group and regional distribution of new recruits in the reporting period: Resignation 11 10 Retirement 6 2 Military Obligation 1 İstanbul Age 32 Abandonment 2 1 Subsidiary* 1 21-30 22 Ankara Total 18 15 31-40 10 İzmir * Appointments within TSKB’s subsidiaries. 41-50 1 510 Gender distribution of those who Gender distribution of those employees who Total 33 used maternity leave: returned to work following a maternity leave: Age group and regional distribution of resignees in the reporting period: İstanbul 11* 13 11* 13 Age 33 21-30 12 Ankara 31-40 9 İzmir *Parental leave *Parental leave 41-50 8 514 Total 33 There are no employees resigned within 12 months of returning to work following maternity leave. Employees who used unpaid leave following their return from maternity leave, took 1008 business days. *Only one of the banking employees work half-time on contractual basis. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 42 INVESTMENT IN HUMAN RESOURCES TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Training and Development Development Workshop Managerial Development Program: TSKB organizes a range of training and development programs The Development Workshop program, designed to adapt to TSKB competencies, to support its employees’ technical competencies and focuses on personal and managerial development. The workshop program initially personal development. Training and development programs begins with the development center and then takes shape with the determination of are personalized and depend on development fields for the individual needs. The process is supported by in-class training, group exercises, projects, employees. articles, books and various other activities throughout the workshop. The long-term For TSKB, raising employees’ awareness of the topics of training program spread over almost two years invests in development of managers. environmental issues and sustainability is one of the founding elements of its training activities. Competency Development Training: The “Training Catalog” based on TSKB’s core competencies is used to support our TSKB training programs are designed to increase performance employees’ capabilities, which are open to development. During the performance levels to perfection, both throughout the bank as a whole and on evaluation meetings where they assess their competencies with their managers, an individual level. employees get the chance to determine the training areas necessary for their personal development with the Training Catalog. The Purpose of Training Activities: • To support TSKB’s business strategies with professional and Coaching Model: personal training This model is carried out to support the business dealing models of specific • To encourage initiative-taking departments. • To take corporate efficiency at the highest level • To raise employee satisfaction Sustainability Management System Trainings: Training Programs: Training for all employees: • Management Trainee (MT) Program Occupational Health and Safety Training • Development Workshop Managerial Development Program First Aid and Ergonomics Training • Competency Development Training Sustainability Meetings • Coaching Model • Sustainability Management System Training New recruit training: • Orientation Program Orientation • Technical Training Programs On-the-job Training • Individual training domestic and foreign Sustainability Management System and Emergency Work Sustainability Presentation • Seminars open to all of the bank’s employees Individual training: TSKB Management Trainee (MT) Program Renewal Training for Basic First-Aider Certification TSKB is working towards its goal of training its own managers; Fire Security Training the bank conducts a Management Trainee (MT) Program every Printer User Training summer to train the experts and managers of the future. TSKB ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems Internal Auditor Training intensively prepares its management trainees with training programs specifically designed for their future positions and Sustainability Management Certification Program duties. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 43 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS Training Lengths per Employee, Gender and Training Categories Average Training Average Average Training Average Average Personal Number of Total Training Hours per Training Hours Hours per Male Technical Development Banking Hours (Banking Employee per Female Employee Training Hours Training Hours per Employees Personnel) Employee per Employee Employee 294 12,842 44 41 48 29 15 Training Lengths per Employee Categories Training Hours of Training Hours of Training Hours of Training Hours of Senior Management / Middle Management / Associate Group / Assistant and Supervisor Person Person Person Group / Person 8 39 50 15 TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 44 INVESTMENT IN HUMAN RESOURCES Performance Management The results of Performance Management System are used as input for identifying training needs, career planning, remuneration and reward management. The TSKB Performance Management System is a competency and goal-based system whose principles involve the following processes: • Identify and rate employee competencies · Associate corporate objectives with employee performance · Conduct personal interviews · Prepare individual development plans. Remuneration and Reward Management TSKB employs a competitive and market-sensitive remuneration policy. Market compensation research is regularly conducted by consultants specialized in such matters are used as input for implementation of this policy. TSKB bases compensation on compatibility with ethical values, internal balances and TSKB Income Package: strategic goals, and is not associated with the bank’s shortterm performance. • Gross monthly compensation • Dividend payout to employees from the TSKB’s compensation policy is structured with the purpose bank’s profits once each year of motivating managers to take more actions to contribute • Premiums rewarding extraordinary successes to the bank’s long-term performance and to achieve good in the relevant year results on a yearly basis. TSKB places great importance on performance-based compensation. Premiums payouts, which have the purpose of positively affecting TSKB’s corporate values, Criteria Taken into Account for Compensation: are based on objective criteria such as TSKB’s • Work unit properties and workload performance and individual performances, and • Compensation level of the work units in the market take into account the terms of the risks taken by • Results of the Performance Management System the Bank. (competencies, goals, experience) • Geographical/region/country differences • Long-term business solvency of TSKB TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 45 INVESTMENT IN HUMAN RESOURCES Recruitment with the TSKB Career Workshop Program Internal Communication TSKB has been conducting the three-day TSKB Career Exercises and platforms intended to increase the feeling of belonging and Workshop program annually since 2010 with the aim motivation of current employees via employee communication activities: of providing resources for Management Trainee (MT) recruitment. During the workshop at a hotel near Istanbul, Online Communication Platform An effective online communication environment is available to all participants (fourth-year university and postgraduate employees in the form of the corporate intranet, e-business flow students) receive personal development and outdoor/indoor platform and e-announcement channels. Employees can thus keep training alongside the opportunity to work on projects themselves informed of all bank developments immediately and can with coaches selected from managerial positions within the conduct all of their business processes on a modern platform. bank. The workshop, where the bank is introduced, is an opportunity to get to know the candidates better. During the Traditional corporate events event, employees who fit with TSKB’s profile are included in TSKB employees have the opportunity to meet at various annual the Management Trainee (MT) recruitment process. events such as the foundation cocktail, executive meetings and New Year dinners. The fifth TSKB Career Workshop was held between April 16-18 April in Şile, Istanbul with the motto of “Show You’re Different”. Team Games 9 new graduates started their working lives with the Career Employees from all positions are encouraged to participate in the team Workshop during the reporting period. games of table tennis, rowing and soccer organized by TSKB. TSKB’s own employees represent the bank in intercorporate tournaments, Strong Employer Brand increasing team spirit, motivation and efficiency. Structured collaborations with universities aim to increase the bank’s recognition among recently graduated candidates Artistic Activities and to make the bank a preferred organization with a strong Employees enjoy a determined quota of tickets during the Istanbul employer brand: Foundation for Culture and Arts music festival, which is sponsored by TSKB each year. • TSKB Career Workshop • Sustainability Workshops TSKB employees are also encouraged to enjoy photography, a • Career day participation common corporate hobby. Photograph exhibitions are held in the • Presentations on various banking subjects during classes TSKB Art Corridor and on the corporate intranet site. • Participation in conferences and seminars 8 internal activities took place in 2015, including the foundation cocktails, New Year dinner, Istanbul Culture and Art Foundation (İKSV) concert, Photography Workshop, team games and executives meeting. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 46 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY & SUPPLIER RELATIONS Occupational Health and Safety Supplier Relations TSKB is a corporate citizen which recognizes the importance of its TSKB works with suppliers that comprehend the importance of sustainability employees’ health and safety and which makes such issues integral and establish their business logic accordingly. TSKB contributes to indirect to its human resources policies and practices. environmental impact with the approach it adopts in its relations with its suppliers, thereby supporting and ensuring that the sustainability is Safe Working embraced and implemented by a wider body of stakeholders throughout the business world. In both its headquarters buildings in İstanbul and in its branches TSKB is mindful of being in full compliance with all occupational TSKB’s sustainability approach reflects on its supply process as preference health & safety laws and regulations currently applicable in of products and services whose total cost is determined in line with the Turkey. In addition, the bank also abides by a policy that takes environmental, social and economic impacts thereof. The Bank cooperates into account internationally accepted occupational health & with suppliers that acts responsibly and in accordance with sustainability in safety practices as well. The bank’s physical conditions and their supply process. technical infrastructure are regularly checked for compliance with occupational health & safety laws and regulations. Current Sustainability Criteria observed in Supplier Relations are as follows: information about activities related to health and safety issues is • As a principle, companies with whom the Bank has a supplier-client published on the bank’s corporate intranet. relationship must evaluate the environmental impacts, obtain relevant permits and enforce relevant procedures Vision “Zero Accident” • In line with a Sustainable Management System, suppliers must perform their obligations in conformance with the environment TSKB deems persisting in zero accident approach at the workplace legislation and international legislations as a permanent corporate objective. Moreover, TSKB cooperates • Presence of certification such as ISO 14001 with professionals and organizations specializing in the fields • Depending on the type of the service received, cooperation for of health and safety in order to ensure health and safety at the complying with the Bank’s relevant procedures workplace without omission. TSKB structures sustainability in supplier relations in form of contracts Full text of TSKB’s Occupational Health and Safety Policy can be found at the signed with its suppliers. In those contracts, suppliers explicitly warrant that following web link: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskbthey are to enter in cooperation in order to meet TSKB’s relevant demands. Occupational-Health-and-Safety-Policy.pdf TSKB defines any violation and negligence of items summarized above as righteous cause for termination of supplier contracts, thereby accentuating the importance of the issue. Entirety of TSKB’s Sustainable Procurement Management Policy can be found at the following web link: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-SustainableProcurements-Management-Policy.pdf TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 47 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Digital Platforms: cevreciyiz.com & tskbenerjiverimliligi.com Launched in 2007, cevreciyiz.com was redesigned in June 2014 and is currently TSKB structures social responsibility projects in the scope of 1 Turkey’s most comprehensive environment portal that provides reference for its sustainable banking mission around the theme of raising many aspects including business world’s sustainability efforts, energy efficiency, the awareness of business world and universities towards environment-friendly designs, alternative energy sources and sustainable business ideas. Effectively using the social media for this purpose, cevreciyiz.com’s Facebook environmental aspects that constitute risks for the future followers are increasing from 851 (at the end of 2013) to 50.000 (at the end of of our world, including but not limited to climate change, 2015) and that shows this content has reached more people every day. energy and carbon management. As an important platform and reference point in energy efficiency, tskbenerjiverimliligi.com web portal has been online since 2011. With the social responsibility project “Environment: Our Priority” that has been continued since 2007, TSKB Sustainability Workshop 2 Launched in 2012, Sustainability Workshop is the very first literacy program participates effectively in sustainability platforms, in the field of sustainability which brings university students, namely future developing various events and sponsorships. The project management candidates, academia and private sector representatives together. is managed by TSKB for the purpose of promoting and Please refer to Sustainability Literacy section for more details on this important project that is organized with the cooperation of TSKB’s subsidiary Escarus. increasing awareness, especially throughout the business world and universities. Zero Carbon Projects TSKB has been carrying out carbon-neutral banking since 2008 and continues to 3 TSKB’s social responsibility activities can be support low-carbon life through various projects: • The first Zero Carbon Concert organization within the scope of IKSV Music Festival discussed under five categories: • Offsetting the carbon footprint of TSKB’s recruitment program, the Career Workshop • Organizing Zero Carbon conferences and events • Annually, providing certificates to customers and business partners for offsetting their individual carbon footprint 4 Sharing Experience Sharing TSKB shares its expertise in sustainability by providing support in form of Digital Experience sponsorships, organization and speakers to many events. The Bank continues to Platforms organize many case study presentations and forums at the universities, featuring Bank’s managers, in order to convey its sustainable banking experience to younger generations. Please refer to Sharing Experience section for greater details on these communions which are especially important in terms of TSKB’s reaching to a broad body of stakeholders and sharing its experience in the field of sustainability. Zero Carbon Culture & Arts Projects 5 Since 1990, TSKB has been supporting concerts at the Music Festival organized by Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts (IKSV), contributing to Turkey’s cultural growth. Turkey’s first carbon-neutral bank, TSKB started to offset all of the carbon emissions generated by the transportation requirements of the performers and Sustainability art lovers with a “Gold Standard Carbon Credit” that was purchased by TSKB from a Culture & Arts Workshop clean energy company as of 2014. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 48 SHARING EXPERIENCE Sustainable TSKB SKD Brands Sustainability Sustainable Zero Carbon Workshop: Conference Concert with Finance Efficiency Forum IKSV 38th IAEE International Association Energy for Energy Efficiency Economics İstanbul Forum & Fair N SOR & ORGANIZ Carbon O ER SP Summit AFD Sustainable Euromoney 4th TSKB participated in total of Annual Turkey 4th International Tourism & Innovative 91 conferences and organizations Conference Renewable Energy and Energy and in 2015 that set the bar high in Infrastructure on Climate, Loans Launch Tourism and Meeting terms of content and impact. TSKB’s Finance Conference Recreation senior management members have given 6 presentations or speeches in these organizations. In 12 of these Enertec IPFA Turkey: Istanbul / Turkey 2015 The Banks’ Role on Low organizations, TSKB was either sponsor Green World Carbon Markets and or organizer and in 79, TSKB was Conferences Sustainability in the representative. EBRD/ Building Finance Sector Local Financial A Global Energy Institutions and Efficiency Green Finance Financing Alliance Energy and REPRESENTATIVE Environment Waste Technologies Sunpower Solar Management Fair and Conference Symposium Green Business Conference Sustainable Business AFD “Climate and Summit “Why Carbon Solarex İstanbul Development Policy” Management?” and Solar Power & Conference “Sustainability İndex” Technologies Sessions Fair TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 49 SUSTAINABILITY LITERACY In the scope of sustainable banking, TSKB diversifies TSKB organized the Sustainability Workshop 2015 during the Efficiency Week to its efforts towards private sector university emphasize efficiency as an essential part of its sustainability approach. cooperations. The Bank has been organizing Sustainability Workshops, the first literacy program Students of Industrial Engineering Program in METU and TOBB University of in the field of sustainability, by bringing together Economics joined TSKB’s Sustainability Workshop held in Ankara as part of the the private sector representatives, academia and Efficiency Week that is annually organized by the Ministry of Science, Industry and university students, as the managers of the future, Technology. since 2012. Information on energy efficiency in industry was shared with the students. In this project jointly conducted with the Bank’s In the Efficiency Week, a discussion panel titled “Young perspective on efficiency: subsidiary Escarus, university students, academicians what do university students think about efficiency?” was held to give students insight and private sector representatives come together and about the energy efficiency efforts in the industry. As usual, a special case study was conduct case studies on measuring methodology of done at the end of the workshop. sustainability. In workshops, where students gather in various teams to carry out case studies, each team is led by participants that have experience in private sector. Afterwards, the results and studies are interpreted. Three main issues are focused in Sustainability Workshops that are held each year: • Measuring • Evaluating in multiple dimensions • Working as a team TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 50 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES Our 2015 Objectives Our 2015 Performance Future Objectives Financing solar power plants of minimum 50 MW In 2015, TSKB financed solar power plants of 25 MW TSKB projects to finance solar power plants of capacity and wind power plants of 100-150 MW capacity and wind power plants of 161 MW capacity. minimum 50 MW capacity and wind power plants capacity as of the end of 2016 in the scope of of 100-150 MW capacity as of the end of 2016 in the our dedication to innovative renewable energy scope of its dedication to innovative renewable financing. energy financing. Continue supporting projects for improving the In 2015, TSKB financed 7 new energy efficiency and 34 TSKB aims to continue supporting projects for productivity in all aspects of energy and resource new resource efficiency projects. 1 of these resource improving the productivity in all aspects of energy and (water, raw materials and other production inputs) efficiency projects is a water efficiency project. resource (water, raw materials and other production use in our country for the purpose of increasing the inputs) use in our country for the purpose of increasing SUSTAINABLE BANKING productivity of the industry and ensuring efficient the productivity of the industry and ensuring efficient and optimum use of finite resources. In this scope, and optimum use of finite resources. In this scope, the financing 5 new water efficiency projects along with Bank aims to finance 5 new water efficiency projects ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABLE BANKING 10 new energy and/or resource efficiency projects along with 10 new energy and/or resource efficiency starting from the beginning of 2015 until the end of projects starting from the beginning of 2015 until the 2016. end of 2016. Providing the long-term resource opportunities, During the reporting period, TSKB continued to access TSKB aims to provide the long-term resource especially renewable energy, energy efficiency and international financial resources and to engage in opportunities, especially renewable energy, energy APEX loans, to our clients under long-term maturities efforts to secure the long-term resources required by efficiency and APEX loans, to our clients under offered by international markets. its sustainable banking mission. Total of 694 m $ was longterm programs offered by international markets. provided as financing in 2015. Continue to calculate and offset our carbon footprint TSKB continued to be a carbon-neutral bank in 2015 TSKB commits to calculate and offset its carbon and continue our banking activities in accordance by successfully implementing its Carbon-Neutrality footprint and continue its banking activities in with zero carbon principles. Project. accordance with zero carbon principles in the following years. Reducing our CO2 emissions by 2.5% annually until In CO2 emissions of 2015, the target value of TSKB aims to further reduce its CO2 emissions by 2.5% ENVIRONMENT the end of 2016 in comparison to 2012. 2015, which is based on 2.5% annual reduction in annually until the end of 2016 in comparison to 2012. comparison to 2012 values, could not be realized. Main reason for this increase is the refrigerant leakage during the maintenance of the chiller units. In 2016, the target value is expected to be realized. Continue using renewable energy in all our service Having switched to use of renewable energy in all TSKB projects to continue its use of renewable energy buildings. service buildings by June 1, 2009, TSKB continues to in all service buildings. use renewable energy since then. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 51 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES Our 2015 Objectives Our 2015 Performance Future Objectives Continue to carry out all environmental and Beginning from 2013, ERET, which was an Excel TSKB commits to carry out all environmental and social social risk measurements of all investment loans based evaluation tool, is programmed as TSKB risk measurements of all investment loans irrespective irrespective of the project size, ensure that relevant specific banking application. By embedding ERET of the project size, ensure that relevant measures are measures are taken in advance as appropriate for the into IT database, its outputs and results become taken in advance as appropriate for the risks involved, risks involved, and follow up to make sure that these traceable, auditable and comparable in addition to its and follow up to make sure that these measures are in measures are in deed implemented. consolidation to the overall project appraisal process. In deed implemented. 2015, a revision was held to increase the weight of the social topics in the evaluation process, which resulted in increasing the criteria set of ERET from 35x5 to 45x5. In 2015, TSKB has evaluated all investment projects ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABLE BANKING based on their environmental and social effects and risks. Successfully completing ISO 14001 and ISO14064 TSKB has succesfully completed the ISO 14001 audit TSKB aims to successfully complete ISO 14001 and audits of 2015 and 2016. Periodically calculating and that has been updated in 2015 as the first company ISO14064 audits in 2016, periodically calculating and offsetting the Bank’s carbon footprint within the in Turkey, upon completing the update of its offsetting the Bank’s carbon footprint within the scope ENVIRONMENT scope of ISO 14064. Sustainability Management System accordingly and of ISO 14064. has been recertified. The Bank has also successfully completed the ISO 14064 audit in 2015, that is performed annually. Closely following developments in Turkey TSKB has been systematically following up the TSKB continues to closely follow developments in and abroad in the field of climate change, and developments that took place and steps made in the Turkey and abroad in the field of climate change, considering these developments in our banking field of climate change in Turkey and abroad, and and considering these developments in our banking activities. actively participating in volunteer initiatives conducted activities. by NGOs. In this scope, the Bank subscribed to Global Compact, UNEP FI and participated in Carbon Disclosure Project. As a leader institution in Turkey, TSKB is leading The Banks Association of Turkey’s task group. In addition, TSKB is a Board Member of World Business Council for Sustainable Development as well as Global Company Local Network. Representatives from TSKB Sustainability Management Team have attended Paris Climate Conference COP21 in 2015. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 52 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES Our 2015 Objectives Our 2015 Performance Future Objectives Continuing full compliance with the laws, corporate In the period subject to this report, TSKB did every TSKB aims to continue its compliance in this regard and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE governance principles and ethics, and maintaining endeavor to comply with laws, corporate governance to maintain its current “zero error/zero corruption/zero zero-tolerance level of error, impropriety and principles and ethics and maintained zero-tolerance complaint” policy. complaint. level of error, impropriety and complaint. Maintaining its current position as one of three Since the day it was included in BIST Corporate TSKB aims to maintain its full compliance in this field, companies with highest corporate governance Governance Index in 2009, TSKB maintains its position and continue to be a role-model with its corporate rating in the sector and continuing to be role-model among the companies with highest corporate governance practices. institution with its corporate governance practices. governance rating of Turkey. TSKB’s corporate governance rating was revised to 9.52 on a scale of 10, in 2015. Thus, TSKB is now officially the institution that has the second highest corporate governance rating of all times. Maintain full compliance with current laws and TSKB is committed to being in full compliance with TSKB aims to continue its full compliance with current regulations in Turkey pertaining to preventing current laws and regulations in Turkey pertaining laws and regulations in Turkey pertaining to preventing money-laundering and terrorism-financing. to money-laundering and terrorismfinancing. For money-laundering and terrorism-financing. this reason, it has incorporated all essential control, warning, and other mechanisms related to such matters into its business processes. Continuing and further improving technical and Each TSKB employee was subjected to an average of TSKB aims to continue and further improve technical personal training programs for its employees. In 44 hours (29 hours technical and 15 hours personal and personal training programs for its employees. In this scope, continue planning so that each employee development) of trainings in 2015. this scope, planning is made so that each employee will will participate at least in 1 training, which is the participate at least in 1 training, which is the objective SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION objective of years 2015 and 2016. in 2016. HUMAN RESOURCES Increasing trainings on sustainability. TSKB provided various trainings on sustainability topics In the next period, TSKB aims to increase the weight of to its employees, an average of 1.5 hours per employee, sustainability trainings in its human resources training in the reporting period. efforts. Maintaining diversity. In 2015, percentage of women employees of TSKB was TSKB aims to maintain and further improve the 56% and that of women in management was 33%. diversity of its human resources. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 53 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES Our 2015 Objectives Our 2015 Performance Future Objectives Improving cevreciyiz.com website in terms of Completely redesigned in 2014, cevreciyiz.com website TSKB aims to build awareness in broader sections of content and social media presence. continues its efforts to build awareness in various the community by expanding the area of influence categories of the community with its sustainability and number of followers of cevreciyiz.com in 2015based subjects and social media posts. In 2015, 2016 period. In this scope, our aim is to maintain the current number of visitors of cevreciyiz.com has been current number of visitors of cevreciyiz.com, increase maintained. Twitter followers have increased by 30%, Instagram followers by 40%, increase Twitter followers Facebook and Instagram followers have increased by by 25% and increase Facebook fans by 20%. more than 100%. Continuing the Sustainability Workshop project TSKB, in cooperation with the Bank’s affiliate Escarus, TSKB has achieved its 2015 goal and aims to continue in 2015-2016 with cooperation of Escarus, increasing has been organizing “Sustainability Workshops” as a the Sustainability Workshop project in 2016 with the awareness and consciousness about the issue literacy program in the field of sustainability since 2011, cooperation of Escarus, increasing the awareness SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY with at least 1 workshop activity each year. by bringing together private sector representatives and consciousness about the issue with at least one SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION and, academia and university students, the managers workshop activity each year. of the future. Until now, approximately 200 university students have participated in case studies of the workshop program. TSKB has achieved “organizing at least one Sustainability Workshop each year” goal in 2015. Sharing our experience with NGOs, sector players The Bank participated in total of 91 conferences and Considering sustainability to be a common target for and the academia. organizations in 2015 that set the bar high in terms entire business world rather than a competitive of content and impact. TSKB’s senior management factor and believing in the importance of sharing members have given 6 presentations or speeches its experiences accordingly, TSKB aims to continue in these organizations. In 12 of these organizations, sponsoring, organizing and participating as speaker TSKB was either sponsor or organizer, and in 79 a to the events that are aligned with its field of activity representative. The Bank shared its sustainable banking in 2016. Moreover, the Bank is committed to continue experience in universities in several lessons via its best sharing its experience in the field of sustainable practices. banking in universities, which it considers to be an important stakeholder. Acting responsibly in terms of carbon footprint of all TSKB launched a “Zero Carbon Concert” at the Istanbul TSKB has achieved first part of its 2015-2016 goal about events that the Bank sponsors or organizes in order Music Festival in the World Environment Day of Zero Carbon” organizations and offsetting the carbon to support the target of measuring and mitigating its 2014. All of the carbon emissions generated by the emissions of clients. The Bank aims to continue its “Zero internal impacts. transportation requirements of the performers and Carbon” organizations in 2016, calculating the carbon art lovers were offset with a “Gold Standard Carbon footprints of concerts sponsored by TSKB, Career Certificate” that was purchased by TSKB from a Workshops, Sustainability Workshops, conferences company investing in clean energy. Carbon footprints held by the Bank, presents prepared by the Bank, of clients and business partners have also been offset also clients and business partners and offsetting the as a new year present. In line with its 2015-2016 goals, carbon emissions of these by purchases of Gold Carbon carbon emissions of all of the events organized by TSKB Credits. were offset and TSKB achieved the first part of its goals. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 54 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Page Omissions Description Disclosures Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance G4-1 CEO’s Message, p 6 of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Chairman’s Message, p 5 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities CEO’s Message, p 6 Organizational Profile G4-3 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. Name of the organization G4-4 TSKB’S Products and Services, p 9 Primary brands, products, and services G4-5 Istanbul, Turkey Location of the organization’s headquarters Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or G4-6 Turkey that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report Company Profile, p 7. Formed in 1950 TSKB is a publicly G4-7 listed company on the İstanbul Stock Exchange Nature of ownership and legal form (ISE ticker symbol: TSKB) Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and G4-8 Company Profile, p 7 types of customers and beneficiaries) At end of 2015, the total number of people employed in banking services at TSKB headquarters and branches was 294. The Bank operates G4-9 at its headquarters in Istanbul and in its 2 branches in İzmir and Ankara. Scale of the organization For products, services and operations: TSKB’S Products and Services, p 9 For value produced: Financial Performance, p 21-22 G4-10 Human Resources, p 40-42 Number of employees by employment contract, region and gender In TSKB there is not any collective bargaining agreement in place. Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining G4-11 Employees are hired on an individual basis and rights under the Turkish agreements Labor Law are fully provided. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 55 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Page Omissions Description Disclosures Organizational Profile TSKB’s main suppliers are supranational financial institutions. TSKB provides funds from these institutions and finances investment projects. Apart from these, TSKB works with local suppliers on technology, G4-12 Organization’s supply chain transportation, catering, cleaning, office materials, etc related needs. Thematic Global Funds, p 30 Supplier Relations, p 47 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the G4-13 There has not been any change during the reporting period. organization’s size, structure, ownership, and its supply chain TSKB supports the precautionary principle under the UN Global Compact. Consistent with that principle, we advocate Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or G4-14 a risk-based approach to our operations through our extensive principle is addressed by the organization management systems. TSKB is a member of many international organizations and has also Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, G4-15 participated in a number of global initiatives and adopted their principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or principles. Sharing Experience With Initiatives, p 34 which it endorses TSKB is a member of many international organizations and has also Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and G4-16 participated in a number of global initiatives and adopted their national or international advocacy organizations principles. Sharing Experience With Initiatives, p 34 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents G4-17 Company Profile, p 7 b. Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents that are not covered by the report Stakeholder Analysis, p 17-20 a. Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries TSKB’s report content is defined by the GRI G4 Content Index and the G4-18 issues material to the business as identified by key stakeholders who b. How the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for will use the report, including employees, community members, nonDefining Report Content governmental organizations, and the media. Material aspects are the ones that are answered in the Content Index. G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content Stakeholder Analysis, p 17-20 TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 56 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Page Omissions Description Disclosures Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary within the G4-20 Stakeholder Analysis, p 17-20 organization For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary outside the G4-21 Stakeholder Analysis, p 17-20 organization The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous G4-22 Provided primarily as footnotes to individual charts where data changed. reports, and the reasons for such restatements Contents and boundaries are determined according to the G4 Guidelines Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and G4-23 and materiality analysis. Previous report was also prepared according to Aspect Boundaries G4. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder Analysis, p 17-18 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to G4-25 Stakeholder Analysis, p 17-18 engage Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an G4-26 Stakeholder Analysis, p 17-18 indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder G4-27 Stakeholder Analysis, p 17-20 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report Profile G4-28 2015 Reporting period for information provided G4-29 2013-2014 Date of most recent previous report (if any) G4-30 Annual Reporting cycle Coşkun Kanberoğlu, TSKB Engineering Head & Sustainability G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Sub-Committee Head ‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen and GRI Content G4-32 In accordance with the option Comprehensive Index for the chosen option TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 57 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Page Omissions Description Disclosures Report Profile In addition to its comprehensive internal metrics systems, TSKB employs a variety of internal and external processes to bring assurance that its operations are transparent and the information Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external G4-33 it reports is accurate and truly reflective of its actual results. While assurance for the report TSKB’s financial performance is independently audited by KPMG majority of the KPIs presented in this report are checked by BSI as part of the ISO14001 and ISO14064 periodical audits. Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the G4-34 Corporate Governance, p 31-33 highest governance body Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics G4-35 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees Indicate whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social G4-36 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics, if G4-37 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 consultation is delegated, to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-38 Human Resources, p 40-42 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees The Chairman of the Board does not carry out any executive duty Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an G4-39 in day-to-day business executive officer Please see TSKB’s Corporate Governance Compliance Report 2015, Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its G4-40 pages: 61-65, at: http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/investor-relations/ committees corporate-governance/corporate-governance-compliance-report Please see TSKB’s Corporate Governance Compliance Report 2015, Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are G4-41 pages: 60, 61, 63, at: http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/investor-relations/ avoided and managed corporate-governance/corporate-governance-compliance-report Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission G4-42 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 58 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Page Omissions Description Disclosures Governance Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance G4-43 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics Please see TSKB’s Corporate Governance Compliance Report 2015, Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s G4-44 pages: 64, 65 at: http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/investor-relations/corporateperformance with respect to governance of economic, governance/corporate-governance-compliance-report environmental and social topics TSKB's highest governance body is the Board of Directors in setting the Bank's strategies. The Sustainability Committee comprised of 2 Board Highest governance body’s role in the identification and Members and 2 Executive Vice Presidents of the Bank and Corporate G4-45 management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, Governance Committee comprised of 2 Board Members and 1 Executive and opportunities Vice President present their recommendations in the context of environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities to the Board. Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness G4-46 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, G4-47 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves G4-48 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered Different topics are presented to the Board of Directors by Committees (Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Corporate Governance Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest G4-49 Committee, Sustainability Committee) for information and approval. Also governance body Executive Vice Presidents present critical topics to the Board of Directors regularly. Nature and total number of critical concerns that were G4-50 Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them For executives and employees at all levels, the remuneration policy of Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior G4-51 the Bank considers the equilibrium of the wage market and the Bank's executives competitiveness strength in the market. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 59 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Page Omissions Description Disclosures Governance The process for determining remuneration is managed on the basis of criteria such as the characteristics of the functions and workload, geographical / regional / country differences, the equivalent wage levels in the market of functions (general, sectoral or functional), performance evaluation ( competences, knowledge and skills, experience) and payment power of the Bank in the long-term. In order to support the decision process, sector wages research is being participated once in a year, including almost all of the banking sector. Process for determining remuneration. Indicate whether Reports prepared by expert consultants on current year’s wages and remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration benefits and the next year’s projected values are followed regularly. G4-52 and whether they are independent of management, and any other The remuneration management of Inspection Board, and Internal relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the Control and Risk Management departments – referred to as the organization Bank’s Internal Systems – is carried out independently in accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, comprised of Board Members. Monitoring and auditing of the compensation practices at the Bank on behalf of the Board is the responsibility of the Remuneration Committee appointed by the Board of Directors. Each year Remuneration Committee evaluates the Remuneration Policy and practices within the framework of risk management, and presents in a report including recommendations to the Board. How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account G4-53 TSKB does not have such a process. regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s Confidentiality highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to constraints the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding TSKB does not the highest-paid individual) in the same country G4-54 declare this data as it is commercially sensitive. Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant G4-55 This ratio is 1. operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 60 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Unsur Page Omissions Description Disclosures Ethics and Integrity For our Sustainability Policy and its supplementary policies: http://www. Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior G4-56 tskb.com.tr/en/sustainable-banking/tskb-surdurulebilirlik-yonetimsuch as codes of conduct and codes of ethics organizasyonu/our-sustainability-policy Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/anti-bribery-and-antiG4-57 lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such corruption-programme.pdf as helplines or advice lines Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/anti-bribery-and-antiunethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational G4-58 corruption-programme.pdf integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 61 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures of Management Material Aspects Page Omissions Description Approach (DMA) and Indicators Economic Company Profile, p 7 G4-DMA Financial Performance, p 21-22 Support to Sustainable Development, p 23-24 TSKB’s economic contribution to society is more than financial profits. It creates jobs, pay salaries and invest in the skills of its human resources. G4-EC1 TSKB also pays taxes, supports business in our supply chain and provides Direct economic value generated and distributed products that satisfy the needs of our customers. Financial Performance, p 21-22 Economic Performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the G4-EC2 Sustainability Finance, p 25-29 organization’s activities due to climate change Please see “The Explanations on Liabilities Regarding Employee Benefits” part on the page 22 of TSKB’s Audit Report: G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1609_1_TSKB_SOLO_ ENG_31_12_2015.pdf TSKB does not get any type of financial assistance or aid from the G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government government. G4-DMA Sustainability Finance, p 25-29 Indirect Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Economic G4-EC7 Sustainability Finance, p 25-29 supported Impacts TSKB contributes to increasing the export and creating new business fields Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of G4-EC8 via APEX banking. Sustainability Finance, p 25-29 impacts Environmental G4-DMA Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 Materials G4-EN1 Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 38-39 Materials used by weight or volume G4-EN2 Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 38-39 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 62 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures of Management Material Aspects Page Omissions Description Approach (DMA) and Indicators Environmental G4-DMA Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 G4-EN3 Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 38-39 Energy consumption within the organization G4-EN4 Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 38-39 Energy consumption outside of the organization G4-EN5 Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 38-39 Energy intensity Energy Each year TSKB takes actions to reduce its energy consumption in order to reduce its CO2 emissions in the context of ISO 14064. The first audit G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption was for 2011 greenhouse gas emissions and it is set as base year. Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 38-39 Each year TSKB takes actions to reduce its energy consumption in order to reduce its CO2 emissions in the context of ISO 14064. The first G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services audit was for 2011 greenhouse gas emissions and it is set as base year. Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 38-39 G4-DMA Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 G4-EN15 Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 38-39 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 38-39 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 38-39 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Emissions G4-EN18 Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 38-39 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity G4-EN19 Management of Internal Environmental Impacts, p 38-39 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions TSKB’s business activities do not result in significant emissions of these G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) substances. TSKB's business activities/operations do not generate significant G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions emissions of these substances. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 63 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures of Management Material Aspects Page Omissions Description Approach (DMA) and Indicators Environmental G4-DMA Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts, p 37 All of TSKB’s initiatives on such issues are governed by the Bank’s Products and Sustainability Management System. Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and G4-EN27 Services Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts, p 37 services Sustainability Finance, p 25-29 TSKB’s business activities/operations do not generate significant Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are G4-EN28 packaging materials. reclaimed by category Corporate Governance, p 31-33 G4-DMA Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts, p 37 Compliance Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary G4-EN29 There was not such an incident in TSKB during the reporting period. sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-DMA Sustainability Management at TSKB, p 35-36 The CO2 equivalent of the carbon emissions resulting from TSKB’s Transport transportation and travel activities in 2015 amounted to 510 tons, which Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other G4-EN30 corresponds to 41% of the Bank’s total carbon emissions the same year. goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting Of this total, only 99 tons were generated by the vehicles which the Bank members of the workforce uses to transport its personnel to and from work. Sustainable Procurements Management Policy, http://www.tskb.com. G4-DMA tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-Sustainable-Procurements-ManagementPolicy.pdf Supplier Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental Environmental G4-EN32 Supplier Relations, p 47 criteria Assessment TSKB’s activities are not environmentally high-risk activities. TSKB Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the G4-EN33 considers its suppliers (particularly cleaning and catering) compliance supply chain and actions taken with ISO 14001 standard. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 64 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures of Management Material Aspects Page Omissions Description Approach (DMA) and Indicators Environmental TSKB evaluates any opinions, suggestions and complaints submitted Environmental G4-DMA through its website, social media and other channels. http://www.tskb. Grievance com.tr/en/about-us/tskb-contact-form Mechanisms Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, G4-EN34 There were not any complaints during the reporting period. and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work G4-DMA Human Resources, p 40-42 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover G4-LA1 Human Resources, p 40-42 by age group, gender and region Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to G4-LA2 Type of working time does not have an effect on benefits provided. temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Human Resources, p 40-42 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Human Rights Policy, http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/ G4-DMA Labor/Management TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf Relations TSKB complies with the requirements of labor laws and regulations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including G4-LA4 applicable to such issues in Turkey. whether these are specified in collective agreements Occupational Health And Safety Policy, G4-DMA http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-OccupationalHealth-and-Safety-Policy.pdf TSKB’s Occupational Health and Safety Board is comprised of 6 bank Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint G4-LA5 employees, 1 HSE specialist, 1 occupational physician, 3 subsidiary management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor companies representatives and 7 sub-employer representatives. and advise on occupational health and safety programs Occupational Health and Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Safety G4-LA6 In the reporting period, 46 lost days due to work injury occured. absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender TSKB is in the less dangerous working places class in the service sector. Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their G4-LA7 There is almost no work accident and occupational disease rate is zero. occupation There are no union contracts in TSKB, all employees have individual Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade G4-LA8 contracts. unions TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 65 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures of Management Material Aspects Page Omissions Description Approach (DMA) and Indicators Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work G4-DMA Investment in Human Resources, p 43-46 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by G4-LA9 Investment in Human Resources, p 43-46 employee category Training and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Education G4-LA10 Investment in Human Resources, p 43-46 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings During the reporting period, all TSKB personnel who were employed in Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career G4-LA11 banking services (excluding top management) were subjected to the development reviews, by gender and by employee category Bank’s performance evaluation and career progression processes. G4-DMA Human Resources, p 40-42 Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Human Resources, p 40-42 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-DMA Investment in Human Resources, p 43-46 Equal Because TSKB abstains from any approach that takes gender into account Remuneration for with respect to compensation levels, the ratio of men’s and women’s salaries Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee Women and Men G4-LA13 to one another is of no importance whatsoever when determining or category, by significant locations of operation implementing compensation policy. Human Rights Policy, http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/ Labor Practices G4-DMA TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf Grievance Mechanisms There were no grievances about labor practices in TSKB during the Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and G4-LA16 reporting period. resolved through formal grievance mechanisms TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 66 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures of Management Material Aspects Page Omissions Description Approach (DMA) and Indicators Social: Human Rights Sustainability Policy, http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainable-banking/ G4-DMA tskb-surdurulebilirlik-yonetim-organizasyonu/our-sustainability-policy In 2015, all of the medium and long-term loan agreements that were signed for a total amount of USD 334 million (equivalent in US Dollars) Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements with international financial institutions, corresponds to agreements that G4-HR1 and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent Investment include provisions related to human rights. No bussiness agreement human rights screening or contract has been subject to human rights screening during the reporting period. There are no specific trainings on human rights. Bank employees were Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or G4-HR2 informed about human resources and human rights in Sustainability procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Meetings. operations, including the percentage of employees trained Human Rights Policy, http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/ G4-DMA TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf Non-discrimination There were not any incidents of discrimination in TSKB during the Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions G4-HR3 reporting period. taken Human Rights Policy, http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/ Freedom of G4-DMA TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf Association and Collective Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise As no incident of such a nature was identified during the reporting Bargaining G4-HR4 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or period, it has not been necessary to develop such a policy. at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Sustainability Policy, http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainable-banking/tskbG4-DMA surdurulebilirlik-yonetim-organizasyonu/our-sustainability-policy Security Practices In 2015, the related training under the “Private Security Law and Individual Rights” topic has been taken, as a part of Identity Refreshment Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human G4-HR7 training of the security staff. 17 staffed and third company provided rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations security employees are trained on these topics regularly. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 67 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures of Management Material Aspects Page Omissions Description Approach (DMA) and Indicators Social: Human Rights Sustainable Procurements Management Policy, http://www.tskb.com. G4-DMA tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-Sustainable-Procurements-ManagementPolicy.pdf TSKB checks to see if its suppliers’ employees’ income and social security taxes are being paid or not. All suppliers from which TSKB procures Supplier Human Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights G4-HR10 goods and services are required to abide by the relevant clauses of the Rights Assessment criteria bank’s environment management system and ISO 14001 certification. This requirement is explicitly stipulated in suppliers’ contracts. As there were not any significant actual and potential negative human Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the G4-HR11 rights impacts in its supply chain during the reporting period, TSKB did supply chain and actions taken not take any action. All employees can use the I have a suggestion module on the intranet Human Rights G4-DMA page that is open to the Bank's personnel. http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/ Grievance assets/document/pdf/anti-bribery-and-anti-corruption-programme.pdf Mechanisms In the reporting period there were not any complaints delivered to TSKB Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, G4-HR12 regarding human rights. and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Social: Society Environmental And Social Impact Policy G4-DMA http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-ENVIRONMENTALAND-SOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf The effects of the financed projects on society are evaluated in the context of the ERET model. In addition, during the visits carried out in the project Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 area, the views of local people about the project and their demands are also engagement, impact assessments, and development programs identified and taken into account. Local Communities TSKB does not have / nor finance any operation which has a negative Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on G4-SO2 impact on local communities. local communities TSKB does not have any service point in low-populated FS-13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas or economically disadvantaged areas. TSKB is a development bank. Therefore the Bank does Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged FS-14 not have retail banking services for disadvantaged people people. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 68 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures of Management Material Aspects Page Omissions Description Approach (DMA) and Indicators Social: Society Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/ G4-DMA document/pdf/TSKB_anti_bribery_and_anti_corruption_policy.pdf Please see pages 73-74 of TSKB’s 2015 Annual Report: http://www.tskb. Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to G4-SO3 com.tr/i/content/1609_1_TSKB_EN_2015.pdf corruption and the significant risks identified Anti-corruption All our stakeholders can reach TSKB’s activities on Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption from the following link: Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and G4-SO4 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/anti-bribery-and-antiprocedures corruption-programme.pdf As no incidents of corruption were identified during the reporting G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken period, it has not been necessary to take any such action. TSKB does not make any political donations or grants, according to the Banking Law numbered 5411, “Regulation on the Donations and Grants to be made by Banks and Institutions subject to Consolidated Supervision” which was published by Banking Regulatory and G4-DMA Supervision Agency, and TSKB’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Public Policy item 5/b. Also all donations and grants which shall be made by TSKB are defined in its Donations and Grants Policy: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/ assets/document/pdf/TSKB_DonationPolicy_ENG.pdf TSKB does not contribute financially and in-kind to political parties, Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ G4-SO6 politicians and related institutions. beneficiary Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report 2015, Ethical Rules and Social Responsibility, page 61: http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/investorG4-DMA relations/corporate-governance/corporate-governance-complianceAnti-competitive report Behavior During the reporting period (2015), TSKB was not the subject of any legal Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and G4-SO7 process due to any behaviour restricting competition, trust or monopoly monopoly practices and their outcomes practices. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 69 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures of Management Material Aspects Page Omissions Description Approach (DMA) and Indicators Social: Society Please see TSKB’s 2015 Annual Report, pages: 72-74, at: G4-DMA http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1609_1_TSKB_EN_2015.pdf Compliance The Bank has not been exposed to any sanctions or fines of material Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonG4-SO8 importance. Please see TSKB’s 2015 Annual Report, page:179 http://www. monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations tskb.com.tr/i/content/1609_1_TSKB_EN_2015.pdf TSKB receives and evaluates all complaints and suggestions through the Grievance G4-DMA Communication part in its website: Mechanisms for http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/about-us/tskb-contact-form Impacts on Society Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and G4-SO11 In the reporting period, there were not any grievances delivered to TSKB. resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Social: Product Responsibility G4-DMA Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts, p 37 TSKB offers all its products and services within the framework of Turkish laws and international conventions which Turkey is a party of. TSKB operates in full compliance with the laws, standards and voluntary Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products codes regarding the marketing communications including advertising, Communications promotion, and sponsorship. Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts, p 37 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and G4-PR7 In the reporting period, there were not any complaints delivered to TSKB. voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Within the scope of credit and lending processes, the information provided by the customer, which is covered by confidentiality agreements made in accordance with the customer demand, are stored by TSKB G4-DMA Customer during the time interval mentioned in the contract. TSKB does not share Privacy this information with any third party, organization or institution as long as there is no legal obligation or liability. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of G4-PR8 In the reporting period, there were not any complaints delivered to TSKB. customer privacy and losses of customer data TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 70 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures of Management Material Aspects Page Omissions Description Approach (DMA) and Indicators Social: Product Responsibility Please see TSKB’s 2015 Annual Report, pages: 72-74, at: G4-DMA http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/1609_1_TSKB_EN_2015.pdf Compliance The Bank has not been exposed to any sanctions or fines of material Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and G4-PR9 importance. Please see TSKB’s 2015 Annual Report, page:179 http://www. regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services tskb.com.tr/i/content/1609_1_TSKB_EN_2015.pdf G4-DMA Sustainability Finance, p 25-29 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. FS-6 Sustainability Finance, p 25-29 micro/SME/large) and by sector. Product Portfolio Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific FS-7 Sustainability Finance, p 25-29 social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific FS-8 Sustainability Finance, p 25-29 environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. Audit G4-DMA Performance and Objectives, p 51-54 G4-DMA Management of Loans’ Environmental and Social Impacts, p 37 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with Active FS-10 TSKB has no subsidiaries or affiliates of this nature which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social Ownership issues. Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or FS-11 TSKB has no assets of this nature. social screening. TSKB Sustainability Report 2015 71
