TABLE OF CONTENTS 2015 at the NSE Executive Summary CEO Statement Our Awards PART I: THE NIGERIAN STOCK Our Business at a Glance 08 EXCHANGE GROWTH REPORT Value Added Statement Core Values, Vision and Mission Our History, Growth and Development The NSE and the Nigerian economy PART II: THE NIGERIAN STOCK Our Strategy 12 EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY Our Sustainability Pillars APPROACH Our Governance, Ethics and Business Principles The Council Ethics in Business Sustainable Business Principles in our Supply Chain Corporate Responsibility Strategy Our Memberships PART III: DETERMINING Demonstrating Eﬀective Stakeholder Engagement 17 MATERIALITY AT THE in the NSE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE Materiality Assessment PART IV: THE NIGERIAN STOCK Community 21 EXCHANGE’S KEY RESPONSES Workplace IN 2015 Marketplace Environment Think Green at the NSE Get in Touch Appendix 1: List of Abbreviations Appendix 2: GRI Content Index Appendix 3: UNGC Compliance index 02 2015 at the NSE Received 4 awards for promoting ESG and transparency 8% of waste generated at NSE are recycled 15,000 people reached through 21% of employees signed up at the launch 172 ﬁnancial literacy programmes of the Employee Volunteer Programme 2nd edition of NSE Corporate Challenge recorded over 500 runners, Launched Adopt-A-School Programme and generated over 27 million impressions at Oke-Odo High School. Trained 52 on Twitter teachers on soft IT skills and 200 students attended career workshop and donated a Learning and Development Centre 70% of lighting load reduction and 20% overall energy savings achieved, translating 1,578 participants toured to 1,392,717 kilowatts saved The Exchange in 25 visits 147% increase recorded in entries for the NSE Essay Competition 50 Federal and State Universities beneﬁtted from book donation 03 Executive Summary Over the reporting period, there have “ been no signiﬁcant changes regarding our organisational size, structure, ownership and supply chain. We neither changed our scope and aspect b o u n d a r i e s f ro m t h e p rev i o u s reporting period, nor did we make any restatements of information provided The Nigerian Stock Exchange is strategically positioned to ” in the previous report. As part of our sustainability intentions and reporting ambitions last year, we indicated our aim to align our future reporting with the inﬂuence economic development by maintaining a world renowned Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 sustainable capital market. As such, we have a strong guidelines and we are proud to report that this 2015 commitment to conducting all of our activities with the Sustainability Report is 'in accordance' with the core utmost integrity and creating value for all of our principles of the GRI G4 as guided by our consultants, CSRstakeholders. Our 2015 Sustainability Report is, therefore, in-Action. It, therefore, focuses on what really matters as a succinct representation of our progress in embedding determined by our stakeholders in the reporting year. sustainability into our corporate performance and our increasingly robust strategy for stakeholder engagement. Also, following from the 2014 Report, we have detailed our progress on our commitment to paper, energy, waste, Sustainability has become even more important for us as recycling, environmental awareness and sustainability. we continue to play a crucial role in meeting the rising More so, this sustainability report – which is released needs of globalisation and urbanisation. The report, annually – identiﬁes our action plan for improvement in therefore, showcases signiﬁcant progress in our four (4) the coming years, beginning with what we believe has sustainability priority areas: Community, Environment, truly ushered in a new era of sustainability in corporate Marketplace and Workplace. It also serves as a measure of Nigeria. our social returns on investment across 14 states from January to December 2015, particularly our successes and important areas of improvement. 04 CEO Statement Oscar N. Onyema, OON Chief Executive Oﬃcer “ Our approach to sustainability provides a veritable platform for diﬀerentiation, not just amongst capital market players in Nigeria, but also in Africa. As we strive to create durable wealth for our stakeholders, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (the NSE) continues to improved resource eﬃciency, improved stakeholder ” relations and social license to operate, enhanced access to highlight the importance of sustainable business practices markets and investor conﬁdence, as well as product and in delivering value and supporting economic growth. s e r v i c e i n n ov a t i o n – a l l l e a d i n g t o e n h a n c e d competitiveness. In 2015, we continued the holistic implementation and integration of the NSE Corporate Sustainability Strategy Second, to engender discussion on the components of the into our day-to-day operations, in order to eﬀectively proposed Disclosure Guidelines for the capital market in manage risks and business development opportunities. Nigeria. Transparency and ESG disclosures enable While we are pleased to report that we have held stakeholders to engage and understand a company's true ourselves accountable to the highest standards, we are value. They also provide a basis for more accurate also intensifying our advocacy eﬀorts to support the assessment of value creation, resilience and health of a integration of the Environmental, Social and Governance company into the medium and long term. Incidentally, (ESG) imperatives in the Nigerian capital market. target 6 of the Sustainable Development Goal 12 encourages companies, especially large and transIn November 2015, we hosted the inaugural Nigerian national companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to Capital Market Sustainability Conference with the theme integrate sustainability information into their reporting Transforming Business Through Transparency”. This cycle. platform provided an opportunity for the NSE to address two essential areas; ﬁrst, to showcase the direct business This initiative spearheaded by the NSE is also reinforced by beneﬁts of strong ESG performance which include the World Federation of Exchanges (WEF) Sustainability 05 Guidance and the United Nations Sustainable Stock million towards the purchase of Mobile Cancer Centers. Exchange (SSE) Model Guidance on Sustainability which were both published in 2015. We have also committed to Through our ﬁnancial literacy and inclusion initiatives, we unveil the Nigerian Capital Market Sustainability are enhancing investors' potential to save, invest and Disclosure Guidelines in the coming year. build wealth, while managing risk. Under this programme, we have initiatives such as quarterly Investor Clinics, an I am pleased to report as well that we made signiﬁcant annual Essay Competition, Group Excursions and Global progress in 2015 in advancing our four sustainability Money Week. In 2015, we organised 172 programmes and priorities in support of the marketplace, workplace, the directly reached over 15,000 people. community and environment. In the marketplace, participation in the Corporate Governance Rating System Our approach to sustainability provides a veritable was made mandatory for all companies listed on the platform for diﬀerentiation, not just amongst capital Premium Board. This initiative was launched in 2014 to market players in Nigeria, but beyond in Africa. We have evaluate companies based on the quality of their also seen a major shift in the external perception of our corporate integrity; corporate compliance with sustainability credentials; we have gone from being a g ov e r n a n c e r u l e s ; u n d e r s t a n d i n g o f ﬁ d u c i a r y highly regarded supporter of sustainability, to being seen responsibilities by directors, and corporate reputation. as a true leader in this ﬁeld. Our unique Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and/or Corporate Sustainability In the workplace, we formally launched the NSE Employee policies and projects have resulted in positive recognition Volunteering Programme after two years of working with from stakeholders as we were awarded with the “Best employees to build connectedness between employees Corporate Social Responsibility Award” at the African and our operating environment. For the ﬂagship project, Business Awards in New York during the period under Pacelli School for the Blind and Partially Sighted Children review. Commendations like this will continue to spur us to was chosen as beneﬁciary. Employees implemented biaction and we are optimistic that this will encourage our weekly reading and mentoring programmes at the school. listed companies and institutional investment community The school's library and medical center were upgraded in to also focus on mainstreaming sustainable business December of the same year. practices into their operations for strategic growth and long-term success as it comes with both ﬁnancial and nonIn terms of women economic empowerment, we believe ﬁnancial beneﬁts. that achieving gender equality is important, not only because it is fair and the right thing to do, but because it As you well know, our market was confronted with many can also positively increase the bottom line of a business challenges in 2015 resulting from dwindling oil revenue, and boost productivity of our nation. Hence, we hosted commodity price shocks and weak exchange rate of the women leaders from the private and public sectors, as Naira to the US dollar, amongst others. However, we well as civil society to a Closing Gong ceremony for Gender remain committed to continuing our eﬀorts aimed at Equality on March 6, 2015, to commemorate the 20th promoting a sustainable capital market in Nigeria and in Anniversary of the 1995 Beijing Declaration and the sub-region. We will continue to leverage on the International Women's Day. At this event, I also signed the passion and dedication of employees to impact the “Pledge for Parity' principles to further aﬃrm our market place, workplace, community and environment. deliberate corporate action to promote gender balance in the workplace. Within our environment, the NSE currently recycles can, glass and plastics, which makes up 8% of our total waste. Oscar N. Onyema, OON We were also able to save 1,392,717 kilowatts of energy Chief Executive Oﬃcer from July to December, 2015. We intend to make more progress in this space in the coming year. As part of our eﬀorts to positively impact our communities, we launched the NSE Adopt-A-School programme, starting with a pilot scheme at Oke-Odo Junior College, Lagos. So far, 52 teachers have been trained on soft skills, ICT and ﬁnancial intelligence; 250 students have participated in a career workshop; and a Learning and Development Centre kitted with modern classroom furniture, books and equipment, was donated to the school. We also hosted the second edition of our 5 Kilometre Corporate Challenge Race against cancer. More than 500 participants from over 70 companies participated in the race. We were also able to raise N36 06 Our Awards Financial Institution of the Year The Oil & Gas Year Nigeria African Regulator of the Year 6th African Business Leadership Forum & Awards Best Corporate Social Responsibility Company African Business Awards Awards for Promoting Best Practice Reporting & Corporate Disclosure Lagos Chamber of Commerce & Industry 07 PART I THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE GROWTH REPORT Our Business at a Glance The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) serves the Nigerian economy and champions the sustainable development of 184 listed companies Africa's ﬁnancial markets. We take our responsibility seriously and are poised to become “the gateway to African markets”. We, therefore, operate a fair, orderly and transparent market that brings together the best of African enterprises, and local & global investor communities. A registered company limited by guarantee and licensed under the Investments and Securities Act (ISA), we oﬀer listing and trading services, licensing services, market NSE operates branches data, solutions, analytical technology services and more to across all listed companies/issuers, dealing ﬁrms and investors 14 states across all sectors of the economy, under the regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Nigeria (SEC). We also provide electronic clearing, settlement and delivery (CSD) services through Central Securities Clearing Systems Plc (CSCS), an associate company of the NSE. Owned by certain dealing member ﬁrms i.e., stockbroking ﬁrms, institutions and individuals, NSE has 184 listed companies and a domestic market capitalisation of over N10 trillion , the NSE, boasts 250 listed securities and 223 active brokers. The Exchange operates branches across 14 other states as follows: Apart from our headquarters in Lagos, Abeokuta, Abuja, Bauchi, Benin, Ibadan, Ilorin, Kaduna, Kano, Lagos, Onitsha, Owerri, Port-Harcourt, Uyo and Yola. Value Added Statement For the express reason of transparency, we list below our ﬁnancial activities for the ﬁnancial year ended December 2015, showing the wealth we created as well as its distribution among our various stakeholders. All the entities included in our ﬁnancial statement are covered in this report. NSE Direct Economic Value Generated for 2015 6,761,574 2,686,162 3,549,982 615,430 09 Mission, Vision and Core Values At the NSE, our operations are value driven, and we constantly seek to streamline our processes to enable us embrace change, innovation and growth. We are equally people-focused and result-oriented, with the understanding that our success rests upon a clear, strategic direction and a shared commitment to the NSE's vision, mission and values. OUR VISION To be Africa's foremost securities exchange driven by regulation, eﬃciency, liquidity and innovation. OUR MISSION To provide investors and businesses with a reliable, eﬃcient and adaptable exchange hub in Africa through which they can save and access capital. OUR CORE VALUES Our core values are the deﬁning principles by which we operate as individuals and as a company. They deﬁne who we are, how we work, what we believe in and stand for. These values are at the heart of all we do and are: ❖ Transparency ❖ Teamwork ❖ Integrity ❖ Professionalism 10 Our History, Growth and Development 1960’S 1980’S 2000’S The Nigerian Stock Exchange was Focus was on increasing corporate The market began a robust climb on founded as the Lagos Stock Exchange. governance in the market on the the back of strong GDP growth and In 1961, trading began with 19 listed back of international exposure the inﬂux of foreign capital into the securities 3 equities, 6 Government via Reuters country and Exchange bonds and 10 corporate bonds. 1970’S 1990’S The name was changed to The Nigerian The Nigerian capital market Stock Exchange in 1977. Several was internationalised and branches with trading ﬂoors opened the NSE issued guidelines for across the country. foreign investment through The Nigerian Stock Market The NSE and the Nigerian Economy From when we started in 1960, we have grown and We provide investors with a wide range of attractive developed signiﬁcantly. The Nigerian Stock Exchange trading segments. Investors in our market enjoy fullyservices the largest economy in Africa, placing us in a electronic hybrid trading services (Order & Market Maker signiﬁcant position within the Nigerian economy where Quote Driven) and unlimited diversiﬁcation opportunities. we continuously strive to improve economic value. We A comprehensive range of investment products including improve growth by supplying capital for businesses to equities, exchange-traded funds and bonds, are currently invest through a robust market infrastructure, and traded on the NSE using our modern, high performance providing opportunities for investors to increase wealth, trading platform, enabling lucrative investment gain knowledge and spread risk through diversiﬁcation. opportunities in Nigeria. 11 PART II SUSTAINABILITY AT THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE The Nigerian Stock Exchange Sustainability Approach Our Strategy Our Sustainability Pillars As a responsible company dealing primarily in the ﬁnancial market, we are determined not to conduct Four years have passed since we started our sustainability business driven solely to make proﬁt. Thus, while journey. In today's unpredictable business environment, maximising stakeholder value is important to us, we the need for a sustainable business approach is becoming consider the indirect and direct consequences of the more critical than ever. Operating a sustainable business impacts of our operations to enable us to make informed model is central to our corporate vision and as a result, we decisions, keeping in mind our commitment to have developed our four sustainability pillars to incorporating sustainability into our business strategy incorporate Economic, Social and Environmental and operations. considerations through these strategic areas: Based on our philosophy, which is aimed at running a ❖ Community: Adding value to the communities where sustainable organisation through responsible ﬁnancial we live and operate, promoting good neighborliness and investment services, sustainable business practices, and fostering partnerships for social inclusion engaged and talented people, community contributions, ❖ Workplace: Providing ample opportunities for and environmental stewardship, we have discovered that professional growth and development of our the interests of the NSE and of our stakeholders are employees, managing diversity, living our values and inseparable. We are, therefore, committed to enhancing ensuring that our people culture facilitates delivery the reliability, availability and stability of our trading and excellence market data dissemination systems, as well as ❖ Marketplace: Incorporating ethics into our business maintaining business practices that are fair, ethical and operations and interaction with stakeholders responsible. through strong corporate governance to maintain a good reputation and ensure long-term viability We also dedicate time and resources to promote integrity, ❖ Environment: Understanding and reducing our transparency and sustainability in the marketplace by environmental impact and joining global forces to taking necessary steps to: combat climate change through the best possible means. ❖ take a leadership role in promoting sustainability imperatives among listed companies and the wider business community through thought leadership programmes and advocacy campaigns; ❖ support the disclosure and provision of Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) data to enable market participants to integrate these considerations into their investments activities and decisions; and, ❖ facilitate investor education, ﬁnancial literacy and inclusion. 13 In line with global sustainability best practice, we developed a strategic framework that set out our commitments and priorities against these four key impact areas for our business, based on the material corporate sustainability risks and opportunities linked to the long-term success of the NSE and our stakeholders. FOCUS AREA COMMITMENT PRIORITIES 2015 KPIS/ACTIONS 2016 TARGET Community Make positive • Support educational • 172 Financial Literacy • Continue with reforms contributions to the programs that increase programmes across the and innovations communities where we ﬁnancial literacy and nation centered on technology, live and work capacity in our local • 52 teachers trained on regulation and product communities soft skills, information & development • Support initiatives that communication combat global and local technology and ﬁnancial health issues intelligence and 250 • Enable employees to students participated in contribute to their local career workshop community and support • In March 2015, the NSE the NSE CSR plan in partnership with SSE through corporate Initiative, United Nations volunteering Women and United Nations Global Compact held a closing gong ceremony in commemoration of International Women's Day Workplace Foster an engaging and • Promote Diversity and • Introduced the CSR • Start measuring our high performing work Inclusion Champions Network and progress around environment that • Facilitate Health, Safety Employee Volunteering employee participation in facilitates diversity, and Wellbeing Scheme programmes, with the wellbeing and • Encourage Human aim of rewarding active development of our Capital development engagement people • Implementing more targeted employee engagement survey • Conduct programme trainings, which speciﬁcally addresses topics around retirement or termination of employment Marketplace Promote market-based • Develop a sustainable • All companies on the • Drive innovations approach to capital market premium board have centered on increasing Environmental, Social and • Maintain the highest been accessed and global visibility into the Governance (ESG) standards of ethics and rated using the Nigerian capital market, imperatives amongst all corporate governance Corporate Governance and developing a larger stakeholders. • Ensure ethical and Rating System footprint on the sustainable supplier • Advanced Capital continent relations Market awareness in • Continue integrating over 50 Nigerian the new medium-long Tertiary Institutions 2019 NSE Corporate Strategic Plan for the next ﬁve (5) years, leading to 2019. • Continue with reforms and innovations centered on technology, regulation and product development Environment Focus on reducing the • Minimise our impact on • Saved 1,392,717 kilowatts • Enact more energy saving NSE's environmental the environment through of energy from July to measures impact increasing eﬃciency and December, 2015 reducing consumption • Promote environmental awareness and sustainability 14 Our Governance, Ethics and Business Principles At the NSE, we recognise the importance of corporate governance as a key element in achieving our vision and, therefore, ensure that we infuse best practices into all our activities to guarantee the highest level of business conduct in dealing with our stakeholders. We believe that eﬀective and eﬃcient governance contributes to improved business performance, and thus operate with integrity to maintain the trust of investors, customers, employees and other stakeholders. Furthermore, based on our conviction that adopting and operating in accordance with high standards of corporate governance is essential for a company's sustainable long-term growth, performance, and value creation, we continuously encourage and support listed companies and dealing member ﬁrms to establish global best practices with respect to corporate governance for the beneﬁt of the listed companies, the continuous development of the Nigerian capital market, and the sustainable development of the economy. The Council is responsible for providing oversight for NSE's business and ﬁnancial aﬀairs, strategy, structures and policies; monitoring the exercise of any delegated authority; and dealing with challenges and issues relating to corporate governance, corporate social responsibility and corporate ethics. As NSE is a self-regulatory organisation (SRO), the Council – which currently comprises 13 members – is also responsible for ensuring that it meets all the conditions of its license as prescribed by the apex regulator of the Nigerian Capital Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission, further to the Investment and Securities Act, 2007. The day-to-day management of NSE is vested in the hands of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer (CEO), who is assisted by the Executive Committee of Management. The Council also established seven (7) committees to facilitate eﬀective discharge of its oversight responsibilities and eﬃcient decision-making. Ethics in Business Business ethics is totally entrenched in our governance structure. It constitutes the cornerstone of our CSR and represents an integral part of our risk management strategy. At NSE, we work hard to ensure that these ethics are projected in our daily operations and apply to all our stakeholders. Consequently, we have developed codes of conduct, which set out the ethical and behavioural framework that governs our operations and the Corporate Governance Rating System (CGRS) to maintain our business integrity. Showing the eﬃcacy of our procedure, we did not record any sanctions for non-compliance with rules and regulations. Sustainable Business Principles in our Supply Chain At the NSE, we expect our suppliers to be predisposed towards ethical standards and we strive to ensure that our products and services are sourced responsibly. We are, therefore, committed to ensuring that our supply chain operates ethically in line with the GRI supply chain governing codes, as well as the United Nations Global Compact supply chain laws. We engage in ongoing consultation with our suppliers as regarding the management of social and environmental issues, helping and encouraging them to adopt best practices in managing their business functions. Our procurement procedures involve treating suppliers fairly, selecting vendors based on value, performance and price, providing justiﬁable and transparent selection decisions, ensuring conﬁdentiality of supplier information, and ensuring that suppliers are assessed based on standardised ISO criteria for pre-qualiﬁcation of vendors/contractors of the NSE. 15 Our Memberships The Nigerian Stock Exchange is committed to adopting the highest levels of international best practice. Consequently, to further improve our sustainability strategy initiatives, consequently, we have acquired memberships in both domestic and international organisation that advocate sustainable development including: Membership Updates The Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative (SSEI) Global Reporting Initiative The NSE signed up to The Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) in In a bid to strengthen our sustainability ambitions, we became an 2013 to further solidify our commitment to strong governance, organisational stakeholder of the GRI in October 2015. We and corporate sustainability. attained GOLD membership as we have strengthened our Gateways to networking and collaboration, Opportunities for proﬁling and visibility, Leading edge knowledge and insights, and During the year, the NSE actively supported the activities of the Dedicated services and support (GOLD). SSE Initiative with keen involvement in crucial thought leadership programmes, participation in consultative working group projects and publishing of a Communication to Stakeholders document which details the NSE approach to sustainability as reﬂected in its business strategy, governance structure, reporting practices, and our listing standards. World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) Sustainability Working Group (SWG) In July, The NSE also shared its vision of integrating sustainability in the Nigerian Capital Market at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) As a member of the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE), The –United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative Nigerian Stock Exchange supports and participates in the (UNEPFI) –Sustainable Stock Exchange (SSE) Regulators activities of its 9 Working Groups including that on Sustainability. Awareness Raising Meetings which held in Abuja, Nigeria. The Through this working group, the NSE aims at taking a leading role NSE CEO, Oscar N. Onyema, OON joined leaders of other in encouraging good corporate governance and transparency in exchanges at the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) SSE the Nigerian Capital Market which ultimately leads enhanced Leaders Luncheon which held in September to discuss strategies market credibility and trust, which is the lifeline of any resilient on how the capital market actors can support the SDGs in the capital market. coming years. The Sustainability Working Group, which is the largest working group within the WFE, was established in 2014 with a mandate to As an organisation, the SSE Initiative made signiﬁcant progress in disseminate and foster best practice among its member 2015 with the launch of the Model Guidance (MG) on Reporting exchanges on sustainability. In November 2015, the Group ESG Information to Investors. It was launched on September 8, presented the WFE ESG Guidance & Recommendations, which 2015 and the document guides exchanges on the types of identiﬁes material metrics that exchanges can incorporate into information sought by investors, companies, employees, peer disclosure guidance to companies listed on their markets. exchanges, civil society, and others. Exchanges are encouraged to Speciﬁcally, the enhanced guidance highlights 34 key use the prescribed format to guide their Communication, but also performance indicators, including energy consumption, water have the freedom to adapt it as needed. It enables exchanges to management, CEO pay ratio, gender diversity, human rights, child elaborate on their sustainability rationale and activities, and and forced labour, temporary worker rate, corruption and antiengage stakeholders on their role in promoting sustainability bribery, tax transparency in addition to other corporate policies. It within their markets. also oﬀers practical advice on how to roll out enhanced sustainability disclosure. The guidance is also of particular importance because it allows exchanges who are signed up to the UN's Sustainable Stock Exchanges initiative, to meet their commitments. While there are The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) currently only 15 stock exchanges providing sustainability The NSE became a member of the United Nations Global guidance in their market, the NSE is one of 23 exchanges that has Compact (UNGC) in 2015. This demonstrates our commitment to made a commitment to have a sustainability guidance by the end improving our organisation’s sustainability performance. The CEO of the NSE also signed the UNGC Call to Action; an initiative of of 2016; and we are making concerted eﬀorts to see this the epoch body, for private sector interaction with the United through. Nations aimed at pursuing anti-corruption. This demonstrates our leadership on integrity issues and our support for corporate eﬀorts to enhance anti-corruption implementation and ethical corporate governance. 16 PART III DETERMINING MATERIALITY AT THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE Demonstrating Eﬀective Stakeholder Engagement in the NSE In line with global best practice, we have identiﬁed that stakeholder engagement is an invaluable tool in achieving eﬀective business collaboration, and is relevant to the success of our business at the NSE. In identifying, prioritising and engaging our stakeholders, we have been able to identify key material issues over the course of the reporting period which have prompted us to respond eﬀectively to our stakeholders' needs, and has improved eﬃciency in our business operations. Our key stakeholders were identiﬁed and engaged as follows: Media Brokers Other Exchanges Employees Clearing participants Government & market participants Listed & Suppliers & potential business issuers NGOs & partners professional bodies Internal External 18 Who we engage How we engage Listed & Potential Issuers Annual stakeholder engagement sessions; consultations; printed materials; enquiries; face-to-face meetings; training Broker/Dealers/Members Bi-monthly CEO breakfast meetings; quarterly compliance oﬃcers forum; quarterly investigation panel meetings; regular training Regulator Ad hoc liaison & working meetings; regular reports & review of the NSE's performance in its regulation of listing matters; informal meetings on speciﬁc cases and regular meetings on policy matters; attend to requests for documents on ad hoc basis Employees Quarterly Town hall meeting; employee engagement survey through ‘Best Place to Work’ platform; regular intranet & e-mail communication; weekly Head of Department and Executive Committee meetings; brown bag sessions based on various topics; induction programme for new recruits and regular in-house seminars for all employees Clearing Participant & Market Regular brieﬁngs, seminars, meetings and discussions; information Participants package issued from time to time; regular participant circulars; ad hoc surveys; market consultation on new proposals Suppliers & business partners Site inspection as scheduled; meetings on a need basis NGOs & professional bodies Consultations on new proposals; regular meetings and correspondence; ad hoc written requests; co-organisation of seminars and events. Government Agencies Verbal and written communications with The Ministry of Finance, Central Bank and other Ministries; responding to Legislative enquiries from National Assembly, meetings upon request. Other Exchanges Regular meetings on speciﬁc projects; delegations for courtesy and training purposes; frequent verbal and written communications; annual board meeting of World Federation of Exchanges and Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative, African Stock Exchanges Association (ASEA) Exco, West African Capital Markets Integration Council (WACMIC). Investing Public/Media/ Guided tour of the NSE Trading Floor on prior arrangement; regular media Information Vendors and interviews and events, including the quarterly media parley and media/ Analysts analyst brieﬁngs on NSE ﬁnancial year outlook; news releases whenever there are any information updates; daily phone and written enquiries; NSE website, news alerts and social media channels; circulation of daily, weekly and monthly statistics 19 Materiality Assessment At the NSE, what matters to our stakeholders matters to us. Our approach to materiality builds on our established engagement processes to strengthen not only our CSR strategy, but our overall business strategy. Following the stakeholder engagement sessions conducted, we have carefully determined and outlined our material issues as follows: • Support listed companies • Uncompetitive listing fees • Capacity building and awareness creation • Increased regulatory functions • Enhance communication/awareness • Reporting, surveillance and monitoring • Increased collaboration with operators, agencies and other listings • Varied products and reduced cost of transactions • Better compensation and staﬀ engagement activities • Promote more listings • Promote sustainability • Encourage local investors HIGH Improved regulatory func on IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Collabora on for Encourage new lis ngs policy formula on MEDIUM Variated products Support for listed companies Capacity building Repor ng, Improved surveillance & Promo ng Promo ng local communica ons monitoring content Uncompe ve lis ng sustainability fees Staﬀ engagement LOW LOW MEDIUM HIGH IMPORTANCE TO NSE'S OPERATIONS 20 PART IV THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE'S KEY RESPONSES IN 2015 Our Strategic Response In line with our key focus areas – community, workplace, marketplace and environment we have responded to the issues that matter most to our stakeholders and to our operations. Community The communities where we operate are crucial to our quest for sustainable development. We understand that our presence and operations have direct and indirect eﬀects on the livelihoods of these communities, and we have pledged to operate in a manner that promotes peaceful and mutual coexistence to ensure undisrupted business continuity. As part of our sustainable community investments, we initiated several projects through which we were brought closer to our communities and we responded to their need for capacity building & awareness creation, and enhanced communication Women Economic Empowerment In line with our commitment to promote women's Global Compact Local Network Nigeria, Access Bank Plc economic empowerment, The Nigerian Stock Exchange and the Nigerian capital market community. created fora for dialogue as well as advocacy for gender inclusiveness in the workplace, marketplace and Our female employees were not left out. Internally, female community. We believe that achieving gender equality is employees were treated to an expository brown bag important and that it can positively increase the bottom session on “Building a Successful Career”, an event line of a business and boost productivity of our nation. anchored by Mrs. Yemisi Ayeni, former Managing Director, Shell Nigeria CPFA Ltd, and past council member of The In 2015, we hosted women leaders from the private and Nigerian Stock Exchange. The NSE continuously supports public sector as well as civil society to a Closing Gong women empowerment as a commitment to upholding Ceremony on March 6 to commemorate the 20th fundamental human rights. Anniversary of the 1995 Beijing Declaration and International Women's Day. In attendance were the United Nations Women Representatives to Nigeria and ECOWAS and top executives from the United Nations L – R (Pix C) shows Mrs. Dorothy Anametemﬁok, Stockbroker, Compass Investment Limited; Mrs. Yetunde Ojo, Head, Technology, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE); Dr. Jobi Makinwa, Head Transparency, UNGC New York; Mr. Haruna JaloWaziri, Executive Director, Business Development, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE); Dr. Grace Ongile, Country Programme Director Nigeria, United Nations (UN) Women; Ms. Pai Gamde, Head, Human Resources, NSE and Mr. Victor Etuokwu, Executive Director, Access Bank Plc at the Closing Gong Ceremony in commemoration of International Women’s Day celebration at the Exchange, March 06, 2015 in Lagos. 22 Corporate Challenge As part of NSE's commitment to support the “Big War against Cancer”, the second edition of the annual 5 Kilometre NSE Corporate Challenge race against cancer held on Saturday, May 16, 2015. The event took place at Onikan Stadium, Lagos. Runners were from listed companies, dealing member ﬁrms and other individuals from the general public. The event recorded signiﬁcant key achievements which include a 53% increase in the number of participants (over 535 participants from over 56 companies), increased social media publicity with over 27 million impressions on Twitter and over 5,000 likes on Facebook, and the introduction of three (3) new categories of awards namely, Fastest Male, Fastest Female and Senior Citizen. It also witnessed increased gross donations totaling N36.5m, which was 467% higher than 2014 and which will be geared towards the purchase of Mobile Cancer Centers; and obtained celebrity endorsement from Chocolate City Music Group and the event ambassador, MI Abaga. 23 Executive Health Programme The Exchange commemorated the annual World Health experts, also provided the opportunity for free medical Day by implementing Health & Wellness Programmes for screenings consisting of blood pressure checks, random employees and other stakeholders. In 2015, we held a blood sugar testing, body mass index (BMI) checks, stress Mini Health Fair which was themed 'Food Safety – From testing, and where necessary, cholesterol testing; all in line Farm to Plate, From Plate to Body, Make Food Safe' at the with the laid down international algorithms. NSE Corporate Head Oﬃce with up to 150 participants. Organisations such as Chellarams Plc (Nutritional The Mini Health fair provided free Basic Biometric Health Beverages); Reel Fruits (Real Dry Fruits); New Heights Screenings, Nutritional and Lifestyle Counselling, OverPharmaceuticals (OmronBlood Pressure Screening Kits), the-Counter (OTC) Drugs and Personalised First Aid G2G Group (Little Black Book – Healthy Food Eatery Guide); Wallets, to all attendees. The fair, which was conducted by and Forever Living Products FLP-natural cosmetics/ a 10-man Livewell Initiative (LWI) health team of vast makeovers & nutritional supplements exhibited their exciting and healthy products and services. 24 2015 Essay Competition The NSE Essay competition is the pioneer CSR initiative of the NSE. It was launched in 2000 and encourages students to research and write about real world economic issues and events, helping them to develop the ﬁnancial awareness needed to make conﬁdent decisions about money. The competition's overall goal is to build a ﬁnancially savvy generation. L – R shows Cima Sholotan, Lead, CSR; NSE, Oscar N. Onyema, OON, CEO, NSE; Vivian Aneke, First Runner Up; Chiamaka Loretta Nwajiaku, Winner; Kindness Jehu, Second Runner Up; Mr. Bola Adeeko, Head, Corporate Services Division, NSE and Olumide Orojimi, Head, Corporate Communication at The 2015 competition made giant strides, one of which was the signiﬁcant increase of 147% in the number of entries received from across the country. Chiamaka Loretta Nwajiaku from the Sacred Heart College, Apapa, Lagos, won 1st prize of N500,000 in scholarship fund for university education, N250,000 worth of equity investment, and a laptop. She was also honoured with a Closing Gong ceremony. Vivian Aneke of Government Day Secondary School, Gwagwalada, Abuja, and Miss Kindness Jehu of All Saints College, Gombe, emerged ﬁrst and second runners up, respectively. Cross section of participants at the 2015 NSE Essay Competition. Top 10 Finalists with Mr. Oscar N. Onyema, OON, CEO, NSE and Mr. Bola Adeeko, Head, Corporate Services Division, NSE. 25 Adopt -ASchool Initiative R shows Mr. Haruna Jalo-Waziri, Executive Director, Business Development, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and Mr. A.J Ojo, Representing the Permanent Secretary, Education District 1, Lagos at the Commissioning of NSE Learning and Development Centre, Oke Odo Junior College, Abule Egba, Lagos – 14/12/2015 The NSE recognises that the education sector in Nigeria has suﬀered severe neglect in the past, which has led to a general decline in our standard of education. According to a research paper by the United States Embassy in Nigeria, an estimated 10 million out of the 30 million school-aged children are not enrolled in school; the average Senior Secondary Certiﬁcate Examination (SSCE) pass rate over the last 5 years is about 29% and there are academic staﬀ shortages in all areas, particularly in the critical areas of science and technology. Therefore, to build a pipeline of future leaders who can serve country and companies, the NSE initiated the “Adopt-ASchool” initiative, which was launched with the commissioning of a Learning and Development Centre donated to Oke Odo Junior College, Abule Egba, Lagos. The initiative is aimed at addressing the challenges experienced by schools in Nigeria through facility and process improvement, teachers' empowerment, and students' intellectual advancement. This is implemented through a structured approach of facility and process improvement, empowerment of teachers and the advancement of students' intellectual capacity. Before After Book Donations L-R shows Prof. Francis O Oyebade, Deputy Vice Chancellor (Admin), Adekunle Ajasin University and Sunday Idornigie, Benin Branch Manager, NSE during presentation of books to Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Ondo State The NSE supports strategies that contribute to knowledge development that can be transferred to other generations and that add value to the society. In September 2015, the NSE commenced the process of donating capital market related books to Universities across 20 states in Nigeria. This project was aimed at providing materials that will address the need of reference materials on the Nigerian capital market in our tertiary institutions. Over 50 federal and state universities have beneﬁted from this project. L-R shows Mrs. Cordelia Ihedioha, Branch Manager, Abuja Area Oﬃce, NSE presenting books to Dr. Idris Othman Jibrin, Registrar, Federal University, Laﬁa. 27 Group Excursions At the NSE, we frequently host ﬁeld-trip tours of our trading ﬂoors across the country. This educative session gives students a 'live' view of what happens at a Stock Exchange and opens them up to the idea of seeking career opportunities in the capital market in the future. The schools visits provide a platform where young people and the general public can understand the operations of the Stock Exchange and Nigerian capital market. In 2015, we had over 25 successful tours and 1,578 participants. 2015 World Cancer Day Fighting cancer is a key health focus for the NSE, and World Cancer Day is an ideal opportunity to spread the word and raise the awareness of cancer, a disease that kills as much as 80,000 Nigerians annually. The global cancer epidemic is huge and is set to rise. Currently, 8.2 million people die from cancer worldwide every year, out of which, 4 million people die prematurely (aged 30 to 69 years). For 2015, World Cancer Day at the NSE was observed through a 5-day internal & external interactive communication campaign from February 1 to 5, 2015, to raise awareness about the disease and to develop practical strategies to address the increasing cancer burden. : L – R shows Head, Corporate Services Division, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Bola Adeeko; Popular Nigerian musician, Mr. Banky Wellington; Chairman of the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy (CECP) #GivingTide, Prof. Pat Utomi; Convener of CECP, Mrs. M.R.A. Adeleke, FIoD, FNIM, FICSA, OON; and Group Managing Director /CEO, United Capital Plc, Mrs. Oluwatoyin Sanni at the Closing Gong Ceremony to commemorate the National Cancer Week at the Exchange,12/06/2015. Global Money Week In line with our commitment to improve Financial Literacy and Inclusion in Nigeria, we commemorated the 2015 Global Money Week in partnership with Financial Literacy Steering Committee. The NSE hosted and participated in series of educational programmes during the week aimed at engaging young people in knowledge sharing about how money works, savings, investing, creating livelihood, gaining employment and entrepreneurship. We were able to directly reach over 200 students from over 15 secondary and primary schools across our operating environment. The event commenced with an interactive session on Money & Investing, which was moderated by the Head, Corporate Services Division, Mr. Bola Adeeko. His opening remarks highlighted that the NSE was on a journey of building a ﬁnancially savvy generation and urged the students both to become ambassadors of the Nigerian capital market and participate in the 2015 Essay Competition. There was also a presentation by Mr. Abimbola Babalola on various means of earning, spending and growing money with particular emphasis on investing. This was followed by a speech from Mr. David Adonri, CEO, Equity Capital Solutions who took the students through the beneﬁts of shareholding. From the interactive session, the students were ushered to the trading ﬂoor where representatives from the schools were selected to ascend the podium with facilitators at the session to discuss knowledge gained at the session. 28 Workplace Our vision, mission and core values guide the code of conduct of our employees and create a workforce that supports productivity. At the NSE, our employees can communicate their concerns and questions conﬁdentially. We understand and value diversity and inclusion, and, therefore, maintain a workplace free from harassment, and report potential violations to the company without fear of retaliation. Fortunately, we did not have any reported grievances about labor practices during the reporting period and no reported incidence of discrimination. The NSE does not practice collective bargaining and as such, none of our employees are bound by collective bargaining agreement. At the NSE, employee satisfaction is critical to our operations. We. therefore, work to ensure open lines of communication, and in 2015, we responded to the need for better compensation and increased staﬀ engagement with a stream of unique policies and programmes. Employee Volunteering Members of staﬀ at the NSE support our local communities through the corporate entity or personally. Investing in communities is a long-standing tradition which has continued to receive positive feedback from employees. The NSE Employee Volunteering scheme was formally launched in 2015 after 2 years of working with employees to build connectedness between employees and our operating environment. For the ﬂagship project, a special need focus was unanimously selected by the CSR Champions and Pacelli School for the Blind and Partially Sighted Children was chosen as beneﬁciary. For the ﬂagship project, a charity-based organisation that provides free education to less privileged children in our operating community. It provides only boarding facility which houses over 130 students within the primary school age range. The school has been in existence since 1962 and it is solely run on donations from individuals, groups and organisations. Currently, we run bi-weekly reading and mentoring programmes at the school. We also had a food drive in November, 2015, with the school library and medical center upgraded also in 2015. Employment Remuneration Employee Remuneration Categories M : F Employee Remuneration by Gender ( Lagos Oﬃce) by Gender ( All Locations) Executive Management 1.50 : 1 Senior Management 1.05 : 1 Supervisory 1.07 : 1 Professional 1.24 : 1 Graduate Male Female Male Female 1 : 1 Trainee Male : Female Male : Female 1.06 : 1 0.99 : 1 Auxiliary 1 : 1.29 29 Enabling Conducive Work Environment At the NSE, our employees are important to us. Their safety and satisfaction is our responsibility hence, we operate according to the UNGC and GRI principles regarding human rights and labor. We have a work environment that fosters inclusiveness, diversity and equal opportunities for all; an environment where highest standards of behavior are established, demonstrated and maintained. Employee Distribution Employee Distribution by Age Employee Distribution by Gender 20% 20% 40% 30% 60% 50% Veteran Baby boome Generation X Generation Y Male Female Millenial Diversity at the NSE Female Male 1% 2% 2% 6% 8% 8% 10% 16% 15% 42% 59% 31% Executive Mgt Executive Mgt Snr Mgt Snr Mgt Supervisors Supervisors Professionals Professionals Auxiliary Auxiliary GTP GTP 30 Percentage of Employees by Categories Percentage of Employees by Age 2.2% 1.3% 1.5% 0.4% 6% 15.8% 22.6% 11.2% 43.2% 39.1% 29.2% Executive Mgt Veterans Snr Mgt Baby Boomer Supervisors Generation X Professionals Generation Y Auxiliary Millenial GTP National Council by Gender National Council by Age 31% 69% 100% Male Female Less than 30 years 30-50 years Above 50 years Executive Committee by Gender Executive Committee by Age 5% 95% 100% Male Female Less than 30 years 30-50 years Above 50 years 31 Training and Skills Development Since we have created an enabling work environment, our employees maintain good relationships and support themselves internally, complementing one another in required areas and upholding team spirit. However, we train our employees at all levels to upgrade their skills. Our employees periodically participate in both internal and external training programmes, which broadly cover soft skills, technical/functional skills and professional certiﬁcations. In 2015 alone, we had our employees at all levels participate in 93 training and development programmes. We educate, train and communicate our ethics and anti-corruption policies and procedures to all our employees irrespective of category or region and we did not record any form of discrimination during the reporting period. Training Per Employee Category Training on Anti-Corruption Policies and Procedures 8% 15.3% 26% 50% 74% 14.2% 12.5% Executive Mgt Snr Mgt Supervisors Head Oﬃce Branches Professionals Auxiliary Employee Informal Support In our employees lie our productivity, so we support them in as many areas as we can. Knowing that their families are important to their satisfaction, we are very proud to have devised means of bringing their families closer to them. We have a fully equipped crèche within the building premises at our headquarters that provide excellent childcare to employees' wards. In addition, our married employees are entitled to parental leave-both male & female . In 2015, we had 96 females and 190 male staﬀ entitled to such paid leaves with the male employees entitled to 1 week paid paternity leave, while the female employees enjoyed a paid 4-month maternity leave. However, 5 male employees and 8 female employees were granted parental leave, out of which after 12 months, 4 female employees out of 5 were still employed with us, while all 8 male employees remained with us. Nse Activity Centre The NSE Activity Centre which comprises of The Crèche, The Gymnasium and The Café was established in 2014 as a company initiative designed to support Employee Lifestyle and well – being. The Crèche which is managed by Professional Child Minders and Educators, provides care and preschool learning for employees’ children during working hours in a conducive, friendly, and healthy learning environment within the company premises at no extra cost to the employees. The Gymnasium sited within the premises of the Head Oﬃce is designed to encourage and support employee wellness and ﬁtness at no cost to the employee. The Cafe and Bar provide a relaxing environment which caters for a healthy variety of food and drinks and some light entertainment for employees at aﬀordable costs within the oﬃce premises. In 2015, The Activity Centre’s Facilities continued to enable employees’ work-life balance and in so doing improved the company’s attractiveness to external talent, enhanced employee inclusion and helped to sustain company’s overall 32 Talent Retention Strategies. Marketplace The Nigerian Stock Exchange has made great advances in our journey towards providing a world-class capital market with the implementation of innovations required to deliver a robust and eﬃcient capital market, in addition to identifying new opportunities. In 2015, our activities were focused on improving our regulatory function, initiating new collaborations for policy formulation, introducing new products into the market and encouraging reporting and monitoring practices for listed companies. The NSE has successfully implemented initiatives in the following key areas: Nigerian Capital Market Sustainability Conference On November 13, 2015, the Nigerian Stock Exchange in partnership with Ernst & Young (EY) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) hosted the inaugural Nigerian Capital Market Sustainability Conference (NCMSC) in Lagos, Nigeria. The event included a half day conference and a CEO Roundtable themed, “Business Transformation through Transparency”. The conference provided a platform to discuss the business value of sustainable investment, enhancing corporate transparency and ultimately performance on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues as well as reveal how companies, investors and regulators can better collaborate to unlock the potential of the private sector in tackling sustainability related challenges. The Conference included three break-out sessions on Good Corporate Governance: Key to Sustainability, Sustainability Reporting in the Financial Services Industry and Environmental, Health, Safety and Social Audits. The conference was a huge success and led to the participants deliberating on likely sustainability indicators and provided recommendations for “The Nigerian Capital Market Sustainability Disclosure Guidelines”. Ade Bajomo, Executive Director (ED), Market Operations and Technology, The Nigerian Stock Exchange; Haruna Jalo-Waziri, ED, Business Development, NSE; Victor Banjo, Director General/CEO, Institute of Directors, Nigeria; Tinu Awe, Head, Legal & Regulation Division, NSE; Ben Afudego, Partner , Risk Advisory , Ernst & Young and Bola Adeeko, Head, Corporate Services Division, NSE at the inaugural Nigerian Capital Market Sustainability Conference organized by The NSE, in partnership with Ernst & Young and Global Reporting Initiative on 13th November, 2015 in Lagos L-R: Jeremy Grist, Director, Climate Change & Sustainability Services, Ernst & Young and Oscar N. Onyema, OON, CEO, The 33 Nigerian Stock Exchange during a panel disucssion the Nigerian Capital Market Sustainability Conference Capital Markets in Partnership manual system and is a major step towards attaining our On November 18, 2014, The Nigerian Stock Exchange vision of becoming “the leading Stock Exchange in Africa signed a capital market agreement with the London Stock driven by regulation, eﬃciency, liquidity and innovation.” Exchange Group (LSEG) to jointly promote the development of the Lagos and London capital markets This also demonstrates our ambition and commitment to and support African companies seeking dual listings in implementing global best practices to increase eﬃciency, both markets as well as the implementation of a new improve transparency and drive operational excellence. settlement process between the United Kingdom and Nigeria. Subsequently, the two exchanges co-hosted a Corporate Governance Rating System one-day capital market dialogue themed Lagos: Capital (CGRS) Markets in Partnership, on June 22, 2015, at the London The Nigerian Stock Exchange identiﬁes that a good Stock Exchange. The NSE led a strong team of corporate governance structure is a crucial requirement to build on ﬁnance experts, lawyers, capital market operators, its Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) initiatives. regulators and companies keen to explore a This led to the launch of the Corporate Governance Rating London/Lagos dual listing, to the event. System (CGRS) on November 3, 2014, which marked the beginning of a new era in market transparency and a new model for 21st century corporate reporting in Nigeria, and Launch of the X-BOSS in Africa. The CGRS serves as a platform for listed We launched the Broker Oversight & Supervision System companies to demonstrate their commitment to (“X-BOSS”) in the last quarter of the reporting year. The Xresponsible corporate practices. It is designed to evaluate BOSS, which is the ﬁrst of its kind in the West African companies based on the quality of their corporate capital market, seeks to redeﬁne the compliance and integrity; corporate compliance with governance rules; regulation experience between the NSE and its Dealing understanding of ﬁduciary responsibilities by directors Members. The system has been designed to automate the and corporate reputation. regulatory and oversight function of the NSE over its Dealing Members and ultimately enhance the regulatory While the pilot phase in 2014 was voluntary, participation experience. It also aims to enable the secure and in CGRS in 2015 became mandatory for all companies e l e c t ro n i c d i s s e m i n a t i o n o f D e a l i n g M e m b e r s ' listed on the Premium Board at The Nigerian Stock information in a structured and sustainable manner, Exchange. which would reduce the burden and inconvenience of a L – R shows: Ini Onuk, Lead Consultant/Chief Executive Oﬃcer, ThistlePraxis Consulting Limited (TPC); Mr Ade Bajomo, Executive Director, Market Operations and Technology Division, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE);Mr. Mervyn King, Chairman, The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC); Mr Bola Adeeko, Head, Corporate Service Division, NSE; Emilia Asim – Ita, Senior Consultant, Strategy & External Relations, ThistlePraxis Consulting Limited at the Closing gong ceremony held on Wednesday, November 18, 2015 at the Nigerian Stock Exchange 23/11/2015. 34 Environment As an ethical and responsible company, we operate with strong respect for our environment and focus on reducing our environmental impact. To further this commitment, we have put in several operational measures to ensure that we operate in an environmental friendly manner. As a member of sustainability-focused organisations like the UNGC and GRI, we have declared our commitment to promoting sustainability by supporting the 10 principles of the UNGC and the environmental indicators that relate to environmental responsibility, protection and compliance. Health, Safety and Environment up 8% of its total waste Safety is a priority to us at the NSE. We conduct a quarterly drill to identify workplace hazards and enhance Energy Eﬃciency emergency response by building occupants. We have a In 2014, the Nigerian Stock Exchange oﬀered our Head Committee of Emergency Marshals comprising marshals Oﬃce as a template for a high-rise energy-eﬃciency from all the ﬂoors who play a pivotal role in maintenance building in Nigeria. This led to the replacement of all of workplace. The NSE's security department conducts onlightings to LED without dropping the illumination level. the-job training, refreshers and quarterly training This has resulted in 70% lighting load reduction and 20% sessions. Areas covered include security role and overall energy savings. In continuation in 2015, we also expectations, guard duties, emergency response, implemented a power saving policy to reduce our carbon relationship with staﬀ and stakeholders HSE thrust. We footprint, saving a total of 1,392,717 kilowatts from July to also engage third parties to provide pre-deployment December. training which cover topics like the requirements of the security function, security procedures, ethics/conduct and We are developing reduction targets for paper, waste, and personal hygiene to deployed guards. Also, health and water. An increased number of our documents are safety statement is made before any meeting at the developed, worked on and saved electronically so as to Exchange, and the ﬁre alarms are tested weekly. Following reduce our paper use and reduce climate change. We our strategic measure, we did not record any major continually promote environmental awareness and workplace disaster. sustainability among our partners and listed companies through our events and adherence to sustainable disclosure guidelines. Workplace Recycling To reduce our waste and impact on the environment, the At the NSE, our environmental impact is signiﬁcantly NSE has maintained and improved its already established reducing and so are our associated risks. We have an Workplace Recycling Initiative to ensure safe and reliable obligation to support global eﬀorts to reduce carbon disposal and recycling of waste generated on its premises. emission and prevent the dangers of climate change and This initiative is implemented in partnership with the locally, we strive to operate with respect for the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA). The environment. NSE currently recycles can, glass and plastics, which make 35 Get in Touch If you have any views on issues described in this report, or on the report itself, please contact: Olumide Orojimi Head, Corporate Communications The Nigerian Stock Exchange 2-4 Customs Street, Lagos, Nigeria +2348146262127 oorojimi@nse.com.ng Cima Sholotan Lead, CSR Corporate Communications The Nigerian Stock Exchange 2-4 Customs Street, Lagos, Nigeria +2348094884930 csholotan@nse.com.ng The Nigerian Stock Exchange @nsenigeria The Nigerian Stock Exchange @nsenigeria 36 Appendix 1: List of Abbreviations ASEA African Securities Exchanges Association BMI Body Mass Index CBN Central Bank of Nigeria CGRS Corporate Governance Rating System CMC Capital Markets Committee CR Corporate Responsibility CSD Clearing Settlement and Delivery CSR Corporate Social Responsibility ESG Economic Social Governance EY Ernst and Young FIX Financial Information eXchange FSRCC Financial Services Regulation Coordination Committee FSS Financial System Strategy GRI Global Reporting Initiative IOSCO International Organisation of Securities Commissions ISG Intermarket Surveillance Group LAWMA Lagos Waste Management Authority LSEG London Stock Exchange Group LWI Live Well Initiative NCMSC Nigeria Capital Market Sustainability Conference OTC Over the Counter SIIA/FISD Software and Information Industry Association/Financial Information Service Division SRO Self Regulatory Organisation SSE Sustainable Stock Exchanges The NSE The Nigerian Stock Exchange UNGC United Nations Global Compact WACMIC West African Capital Markets Integration Council WFE World Federation of Exchanges 37 Appendix 2: GRI Content Index General Standard Disclosures Content/Page Number Strategy and Analysis Organisational Proﬁle G4-1 CEO Statement, pg.5 G4-3 Executive Summary, pg.4 G4-4 Our Governance, Ethics and Business Principles, pg.15 G4-5 Executive Summary, pg.4 G4-6 Executive Summary, pg.4 G4-7 Our Business at a Glance, pg.9 G4-8 The NSE and the Nigerian Economy, pg.11 G4-9 Workplace, pg.29 G4-10 Workplace, pg.29 G4-11 Not Applicable G4-12 Our Business at a Glance, pg.9 G4-13 Executive Summary, pg.4 G4-14 Environment, pg.35 G4-15 Our Memberships, pg.16 G4-16 Our Memberships, pg.16 Identiﬁed Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Value Added Statement, pg.9 G4-18 Materiality Assessment, pg.20 G4-19 Materiality Assessment, pg.20 G4-20 Materiality Assessment, pg.20 G4-21 Materiality Assessment, pg.20 G4-22 Executive Summary, pg. 4 G4-23 Executive Summary, pg. 4 38 Stakeholder Engagement Demonstrating Eﬀective Stakeholder Engagement in G4-24 the NSE, pg.18 Demonstrating Eﬀective Stakeholder Engagement in G4-25 the NSE, pg.18 Demonstrating Eﬀective Stakeholder Engagement in G4-26 the NSE, pg.17, pg.18 Demonstrating Eﬀective Stakeholder Engagement in G4-27 the NSE, pg.18 Report Proﬁle G4-28 Executive Summary, pg.4 G4-29 Executive Summary, pg.4 G4-30 Executive Summary, pg.4 G4-31 Executive Summary, pg.4 G4-32 Executive Summary, pg.4 G4-33 Executive Summary, pg.4 Governance G4-34 Management Team, pg.15 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Core Values, Mission and Vision, pg.10 39 Appendix 3: UNGC Compliance Index United Nations Global Indicators References Compact (UNGC) ECONOMIC EC-1 Direct economic value generated and Value Added Statement, pg.9 distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis EC-5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by Employee Remuneration, pg.29 gender compared to local minimum wage at signiﬁcant locations of operation SOCIAL Sub-Category-Labor Practices and Decent Work LA-1 Total number and rates of new employee Employee Turnover, pg.30 hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region LA-3 Employee Informal Support, Return to work and retention rates after Principle 3 pg.32 parental leave, by gender LA-5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker Diversity at the NSE, pg.31 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA-9 Average hours of training per year per Training and Skills employee by gender, and by employee Development, pg.32 category LA-10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Training and Skills Development, continued employability of employees pg.32 and assist them in managing career endings 40 United Nations Global Indicators References Compact (UNGC) LA-11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Trainings and Skills Development, performance and career development pg.32 reviews, by gender and by employee category LA-12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Trainings and Skills Development, Category according to gender, age group, pg.32 minority group membership, and other Indicators of diversity LA-13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Employee Remuneration, pg.29 women to men by employee category, by signiﬁcant locations of operation LA-16 Number of grievances about labor Diversity at the NSE, pg.31 practices ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SubCategoryHuman Rights HR-3 Total number of incidents of Training and Skills Development, Principle 6 discrimination and corrective actions pg.32 taken Sub-CategorySociety G4-SO4 Training and Skills Development, Principle 10 Communication and training on antipg.32 corruption policies and procedures G4-SO8 Our Governance, Ethics and Principle 10 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes & total Business principles, pg.15 number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws & regulations ENVIRONMENT ASPECTENERGY EN-3 Energy and Eﬃciency, pg.35 Principles 7 and 9 Reduction of energy consumption EN-23 Workplace Recycling, pg.35 Principle 7 and 8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 41 CORPORATE HEAD OFFICE The Nigerian Stock Exchange Stock Exchange House 2 – 4 Customs Street Lagos Nigeria Tel: +234 1 4638333-5, +234 700 225 5673 Email: contactcenter@nse.com.ng ABEOKUTA ABUJA BAUCHI South West Resource Centre Muktar El Yakub Place NICON House (2nd Floor) Kudirat Abiola Complex Plot 1129 Zakariya Mailalari Street 26A Abdulkadir Ahmed Road Oke-Mosan Beside Metro Plaza Bauchi Ibara Central Business District Bauchi State Abeokuta Abuja Tel: +23477-832926, +2348088707131 Tel: +2348036289112, +234-39-874995 Tel: +2348181527899 Email: nsebauchi@nse.com.ng Email: nseabeokuta@nse.com.ng Email: nseabuja@nse.com.ng BENIN IBADAN ILORIN Edo State Library Complex Omolabake House 11 Muritala Mohammed Way Sapele-Warri Road 57/61 Lagos Road Ilorin Benin City Ibadan Kwara State Edo State Oyo State Tel: +2347098203925, +2348033692024 Tel: +2348023008388 Tel: +234809666663 Email: nseilorin@nse.com.ng Email: nsebenin@nse.com.ng Email: nseibadan@nse.com.ng KADUNA KANO ONITSHA nd nd 2 Floor Broad Bank Building 2 Floor African Alliance House Business Village C8 Intercity Drive F1 Sani Abacha Way Kano 1 Ridge Road Mogadishu Layout Kano State GRA Onitsha Kaduna Tel: +234-9-6232506-7 Anambra State Kaduna State Email: nsekano@nse.com.ng Tel: +234-46-845898, +2348023366475 Tel: +2348054404433, +2348191807171 Email: nseonitsha@nse.com.ng Email: nsekaduna@nse.com.ng OWERRI PORT-HARCOURT UYO 14 Orlu Road 10 Ikwerre Road Plot 18 Ring Road Owerri Port Harcourt 2 Bank Layout Imo State Rivers State Udo Udoma Avenue Tel: +234-83-801292, +2348081028700 Tel: +2348033064123 UyO Email: nseowerri@nse.com.ng Email: nseph@nse.com.ng Akwa Ibom Tel: +234-85-8228966, +2347035088312, YOLA +2348068398700 Investment House Email: nseuyo@nse.com.ng 42 Galadima Aminu Way Yola Adamawa State Tel: +2348055245518, +2348053471263 Email: nseyola@nse.com.ng
