COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From: January 215` 2016 To: January 215` 2017 1.STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER November 21 2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that LE34 reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compa and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this inform4lion with our stakeholders uring our primary channels of communication. Sincer I~ yours, Ken et Norre M nagi~ t ector 2. DESCRIPTION OF A CTIONS Human Rights • LE34 ensures that employees are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work environment free from workplace harassment. Our commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact has been communicated to all employees and included in our employee manual, which governs the rights of all LE34 employees. • LE34 has taken measures to ensure leadership buy-in by including the Ten Principles in our 2020 Strategy, which involves the management across the company and requires the reporting of goals on this area from each of our 7 business areas. • LE34 has taken measures to promote health and safety for all employees by initiating a safety campaign under the heading Take care of my colleague . The campaign has been launched by the managing director and signals that the top management would never want an employee to expose others or him or herself to danger in order to deliver results. Labour • LE34 has performed control visits to new suppliers of data processing in India to ensure that they comply with the Ten Principles. • LE34 does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour • LE34 complies with minimum wage standards • LE34 ensures that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. • LE34 has initiated LE34 Academy to further education for our employees and to improve the management skills of our management level employees who affect the working environment of their teams. • LE34 reports all occupational diseases and injuries to the national Labour Market Insurance to promote transparency and to track outcomes Environment LE34 is committed to contributing to responsible land governance and took part in the 17th Annual World Bank Conference on Land and Poverty on March 14 to 18, 2016 at the World Bank Headquarters in Washington D.C. As a consultancy, LE34 takes measures to ensure that our services affect the environment as little as possible. When we purchase new company cars, we opt for those with the least environmental impact (miles per gallon and cot emission) • All LE34 offices comply with waste separation procedures Anti-Corruption • LE34 has included the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Mention in our contracts with new business partners • LE34 ensures that internal procedures support our anti-corruption and transparency commitment 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Leadership buy-in has been our first priority and we have actively involved local management by requesting a strategy involving the Ten Principles as well as short-term and long-term goals. This has resulted in a considerable improvement in awareness and • Demographics of employees have reached greater diversity and our local departments have become more open to recruiting non Danish speakers as well as hearing impaired with the need of translators present.
