OUR ENVIRONMENTAL VISION IS TO BE A PART OF LONG-TERM SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY IT SHOULD BE POSSIBLE TO FLY WITH NO FOSSILFUEL CO2 EMISSIONS BY 2050 SAS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT NOVEMBER 2014–OCTOBER 2015 CONTENT Letter from the President 1 This is SAS 2 The sustainability year in summary 3 OUR VISION OUR ENVIRONMENTAL SAS sustainability agenda 4 VISION IS TO BE IS TO MAKE LIFE A PART OF LONG-TERM Emissions 11 EASIER FOR SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY SCANDINAVIA’S IT SHOULD BE Work conditions 14 FREQUENT POSSIBLE TO FLY TRAVELERS WITH NO FOSSILKey sustainability figures 16 FUEL CO2 EMISSIONS BY 2050 GRI 19 ANNUAL REPORT WITH SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW SAS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Accounting principles 22 NOVEMBER 2014–OCTOBER 2015 NOVEMBER 2014–OCTOBER 2015 Sustainability terms, definitions and concepts 24 Assurance Report 25 Sustainability reporting at SAS This Sustainability Report is a complement to our annual report with sustainability review. Please take the time to read both reports for the full overview of SAS. ABOUT THIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This is the 20th SAS Sustainability Report, Readers guide to this Sustainability Report External review: Material sustainability which has been subject to third-party review •T  he SAS Group is referred to as SAS in this information and EU-ETS since 1997. This Sustainability Report Sustainability Report. All material sustainability information in the describes SAS’s most essential environ­ • I n the 2014/2015 fiscal year (2014/2015), Annual and Sustainability Reports for mental and societal aspects during the SAS consisted of Scandinavian Airlines 2014/2015 has been reviewed by PwC. The 2014/2015 fiscal year. The Annual Report (incl. SAS Maintenance Production, SAS Auditor’s report on the Sustainability Report with sustainability review and Sustainability Cargo Group A/S, Cimber and SAS Ground can be found on page 25. Report has been prepared in accordance Handling). Blue1 was sold during the year PwC has verified the systems and reports with the Global Reporting I­ nitiative’s (GRI) and is not disclosed in 2014/2015. regarding the EU trading scheme for emisguidelines, G4 Core. The entire report has • The fiscal year is from November 1 through sion allowances for flights under the SK been reviewed by PwC. The UN Global ComOctober 31. flight number. pact, ISO 14001 and the Carbon Disclosure •T  he KPIs reported in this Sustainability Project were taken into consideration in the Report generally cover (unless specifically Contact information preparation of this S ­ ustainability Report. stated): Lars Andersen Resare, The SAS Annual Report with a sustainability – Financial KPIs: SAS Head of Environment and CSR overview and the separate Sustainability – Environmental KPIs: flight related: flights +46 70 997 23 46, Report for the 2013/2014 fiscal year were flown under the SK flight number. lars.andersen@sas.se published in February 2015. Ground related: SAS – Social KPIs: SAS Letter from the President COMMERCIAL SUCCESSES CONTRIBUTE TO POSITIVE EARNINGS SAS delivered notably improved earnings in 2014/2015. This improvement was primarily driven by our commercial successes, cost measures and, at the end of the year, by lower jet-fuel costs. Over the last few years, we have strengthened the offering aimed at frequent travelers and this has delivered manifest results. We expect increased capacity growth in the market in 2016 and even more intense competition as a result. During the year, SAS’s income before tax and nonrecurring items amounted to nearly SEK 1.2 billion, comprising a notable year-onyear improvement in earnings. Altogether, we have made substantial progress during the year toward a more attractive SAS. However, the unit cost after adjustments for currency and jet fuel increased during the year, which is unsatisfactory. To improve our long-term competitiveness, we will work even more intensely to implement further cost measures. The industry was marked by a temporary stabilization of capacity growth in Scandinavia during the year. However, we expect more intense competition in 2016 with increased capacity growth. To meet market challenges and strengthen competitiveness, we will continue to drive three strategic priorities: win Scandinavia’s frequent travelers, create an efficient operating platform and secure the right capabilities. SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA We are convinced that financially sustainable operations require social and environmental responsibility, and that work on sustainability issues contributes to value creation and competitiveness in a variety of ways. We take our responsibility seriously and despite the turbulent civil aviation market in recent years, we have chosen to maintain our commitment to sustainability related issues. We believe that a well-structured sustainability effort creates value for our customers and differentiates SAS in a highly competitive aviation market. To visualize our sustainability efforts and activities, that are integrated in our management system and daily work, we have defined a sustainability agenda described on page 5 and onwards in this Create an efficient operating platform report. We are continuing to renew our fleet by introducing the brand new A320neo aircraft with its sustainability benefits, we are continuing GOAL ATTAINMENT 2015 our fuel saving activities and we will take further actions regarding During 2014/2015 we continued our strive to achieve our long term waste handling. goals. When we summarize environmental goal attainment, we can conclude that we reduced our absolute CO2 emissions from flight Secure the right capabilities operations by 14% and our relative CO2 emissions per passenger We have integrated Lean principles in our management processes kilometer by more than 18% compared to 2005. to manage this transition, and we are working toward shared targets that are categorized under SQDEC, which stands for Safety, Quality, GOING FORWARD Delivery, Employees and Cost. These targets are followed up through Within our three strategic priorities we plan numerous activities clear action plans across all operations. We are also strengthening to further strengthen our sustainability agenda with a clear focus leadership and increasing professionalism through a number of on our operational promise, CARE. Some examples of activities forums, such as the SAS Forum 50, Learning lunch and a mentor planned for 2015/2016 are: ­program. At the same time, we highlight team and individual performances at our annual SAS Awards. The introduction of these proWin Scandinavia’s frequent travelers cesses and activities are crucial for securing the right skills and, We plan to allow our customers to choose, on a voluntary basis, thereby, SAS’s future. to upgrade their fuel to renewable jet fuel. Moreover, we plan to take additional steps to further adapt our products and services from Rickard Gustafson a sustainability perspective. President and CEO SAS Sustainable Report November 2014–October 2015 1 This is SAS THIS IS SAS During the 2014/2015 fiscal year SAS consisted of Scandinavian Airlines (incl. SAS Maintenance Production, SAS Cargo Group A/S, Cimber and SAS Ground Handling). Scandinavian Airlines and Cimber have their own Air Operations Certificates. All commercial and operational functions, and staff units, such as purchasing, HR, finance, legal, sustainability etc. are centralized. The head office is located in Stockholm. PASSENGER TRANSPORT 2014/2015. SGH includes, for example, passenger and lounge SAS primarily conducts passenger transport in its main market, the ­services, loading and unloading, de-icing and towing of aircraft. Nordic region, through the airline Scandinavian Airlines on SK flight With the same metrics, SGH provided ground handling to 75% of all numbers. SAS’s share of total traffic in its home market (measured in flights with an SK flight number. The remaining 25% was provided number of passengers) was 35% in 2014/2015. by external ground handling suppliers at locations where SGH is SAS is the largest airline in the Nordic region in terms of revenue, not present. passengers and flights. Its network is mainly dimensioned according The process of outsourcing SAS Ground Handling continued in to business travelers’ needs, but leisure travel is an expanding seg2014/2015. A number of locations in Sweden were outsourced ment and represents a growing share of revenue. The main bases are during the fiscal year and in February 2016 all locations in Norway, Copenhagen Kastrup, Oslo Gardermoen and Stockholm Arlanda. except Oslo Gardermoen, will be outsourced to Widerøe Ground HanFlights are operated with aircraft and crew on SK flight numbers dling. The process regarding Oslo Gardermoen, Stockholm Arlanda, within the organization, as well as in wet lease operations with interCopenhagen Kastrup, Malmö Sturup and Gothenburg Landvetter nal and external suppliers. continues and involves a potential buyer. Based on the fuel consumed, 96.4% of all flights with an SK flight number were flown by Scandinavian Airlines (incl. flights on wet lease TECHNICAL MAINTENANCE basis flown by Blue1 and Cimber) during 2014/2015. The remaining SAS Maintenance Production is part of Scandinavian Airlines and 3.6 % were flown by external suppliers. conducts technical maintenance at Scandinavian Airlines’ home In March 2015, SAS acquired the Danish airline Cimber and crebases. Each organization has its own airlines as the largest customated a fully owned internal wet lease provider with CRJ900 aircraft. ers but also offers their services to external airlines. Scandinavian At the end of the fiscal year, SAS sold Blue1 to an external airline, Airlines also buy a growing share of their need for technical mainteCityJet. SAS will continue to buy wet lease operations from CityJet as nance services from other suppliers. Based on the number of work of March 2016. hours, Scandinavian Airlines represented 94% of SAS Maintenance Production customers during 2014/2015. The remaining 6% was CARGO TRANSPORT external customers. With the same metrics, SAS Maintenance ProSAS offers freight and mail services. These services are provided by duction provided 60% of Scandinavian Airlines maintenance work. the wholly owned subsidiary, SAS Cargo Group A/S (SCG). The actual The remaining 40% was provided by external suppliers. handling of freight and mail is carried out by ground handling agents. SCG is managed from Copenhagen and includes an independent, SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES AIRCRAFT FLEET full-service provider of freight forwarding services, Trust Forwarding. Scandinavian Airlines has a network of destinations with varied pasThis SCG subsidiary is 100% owned by SCG and its environmental senger volumes and distances, which requires a fleet of aircraft of difdata and results are included in SCG’s data and results. ferent sizes and range to make the offering attractive to business and leisure travelers. Scandinavian Airlines (incl. Blue1 and Cimber) used GROUND HANDLING 147 aircraft (14 long-haul aircraft, 112 short-haul aircraft, and 21 SAS Ground Handling (SGH) operates at airports in Norway, Sweden regional jets) in its own operations during 2014/2015. The average and Denmark. Customers include airlines within SAS and SAS’s age of the aircraft fleet was 11.2 years at year-end. Scandinavian Air­partners and external customers. Based on the number of weighted lines renewed its fleet by introducing five newer aircraft and phasing landings, 71% of SGH customers were flights with an SK flight numout twelve old aircraft during the fiscal year. There are also 17 aircraft ber and the remaining 29% comprised external customers during on wet lease. OUR VISION OUR PROMISE OUR DNA OUR VISION IS TO MAKE LIFE MAKES YOUR TRAVEL EASIER WE ARE SCANDINAVIAN BY EASIER FOR SCANDINAVIA’S NAME AND BY NATURE AND OUR ­FREQUENT TRAVELERS. OPERATIONAL PROMISES ARE: • SAFETY With SAS you are part of a • PUNCTUALITY community experiencing easy, joyful and reliable services, • CARE delivered the Scandinavian way. 2 SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 The sustainability year in summary SAS SUSTAINABILITY WORK DURING 2014/2015 IN SUMMARY For SAS, sustainable development entails a simultaneous focus on sustainable profitability and financial growth, gradual environmental improvements and social responsibility. SAS has a considerable social impact, both as a major employer and buyer, as well as providing infrastructure for society. At the same time, aircraft operations have an environmental impact, primarily through emissions of greenhouse gases and noise around airports. • SAS’s total CO2 emissions from flight operations decreased 1.8% during the fiscal year. • SAS’s relative passenger-related CO2 emissions increased during the period to 101 grams (100) per passenger kilometer. • SAS’s relative cargo related CO2 emissions increased during the period to 529 grams (528) per cargo tonne kilometer. 20 YEARS OF SUSTAINABILITY • SAS introduced 5 newer aircraft and phased out 12 older aircraft. REPORTING • SAS complied with the EU-ETS regulations for 2014. 8% • Sick leave increased to 7.0% (6.5) in SAS (excl. Blue1). • SAS decided to buy synthetic jet fuel on a regular basis on flights from Oslo. • The SAS Code of Conduct was updated with an updated CO2 PER PASSENGER ­mandatory e-learning training program for all employees. KILOMETER REDUC• SAS started several initiatives to assist aid work to help ­refugees. TION SINCE 2010 97B SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED KPIS1 Nov 2014– Nov 2013– Nov 2012– Oct 2015 Oct 2014 Oct 2013 Revenue, MSEK 39,650 38,006 42,182 EBT before nonrecurring items, MSEK 1,174 -697 919 EBIT margin, % 5.6 0.4 6.2 2015 RESULT IN Number of passengers, millions2 26.9 27.1 28.1 ­CARBON DISCLOSURE Average number of employees3, 11,288 12,329 14,127 PROJECT of whom women, % 38 40 39 Sick leave, % 4 7.0 6.5 6.8 Total number of occupational injuries 268 5 270 280 14% Climate index 92 92 94 CO2 emissions, 000s tonnes 3,822 3,890 3,815 NOX emissions, 000s tonnes 16.3 16.4 16.2 CO2 gram/passenger kilometer 101 100 104 Fuel consumption airline operations, 000s tonnes 1,213 1,235 1,211 TOTAL CO2 EMISSION Fuel consumption ground operations, 000s REDUCTION SINCE 2005 liters6 1,837 5 1,625 1,776 Water consumption, 000s m3 52 5 63 99 Energy consumption, ground, GWh 116 5 125 149 Unsorted waste, 000s tonnes7 0.2 5 0.3 0.4 7% Hazardous waste, 000s tonnes7 0.1 5 0.1 0.2 External environment-related costs, MSEK 549 5 364 313 1) Accounting policies on pages 22-23. 5) SAS excl. Blue1. 2) Scheduled traffic. 6) I ncludes only ground operations at 3) Source: Note 3 on page 61 in SAS Annual SAS main bases: Stockholm, Oslo and Report with sustainability review NovemCopenhagen. SICK LEAVE IN ber 2014–October 2015. 7) Includes only ground facilities, 4) New calculation method. Applies to SAS including technical maintenance. 2014/2015 excl. Blue1. SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 3 SAS SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA The SAS sustainability agenda visualize our sustainability efforts and activities with focus on CARE. Work is focused on minimizing sustainability-related risks and capturing potential opportunities to avoid unnecessary costs, differentiate SAS and capture potential savings. SAS SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA 1 LEGAL REQUIREMENTS p. 5 8 ENVIRONMENTAL 9 FINANCIAL 10 SOCIAL 2 MATERIALITY p. 5 RESPONSIBILITY p. 8 RESPONSIBILITY p. 8 RESPONSIBILITY p. 9 3 GOVERNANCE p. 6 • Emissions • Profitable business • Labor practices • Noise • Anti-corruption and decent work 4 VISION / STRATEGIES / GOALS p. 7 • Waste • Business ethics • Human rights 5 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT p. 7 • Energy • Diversity and equality 6 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT p. 7 • Product responsibility • Social involvement 7 MONITORING AND REPORTING p. 7 SAS sustainability agenda 1 LEGAL REQUIREMENTS Airline operations have a legal dispensation for the use of halon and SAS aims to follow all applicable national and international legal submit annual reports to the authorities on consumption, including requirements and legislation covering all aspects of the company. leakage and storage. The reason for this dispensation is that there is no certified alternative to halon for extinguishing fires in aircraft Environmental compliance and permits engines, cabins and aircraft toilets. Airline operations have no separate licenses or environmental perScandinavian Airlines estimates that around 0.6 kg of halon was mits for operation; instead, they are subject to environmental policies emitted during 2014/2015. set by each airport. These usually involve noise, rules for using de-­ No significant emissions or spillages were reported in conjunction icing fluids and limits on emissions to air, soil and water. Environmenwith ground handling or technical maintenance. tal approvals are also part of the process to certify aircraft in the three In 2014/2015, only occasional fuel leaks were reported when Scandinavian countries, and are included in the terms of technical refueling aircraft on SK flight numbers. These were handled in accoraircraft maintenance. dance with established procedures. No in-air fuel dumps were In general, there is a trend toward introducing tougher restrictions reported during 2014/2015. for permitted approach and take-off paths. Deviations generally result in fines for the airline. Also, the general trend is toward greater 2 MATERIALITY use of environment-related charges and operational limits. The twoSAS updated its materiality analysis during 2014/2015 as part of an fold purpose is to reduce local environmental impact and create ongoing process to ensure a correct strategic focus, as well as in incentives for airlines to use aircraft with the best available technolpreparation for GRI G4 reporting. The process was conducted ogy from an environmental perspective. according to GRI methodology and included interviews and workDuring 2014/2014, Scandinavian Airlines received zero reports of shops with external and internal stakeholders. The interviews noise violations at airports. together with an analysis of sustainability trends resulted in an analyNo severe incidents breaching any environmental permits were sis that identified the following areas/aspects as most material for reported in 2014/2015. both SAS and its stakeholders: SAS MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Matrix description Higher A B The matrix describes the significance of the most material areas/ • Human rights • Emissions aspects. • Renewable energy • Work conditions The areas/aspects Aviation • Business ethics and anti-corruption Safety and Punctuality and Regu• Diversity and equality larity are not plotted since they are • Noise fundamental to SAS operational • Waste promises. They are disclosed as Importance to stakeholders • Sustainability in the supply chain part of the Product Responsibility GRI indicators. C D • Environmental taxation • Sustainable products and services • Legal requirements A  reas that are not of the same A • Work environment • IT security and customer Integrity importance and which stakeholders consider to be more material. • Sustainability communication • Chemicals • Transparency • Water consumption Greatest importance to both B • Society engagement • Sustainability in management system  SAS and its stakeholders. • Voluntary solutions for emission • Anti-discrimination H  ygiene factors and areas of reductions • Knowledge management and talents C importance to both SAS and its • Sustainability partnership stakeholders. • Employer branding  reas that are not of the same A D High importance and which SAS ­considers to be more material. High Importance to SAS Higher SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 5 SAS sustainability agenda ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS 2020 SAS will reduce... SAS will... • flight CO2 emissions by 20% in 2015 compared with 2005. • reduce relative CO2 flight emissions by 20% in 2020 compared • ground-related energy consumption by 15% in 2015 compared with 2010. with 2010. • r educe noise on take-offs by 15% in 2020 compared with 2010. • ground-vehicle consumption of fossil fuels at SAS’s major air• r egularly use JET-A1 based on renewable sources. ports in Scandinavia by 10% by 2015 compared with 2010. • noise on take-offs by 15% in 2015 compared with 2010. Goal attainment 2014/2015 fiscal year Goal attainment 2014/2015 fiscal year • SAS reduced its absolute CO2 flight emissions by 14.0% and rel• SAS reduced its relative CO2 emissions per passenger kilometer ative emissions per ­passenger kilometer by 18.3% in 2015 comby 8.0% in 2015 compared to 2010. pared with 2005. The goal has not been fully achieved but is a • S  AS reduced its noise on take-off by 17.8% in 2015 compared good long-term improvement considering the traffic growth with 2010. during the period. • S  AS reduced its ground related energy consumption by 41.4% in 2015 compared with 2010. • S  AS reduced its ground-vehicle consumption of fossil fuels by 26.1% at SAS’s major airports in Scandinavia by 2015 compared with 2010. •S  AS reduced its noise at take off with 17.8% in 2015 compared with 2010. • Work conditions low-up, the company’s financial position and investments. The • Greenhouse gas emissions Board also discussed any sustainability-related information of • Business ethics and anti-corruption ­material importance. • Diversity and equality • Noise Group Management • Waste The Board appoints the President of SAS AB, who is also Group CEO. • Sustainability in the supply chain The Board has delegated responsibility for the day-to-day management of company and Group operations to the President. Group ManIn this Sustainability Report, SAS has decided to report on these agement comprised seven members during the year, including the areas/aspects with focus on the areas deemed as most material for President. Group Management usually holds minuted meetings every both SAS and its stakeholders: work conditions and greenhouse gas week. Management and control of operations are based on a number emissions. This does not mean that all other areas/aspects are immaof guidelines and policies regarding financial management and folterial and excluded from SAS’s sustainability agenda. low-up, communication, human resources, legal, the Group’s brands, business ethics and environmental matters. 3 GOVERNANCE An illustration of how SAS govern its sustainability work is disclosed Environment and CSR work at SAS on page 18 in this sustainability report. SAS has a central department for Environment and CSR that reports to senior management. The task of Environment and CSR is to supBoard of Directors port management in sustainability-related matters, both internally The Board of Directors consists of six to eight members elected by and externally. In addition to its supporting role, Environment and the shareholders’ meeting. There are also three employee represenCSR has responsibility for maintaining and developing the sustaintatives who are appointed by SAS’s employee groups in Denmark, ability agenda, fuel-saving activities, compliance with EU-ETS/MRV, Norway and Sweden. ISO 14001 certification, coordination of alternative fuel activities and The Board’s work is governed by the Swedish Companies Act, support for the organization in sustainability issues. the Articles of Association, the Code of Conduct and the formal work plan adopted by the Board each year. The Board’s work follows a Environmental Management System plan intended, among other things, to ensure that the Board receives SAS’s environmental management system encompasses all activities all necessary information. At its meetings, the Board discussed the at SAS. The system focuses on activities around the main bases regular business items presented at the respective meetings includ(Stockholm, Copenhagen and Oslo), but also includes other geoing business and market conditions, financial reporting and folgraphical areas through follow-up programs and contracted services. 6 SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 SAS sustainability agenda The system is based on shared environmental and sustainability poli•p romote tomorrow’s solutions through alliances and proactive cies, the Code of Conduct, the UN Global Compact, airline operational demands for better sustainability performance from our suppliers standards and ISO 14001. It provides guidelines for a continuing and stakeholders. cycle of planning, implementation and evaluation, as well as the improvement of processes and activities to meet operational and The focus is to minimize sustainability-related risks and capture environmental targets. SAS has a review process that also integrates potential opportunities to avoid unnecessary costs, capture potential environmental reports and the most important aspects of sustainsavings and differentiate SAS. ability in existing quality/security inspections. This is part of our Through its commitment, documented activities and results endeavor to achieve continuous improvements. SAS wants to be perceived as a company that take CARE for its customers, employees, the environment and the society at large. UN’s Global Compact SAS joined the Global Compact in 2003 and participates in the Global Environmental goals Compact’s Nordic Network. One criterion for publishing company Goals and goal attainment are disclosed in the illustration on page 6. information on the Global Compact website is an annual update of the material, the Communication On Progress (COP). The most recent 5 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT update of SAS’s information was completed in May 2015. The UN SAS is a large buyer of products and services and has a responsibility Global Compact is a pivotal component of the SAS Code of Conduct to ensure that environmental, labor and human right issues are and the requirements imposed on the company’s suppliers. addressed in a correct manner. SAS includes sustainability-related issues in its purchasing policy, Sustainability-related business opportunities and risks general terms of condition and purchasing process. Management of sustainability-related risks is integrated with SAS’s All new contracts are subject to a sustainability screening and comprehensive risk management. In general, it can be concluded most purchased product and services has sustainability criteria that risks are reduced – and, indeed, certain opportunities offer tanincorporated in the contract. The criteria depend on the type of prodgible business potential – by having a proactive and effective sustainuct or service. Examples of issues are energy efficiency, waste hanability approach. Proactively working with its environmental impact dling, collective agreement (or equivalent), child labor etc. in a structured environmental management system provides a company with control and the capacity to deal rapidly with changing 6 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT requirements in the business environment and those demanded by SAS has a long tradition of a well-developed cooperation with a wide certain customer groups. A detailed description of SAS opportunities range of stakeholders and involvement in community-related issues. and risk connected to climate change is disclosed in SAS CDP discloAll stakeholders seeking contact with SAS are offered the opportusure. nity of a dialog with the company. An illustration with examples of stakeholder groups engaged by SAS is disclosed on page 18. Code of Conduct During the past few years, sustainability issues have gained To summarize and clarify SAS’s stated priorities, promises, policies greater importance for SAS stakeholders, primarily from public and other regulations, the SAS Board of Directors has issued a Code administration and the business sector. One example is the increasof Conduct that applies for all SAS employees. The Code of Conduct ing number of sustainability-related questionnaires from corporate was updated during 2014/2015. To underscore the Code’s imporcustomers and requests for on-site audits. tance, there are clear rules and structures for reporting and addressDuring 2014/2015, SAS was engaged in dialog and cooperation ing suspected violations. Supervisors and other managers play a key with stakeholders regarding terms and conditions for aviation from a role in implementing and following up the Code. An extensive training sustainability perspective. The dialog covered such issues as finanprogram supports the Code and the goal is for all personnel to particcial profitability, work conditions and environmental adaptation. ipate in the program. The Code’s whistleblower function was used in These issues are the same as previous years and still ­relevant. three cases. One case was dismissed without further action and two SAS prioritizes close collaboration with customers, authorities, others led to some investigations and action. suppliers and airports in order to create prerequisites to develop solutions to improve SAS’s sustainability performance. 4 VISION, STRATEGIES AND GOALS Sustainability criteria and aspects are key parameters in the deciEnvironmental vision sion making process when purchasing products and services. SAS intends to be a part of the future long-term sustainable society SAS also prioritizes dialog with parties that want knowledge, drive and support IATA’s vision of flying without greenhouse gas emissions change or support SAS in different ways, for instance, employees, by around 2050. partners, experts, NGOs, researchers, etc. Examples of issues may include aviation’s impact as an enabler for globalization or different Sustainable development strategies views on SAS’s sustainability performance. SAS aims to: SAS participates in national industry or employee organizations in • create a culture among its employees based on strategic decisions an effort to create greater understanding for the terms and condiand a commitment to environmental work. tions for the aviation industry. • use documented sustainability appraisals as a basis for all decisions. The media attention on aviation’s environmental impact is a chal• engage in strategic sustainability communication with relevant lenge for the entire airline industry. SAS has chosen to take a leading stakeholders. role in the debate. SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 7 SAS sustainability agenda 7 MONITORING AND REPORTING Financial aspects of environmental responsibility Monitoring sustainability-related data SAS’s environmental work has several overriding purposes. Besides The various operations in SAS monitor relevant sustainability key enhancing resource efficiency and improving environmental perforperformance indicators (KPI) on an ongoing basis. The KPIs are folmance, it includes ensuring that the operations comply with environlowed up in the management system and reported weekly, monthly, mental laws and regulations. Some of the most important financial quarterly or annually according to specific needs. aspects of SAS’s environmental work are described below. As preparation for external sustainability reporting, there are Civil aviation pays the costs of the infrastructure it needs and uses data collection processes in the management system covering areas to operate flights, meaning airports and air traffic control. The cost of such as community involvement, supplier contacts, cooperation with security is also financed within the industry. internal and external stakeholders, work environment, training, conThere are various environmental taxes and charges related to flicts and efforts involving the Code of Conduct and the UN Global noise, emissions and number of passengers. One example of a marCompact. ket-based measure is the EU Emissions Trading Scheme regulations (EU-ETS), under which the civil aviation industry pays for its carbon GRI and CDP emissions within the EU based on an established market-based SAS’s sustainability reporting observes the guidelines of the Global measure. SAS’s opinion is that market-based measures should Reporting Initiative (GRI) and is reviewed by an external auditor. GRI not distort competition, should address the emissions targeted is a framework designed for sustainability-related information and for reduction needs and should create an incentive for continuous performance. SAS reports to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). improvement. SAS has supported the development of a global, In 2015, SAS scored 97B. ­market-based solution for airline emissions for a long time. The UN aviation organization ICAO is responsible for creating such a solu8 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY tion in 2016 for implementation by 2020 at the latest. The key eleThe environmental impact of civil aviation primarily comprises emisments of a global solution should not distort competition and should sions from consumption of non-renewable fuels and noise. Aircraft incorporate the UN’s CBDR principles (Common But Differentiated operations often account for more than 95% of the total environmenResponsibility). tal impact of an airline. SAS’s environmental responsibility is to comply with relevant leg“Polluter pays” principle islation and to ensure minimal total long and short-term emissions SAS fully endorses the “polluter pays” principle and is prepared and other environmental impact. to take responsibility for its share. This assumes that any charges All disclosed key environmental figures can be found on page 16. imposed on the company are based on scientific findings and that the total climate impact of competing modes of transport is taken Emissions into consideration. Emissions from aircraft operations are one of SAS’s most material aspects. Read more on pages 12–15. Environment-related costs SAS’s external environment-related costs were MSEK 549 in Noise 2014/2015. These costs comprised environment-related taxes and The average noise per departure declined due to fleet renewal. charges that are often linked with the environmental performance of Scandinavian Airlines received zero reports of noise violations aircraft and are part of the landing fee. Other environment-related during 2014/2015. The number of breaches has declined consid­ costs, such as costs for waste management, purification plants and erably in recent years as a result of fleet renewal and structured the costs for environmental staff, amounted to MSEK 26. SAS has no improvement activities, such as specific flight simulator training known major environment-related debts or contingent liabilities, for including scenarios flying to and from airports with strict noise example, in the form of contaminated soil. ­regulations. The costs for EU-ETS were MSEK 90 for the 2014 calendar year. Waste Environment-related investment Waste is divided into unsorted waste and hazardous waste from Investments made by SAS in accordance with the policies are to be ground related operations. Hazardous waste is strictly controlled by both environmentally and economically sound, thus contributing to national authorities and is internally controlled and evaluated by both SAS’s value growth and helping to ensure that SAS can meet adopted airlines and suppliers. future environmental standards. During 2014/2015, no significant SAS has no overall goal on this aspect. Waste is monitored, regisenvironmental-related investments were conducted. This is because tered and followed up in order to detect undesirable or inexplicable the preferred solution is leasing, rather than investing in aircraft, trends. The result for 2014/2015 indicates a reduction in both vehicles, computers, etc. An example of the use of leasing in recent unsorted and hazardous waste. years has been the extensive replacement of aircraft. Energy 9 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The work to increase the energy efficiency of all owned or leased Every corporation has a responsibility to ensure profitable business, buildings continued in 2014/2015. comply with legal requirements and maintain a high standard of busiIn general, energy consumption is decreasing due to a lower numness ethics as well as ensuring compliance with national policies and ber of buildings used and a focus on increased energy efficiency. laws on financial responsibility. 8 SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 SAS sustainability agenda An analysis of SAS’s statement of income reveals that major portions 10 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of revenue and expenses and essential industry specific earnings SAS’s social responsibility primarily encompasses its own measurements are items relevant from an environmental and/or employees and the environment that is reliant on and impacted social perspective. In brief, the highest possible financial return is by SAS’s operations in a number of countries, mainly in the ­ generated by the best possible resource utilization and management Nordic region. Competition in the airline business in Europe is of the company’s assets, both human and financial. Optimal resource fierce. Employees play a key role in creating added value for the utilization means flying fuel-efficiently and optimizing capacity for ­customer offering. carrying passengers and freight. Lower fuel consumption leads to As an employer, SAS’s responsibility is to ensure decent work lower fuel costs and at the same time reduces the charges SAS pays conditions and work environment. SAS is also responsible for for emissions. ­providing development opportunities as professionals and as The same applies to all other activities that, in addition to environhuman beings. mental considerations, have strong financial incentives to reduce As a buyer, SAS uses the services of a number of subcontractors, consumption of energy and other resources. thereby contributing to economic and social welfare in the countries and communities where its businesses operate. Profitable Business As a supplier, SAS has a responsibility to deliver products and serAll aspects of SAS work towards long term profitability are disclosed vices that ensure consumer health and safety, and are reliable, enviin the 2014/2015 Annual Report with sustainability review. ronmentally adapted and produced under decent conditions. All disclosed key social figures can be found on page 17. Business ethics and Anti-corruption Anti-trust issues are always in focus for the aviation industry. The Labor practices and Decent Work SAS Competition Law Compliance Program encompasses all relevant SAS is a large employer. The responsibility connected to labor employees and is designed to ensure that SAS complies with laws, practices and work conditions is very important and identified regulations and practices in its area of operation. Regulations relatas a material aspect in this Sustainability Report. Read more on ing to bribery and other improper actions are particularly strict. pages 16–17. SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 9 SAS sustainability agenda Human Rights Preparedness for Air Ambulance operations SAS is a large buyer of products and services and has a responsibility SAS has an agreement on a commercial basis with the Swedish to ensure that human right issues are addressed in a correct manner. ­government to make two specially equipped Boeing 737s available as air ambulances within the framework of the Swedish National Air Diversity and equality Medevac (SNAM) in case of emergency. A corresponding agreement SAS’s diversity policy is based on equal treatment of all employees exists with the Norwegian Armed Forces according to which SAS is and job applicants. Work on equal treatment includes promoting to make a remodeled ambulance service 737-700 available for medidiversity and equality in all its forms. cal evacuation within 24 hours, following the same principle as with In general, SAS is dominated by women in such professions as SNAM. If needed, a second aircraft must be made available within cabin crew, administrators, assistants and passenger service at the 48 hours. airports, while men dominate in the areas of pilots, technicians, aircraft maintenance, loading and unloading of baggage. Women also Christmas flight have more part-time positions than men. Of the Scandinavian Airlines In December 2014, SAS supported the Norwegian “Christmas pilots, 96% are men, while the recruitment base for female pilots is flight.” The Christmas flight is an aid campaign carried out by SAS small since few choose the profession. employees, who cooperate with other volunteers throughout the year When it comes to cabin crew, 75% are women. Senior management in to collect goods and contributions from various partner companies the Group is dominated by men. SAS Group Management currently and private individuals. SAS provides an aircraft with full operational consists of one woman and six men. The figure for the management support, while pilots and crew volunteer in their free time and the fuel level directly reporting to Group Management is 21% women. is sponsored by a fuel supplier. This flight was also conducted in SAS has set the target of gender distribution to be the same as the December 2015 with SAS support. gender distribution in the company as a whole (but not less than 40%) across the Group’s internal boards by 2020. 20% of the SAS Financial aspects of social responsibility internal board for SAS Cargo Group and 25% in Cimber, both in SAS’s first social responsibility is to its own employees and the com­Denmark, are women. munities dependent on and affected by SAS’s operations. For employees, this includes issues concerning human resources develProduct Responsibility opment, pay and work environment. In addition, SAS is to contribute SAS takes its responsibility in maintaining the highest standards to social progress wherever it operates and be a respected corporate regarding product responsibility. citizen. Air travel helps improve labor market conditions in rural areas in the Scandinavian countries and makes business travel easier in Flight safety Europe and to other continents. As an airline, the organization is highly regulated from a flight safety Given increasing globalization, airlines facilitate business and other and security standpoint. SAS is regularly audited, reviewed both by contact opportunities where efficient transportation to, from and external parties, partners and customers. within the countries is more or less a prerequisite for economic develWork conditions regarding working hours for airline personnel are opment and progress. The airlines also contribute expertise and transalso regulated by relevant authorities. SAS also has strict policies and fers of technology and make necessary investments in infrastructure. follows applicable legislation regarding, food safety, IT security, etc. SAS’s contribution to the economy Punctuality and Regularity SAS creates employment and value. In 2014/2015, SAS paid wages An important aspect of SAS’s product responsibility is the ability to and salaries totaling MSEK 6,974, of which social security expenses deliver passenger transport that is both conducted as planned and were MSEK 2,156, with pensions totaling MSEK 876 of this. SAS on time. SAS works extensively and continuously to monitor and endeavors to achieve market pay for all employee groups. address different aspects of punctuality and regularity. This work has resulted in a number of top positions in the monthly eternal reporting Infrastructure charges and security costs regarding arrival punctuality from FlightStats (Global Airlines, Major Air transport pays the costs for the infrastructure it needs and uses Airlines by Region). to conduct flights, meaning airports and air traffic control. During 2014/2015, these costs totaled MSEK 7,894 for Scandinavian AirIT security and integrity lines. Scandinavian Airlines also pays MSEK 1,177 in security costs, SAS has an extensive program to ensure all aspects of IT security which are financed by taxes for most other modes of transportation. and integrity. During 2014/2015, the processes were reviewed by SAS internal audit. Costs of sick leave and accidents Sick leave and occupational injuries constitute a large expense for Social involvement the individual employee and the employer, as well as for society as Support to refugees a whole. Sick leave is affected by a number of factors such as risk Throughout the escalating refugee crisis in Europe, SAS conducted of infection and accidents as well as physically and mentally stressful a number of activities to support the situation. Examples were to work environments. SAS’s companies employ various methods to allow extra luggage free of charge on flights to destinations in the prevent short and long-term sick leave. SAS’s own calculation of affected area and doubling the fundraising conducted amongst costs for sick leave indicates a cost exceeding MSEK 245 in employees and EuroBonus members. 2014/2015. 10 SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 Emissions EMISSIONS The vast majority of SAS emissions derive from aircraft operations using jet fuel. Accordingly, SAS has chosen to primarily focus on emissions from aircraft operations in its ISO 14001 environmental program. SAS flight operations (flights flown on the SK prefix) used 1,213,000 SAS ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM tonnes of jet fuel in 2014/2015. This corresponds to 3,822,000 The method SAS uses to achieve its envitonnes of carbon dioxide and with the aircraft used 16,300 tonnes of nitrogen oxide emissions. Compared with the previous 12-month period, this represents a reduction of 68,000 tonnes of carbon diox101 ronmental goals is to putting its strategies into practice through activities conducted in environmental programs within the enviGRAMS CO2 PER ide and 187 tonnes of nitrogen oxide. Relative to absolute carbon ronmental management system certified emissions, it represents a reduction of 1.8%. PASSENGER­ according ­to ISO 14001. Throughout the During 2014/2015, SAS’s relative CO2 emission rose to 101 grams KILOMETER year, numerous activities were conducted (100) per passenger kilometer. The negative trend was primarily due in a wide range of areas. to lower cabin factor for a number of months during the year. Since emissions related to consumption of jet fuels are the most material environmental aspect the activities are focused on CO 2 VS. NITROGEN OXIDES the goal of reducing flight CO 2 emissions by 20% by 2020 compared To date, the climate impact of air transport has focused on CO2 emiswith 2010. The prerequisites for all activities are that they are well sions. However, the focus is shifting to also include other climate within the limits of applicable legal requirements and flight safety effects, primarily nitrogen oxides and water vapor. SAS and the airlimits, etc. SAS has defined environmental programs within the line industry recommend the ECAC’s model of differentiated landing following areas: fees based on nitrogen oxide emissions. •F  leet renewal •M  ore efficient planning of SAS aircraft AVIATION INDUSTRY MOVING TOWARD ZERO EMISSIONS •M  ore efficient usage of SAS aircraft in day-to-day operations SAS fully supports IATA’s vision that, by 2050, it will be possible • Continuous aerodynamic, weight and efficiency follow-up and to fly commercially without any climate impact. This vision is to be ­modification of SAS aircraft realized through a combination of new technology, more efficient air •E  nvironmentally adapted products traffic management, new fuels and coordinated actions to improve the •A  lternative sustainable jet fuels infrastructure and the conditions under which air transport ­operates. •S  takeholder dialog/work with ATM, airports, aircraftand To achieve this vision, IATA and other areas of the airline industry engine manufacturers have agreed on a joint target, which will subsequently be adopted by the entire FLEET RENEWAL airline industry and is now set to be furSAS’s aims to replace older aircraft with newer ones. During ther developed by ICAO: • Improvement in fuel efficiency by an average of 1.5% annually until 2020 -1,8% 2014/2015, Scandinavian Airlines introduced five newer aircraft (two brand new A330Es and three used Boeing 737-700s) and phased out twelve older aircraft. TOTAL CO2 EMISSION • Carbon-neutral growth from 2020 Scandinavian Airlines plans to introduce two brand new A330Es REDUCTION VS • 50% reduction in greenhouse CO2 and an A320neo during the 2015/2016 fiscal year. At the same time 2013/2014 FISCAL emissions by 2050, compared with a couple of older Boeing 737-600 are set to be phased out. 2005 levels YEAR During the year, SAS used a number of wet lease operators for  Source: www.enviro.aero SAS FLIGHT OPERATIONS, TOTAL CO 2 EMISSIONS CO2 EMISSIONS PER PK Grams 4,500 110 4,200 3,900 105 3,600 3,300 3,000 100 2005 2010 2011 Nov 2011– 2012/ 2013/ 2014/ Nov 2011– 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 Oct 2012 2013 2014 2015 Oct 2012 Total CO 2 emissions (1,000 tonnes) Tonne kilometers (millions) 2005 source: 2007 Annual and Sustainability Report SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 11 Emissions flights with SK flight numbers. Two of these operators use brand new and how they are implemented, and whether the available system ATR72600s, which is the latest development in the turbo prop segsupport is sufficiently optimized for higher fuel efficiency. Naturally, ment with 70 seats in the SAS configuration. all changes maintain a standard that meets the highest level of flight In total five brand new ATR72-600 were introduced and two safety requirements. SAAB 2000s were decommissioned amongst the wet lease operators. It is important to recognize that increased fuel efficiency and the In 2015/2016, there are plans to introduce eight brand new reduced fuel cost must be balanced against other operational costs, CRJ900s and two ATR72-600s flown by wet lease ­operators. such as maintenance cost and charges for using airspace. During The A330E is a part of the order of eight A350s and four A330Es 2014/2015, no overall fuel efficiency improvement was achieved placed during 2013 with delivery in 2015-2021. The A330E is marcompared with the 2013/2014 fiscal year. ginally more fuel efficient than today’s A330 but it has an increased range, meaning that it can operate on routes currently served by the CONTINUOUS AERODYNAMIC, WEIGHT AND EFFICIENCY A340 at approximately 15% less fuel consumption per seat. When ­FOLLOW-UP AND MODIFICATION OF SAS AIRCRAFT the A350 is introduced, it will be possible to reduce fuel consumption SAS modifies its aircraft continuously in order to modernize to better by approximately 35% per seat and generate 50% less noise comtechnology, improve aerodynamics or reduce weight. Examples of pared with an A340. improved aerodynamics include the installation of winglets on BoeIn 2015/2016, SAS also plans to introduce the Airbus A320neo ing 737NGs or sharklets on Airbus A320s. This can potentially that will have 15% lower fuel consumption and generate 50% less reduce the fuel consumption by 1–5% depending on the stage length noise than the existing Airbus A320s. for certain airlines. SAS has installed winglets on a number of Boeing 737NGs where it is profitable from a sustainability perspective. MORE EFFICIENT PLANNING OF SAS AIRCRAFT Examples of weight reduction include the replacement of the SAS currently operates aircraft of varying sizes and performance. brakes on Boeing 737-800s with lighter versions in composite mateSAS’s fleet ranges from 70 to 264 seats, capable of flying routes rial or installing lightweight seats in a number of Boeing 737NGs and for which the aircraft is airborne for between 20 minutes and more Airbus A320s. When older seats are replaced, approximately two than 11 hours. The aim is to create conditions for flying as profitably kilos per seat are saved, amounting to 360 kg saved on a B737-800. and energy-efficiently as possible depending on demand, time of day These modifications will continue in 2015/2016. Apart from modifyand destination. ing the aircraft, work is also constantly performed to reduce the One example is to use aircraft of the appropriate size. For example, weight of all material and products included in SAS’s service offering. SAS has Boeing 737NGs and A320-family aircraft. They have 120, Examples include optimizing the amount of water filled for toilet use, 141 and 183, and 141, 168 and 198 seats, respectively. This provides replacing carts with lighter versions, replacing glass bottles with a extensive flexibility according to demand, which guarantees the lowplastic alternative, optimizing the amount of products served and est possible total emissions at any given time. Flying aircraft that are used based on analysis of actual demand. too large generates unnecessary emissions even if it generates a betAn example of better technology is the ongoing engine upgrade proter theoretical result per available seat kilometer. If we look at a Boegram under the framework of the ordinary technical maintenance of ing 737NG on a typical domestic route, it is evident that the fuel conmost of the Boeing 737NG fleet. In practice, this entails that the engines sumption and corresponding emissions are lower in a smaller are upgraded to the latest version (“Tech Inserts” or “Evolution”). aircraft. When using a B737-800 with 183 seats, the total fuel conMore than half of the fleet’s engines on the Boeing 737, which sumption (on average) is approximately 7–10% higher than a B737were delivered prior to 2006, have now been upgraded and are thus 700 with 141 seats. SAS also uses wet lease operations from external about 3% more fuel efficient than when originally delivered. Aircraft suppliers to fly short-haul routes with demand at about 50 to 75 delivered after 2007 already have “Tech Inserts” and aircraft delivseats. The same comparison, as above, can be made between a Boeered after the summer of 2011 have “Evolution.” ing 737-700 with 141 seats and a turboprop such as an ATR 72-600 with 70 seats for which fuel consumption is an average of more than ENVIRONMENTALLY ADAPTED PRODUCTS 50% lower. It must be noted that jet and turboprop aircraft have difSAS strives to develop its customer offering in a more environmenferent characteristics, such as seating capacity, speed and range, but tally adapted direction. This includes everything from locally proit is nevertheless important to have access to and the ability to plan duced and/or organic food to less material and ultimately, less waste each flight with the right type of aircraft. needing to be sorted wherever customers encounter SAS during the ground process, in the lounge or on board SAS aircraft. MORE EFFICIENT USAGE OF SAS AIRCRAFT Today, SAS offers organic breakfast on its flights and a number of IN DAY-TO-DAY OPERATIONS organic items in its lounges. In connection with the development SAS has an extensive long-term fuel saving program integrated in its toward more electronic-based communication, less paper is being operations. An important aspect of increasing the fuel efficiency is to used and the use of “green IT” is increasing. During the 2014/2015, make sure that all employees in SAS’s airline operations have the preSAS replaced the newspapers offered on board with digital news requisites and knowledge to be fuel-efficient. This entails involvepapers available in the “SAS app”. The weight of the news paper has ment of all employee groups that have an impact on the fuel conbeen removed and the need for paper recycling is reduced. Sorting sumption. Key functions are Flight, Groundand Technical and waste disposal from service and products on board is a focus Operations. area, but at the same time, represents a challenge. The challenge lies A large number of activities are constantly in progress, focusing in the fact that there is limited space on board. There is also a restricprimarily on established operational conditions, such as procedures tion in disposing of meal service waste at airports because different 12 SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 Emissions CO 2 emissions from SAS’s flight operations, STAKEHOLDER DIALOG/WORK WITH ATM, AIRPORTS, 2014/2015 fiscal year 1,000 tonnes CO 2 AIRCRAFTAND ENGINE MANUFACTURERS Denmark Since the early 2000s, SAS has been working with the parties Domestic flights 26 responsible for air traffic control and airports in Sweden, Norway Flights to EU/EEA 393 and Denmark in an effort to identify more efficient methods for Flight to outside EU/EEA 492 ­controlling air traffic in the airspace and on the ground in these Norway countries. Domestic flights 475 One example is the Continuous Descent Approach from Top of Flights to EU/EEA 299 Descent that has become standard during low and medium-peak Flight to outside EU/EEA 81 traffic at an increasing number of airports. The Continuous Descent Sweden Approach from Top of Descent entails that air traffic control allows Domestic flights 235 the aircraft to approach in a continuous gliding descent without using Flights to EU/EEA 308 unnecessary engine power. This is common at small airports where Flight to outside EU/EEA 143 there is no other air traffic close by, but still uncommon at large airFinland ports where other air traffic must be handled in parallel. This developDomestic flights 0,3 ment derived from the demonstrations conducted in the early 2000s Flights to EU/EEA 41 and the feasible changes have been implemented in everyday operaFlight to outside EU/EEA tions at Swedish airports. In recent years, SAS has been heavily involved in the establishEU/EEA Departing EU/EEA1 for Scandinavia and Finland 656 ment of more advanced solutions using satellite-based Required Flights within EU/EEA1 1.1 Navigation Performance (RNP AR) rather than the traditional Departing EU/EEA1 for outside EU/EEA 0.1 ground-based ILS. SAS is currently involved in a number of activities in Scandinavia Outside EU/EEA Departing from outside EU/EEA bound for that aim to demonstrate short-term potential environmental improveScandinavia/Finland 669 ments within the framework of existing systems and methods. Departing from outside EU/EEA bound for EU/EEA1 Throughout SAS’s continuous environmental work, SAS maintains or outside EU/EEA 0.6 dialogs and discussions with relevant aircraft and engine manufacTotal 3,822 turers, as well as producers of interiors and other installations in the 1) Excluding Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland that are reported separately. aircraft. Naturally, this is also the case in the decision-making process in which new aircraft are acquired for short and long-haul operanational legislation is involved, making solutions complicated and, in tions. The sustainability criteria are very important aspects for SAS’s some instances, impossible. In some cases, we are forced to fly waste choice of suppliers. back to Scandinavia (for example, from the US). During 2014/2015, both Stockholm Arlanda and Gothenburg Despite this, waste is an area in which efforts are being made to Landvetter were subject to authority decisions regarding their envifind the best possible solutions. For example, aluminum cans from ronmental permits. Both airports received favorable new environmost domestic flights are recycled. mental permits. SESAR (Single European Sky Air Traffic Management Research) ALTERNATIVE SUSTAINABLE JET FUELS is an EU initiative aimed at advancing tomorrow’s airspace and the SAS has been working for many years with various activities air traffic management system in Europe. SAS has been involved in designed to accelerate the development of alternative and sustainSESAR and participated in efforts to enhance efficiency, capacity able jet fuels. In 2014/2015 SAS continued to conduct concrete disand safety, and to reduce the environmental impact of flights. cussions with a range of prospective stakeholders in connection with the production of alternative and sustainable jet fuels in Scandinavia. EMISSIONS CALCULATION AND CO2 OFFSET SAS conducted a few flights on synthetic jet fuel based on renewable The SAS emissions calculator, which is available on the SAS website, sources during the fiscal year. SAS also decided to buy a couple of has been approved by a third-party review. The calculator provides hundred tons on a regular basis for delivery in Oslo. information about all SAS flights, with greenhouse gas emissions The Nordic Initiative for Sustainable Aviation (NISA), where SAS presented separately. Most calculators on the market calculate the took the initiative, continued its work. Another initiative, in which SAS emissions based on average fleet performance and a CO2equivalent decided to take an active role, took shape during 2014/2015, the Fly based on different greenhouse gas emissions. SAS has chosen not to Green Fund (FGF) was established with the purpose of finding soludo so because there is no consensus on how to calculate NOX, partitions to bridge the existing cost premium by offering costumers the cles and water vapor emissions to CO2 among scientists and experts. possibility to voluntarily “upgrade” their fuel consumption from fossil SAS offers the option of offsetting CO2 emissions from a specific to renewable. SAS has clearly indicated to existing and prospective flight in connection with the emissions calculator. SAS has chosen to producers of jet fuels that there is demand for alternative jet fuels if offer energy efficiency projects in its offset portfolio. The demand for the price is competitive and sustainability criteria are in place. this service is low and less than 1% of the customers who book travel It is vital for SAS that the production of alternative sustainable jet via SAS’s websites use this option. The offer is also available for SAS fuels does not compete with food production or access to drinking Corporate Customers. water and that it has minimal impact on biodiversity. SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 13 Work conditions WORK CONDITIONS SAS is a large employer. The responsibility associated with labor practices and work conditions is very important. SAS has good cooperation with the union organizations that work with these issues. LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK SAS and various unions conducted activities during 2014/2015 in The civil aviation industry is moving toward new or re-shaped order to reduce costs and increase the flexibility of existing union employment models to reduce costs and increase flexibility. For the agreements. last few years, SAS has been working with the unions to cut costs and Employee representatives from the Scandinavian countries sit on increase flexibility within the existing employment model. Regardless the SAS Group Board of Directors. The employees elect representaof the employment model, it is crucial that the employer upholds its tives from units in the Group’s Scandinavian operations. Group Manobligations regarding social responsibility toward society in general agement is engaged in an ongoing discussion with union representaand its employees. tives, above all on issues concerning personnel and cost reductions, In the opinion of SAS, there is uncertainty concerning the rules organizational structure and the need for a more customer-oriented governing where employees are based and where the work is carried culture. out. SAS’s position in this matter is clear. Society must clarify and In general, all SAS employees are covered by collective bargaining create the prerequisites for a level playing field within the industry agreements. The main exception is senior management at Group level. whereby employees are employed under local terms, where they are based and where their work is carried out. When based in ScandinaContract negotiations and disputes via, employees should be covered by Scandinavian employment For the past few years, SAS has been working with the unions to reduce terms, work legislation and tax regimes. costs and increase flexibility within the existing employment model. An organized strike occurred during seven days amongst 17 pilots Cultural development based in Norway in the 2014/2015 fiscal year. Development of social responsibility is largely built on the SAS ­corporate culture. SAS focuses on increasing employee engageLeadership development ment, and increasing understanding of the values that form the SAS has approximately 570 managers at different levels in the basis for how the business is run. The goal is to generate positive ­organization. More than half of the managers are located in daily effects in the relationship with customers and to strengthen operations with direct customer contact, such as sales, airport SAS’s competitiveness. ­services and on-board service. The managers’ skills development is based and evaluated on SAS’s role model for leadership. Organizational development A systematic evaluation process is continuously performed for During 2014/2015, work continued the process started in previous ­existing managers, and also to identify persons who may meet the years on implementing a centralized and more streamlined organirequirements to become managers in the slightly longer term. The zation. At the beginning of the year, a decision was made to buy the aim is for all potential managers to have an individualized developDanish airline Cimber and create a fully owned internal wet lease ment plan. provider with CRJ900 aircraft. Cimber was fully operational in March SAS has integrated the Lean principles in our management pro2015 in the new setting. At the end of 2014/2015, it was decided cesses and established a new manager training course. At SAS, all to sell Blue1 to an external airline, CityJet. SAS will continue to buy employees work toward shared targets that are categorized under wet lease operations from CityJet. The process of outsourcing SAS SQDEC, which stands for Safety, Quality, Delivery, Employees and Ground Handling continued in 2014/2015. A number of locations Cost. The targets are followed up through clear action plans across all in Sweden were outsourced during the fiscal year and in February operations. SAS is also strengthening leadership and increasing pro2016 all locations in Norway, except Oslo Gardermoen, are outfessionalism through a number of forums, such as the SAS Forum 50, sourced to Widerøe Ground Handling. The process regarding Oslo Learning lunch and a mentor program for leaders. Gardermoen, Stockholm Arlanda, Copenhagen Kastrup, Malmö Furthermore, a number of extensive training programs are carried Sturup and Gothenburg Landvetter continues and involves a potenout each year in the form of leadership programs, web-based courses tial buyer. and practical training. Adjustment and redundancy Employee surveys The process of centralizing and managing the redundancies The PULS, SAS’s annual employee survey, was not conducted during ­connected with the organizational changes was handled through 2014/2015. The survey will be conducted in February 2016. ­negotiations with labor unions in compliance with national laws and agreements. Human resource development Human resources development is an important, ongoing activity Cooperation with labor union organizations throughout SAS. Flight crew and operational ground staff are covCooperation in day-to-day operations with labor unions is mainly carered by a number of license and competency requirements from ried out nationally, where dialog is conducted with the labor unions EU-OPS and the IATA through the IOSA (IATA Operational Safety that have collective agreements with SAS. Cooperation takes place Audit). The mandatory training programs were carried out according within the framework of national laws and agreements affecting the to plan for different personnel groups regarding hazardous goods, unit concerned. passengers’ rights, IT security and food safety, etc. 14 SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 Work conditions Performance management is used in day-to-day operations, for all Blue1) increased to 7.0% (6.5%). Long-term sick leave, 15 days or employees, in order to set clear targets and employee influence. This more, accounted for 4.9% of the total sick leave in SAS (incl. Cimber is a process that essentially involves individual targets being coordibut excl. Blue1). nated with the company’s overall targets as defined in SQDEC. PerDuring 2014/2015, the sick leave reporting was adjusted to formance management also allows our employees to influence their reflect sick leave per employee rather than the previously applied own targets, thus making them feel more committed and involved. production measure that reflected sick leave per available work day Performance management at SAS comprises three parts: or full time equivalent. • Definition of targets that support SAS’s overall targets • Coaching activities to achieve these targets Occupational injuries • Follow-up and evaluation The number of occupational injuries in SAS was 268 during 2014/2015. Ground handling has the highest occupational injury Courses and training frequency in SAS. The extent of the occupational injuries means that To retain and develop employee skills, extensive training programs SAS will continue to prioritize preventive efforts, particularly in the are carried out each year. During 2014/2015, Scandinavian Airlines’ areas where the greatest challenges are present. These efforts take employees attended an estimated 350,000 hours of training, of place in collaboration with safety representatives, supervisors and which the major part pertained to obligatory training. A growing labor-management joint safety committees that cover all employees share of SAS’s training takes place through online courses, or e-learnin each country. ing. SAS’s employees have access to more than 130 different online In 2015/2016 a new standardized reporting method will be implecourses. E-learning can’t always replace classroom instruction, but mented. The current reporting reflects different national methods thanks to its greater flexibility and availability, more courses can be and scopes. offered at a lower cost. Training in the Code of Conduct and SAS’s environmental efforts is Company health services continuous. During the year, approximately 1,250 of SAS’s employThe company health services or health, safety and environment ees conducted e-learning in the Code of Conduct and approximately (HSE) function that supports the whole organization, offers ser200 conducted e-learning in SAS’s environ­mental work. vices through in-house or outsourced resources with therapists, stress and rehabilitation experts, ergonomic specialists and WORK ENVIRONMENT ­engineers. Sick leave The function also offers special services, including aviation mediSAS’s goal is that the work environment should be as healthy as cine, stress management, follow-up of sick leave, health profiles, ­possible and that sick leave should be continuously reduced. Better ergonomics and advice in handling chemicals. follow-up, preventive measures and communications are activities Investments are made in large parts of the organization in different that has been conducted during 2014/2015. forms of health-promoting activities both in the workplace and during During 2014/2015, total sick leave in SAS (incl. Cimber but excl. leisure time. SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 15 Key environmental figures KEY ENVIRONMENTAL FIGURES Unit 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 Flight Operations Aspect CO2 total 1,000 tonnes 3,815 3,890 3,822 CO2 passenger share 1,000 tonnes 3,494 3,571 3,492 Nox 1,000 tonnes 16.2 16.4 16.3 Passenger kilometers million 33,633 35,604 34,613 Tonne kilometer million 3,992 4,164 4,084 Departures 1,000 1000 299 305 303 CO2 /passenger kilometer grams 103.9 100.3 100.9 CO2 /tonne kilometer grams 955.5 934.1 935.7 Aircraft Noise – takeoff 85db area in KM2 per departure 2.14 1.97 1.97 Unit 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 Ground Handling Glycol consumption (de-icing fluid) 1,000 liters 2,463 1,535 1,490 CO2 Vehicle Petrol tonnes 128 107 65 CO2 Vehicle Diesel tonnes 4,254 3,926 4,564 Fuel spills, instances instances 4 11 4 Unit 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 Maintenance Productions CO2 vehicle petrol tonnes 76 43 38 CO2 vehicle diesel tonnes 238 226 208 Fuel spills, instances instances Unit 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 SAS Cargo Group CO2 cargo share flown 1,000 tonnes 321 319 330 Cargo tonne kilometer flown million 629 604 623 CO2 /cargo tonne kilometer flown grams 510 528 529 CO2 /cargo tonne kilometer trucked grams 181 161 151 Unit 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 Energy, Waste and Water Energy GWh 149 125 116 As of electricity GWh 69 57 51 As of heating GWh 81 68 65 As of heating oil (included in “heating”) GWh 1.7 Unsorted Waste tonnes 406 255 164 Hazardous waste tonnes 223 138 127 Water 1,000 m3 99 63 52 16 SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 Key social figures KEY SOCIAL FIGURES Scandinavian Airlines’ Flight Operations SAS Commercial DK NO SE DK NO SE No. of employees October reporting fiscal No. of employees October reporting fiscal year (head count) 1,671 1,901 1,401 year (head count) 40 58 328 of whom women, % 47% 58% 53% of whom women, % 70% 62% 63% Total sick leave, % 8.8% 9.4% 11.3% Total sick leave, % 1.5% 1.6% 1.4% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 5.9% 6.8% 8.6% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 1.0% 1.1% 0.9% Total number of occupational injuries Total number of occupational injuries with one day's sick leave or more, % 36 12 15 with one day's sick leave or more 0 0 0 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 17 5 8 time-to-injury rate (H-value) SAS Technical Operations SAS Administrative functions and others DK NO SE DK NO SE No. of employees October reporting fiscal No. of employees October reporting fiscal year (head count) 474 391 500 year (head count) 256 131 524 of whom women, % 3% 5% 6% of whom women, % 45% 44% 45% Total sick leave, % 2.8% 5.3% 3.5% Total sick leave, % 1.9% 5.4% 2.1% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 1.7% 4.1% 2.6% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 1.0% 4.7% 1.6% Total number of occupational injuries Total number of occupational injuries with one day's sick leave or more 9 7 5 with one day's sick leave or more 1 0 0 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value)” 12 12 6 time-to-injury rate (H-value) 3 SAS Ground Handling Cimber DK NO SE DK No. of employees October reporting fiscal No. of employees October reporting fiscal year (head count) 2,227 2,891 1,928 year (head count) 448 of whom women, % 28% 32% 33% of whom women, % 58% Total sick leave, % 4.7% 7.3% 7.3% Total sick leave, % 7.8% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 3.0% 5.5% 4.7% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 5.1% Total number of occupational injuries Total number of occupational injuries with one day's sick leave or more 101 52 29 with one day's sick leave or more 1 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 30 14 11 time-to-injury rate (H-value) 3 SAS SAS DK NO SE No. of employees October reporting fiscal year (head count) 15,169 5,116 5,372 4,681 of whom women, % 38% 36% 40% 40% Total sick leave, % 7.0% 5.9% 7.8% 7.2% Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days), % 4.9% 3.8% 5.8% 5.1% Total number of occupational injuries with one day's sick leave or more 268 148 71 49 Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 13 21 10 7 SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 17 Appendix EXAMPLES OF STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ENGAGED BY SAS Employees Customers Owners, investors and financial analysts • Employee index PULS • Customer surveys • Regular Board meetings • Performance reviews • Interviews • Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting • Whistleblower function • Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) • Surveys • Employee meetings at all levels including • Image index • Teleconferences meetings related to ISO 14001 • Contract customers are offered carbon dioxide • Regular meetings with investors and analysts • Dialog and close cooperation with labor unions compensation • Direct dialog in meetings and ongoing contact with several thousand customers • Social media Partnerships and networks NGOs Industry organizations • Star Alliance • Dialog with, for example, Bellona, • ICAO’s Committee on Aviation • Global Compact Nordic Network WWF, ZERO and the Norwegian Society Environment ­Protection (CAEP) • CSR Sweden for the Conservation of Nature • Association of European Airlines (AEA) • IATA, ATAG, SAFUG, Fly Green Fund and • IATA and ATAG ­Sustainable Biofuel Network • Air Carbon Initiative (ACI) • Conf. of Swedish Enterprise • Conf. of Danish Industries • Conf. of Norwegian Enterprise, etc. Authorities Suppliers Manufacturers • Close contact with relevant national and interna• Purchasing negotiations with prioritized • Ongoing dialog with manufacturers of aircraft, tional authorities, politicians, airport owners and ­suppliers based on the SAS’s purchase policy engines and equipment that are better adapted to air traffic control management and adherence to the principles of the Global the environment and work equipment products, • Together with AEA, IATA and Star Alliance, dialog Compact, etc. services, chemicals, etc. meetings are held with relevant authorities • Dialog with energy and fuel suppliers Mass media Schools and universities Airports and air traffic control management • Daily communication and dialog with media • Support of and dialog on essays and doctoral • Partnership and cooperative models established • Interviews theses with airport owners and air traffic control manage• Articles and opinion pieces • Presentations and participation in conferences ment at the most important airports • Social media, for example, facebook.com/SAS or and debates • Focus on punctuality, efficiency and reduced twitter.com/SAS ­environmental impact MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY BOARD OF DIRECTORS GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONS • Follows the Swedish Corporate • Sets the framework and decides on • Responsible for integrating the susGovernance Code, “corporate social the sustainability agenda, policies, tainability agenda, policies, strategies responsibility” strategies and goals and activities in the everyday business • Sets guidelines for SAS’s sustainability • Responsible for the Corporate • Responsible for the work on following agenda, policies, strategies and goals Manual which comprises the basis for up and reporting on safety, quality • Conducts internal control to ensure SAS work with sustainability and other sustainability issues that the Code of Conduct is imple• Assesses risk and opportunities • Responsible for dialog with internal mented related to sustainability issues and external stakeholders • Submits the annual report and reviews • Responsible for the implementation the sustainability report of the Code of Conduct ENVIRONMENT & CSR HUMAN RESOURCES, FINANCE & LEGAL • Supports and consults the management on sustainability • Supports and consults the management and organization on issues with focus on environmental responsibility Social and Financial Responsibility issues •P  repares, coordinates and develops the sustainability agenda • Develops the work with Social and Financial Responsibility and • Ensures compliance with legislation and own commitments contributes to sustainability reporting and dialog •C  onducts sustainability reporting and dialog •M  aintains the Environmental Management System according to ISO 14001 • Coordinates established sustainability-related networks 18 SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 GRI GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines, G4 Core. The following index shows where information on the GRI indicators can be found: this Sustainability Report (SR15), the Annual Report with sustainability review November 2014–October 2015 (AR15). The entire report has been reviewed by PwC, please read the Assurance Report at page 25 for details. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Description Page reference Strategy & Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker. AR15 p. 4–5. SR15 p.1. Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of organization. SR15 back cover. G4-4 ​Primary brands, products, and services. AR15 inside front cover. G4-5 ​Location of the organizations headquarter. SR15 back cover. G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates. AR15 p. 10-11 and 15. G4-7 ​Nature of ownership and legal form. AR15 p. 37 and 91–93. G4-8 ​Markets served. AR15 p. 10–11 and 15. G4-9 ​Scale of the organization. AR15 p. 48, 61 and 94. G4-10 ​Workforce disclosure. AR15 p. 61. SR15 p. 17. G4-11 ​Percentage of total employee covered by collective bargaining agreement. SR15 p. 14. G4-12 ​Supply chain. AR15 p. 9. G4-13 ​Significant changes during the reporting period. AR15 p. 12–23. G4-14 ​Precautionary approach. SR15 p. 6 and 11–13. G4-15 ​E xternal charters, principles, or other initiatives. SR15 p. 6 and 11. G4-16 ​Memberships of associations. SR15 p. 7-8. Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 ​Entities included in the organization's consolidated performance. AR15 p. 38. SR15 p. 2. G4-18 ​Process for defining report content and Aspect boundaries. SR15 p. 5. G4-19 ​Material aspects. SR15 p. 5–6. G4-20 ​Aspect boundaries within the organization. SR15 inside front cover and p. 22. G4-21 ​Aspect boundaries outside the organization. SR15 inside front cover and p. 22. G4-22 Effects of any restatements. AR15 p. 27-36 and 54-60. SR15 p. 22. G4-23 ​Significant changes from previous reporting period. SR15 p. 22. Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. SR15 p. 21. G4-25 ​Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. SR15 p. 7. G4-26 ​Approach to stakeholder engagement. SR15 p. 7. G4-27 ​Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders. SR15 p. 7. SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 19 GRI Description Page reference Report profile G4-28 Reporting period. SR15 front cover. G4-29 ​Date of most recent previous report. SR15 inside front cover. G4-30 ​Reporting cycle. AR15 p. 97. G4-31 ​Contact point for questions regarding report. SR15 inside front cover. G4-32 In accordance option chosen. Core. G4-33 Assurance. SR15 p. 25. Governance G4-34 Governance structure of organization. AR15 p. 37–46. Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organizations values principles and norms of behavior. AR15 p. 22. SR15 p. 7. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Aspects Description Page reference Comments/Omissions Environmental Emissions G4-DMA SR15 p. 4-6, 8 and 18. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1). SR15 p.16. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. SR15 p. 16. G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. SR15 p. 11-13. G4-EN20 Ozone Depleting Substance emissions. AR15 p. 36. G4-EN21 Nox, sox, and other significant air emissions. Incl. noise. SR15 p. 16. Waste G4-DMA SR15 p. 4-6, 8 and 18. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. SR15 p. 16. The most relevant indicators are disclosed. We do not collect data on waste method. Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA SR15 p. 4-7 and 18. G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using SR15 p. 7. environmental criteria. Social Labor Practices and Descent Work Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA SR15 p. 4-6, 15 and 18. G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint SR15 p. 15. ­management-worker health and safety committees G4-LA6 Injuries, lost days, absenteeism and fatalities and total SR15 p. 17. The most relevant indicators are disclosed. More number of work-related fatalities indicators will be disclosed in 2015/2016. 20 SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 GRI Material Aspects Description Page reference Comments/Omissions Training and Education G4-DMA SR15 p. 4-6, 15 and 18. G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee. SR15 p. 15. Training hours are divided equally between men and women. Data is not broken down according to employee categories. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and SR15 p. 15. career ­development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA SR15 p. 4-6, 9-10 and 18. G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and employee breakdown. AR15 p. 44-46. SR15 p. 9-10 and 17. Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA SR15 p. 4-6, 7 and 18. G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using labor practices criteria. SR15 p. 7. Human rights Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA SR15 p. 4-6, 9 and 18. G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers screened using human rights criteria. SR15 p. 7. Society Anti-corruption G4-DMA SR15 p. 4-6, 9 and 18. G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption and AR15 p. 31. SR15 p. 9. SAS asses these risks continuously. More the significant risks identified. ­indicators will be disclosed in 2015/2016. Anti-competitive Behavior G4-DMA SR15 p. 4-6, 9 and 18. G4-SO7 Anti-trust and monopoly court cases. AR15 p. 31. Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA G4-PR1 Assessment of health and safety impact of products. SR15 p. 4-6, 10 and 18. AR15 p. 31-33. Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA SR15 p. 4-6, 10 and 18. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. AR15 p. 94. SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 21 Accounting Principles ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 2014/2015 FISCAL YEAR “SAS” or “The SAS Group” is used throughout the The ultimate responsibility for SAS’s sustainability • Fuel  density (kg per liter): report when referring to the overall operations. aspects, and their integration in operational activi– Jet A/A-11: Actual density or 0.8 In 2014/2015, SAS reports its general sustainties, lies with Group Management. The Sustainability – Diesel: 0.84 ability results divided into the same segments as Report was reviewed by SAS Group ­M anagement in – Petrol: 0.73 ­disclosed in the Annual Report: February 2016. The SAS Group Board of Directors – Heating oil: 0.84 • Scandinavian Airlines comprises all operations in submitted the Annual Report with sustainability • CO2 factor (per weight unit of fuel): the SAS Consortium, including SAS Maintenance review November 2014–October 2015 in February – Jet A/A-11: 3.15 Production, SAS Cargo Group (SCG) and Cimber 2016, and was informed of the Sustainability Report. – Diesel: 3.17 (as of March 01, 2015). – Petrol: 3.12 • SAS Ground Handling (SGH). LIMITATIONS – Heating oil: 3.17 The main principle for sustainability reporting is that •E  nergy conversion of fuels (GWh per 1,000 tonnes): For environmental responsibility, SAS strives to all units and companies controlled by SAS are – Jet A/A-1: 12.0 ­distinguish between airline and ground operations. accounted for. This means that sustainability-related – Diesel: 12.0 Accordingly, the following divisions have been made: data for divested companies owned by SAS during the – Petrol: 12.2 • Airline operations with an SK flight number. period is reported wherever possible. The same – Heating oil: 12.0 • Ground handling in SAS Ground Handling (SGH). accounting policies as for financial information in the • Nitrogen oxides (NOX), factors SGH conducts ground handling for Scandinavian Annual Report with sustainability review are intended (per weight unit of fuel): Airlines and other customers, such as other airto be used for financial information in the Sustainabil– Jet A/A-12 Between 0.00694 and 0.01932 lines. ity Report. • Technical maintenance in SAS Maintenance SAS has a number of production indicators (such 1) F  uel density and CO2 factor for Jet A/A-1 is calculated ­Production. SAS Maintenance Production conduct as passenger kilometers and tonne kilometers). according to approved MRV plan. technical maintenance primarily for Scandinavian There are differences between the Annual Report and 2) Varies per aircraft/engine combination. Airlines but also for other customers, such as the Sustainability Report as regards the disclosure of other airlines. the number of passenger kilometers. The Annual CARBON EMISSIONS PER PASSENGER • Freight and mail services within SAS Cargo Group Report uses revenue passenger kilometers (RPK) KILOMETER AND CARGO TONNE A/S (SCG). where paying passengers are included, while the Sus­KILOMETER • Facilities owned or leased by SAS. tainability Report uses passenger kilometers (PK) SAS has chosen to apply a calculation method to where all passengers are included. divide the amount of fuel used for passenger and Blue1 was sold during the year and the sustainability Standard definitions for environmental and social cargo transport before dividing the amount by pasindicators are not disclosed in this sustainability data have been applied throughout SAS. None of the senger or cargo tonne kilometer. The method is based report. limitations are considered to have any substantial on the IATA Carbon Calculator Tool. The assumption SAS continues to hold interests in Air Greenland ­significance. is that fuel usage is proportional to weight. Passenger and Widerøe but these are not disclosed since SAS is fuel usage is the ratio of total passenger weight to no longer a majority shareholder and is divesting the CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES total weight multiplied by the total fuel used. The current holdings. SAS’s structure is presented on AND CALCULATING PRINCIPLES remainder is allocated to cargo transport. page 37 in the SAS Annual Report with sustainability The sustainability information in the Sustainability review, November 2014–October 2015. Report is affected by the following changes: Total Passenger Fuel Usage = [(Total Passenger Nitrogen oxides (NOX) from SAS’s Boeing 737NG Weight/Total Weight)] x Total Fuel Used Where, SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING fleet are (as of January 01, 2015) calculated based on Total Weight = Total Passenger Weight + Total SAS’s Sustainability Report has been prepared in the engines mounted on the aircraft the actual day. Freight/Cargo Weight accordance with the SAS Accounting Policies for SusPreviously the calculation was based on the engines Total Passenger Weight (kg) = (Number of tainability Reporting. mounted at the beginning of the month of the perSeats * 50 kg) + (Number of Passengers * 100 kg) SAS has also applied the Global Reporting Initiaformed flight. This method is applied since an engine tive’s (GRI) Sustainable Reporting Guidelines, version upgrade program is ongoing, with three different The calculation method allocates 50 kg per seat to the 4 Core. GRI cross-references are available on page engine specifications applicable to each subtype in prerequisites for passenger transport and the same 19–21. These indicate where the GRI indicators are the Boeing 737NG fleet. The engine specification is weight per passenger as used in all other calculations found in the SAS Sustainability Report November constant for all other aircraft types. applied within the industry. 2014–October 2015. Sick leave is recalculated to reflect the number For cases when flights were conducted without The ­Sustainability Report also covers all important of employees rather than Full Time Equivalents or passengers or freight/cargo transport, all carbon principles in the UN Global Compact. Would Works Days, showing available production emissions were allocated as passenger transport. days. Sick leave is recalculated from 2012/2013 Examples of these flights are training flights, posiSCOPE OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ­fiscal year. tioning flights between scheduled flights, and flights SAS’s Sustainability Report should contribute to the to/from maintenance, etc. The reason for this evaluation and understanding of SAS’s operations. PRINCIPLES FOR REPORTING changed calculation method is to achieve more preThe report is an overview of SAS’s structured sustainAND CALCULATING cise carbon emissions per production unit calculaability work. The goal of the SAS Sustainability Report ENVIRONMENTAL DATA tions. The previous calculation method essentially November 2014–October 2015 is to disclose all inforReported environmental information is based on the involved double accounting, with emissions per pasmation necessary to provide the reader with a fair following calculations and/or factors: senger kilometer including the fuel used for freight/ overview of SAS’s environmental, social, and financial • Distance, based on WGS84 Great Circle Distance cargo transport and vice versa. responsibilities. (GCD) calculations between airport reference points SAS Annual Report with sustainability review as defined in national AIPs. CLIMATE INDEX November 2014–October 2015 includes a general • Passenger weight for TK calculations in 100 kg for SAS has chosen to construct an climate index for overview of SAS’s sustainability efforts on pages any person with hand luggage and checked luggage flight operations. The most recent base year is full24–25 and the sustainability information in the transported. This does not including active crew. year 2011, used to follow up progress connected to Report by the Board of Directors on page 35. • Cargo and mail, actual weight is used. activities implemented in 2011. The climate index is 22 SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 Accounting Principles calculated by using the quantity of emissions of carThe climate index is designed for SAS to present b ­ udgeted or actual schedule and/or who were sick bon dioxide and nitrogen oxides in relation to producmonth-to-month trends. This assumes that the during the period. tion. Even though there is no consensus regarding the ­methodology is not changed. weighting between the effect of different greenhouse Sick leave: gases on total impact on climate change, SAS has PRINCIPLES FOR REPORTING AND Sick leave is reported as the number of days sick in decided to base the calculation on the assumption CALCULATION OF SOCIAL DATA relation to number of employees multiplied by calenfrom, among others, Cicero that 1.5 is a reasonable The following principles for calculating and reporting dar days. For sick leave, absence due to sick children multiplier given the currently available knowledge. of social data have been used. is excluded. Long-term sick leave (more than 14 days) Read more about Cicero that provided basic data for is reported as a percentage of total sick leave. IPCC, for example, on www.sasgroup.net under the Occupational injuries (H-value): heading Sustainability. This gives a ratio of two parts Frequency of occupational injuries (H value) PRINCIPLES FOR REPORTING AND CALCUcarbon dioxide to one part other climate changing is calculated using the following formula: LATION OF E ­ XTERNAL AND OTHER ENVIemissions such as nitrogen oxides, water vapor and RONMENTALLY RELATED COSTS particulates. Nitrogen oxides have been chosen as a No. of occupational injuries with minimum of one Where possible, environmentally related costs are non-CO2 indicator for the climate index. Every emisday’s absence based on information directly from the accounting sion is reported separately until clearer directives are x 1,000,000 system. When this has not been possible, for examgiven regarding how the total climate effect are to be total number of performed working hours per year ple, for calculations of certain charges and taxes that calculated. are included in landing charges, estimates were used Number of employees: based on the number of passengers to a certain destiEnvironmental In the Sustainability Report, the number of employnation and the charge or tax per passenger. aspect Weighting Production factor ees is based on the number of persons during the Carbon dioxide 67% Tonne Kilometer (TK) month of October and sick leave statistics calculated Nitrogen oxides 33% for the fiscal year. These are employees having a SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 23 Sustainability terms, definitions and concepts SUSTAINABILITY TERMS, DEFINITIONS AND CONCEPTS ATAG Air Transport Action Group is an independent coaEnvironmentally related investments Investments in Kerosene The common name for petroleum-derived jet lition of organization and companies throughout the air assets to prevent, reduce or restore environmental damfuel such as Jet A-1. Kerosene is one of the fuel sources transport industry. age arising from operations and/or aimed at meeting that can be made by refining crude oil. It is also used for a upcoming, more stringent environmental requirements. variety of other purposes. Average number of employees Average number of employees is defined as the average number of employEnvironmentally related taxes Taxes that, in contrast to MRV Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of CO2 emisees expressed in full time equivalents, excluding leave of other corporate taxation, are motivated by environmensions and production in tonne-kilometers in the EU absence, parental leave and long-term sick leave. This tal grounds. Examples are the environmentally motiEmissions Trading Scheme. definition is also used in the financial reporting. Somevated passenger charge in the UK and the environmenN-ALM The Nordic Working Group for Environmental times the term FTE (Full Time Equivalent) is used. tally related fiscal CO2 charge in Norway. Issues in Aviation, composed of civil aviation, environBiofuels Solid or liquid fuel with biological origin. Liquid External environmentally related costs The sum of mental and communication authorities and airlines in the fuels for vehicle/ship/aircraft engines. To various environmental charges and environmentally related Nordic countries. degrees considered carbon neutral. The EU renewables charges and taxes. Nitrogen oxides (NOX) Formed during combustion in all directive (2009/28/EC) and biofuels directive Fossil fuels Fuels consisting of organic carbon and in engines. For aircraft engines since the high tempera(2003/30/EC) define the EU’s mandates on biofuels and hydrogen compounds in sediment or underground ture and pressure cause the atmospheric nitrogen and degree of carbon neutrality. deposits – especially coal, oil and natural gas. oxygen to react with each other, mainly during take-off CAEP Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection, and ascent when the engine temperature is at a maximum. Global Compact A challenge from the former UN Secretechnical committee of the ICAO (see definition) charged tary General Kofi Annan to business and industry to live Noise Environmentally detrimental, undesirable sounds. with developing and establishing rules and recommendup to ten principles of human rights, employee rights, The environmental impact of air traffic in the form of noise ing measures to reduce the environmental impact of avithe environment and anti-corruption, as formulated by is primarily of a local nature. Noise is normally described ation. the UN. www.unglobalcompact.org and measured in dB(A), an A-weighted sound level. Carbon dioxide (CO2) A colorless gas that is formed in Glycol An alcohol that is sprayed on the aircraft in cold NOX Nitrogen oxides (see definition). the combustion of all fossil fuels. The airline industry’s weather to prevent ice formation. Today, a non-toxic proCO2 emissions are being reduced based on a changeover Occupational injuries Occupational injuries is the numpylene glycol is used. Some 80% of the glycol runs off the to more fuel-efficient aircraft, something that is also ber of injuries employees incur by accidents at the workaircraft when applied, and seeps into the ground unless desirable from a financial standpoint since lower fuel conplace resulting in at least one day of absence. collected. A further 15% is emitted to the air and is thus sumption automatically means lower costs. dispersed in the vicinity of the airport. The airports are Other environmentally related costs Costs for waste Cargo tonne kilometer Cargo tonne kilometers, includes responsible for collecting the glycol runoff for reuse. management, purification plants, permits, any fines and all freight and mail (in metric tonne) multiplied by the charges for permit deviation, costs for remediation meaGRI Global Reporting Initiative. An organization aiming to great circle distance flown for all flights performed. sures, etc. as well as internal reported costs for environprovide companies and organizations with a global susmental work, for example, costs for persons and organiCFCs A group of clorofluorocarbons that may also containability reporting framework and thereby facilitate comzations working with environmental issues, costs for tain hydrogen and /or bromide. A class of stable chemiparisons between companies from a social, environmental sustainability reporting etc. cal compounds mostly known under the trade names and economic perspective. www.globalreporting.org Freon or Halon. Manufacture prohibited by Montreal PK (used in the sustainability-related reporting) PasGreenhouse effect Carbon dioxide and other gases trap Protocol because of negative effect, depletion of the senger Kilometers, includes all passengers (100 kg per and reradiate incoming solar radiation that would otherOzone Layer. Aviation has exception for use under a critipassenger including luggage) excluding active crew mulwise be reflected back into space. The problem is that cal use clause due to lack of approved alternatives. tiplied by the great circle distance flown for all flights peremissions of greenhouse gases have increased. Most Research for alternatives is ongoing. formed. scientists agree that heavy human use of fossil fuels is Charges for the infrastructure Charges imposed by causing global warming. Carbon dioxide is formed in the PULS The Swedish acronym for SAS’s employee surveys the operators of the infrastructure and which are combustion of all fossil fuels, but burning of biofuels only conducted via individual questionnaires. intended to cover operating and capital costs for airlines emits an amount of carbon equal to that absorbed during RPK (used in the financial reporting) Revenue Passenger and air traffic management. growth, producing no net emissions. However, use of Kilometers, utilized (sold) capacity for passengers coal, oil and natural gas produce a net increase, since CO 2 Carbon dioxide (see definition). expressed as the number of seats multiplied by the disthey release carbon that has been bound in the earth’s tance flown. CO 2 passengeror cargo share The amount of carbon crust. The freon substitute HFC, methane and nitrous emissions from passenger or cargo transport. oxide are other powerful greenhouse gases. Other gases SAFUG Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group. Aviation that contribute to the greenhouse effect are CFCs (see industry organization focused on accelerating the develCode of Conduct Business ethics rules and guidelines. definition), methane and nitrous oxide. opment and commercialization of sustainable aviation dB Decibel, a logarithmic unit of measurement that fuels. Halons See CFCs. expresses the magnitude of a physical quantity relative Sustainable development means that when mankind to a specified or implied reference level. IATA The International Air Transport Association repsatisfies its needs to today, it does so without limiting the resents, leads and serves the airline industry. Its memEnvironmentally related charges Charges imposed by opportunities for future generations to satisfy theirs. bers comprise all major passenger and cargo airlines the airport operators to motivate aircraft operators to Tonne kilometers The number of transported metric operate aircrafts with high eco-efficiency with respect to ISO 14000 A series of international environmental tonnes of passengers and cargo multiplied by the disnoise and other emissions such as of NOX, as well as sur­standards developed by the International Organization tance flown. charges imposed by airport operators to motivate airfor Standardization. The general guiding principles for craft operators to avoid take-offs and landings at night. ISO 14000 are identical to those in the quality standard Weighted noise contour The weighted noise contour is In some cases, the environmentally related charges are ISO 9000. There are several environmental standards in calculated based on the number of takeoffs per day at a considered income-neutral, meaning that the total the ISO 14000 family, such as for environmental mangiven airport, with regard to the aircraft types the airline income of the airport remains unchanged by reductions agement systems (ISO 14001), environmental labeling, uses at that airport. The weighted noise contour defines in other charges. The methods for classifying aircraft difenvironmental audits and life-cycle analyses. the area in km2 that is subjected to a noise footprint of fer between countries and airports within countries. 85 dB(A) or more in connection with take-off. Jet A-1 Common jet fuel specification outside North Although the charges are differentiated based on the America. Jet A and Jet A-1 are very similar and throughout eco-efficiency of the aircraft, they are ultimately balthis Sustainability Report the term “jet fuel” is used to anced in such a way as to amount to the total cost deterdescribe fuel used by the aviation industry. mined by the airport operator. 24 SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 Assurance Report ASSURANCE REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S COMBINED ASSURANCE REPORT ON THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To SAS AB (publ) does not comprise the same level of assurance as the conclusion of our reasonable assurance procedures. Since this assurINTRODUCTION ance engagement is combined, our conclusions regarding the We have been engaged by the management of SAS AB (publ) to reasonable assurance and the limited assurance will be preundertake an examination of the SAS Sustainability Report for sented in separate sections. the year 2015. Our reasonable assurance engagement includes the following: RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD AND MANAGEMENT a. Financial indicators (except environmental-related costs) FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT found on page 3, The Board of Directors and the Group Management are responsib. Jet fuel and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions related to SAS ble for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance flight operations with the applicable criteria, as explained on page 22 in the Sustainability Report, and are the parts of the Sustainability ReportThe firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality ing Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative, GRI) ­Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the quality control including documented policies and procedures accounting and calculation principles that the Company has regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional developed. This responsibility includes the internal control relestandards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. vant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. of Directors and the Group Management as described above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR ­Sustainability Report. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Report based on the procedures we have performed. appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. We conducted our engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. The engageCONCLUSIONS ment includes a limited assurance engagement on the complete Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, Sustainability Report and audit of certain information as specinothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that fied below. The objective of an audit is to obtain reasonable the Sustainability Report, is not prepared, in all material assurance that the information is free of material misstaterespects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of ments. A reasonable assurance engagement includes examinDirectors and Group Management. ing, on a test basis, evidence supporting the quantitative and In our opinion the information in the Sustainability Report which qualitative information in the Sustainability Report. A limited has been subject to our reasonable assurance procedures have, in assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the criteria of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability defined by the Board of Directors and Group Management. Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance Stockholm, 12th February 2016 engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance PricewaterhouseCoopers AB with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Hence, the conclusion Bo Hjalmarsson Fredrik Ljungdahl based on our limited assurance procedures Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR SAS Sustainability Report November 2014–October 2015 25 www.sasgroup.net SAS AB (publ). Corp. Reg. No.: 556606-8499 Domicile: Stockholm. Street address: Frösundaviks Allé 1, Solna, Sweden Postal address: SE-195 87 Stockholm, Sweden. Telephone: +46 8 797 00 00
