SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Witzenmann GmbH Östliche Karl-Friedrich-Str. 134 75175 Pforzheim, Germany 0104uk/4/01/16/1,5 Phone +49 7231 581-0 Fax +49 7231 581-820 wi@witzenmann.com www.witzenmann.de 45 POSITIVE 2014 was a good financial year for us. Witzenmann has developed its excellent market position even further and has even achieved accelerated levels of growth. Indeed, in 2014, the Group once again increased its turnover, which grew by 1 28.3 million to a total of 1 525.4 million. This PERSPECTIVE represents an increase in turnover of 5.7 % in relation to the previous year. Witzenmann continues to benefit from its broad market position as a global company. More than two thirds of its turnover was generated abroad in 2014. Turnover in Germany grew by 5.6 % in 2014, while business in European countries outside of Germany is only showing slight signs of recovery. Growth continues to be fuelled by the companies in the Americas (+13.7 %) and Asia (+8.5 %), with 35.2 % of the Group's total turnover Regional diversity as well as a large range of products coming from these areas. and applications allows Witzenmann to offset the various economic developments in individual regions Different economic developments in certain regions and sectors have a and sectors flexibly. balancing effect. Internally, we can react to the most diverse market developments by reorganising capacities. In 2014, we also published our revised mission statement and distributed it to our employees. The vision, strategies and objectives described in it determine our activities over long-term periods. These are influenced by social and technical change, as well as by market trends, and must therefore be reviewed and modified on a continuous basis. We have revised and partially re-formulated the corporate guidelines and management principles. We have supplemented our corporate objectives by including the goal of sustainability. We regard sustainability to be a type of management that embraces ecological, economic and social aspects: p Ecological in the sense that nature and the environment are preserved for future generations p Economic in the sense that the economy provides a strong foundation for long-term employment and prosperity p Social in the sense that people find an appropriate and meaningful employment In addition to the classic environmental issues, resources and energy efficiency are of fundamental importance for the sustainable management of a company. In business process management, we design our processes effectively and ergonomically. In this regard, Witzenmann is also positioned professionally and for the future. p We treat colleagues and business partners alike with esteem and As a group of companies, we are The economic development of the Innovative products and our leading At the headquarters, the tangible respect. confident we will be able to reach Witzenmann Group in recent years engineering remain a significant sales growth with significant increase p We ascribe importance to honest and fair conduct with one another. our sales target of approx. 550was the basis for strong investfactor of the group's success. We are in labour productivity was the key p We actively oppose any form of discrimination and harassment. 560 million Euros or perhaps even ments and for strengthening equity continuously advancing the innovation element in improving results. surpass it. capital. process at product and process level. These corporate guidelines and management principles from our mission Philip Paschen, statement best describe in an exemplary manner how the Witzenmann Dr. Hans-Eberhard Koch, Dr. Gerhard Flöck. Dr. Andreas Kämpfe, Dipl.-Ing./Dipl.-Wirtsch.-Ing Group cultivates its special corporate culture and will further develop in Chairman of the Board Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director the interest of sustainability. With this sustainability report we provide a comprehensive presentation of our activities for the benefit of sustainable corporate management. 2 3 THE FUTURE IS OUR EVERYDAY LIFE Resource-conserving vehicle technology As a development partner of customers in the p Oil and exhaust gas return pipes increase the efficiency of internal automotive industry, aerospace industry, plant combustion engines engineering and construction industry or technical p decoupling elements compensate for structure-borne noise and building equipment Witzenmann enables product reduce noise emissions p The compensation of the movements of exhaust systems and solutions for increasingly complex challenges. turbochargers guarantee long, low-wear running times of the units Efficient use of energy resources of the future p Flexible line elements in off-shore wind parks and tidal power stations designed in special materials resist the corrosive salt in wind and water p In solar thermal energy, solar connectors and expansion bellows absorb thermally induced movements within the system p All components guarantee reliable operation and virtually eliminates expensive maintenance work Safe and efficient building technology p Flexible lines meet the highest safety requirements in sprinkler systems and gas pipelines p Flat ducts for residential building ventilation provide a cosy indoor climate In addition to the purely technical demands placed on Contamination in the charge air p Corrugated hoses installed in stratified storage tanks and heat our products, sustainable efficiency as well as environThis exhaust gas contains soot and can also carry tiny ceramic exchangers allow effective energy exchange mental protection and resource preservation are becoparticles along with it, which can cause damage to the blades ming increasingly more important. A prime example for of the compressor wheel. this are the newly developed exhaust gas return pipes Witzenmann has developed a special component with inwith integrated filter fabric. They solve a problem in tegrated high temperature resistant filter fabrics, which has modern exhaust gas treatment and enable effective and now been successfully integrated in various customer vehicle economically viable resource protection. series. In addition to the space saved with what are still tight installation conditions, the integrated solution is simpler with The exhaust gas return pipes are used to remove fractions of respect to design, coordination and assembly with a level of the exhaust gas flow from the exhaust system and to resuppressure loss that is lower in functional terms. Using LP EGR ply this to the fresh intake air upstream of the combustion offers consumption savings in selected cases of up to 15 % process in the cylinder. This results in a significant drop in for petrol engines. combustion temperatures, which in turn generates a sustainable reduction in NOx and CO2 emissions. In modern turbo engines, the exhaust gas is removed downstream of the particulate filter in the low-pressure section and routed back to the exhaust gas turbocharger compressor in a cooled state. 4 5 TRUE TO OUR PRINCIPLES Witzenmann is a family-run company where the people in charge have always By joining the United Nations Global Compact, Companies that sign the Global Compact promise to … placed a high value on the concept of Witzenmann is pledging itself to its 10 princip… support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human les, which formulate clear requirements on the rights within their sphere of influence sustainable business. subjects of human rights, labour standards, … make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses environmental protection and fighting corrupti… uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the on. In accordance with the prescribed statutes, right to collective bargaining we have promised to publish an annual report on … uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour our progress with respect to implementing these … uphold the effective abolition of child labour principles and supporting the UN objectives for … uphold the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation sustainable development. The 2014 progress … support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges report documents the current status of our … undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility activities. … encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies … work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery The aspiration of sustainable business is firmly anchored in the history of the company. Company founder Heinrich Witzenmann considered himself to be in a position of particular responsibility with respect to his employees and his home town of Pforzheim. After more than 150 years in business, the fourth and fifth generations of the founder's family still have a majority stake in Witzenmann. Continuity and a long-term perspective are key guiding principles in our corporate strategy. We strive to make a special impact on the community, one that goes beyond our business activities. At a time of globalisation, this responsibility also applies to our corporate sites in different countries and on different continents. 7 VISION 2025 “We will secure our global presence through market leadership in America and Asia. The annual turnover will exceed one billion euros by this point.” The guiding corporate principles act as a guide Mission and form the core values for all employees of The Witzenmann Group is a global reference for Corporate objectives Corporate guidelines the Witzenmann Group. The guiding corporate challenging and technical engineering issues p Profitable growth p Responsibility to our workforce and to society principles are the foundation for our Group's relating to vibration decoupling, absorption of p Global supplier p Independent family company activities as well as its future development. They expansion, media transport and balancing of p Technology and innovation leadership p Reliable business partner incorporate our corporate vision and describe assembly inaccuracies in piping systems. As an p Quality leadership p Economic long term thinking the corporate objectives and strategies that experienced development partner, we offer our p Excellence of personnel p Knowledge and learning we wish to use to achieve our vision. Vision, customers intelligent and superior solutions with p Financial independence p Equal opportunities and cultural variety strategies and objectives determine our activiour flexible metallic elements. Our corporate p Sustainability ties over long-term periods. These elements are mission manifests itself in our company motto influenced by social and technical change, as “managing flexibility”. Corporate strategy Leadership principles well as by market trends, and must therefore be p Growth strategy p Preamble: Cooperative leadership reviewed and modified on a continuous basis. p Globalisation and Group strategy p Entrepreneurial activities The corporate guidelines are the guiding principp Technology strategy p Performance orientation les for our activities and the leadership principles p Quality strategy p Responsibility and promotion are the benchmarks our managers use to carry p Personnel strategy p Integrity and cooperation out their tasks. p Financial strategy p Implementing changes p Sustainability strategy p Health-oriented management 9 The management-training course was very helpful because is showed clearly which expectations will be required of me in my new role as a foreman at the company. Furthermore, since the group was mixed, I was able to understand how the shift THERE IS supervisors deal with their task and which problems they have to contend with . ALWAYS A CLEVER Rudolf Ackermann Foreman in Lifelong learning for me is not just Commercial Vehicles / Engines business an empty phrase, but it's my way of division MIND BEHIND THIS becoming professionally successful! Witzenmann supported me during my studies at the AKAD so that I can follow this intention. International projects and my daily work at the GmbH give me the opportunity to put my theoretical knowExtensive training – ledge into practice. targeted qualification Christine Maag Commercial applications Senior AnalystInformation Technology At an internationally leading company like Witzenmann Academy Witzenmann it is important that all employees Our world of work is changing continuously. contribute their commitment, technical skills, In order to meet the requirements at any time, and not least of all, their personality. Accordingly, the Witzenmann Academy also offers courses we challenge and support our employees tailored covering diverse topics even after the training. to their individual needs and to their current as After all, professional qualification has an equally well as upcoming tasks. Sound training is the important tradition at Witzenmann as individual basis for this. support. Interdisciplinary skills Sustainable employee development All our trainees learn and work based on an We fill vacancies and managerial positions extensive training schedule. In the course of preferably with employees from within our own their training they pass through each departcompany. After the training time, the trainees ment, in which their profession is practiced. To are normally taken on as permanent employees. additionally reinforce their interdisciplinary skills Thanks to our global presence, we are able to and corporate networking, the technical as well offer a broad range of tasks in an international as commercial trainees also visit at least one environment. The project management workshop and coldepartment outside of their professional field. laboration in interdisciplinary project groups In parallel to their training, all trainees attend Knowledge and learning helped me realize which optimization potenspecial courses and workshops that promote Knowledge, learning and willingness to perform tials project processing still has. I could then their social skills. During the WPS project days are our greatest assets. A key focus at Witzentackle this specifically. Through many practiorganized specially for trainees, they are introdumann is on intellectual flexibility, the willingness cal exercises based on actual case studies the ced to the Witzenmann process system. to change and relishing the opportunity to tackle training was very application-oriented. current and future challenges with creative solutions. (Source: From the Guiding Corporate Daniel Rothfuß Development engineer in the Technology Principles of the Witzenmann Group) and innovation department 10 11 COMPLIANT The “Acceptance of Benefits” guiding principles were published with the The guiding principles define the different types letter of the Executive Management on 25 October 2005 and are compulof benefits and specify the criteria for benefits sory for all employees of the Witzenmann Group. that either require or do not require approval. They also express anti-corruption codes of In accordance with these guiding principles, all employees of the Witzenconduct. The “Acceptance of Benefits” guiding mann Group are obliged to discharge their duties in an objective manner. principles are stored on the intranet of the As the acceptance of benefits can jeopardise or completely rescind this Witzenmann Group. objectivity, any suggestion of being susceptible to accepting personal benefits while carrying out their professional duties is to be avoided. In addition, it is made clear that corrupt behaviour is a punishable offence and is contrary to an employee's obligation to discharge his/her professional duties in an objective manner. 13 FINANCIAL DATA Turnover trend Value creation of the Witzenmann Group 2014 500 Turnover for the Witzenmann Company performance € 531.8 million 400 Group in millions of € Cost of materials € 231.2 million 300 200 Other expenses € 53.7 million 100 Write-downs € 29.7 million 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Value creation € 217.0 million Financial data for the Witzenmann Group Others Shareholders Turnover 2013 2014 € 0.9 million in total Millions of € 497.1 525.4 in Germany % 33.5 33.4 in Europe (excl. Germany) % 33.1 31.4 Lenders € 3.5 million in America % 18.4 19.8 in Asia % 14.7 15.1 Government € 12.4 million in Africa % 0.3 0.3 Shareholders Turnover by sector Witzenmann GmbH Automotive industry % 53.9 56.7 (dividends, retention of profits) Industry % 37.7 35,8 € 20.7 million Employees € 179,4 million Technical building equipment % 7.2 6.5 Aerospace % 1.2 1 Value creation Investment and equity Value creation is produced from the company performance Investments Millions of € 30.9 41.6 minus expenses, write-downs and costs of material. It quantiWrite-downs Millions of € 28.1 29.7 fies the Witzenmann Group's contribution to private and public Equity ratio % 51.7 52.9 income. The graph above shows how this contribution is distributed among all the parties involved. 14 15 GLOBAL COMMITMENT Witzenmann Slovakia The Witzenmann Group has been driving forWitzenmann Korea p Occupational safety ward internationalisation since the 1990s. Their p Cooperation with the Shinbang Elementary p Promotion of sport and cultural strategy is guided by the central principle of School. Sponsorship and support measures activities of the employees producing for the local sales markets in the local for various school projects (focal points: p Support of the Cykloclub (cycle sales markets. This means establishing extensive intercultural cooperation, globalisation and racing team) know-how at the various sites. In the emerging information technology) markets in particular, development of the sites p Agreement with the neighbouring Witzenmann Sverige also contributes to improving the living condiShinbang village community to sponsor social p Donation to UNICEF tions of the people there. In line with the guiding projects p Support of a local sports club principle of the Witzenmann Group companies p Agreement with the neighbouring Shinbang regarding social responsibility and responsibility village community to sponsor social projects Witzenmann Opava Czech to society, the individual Witzenmann subsidiariRepublic es also make a contribution to their communities Witzenmann Benelux p Collaboration with the that goes far beyond their economic activities. p Collaboration with sheltered workshops local vocational schools In addition to lending its support to purely chaand enterprises (garden maintenance, p Traineeships: 5-10 students ritable projects, this also includes sponsorship housekeeping) per year measures. The financial backing of regional culp Donations to non-profit organisations and p Financial support tural facilities and support of schools and higher initiatives (children's cancer association, of school activities education establishments plays a key role at the Child Focus and diabetics association) p Collaboration with the local headquarters. It is also worth mentioning emplotechnical college yees' involvement in hands-on projects such Witzenmann do Brazil p Traineeships: 5-10 students as their active support of a “duck race” held by p Support of social projects per year trainees or the sale of home-baked cakes – both p “Legal Apprentice” social project to develop p Financial support of school of which were in aid of local or national charitathe school and education system and the activities, e.g. bicycle racing, ble organisations. A whole host of examples can p “Organisation Social Opportunity” social motorcycle racing, tennis also be found at our subsidiaries: project (schooling and vocational training for p Financial support of the Joy Fest event for disadvantaged and disabled young people) disabled people Witzenmann Russia p Regular support of the local cultural festival p Financial support of the Knizkovsky p Financial assistance for pensioners with low inchoir come, families with sick/handicapped children Witzenmann China p Financial support of the extracurricular p Annual German language week in Ufa p Employees encouraged to participate in “No activities of children Junak p New Year's celebration for children Driving Day” to cut down on CO2 emissions p Excursions for pupils and students p Scholarships for high-achieving students from Witzenmann USA p Cooperation with the local university in Ufa low-income families p Internship positions for college students p Donation to the Baobei Foundation (for orphans) p Support of the Formula Student Team of the local university p Toy for Tots Christmas presents for needy children 16 17 EMPLOYEES & SOCIAL POLICY Witzenmann Group workforce 2014 Germany Workforce (as at 31.12.) 29.4 % Europe excl. Germany 51.3 % Witzenmann Group 2012 2013 2014 Total number of employees People 3,485 3,617 3,756 19.3 % America and Asia in Germany People 1,895 1,946 1,927 in Europe excl. Germany People 1,029 1,026 1,103 in America/Asia People 561 645 726 Age distribution of the workforce at Witzenmann GmbH 2014 Witzenmann Academy 244 Employees on the High Potential programme People 11 12 11 250 204 Number of employees External costs for training and professional € K 574 571 526 195 193 200 183 182 development 160 Number of seminars Number 285 332 233 150 121 Participants training and professional Number 474 507 425 106 development seminars 100 71 50 Witzenmann GmbH Total number of employees People 1,638 1,680 1,659 0 Up to 20 20 25 26 30 31 35 36 40 41 45 46 50 51 55 56 60 over 60 years Non-manual workers People 634 658 657 Manual workers People 934 940 925 Apprentices/trainees People 70 82 77 Years of service of employees at Witzenmann GmbH 2014 Proportion of women % 19.5 19.6 19.9 Proportion of men % 80.5 80.4 80.1 100 % Number of employees 1,669 Number of part-time employees % 5.5 6.7 6.5 Half of the Severely disabled persons & persons regarded People 68 67 71 workforce 1,164 as such 80 % has been with Average age In years 41.9 42.2 42 the company for at least 11 years More than 25 % of the Average length of service In years 12.3 12.5 13 832 workforce has been with Participants in employee activities People 330 365 386 60 % the company for at least 25 years 655 452 40 % Health management at Witzenmann GmbH 2014 213 20 % 555 occupational health checks in 2014 107 56 15 0% 19 Number of non-reportable accidents where employee was unable Up to 5 6 10 11 15 16 20 21 25 26 30 31 35 36 40 over 40 years to work for fewer than 3 days 39 Number of reportable accidents where employee was unable to work for more than 3 days Meals sold at Witzenmann GmbH 2014 (incl. accidents travelling to/from work) A total of more than 400 meals every day! Reportable accidents 2012 2013 2014 22.157 For every 1,000 employees Number 25.6 26.9 23.4 Daily specials and takeaway meals 31.863 89.923 Soups, salads, etc. from the counter Hot snacks 18 19 KNOW-HOWTRANSFER I Production and engineering network within the group The aim: local production for local markets. In Russia as well as currently in Brazil or in the sites still to come, Witzenmann is pursuing the aim of serving the local markets in the plant engineering and construction industry with products and engineering services. In the medium term, workplaces will thus be created locally and the logistical costs significantly reduced. The latter naturally is reflected as a positive contribution for the life cycle assessment of the Witzenmann do Brasil Witzenmann Russia company. The Witzenmann Group has set itself amSince September 2014, expansion joints have also been produced at Witbitious goals. Within the next ten years our zenmann do Brazil. As in the case of Witzenmann Russia, the new expanglobal presence is to be further secured sion joint production operation was built and set up in Brazil in accordance through market leadership in America with the modern industry standard. Here, a punching process is used to and Asia. By 2025, Witzenmann wants to manufacture the bellows in sizes up to DN 800. It is now possible to proexceed the sales barrier of one billion Euros. cess orders locally – from the design to production and final inspection. One factor for implementing the objective is the gradual expansion of manufacturing Intensive employee qualification capacities for the industrial division (id). In addition to substantial investments in buildings and machines, signifiIn 2013, the existing assembly plant for cant expenses were also incurred in order to train the employees from the expansion joints of Witzenmann Russia was respective countries. Thus, at the headquarters in Pforzheim over a period expanded at the site in Ufa to include local of several weeks the Brazilian production teams as well as their Russian bellows production. The expansion joint colleagues previously, were involved in the processes at the new plants production at the Russian subsidiary serves for manufacturing expansion joints. Niels Hennig and Daniel Schöninger as a blueprint for further sites within the provided most of the coordination for qualifying the production emplogroup. yees. Likewise, the future sales colleagues of the subsidiaries were trained in very extensive training programs in the industrial business division of the headquarters. The spectrum covered the entire range of Witzenmann Group products for the industrial business segment. The design of expansion joints as well as their offer and order processing constituted the main focus here. 20 21 INSIGHTS INTO THE PRACTICE OF THE GROUP Niels Hennig and Daniel Schöninger coordinated the the establishment of the expansion joints production plant for the Witzenmann Group in Witzenmann Russia and later at Witzenmann do Brazil. Their experiences provide interesting insights into the internationally positioned Witzenmann Group and the significance of sustainability LEARNING FROM EACH OTHER in daily practice. The staff training courses are an essential element during the establishment of a new site. The training courses mostly take place at the headquarters in Pforzheim, but sometimes they also take place at a Witzenmann subsidiary at home or abroad. This depends on the type of technology implemented. We have noticed here that both sides – both those conducTEAMWORK ting the training and those training – benefit. The new employees scrutinize many things entirely without bias, which are usually set. This is often What definitely deserves mentioning: Nobody is able to tackle such a inspiring for experienced employees. project alone. This is always backed by a team. We are the ones who provide support during the establishment of a new site in all phases and therefore we are the first to be noticed. But what the colleagues in the materials management do at the start, when it comes down to purchasing THE HUMAN FACTOR the machines and site equipment, is fundamental. From a certain time on, The exchange of employees group-wide, be it in training courses, at trade their job is done and they do not show up anymore. fairs or similar occasions is extremely important. There are lots of opportunities here for personal questions. The feeling of solidarity grows and helps in everyday life. INTERNATIONALIZATION The subsidiaries of the Witzenmann Group work very independently in their markets. The fabrication layouts, however, must be developed as uniformly GLOBAL FOOTPRINT as possible group-wide. This makes it possible to achieve the same quality In the course of internationalisation, the headquarters in Pforzheim is increand safety standards worldwide. Moreover, the bundling of purchase asingly taking over coordinated tasks. The customer-oriented competence quantities improves the position in relation to the suppliers, such as the network and the interaction with the subsidiaries is decisive, however. production lines for example. In the operative business, the subsidiaries are The qualities described above such as initial training and further training, essentially given a free hand. induction and market responsibility of the individual subsidiaries etc. are all contributing factors, which account for the global footprint of Witzenmann. 22 23 COMPETENT Witzenmann Process System (WPS) In 2010, the internal production system was initiated based on the model of the Toyota NETWORK system under the name of Witzenmann Production System (WPS) and gradually implemented in the individual production departments. The aim of the WPS is to generate as little waste as possible in our production and to firmly establish systematic, continuous improvement within the With a wide range of products the Witzenmann company. In 2014, the extension of the production system with the Witzenmann process sysGroup sees itself as a worldwide development partner In 2014, the Maintenance Forum took place in China. tem was combined with the involvement of the The hosts greeted participants from the subsidiaries in Brazil, China, of customers in the widest range of sectors. Germany, India, Korea, Spain and the USA. commercial departments. At the same time, the roll-out to the subsidiaries was pushed forward. After the plants in the Czech Republic and in Spain, in 2014 it was time for the USA subsidiary to be integrated into the WPS activities. For this purpose, colleagues from the subsidiaries in Spain and the USA were trained in Pforzheim as WPS experts at a training course held in English. This helps to standardize the production standard at a high level, increases productivity throughout the group and also promotes international cooperation and mutual exchange among An essential element in this collaboration is the Witzenmann subsidiaries. the technical advice by our sales and appli5S Award for Witzenmann USA cation engineers on site. The intensive cooIn September 2014, a 5S Award could be presented to our subsidiaLocal Innovation Champions peration between the individual subsidiaries ry in the USA. The the production of components for the commercial Innovation Management has continuously vehicles and engines division was awarded for ATD dampers (Zone as well as with the headquarters creates gained in importance during the past few years 1) at our subsidiary in Warren. V.L. Tomas Aman (WPS Expert) , a close-knit competence network. This is Anthony Vitale (Shift Supervisor), Marty Tallmann (Production), Wayand has established itself as an integral part in also the case in terms of optimization of the ne Rowlett (Maintenance), Jody Teichow (Shift Supervisor), Kathy the automotive components business division. internal requirements. Garner (Production), Belva Sollars (Production), Marvin Pisarcyk One major objective is to develop innovations (Managing Director WI-USA), John Walker (Production Manager at product and process level. For this purWI-USA/ plant Warren). Automotive Engineering Forum pose, search fields in vehicle technology are November 2014 Witzenmann GmbH Witzenmann Russia being defined and evaluated and subsequently Witzenmann The Automotive Engineering Forums Witzenmann Slovakia Korea processed in terms of content. The aim is to Automotive Engineering Forum are distinctly more than an exchange of expeWitzenmann USA derive innovative approaches, formulate tasks rience. Since 2004, the fz experts have been as well as to launch projects. The integration of meeting at workshops and defining future deMaintenance Forum 2014 Witzenmann Española Witzenmann Japan the subsidiaries is an essential element of this velopment priorities in the international environHydraulic bellows production is the heart of automotive production at the initiative. The first step was the appointment of Witzenmann ment. Topics discussed included, for example, Witzenmann Group. Regular maintenance and servicing of the hydraulic USA the Local Champions Innovation as responsible Witzenmann backgrounds, trends and drivers in the field of components such as pumps and pressure intensifiers protect not only China contact partners and competent moderators of Witzenmann exhaust gas recirculation as well as methods against unexpected production loss, but also prolongs their service life and do Brasil the group-wide innovation process. Witzenmann Witzenmann for service life preliminary design and charactereduce costs for spare parts. In 2014, the aforementioned points were the Opava India risation of the dynamic/acoustic behaviour of main focus of the forum. Furthermore, the components of the laser cutting decoupling elements in exhaust systems. systems and process control were practiced on the simultaneous bellows press. The forum has been held since 2006, and since 2008 has been organized by the Service International department in collaboration with the Personnel department. The map shows the Witzenmann subsidiaries entrusted with the production of automotive components. 24 25 CROSS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATE CULTURE Working in a global company is not without its challenges CULTURE W itzenmann is a comin Germany is aware of the cultural to be prepared to adjust their appany with a worlddifferences between the various proach not only for internal coopwide presence. We regions, so the same principle must erations, but also when contacting only have to look at apply to other countries, where customers or other business partthe figures from the 2014 company cultural differences will be even ners. The decentralised, internareport to establish the increasmore pronounced. Theories on tional structure of the Witzenmann ing importance of international intercultural exchange work on the Group has proven advantageous in subsidiaries, with 66 % of combasis that these cultural differthis respect, as the 23 subsidiaries pany turnover generated in other ences have a significant impact on act as local representatives within countries. Almost 50 % of Witzenbehaviour within the company with their respective markets. This helps mann Group employees work at regard to organisation, leaderto make sure we're always on the our international subsidiaries, with ship and methods of dealing with same wavelength as our customWitzenmann GmbH in Pforzheim these differences, which ultimately ers. The challenge remains, howimpacts the company's economic ever, of “translating” these cultural success. Cultural differences are quirks and customs for colleagues “Culture is a dynamic process simply a fact, evolving over time to based at our headquarters or sister shape everyone's personal expericompany to make sure that they of solving human problems.” ences. Anyone coming into contact are always understood. Both for Fons Trompenaars with other cultures must be able to internal international cooperations Dutch cultural scientist understand and accept that cultural and when contacting overseas communities have their own differbusiness partners, it is helpful to be ent values, preferences, customs aware of cultural differences and acting as the centre of competence and rituals. their practical relevance to everyand the control hub for the entire day business operations. Group. The effective and profitable Cultural differences can cause cooperation within the Group is anything from misunderstandings By tackling this subject head on, not only based on technological right through to conflicts. In some we can ensure efficient, troubleexchanges and knowledge transcultures, for example, individuality free collaboration with our colfer, but also on understanding and is extremely important, whereas a leagues, customers and business respecting the various cultural and focus on the community is more partners from other cultures. And social values and mentalities. Even important than individuals in Asian this is precisely the awareness that our customers are international. As cultures. In certain countries and Nicolas Renard seeks to promote in part of the basic training course, regions, tasks are processed in a his mini-seminars. Nicolas Renard (fz-as) discusses highly analytical, meticulous and “Cross cultural management” and pragmatic manner, whereas others imparts his valuable insights and may adopt a more idealistic apexperiences, and it doesn't even inproach. Companies operating on an volve leaving the country. Everyone international or global scale have 26 27 “Human culture is the result of hundreds of thousands of years of evolution. During most of this time, competition between bands of gatherer-hunters was a powerful evolutionary pressure.” Geert Hofstede Dutch cultural scientist In communities which have various ways of dealing with personal contact, it is important to adopt a more global approach and a Power distance network of relationships between To what extent are imbalances between different hierarchical levels those involved. Western cultures in accepted? Europe and North America prefer to Individualism vs. collectivism work sequentially, taking each step How much do individuals focus on themselves and close family members? at a time, whereas Asian cultures favour a more holistic approach Masculinity vs. femininity and expect this from their business How strictly is the traditional distribution of roles observed? partners. In some countries, having Risk avoidance a clearly allocated status (based How important is it to observe principles within a particular culture? on background, position or title, Cross Culture for example) is extremely imporLong-term vs. short-term focus Inspiring How important are a sense of tradition, loyalty and community to a culture? tant, while other cultures are more discussions likely to define status by the tasks on an average day Cultural researcher Geert Hofstede works with sets of values at Witzenmann involved in a particular job. that differ widely from one culture to the next. 28 29 STRIKING Real-world figures THE RIGHT Exterior lighting Remchingen site Exchange of HQL luminaires BALANCE for LED luminaires Turnover Previously New Intelligent solution at Witzenmann-Speck Energy 2 kW 0.678 kW Changes in different production-related parameters caused consumption three additional, temporary occurring peak loads that could Ø Service life/Year 3,650 3,650 not be covered with the existing transformer station. A comEnergy 7,300 kWh 2,475 kWh In addition to making trendsetting, puter-aided energy management system is able to shut down consumption/ Year Energy costs/ Year 1,095.00 € 371.25 € strategic decisions, doing business defined consumers production-controlled thereby preventing (15Cent/kWh) overloading of the transformer. sustainably also involves taking targeted, coordinated measures. Exchange of double-illuminant luminaires 2 x 58 W + KVG for LED luminaires 1 x 60 W + presence control Turnover Previously New Energy 3.834 kW 1.620 kW consumption Ø Service life/Year 4,000 2,000 hours hours Energy 15,336 3,240 kWh consumption/ Year kWh Energy costs/ Year 2,300.00 € 486.00 € (15Cent/kWh) Klaus Althuon Energiebeauftragter der Witzenmann GmbH Exterior lighting Objective: Reduce energy losses Objective: Reduced noise Appointment as Energy Commissioner The Brötzingen plant Headquarters Building 6 Headquarters Building 4 Energy efficiency plays an increasingly important role in our Exchange of HQL luminaires p Measure: Thermal insulation of hot water p Measure: Noise prevention arrangements company. This protects the climate, preserves resources and for LED luminaires pipelines environment stripwounding strengthens competitive ability. In order to advise the maTurnover Previously New p Implementation: Pipelines were insulated. p Implementation: The noise prevention measure nagement in the performance of the tasks concerning energy Energy 6.2 kW 0.7 kW p Current state: 100 % implemented could not be realised because no adequate efficiency and to offer support during the implementation, consumption solution was found. A housing is not feasible. Mr Klaus Althuon was appointed as Energy Commissioner Ø Service life/Year 3,650 3,650 Objective: Reduce energy consumption Measure will not be pursued any further. of the Witzenmann GmbH with effect from 01.09.2015. Energy 22,630 kWh 3,207 kWh (at least 50 % with regard to lights) p Measure: Housing of BFU and sound insulaticonsumption/ Year Headquarters Building 2, 4, Remchingen on for hydraulics The commissioner performs a systematic analysis of the enerEnergy costs/ Year 3,395.00 € 481.05 € (15Cent/kWh) p Measure: Renewal of the lighting p Implementation: The measures were implemengy consumption as part of an energy management approach p Implementation: ted as planned. Measurement after implemenin order to identify energy efficiency potential for reducing LED lighting or controlled ting the measures: 72.8 dB(A) costs. emergency lighting, needs-based lighting of the stairwells, Renewal of the exterior lighting with LED. 30 31 ENVIRONWaste management For many years, we have been achieving a high recycling rate. Only 0.8 % of our waste requires disposal. MENTAL 99.2 % Recycling rate POLICY HCI solvent balance 4.0 3.5 Disposal in tons As a leading company in the industry of flexible metallic elements, we feel a particular degree of responsibility to stand up for the protection and 3.0 Emissions 2.7 conservation of natural resources. Early on, we committed to corporate 2.5 in tons management based on the careful use of resources. We continuously 2.0 strive to avoid or reduce to a minimum damage and stress on the environ1.5 1.27 ment through the production and use of our products. We comply with 1.0 0.76 0.47 0.8 all relevant legal standards and other requirements as a matter of course. 0.5 0.5 The following environmental guidelines apply to the implementation of the 0.0 environmental policy in all divisions of the company: 2012 2013 2014 p We consider the conservation of natural resources for future generations Operating hours 9.394 10.673 to be an important part of our social responsibility. 10.000 per year p We regard environmental protection as an important component of 8.000 6.778 corporate governance and formulate concrete goals and rules of conduct 6.000 for its implementation. 4.000 p We recognise the importance of each employee in the implementation of 2.000 environmental protection measures and in providing training opportuni2012 2013 2014 ties and decent working conditions. p We identify and assess the environmental impacts of our business proRinse water cesses through continuous analysis. New processes and materials were examined for their environmental compatibility before use. Production 90 turnover 1 million 1 p We are committed to continually improving our environmental perfor80 87 86 mance and take all necessary measures to prevent, eliminate or at least reduce our environmental impacts to a minimum. 70 Rinse water p We publish a regular sustainability report to keep our customers, the 60 in litres general public and the relevant authorities informed about our social and 50 50 ecological engagement. 40 30 252 245 248 Since 1997, we have regularly published an environmental report in which we document our 20 environmental protection system, how we use our resources and other important key data relating to the environment. You will find a presentation of the current data on page 42. 10 0 2012 2013 2014 32 33 CLIMATE ASSESSMENT 120,000 CliCCC – Climate & Carbon 100,000 107,529 Calculator for Companies 80,000 84,202 87,279 0,381 10,972 8,592 8,906 Source: 60,000 0,306 0,299 Documentation: CliCCC practical 40,000 test at the Witzenmann GmbH, year under review 2014, Pforzheim 20,000 University, Institute for Industrial 0 Ecology 2012 2013 2014 Prof. Dr. Mario Schmidt Graduate Economist Pforzheim University Clemens Raqué Recognised total emissions in t CO2 equivalent INEC (Institute for Industrial Ecology) Pforzheim University Cumulative emission intensity (CEI) in kg CO2 equivalent/12014 Ecological Company Management / INEC (Institute for Industrial Operations Research Ecology) inhabitants been made with the recognised total emissions, Since 2010, Witzenmann GmbH has measured Scope 3 The results in detail CEI as well as with the emissions from scope its carbon footprint annually (the greenhouse gas CO2 balance of the raw materials and semi-finished products used, but also From the composition of the results for the 2014 reporting year (p. 37), it is 1 and 3. These improvements amount to 19 % emissions for the headquarters) for its Pforzheim the emissions generated in the manufacture of tools and machines used in clear that most of the emissions come from scope 3. Most of the emissiin the recognised total emissions, 22 % in the and Remchingen sites. For this purpose, the Inproduction. ons are in the goods category comprising pig iron, steel and semi-finished CEI, 33 % in scope 1 and 20 % in scope 3. With stitute for Industrial Ecology (INEC) of Pforzheim iron and steel products, which makes up 36 % of all recognised emissions an increase of 1 %, the emissions from scope 2 University headed by Prof. Dr. Mario Schmidt Overview of results with 31,842 t CO2 equivalent. In this case, it is wise to offer incentives have hardly increased at all. Compared to the results carried out a so-called CliCCC analysis (Climate & The purpose of this overview of results is to enable a quick insight. For this to suppliers in this goods category to encourage them to disclose their from 2010, significant improvements by 49 % and Carbon Calculator for Companies). purpose, the three indicators specific emissions. The same applies to the goods categories comprising 16 % have been made in scope 1 and 2. Incremetal products and foundry products, which has 19,879 and 10,125 t CO2 ases were noticed, however, in the recognised This accounting of the climatically harmful CO2 p recognised total emissions, equivalent and is therefore also above the total emissions from scope 2. total emissions, the CEI and in scope 3. emissions not only takes into account the greenp cumulative emission intensity (CEI) and For future investments in fixed assets it is expedient to also take the energy house gases emitted directly by the company, p population equivalent are selected. consumption as a decision criterion into account. Reduction of material intensity but also considers the emissions caused by the These amount to 18 % in the recognised total materials that are purchased and the suppliers The recognised total emissions reveal the sum of all emissions from the Within scope 2, electricity dominates with 6,695 t CO2 equivalent. Here, emissions, 5 % in the CEI and 26 % in scope 3. in what is known as the upstream chain. The individual categories. The CEI is the ratio of recognised total emissions we check to see whether emissions can be reduced in this area by using The increase of the CEI shows that the recogniemissions are divided into three categories of to company turnover. The sales of the comparison years is adjusted for an electricity product with lower emissions. Such a measure is faster and sed total emissions have increased more sharply observation, scopes 1-3. price in order to represent a timeline. The current CEI can be passed on to easier to implement than measures in scope 3. Scope 1 with 517 t CO2 than the turnover. To counteract this devecustomers. To put the rather abstract recognised total emissions indicator equivalent is negligible. Through the direct connection to the company, holopment, in addition to the recommendations Scope 1 in concrete terms, the population equivalent is also indicated and is the wever, there may be potential here to implement measures to reduce emisalready mentioned, we recommend checking Direct emissions caused by production and operatio of the recognised total emissions to the annual pro capita emissions sions. In accordance with the ranking, we can first check to see whether whether the material intensity of the production ration of the company. of Germany. emissions can be reduced when using natural gas and heating oil. processes can be reduced. Scope 2 Turnover of the Witzenmann GmbH in Millions of Euros Improvements in scope 1 and 2, increase in scope 3 Source: Documentation: CliCCC practical test at the Witzenmann GmbH, year under review 2014 Weighted emissions caused by the generation Compared to the results from 2013, improvements have been made with Pforzheim University, 2012 2013 2014 and supply of energy for the company. the CEI as well as in scope 1 and 2. The improvements amount to 2 % in INEC (Institute for Industrial Ecology) 283 275 292 the CEI, 44 % in scope 1 and 6 % in scope 2. The recognised total emissions and emissions from scope 3, however, have increased by 4 % and 5 %. Compared to the results from 2012, significant improvements have 34 35 CLICCC – COMPOSITION OF THE RESULTS 120,000 Scope 1 Natural gas Heating oil Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) Diesel 100,000 Scope 2 Electricity (specific emission factor) District heating 80,000 Scope 3 Pig iron, steel, semi-finished iron and steel products Metal products t CO² equivalent Foundry products 60,000 Electricity, service for electricity, P. heating and cooling supply from tier 2 Chemical products Rubber and plastic products P. Other preliminary work (extrapolated on the P. 40,000 basis of 91.62 % of expected emissions from preliminary work) P. Machines Other fixed assets (extrapolated on the basis of 91.72 % of expected emissions from fixed 20,000 assets) P. = preliminary work F. = fixed assets F. F. F. F. 0 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Not assessed Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 (P. & F.) (P. & F.) (P. & F.) (P. & F.) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 36 37 POOLING EXPERTISE The Resource Efficiency (NeRess) network has set itself the task of pooling the expertise and experience from resource-conserving production, products and management. It provides mutual information and enables the networking of diverse players from business and politics. The aim is to promote a more efficient resource use of products and services in production, trade and consumption. For this purpose, the network brings together players from politics, companies, associations, chambers, trade unions, sciences and institutions of the federation and states and initiates the exchange of experience concerning promising approaches of resource efficiency. Witzenmann has been actively engaged in the network since 2014, and in April 2014, organised the 6th network meeting Initiative for resource efficiency and climate protection . At the headquarters in Pforzheim the Managing Director, Philip Paschen, The visitors follow the greeted the the networkers from the other companies, trade associations, politics and statements of Oliver Leippi universities. Apart from a brief introduction of the company, the agenda included attentively (foreman/ fz-pp-EGR) concerning the Witzenmann the Witzenmann Process System (WPS), the considerations and handling of the issue process system. of sustainability as well as a practical example for increasing resource efficiency from the Witzenmann production. 38 39 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY Less is more Project: Helix welding Various winding profiles Material saving: > 40 tons/year Resource efficiency is an approach for reconciling economic and enviExhaust gas decoupling elements are used for In principle, stripwound hoses could also be Due to the high serial quantities the ronmental objectives and is a key strategy for sustainable development, vibration decoupling and motion compensation used with a hooked profile. These material saving adds up to 41.6 t annually for the selected product. particularly of industrial companies. Efficient handling of raw materials is in vehicles. They normally consist of the followhave considerably fewer materials, but would gaining increasingly in importance in companies. Energy and resource effiing components: unhook during radial reshaping. cient production constitutes a competitive advantage and eases the impact p metal bellows as a gas-tight, flexible element, There are solutions on the market, whereby on the environment. p surrounding braiding or knit braiding for tracthe stripwound hoses with a hooked profile tion limitation, are welded to the end sleeves. These Excellent example of resource efficiency p a stripwound hose for flow routing within. end sleeves use a lot of material and are correIn 2013, the Ministry for the Environment in Baden-Württemberg and the spondingly expensive and heavy. Central Associations of the local economy formed an alliance for increasing To affix the stripwound hose, this is radially resource efficiency. In the project 100 companies for resource efficiency , reshaped on its ends with the ends of the metal During the helix welding process, the windings companies from Baden-Württemberg present tangible projects from their bellows. Hoses with an Agraff profile have only of the stripwound hoses with a hooked profile everyday production. They should serve as an example to encourage other been suitable for this packaging until now, since are welded together at its beginning and end. companies and traders to handle raw materials efficiently. Witzenmann has this ensures that this profile does not unhook By welding the windings, the ends are affixed applied with the patented helix welding process. during the reshaping of the end. so that the radial formability can be carried out without any risk of unhooking. 40 41 ENVIRONMENT CONTACT Environmental report Witzenmann GmbH 2012 2013 2014 Procurement turnover Millions of € 95.6 94.8 98.2 Plates/tubes/wire % 17 17 15 Parts/components % 74 75 75 Energy/auxiliary materials % 9 8 10 Waste management Total volume of waste t 2,392 2,262 2,514 Recycling rate % 99.1 99.2 99.2 Philip Paschen René Pflittner Jochen Geiger Water consumption 1,000 cbm 25.4 24.7 22.6 As Managing Director, Philip In his role as the Environmental The Head of the Marketing and HCI solvent balance Paschen is responsible for the Protection Officer, he is the person Public Relations department at WitDisposal t 2.7 1.27 0.79 “Business process management, to contact with regard to all internal zenmann GmbH is responsible for Emissions t 0.47 0.76 0.54 logistics and sustainability (GFgIn)” and external questions relating to editing the sustainability report. Space utilisation % 152 148 148 division. His areas of responsibithe environment and Witzenmann Energy lity include, among other things, GmbH. Electricity draw MWh 16,425 16,275 16,450 industrial engineering (including Electricity draw/1 million € of turnover MWh / € 58 58.9 56.3 productivity management, lean Building heating production, lean administration and District heating MWh 9,261 9,456 7,240 six sigma), plant design, building Natural gas MWh 1,954 1,968 1,856 management, logistics, sustainabiliEnergy requirement/1000 employees MWh 7.1 7.3 5.4 ty and compliance. Furthermore, he is responsible for the Commercial Vehicles / Engines business division Environmentally relevant incidents Date Incident Action 23. January 2014 Oil in the courtyard before receipt of goods due to hose Binded with 2 sacks of oil binding agent. burst on forklift truck. 07. July 2014 Oil patch in the courtyard before building 2. Binded with 1 sack of oil binding agent. August 2014 Oil separator Remchingen interrupted briefly due to Emptying and filling, measures against recurrence: Notice IMPRINT initiated floor cleaner signs and raising awareness of staff. 19. September 2015 Oil patch and oil stains in the entire courtyard area. Binded with 3 sacks of oil binding agent. 07. October 2014 Oil patch in the courtyard between building 2 and builBinded with 3 sacks of oil binding agent. ding 4. Polluter: Forwarding agent 22. October 2014 Oil stain in the courtyard before building 2. No polluter Binded with 0.5 sacks of oil binding agent. Publisher: identifiable Executive Management at Witzenmann GmbH, P.O.Box 101280, 75112 Pforzheim, Germany Author of the environmental report: René Pflittner, Environmental Protection Officer Editor: Marketing Witzenmann GmbH, Phone: +49 7231 581-208 Design: Schindler Parent Industry GmbH, Eutinger Str. 2, 75175 Pforzheim, Germany 42 43
