k e e e p l i f s o n g n r e v o l v i ASYA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 04 06 CONTENT CEO ABOUT STATEMENT THE REPORT 07 08 28 FOOD STEPS ASYA OUR SUSTAINABLITY OF OUR IN-SIGHT APPROACH BUSINESS Milestones of 40 Years’ Stakeholder Engagement 29 Experience 08 Materiality Matters 30 Asya All Around Environmental Sustainability 31 the World 10 Carbon Management 32 Governance 12 Waste Management 36 Our Values 14 Sustainable Supply Chain 38 External Recognition 16 Social Investment 41 Highlights Of Our Production 17 Products 17 Capabilities 18 Financial Numbers 19 Our People 20 Occupational Health & Safety 23 Innovation 24 Quality Policy 24 Food Safety 25 Asya Soul Kitchen 26 04 ASYA Sustainability Report CEO STATEMENT strived to embed all of these issues as a part of our corporate strategy. Our participation to UN Global Compact in 2012, as a pioneer in our sector, accelerated ASYA’s sustainability studies. Since our first COP report in 2013 we have made a considerable I’m very pleased to introduce ASYA’s improvement on being a better first sustainability report 2014. Our corporate citizen. sustainability strategy is based on giving what we get from the nature. In today’s challenging business With this report we aim to respond all environment, we aim to boost local the needs and expectations of our economic development by supporting stakeholders. Within this aim our agriculture with our Green Tag project. report includes our sustainable Within the frame of this project we agriculture efforts, health and safety have been supporting the local farmers issues, community welfare, human around our production area Egirdir for rights and environmental impacts of 3 consecutive years. We meet regularly our work. Form day one we always with our “GreenTag Farmers, who are our prior suppliers, to inform them ASYA Sustainability Report 05 about the latest agricultural researches and The positive outcomes of our efforts for technology, train them on how to raise sustainable development keep us motivated on productivity and and quality considering this journey. We set new targets, focus more on environmental and social effects. innovation, participate international social initiatives and communicate with our CO2 management is one of the major stakeholders more frequently. sustainability issues for us. Following the measurement of our first carbon footprint in With our 40 years expertise and dedicated team, 2012, necessary measures are taken we intend to reach better solutions for all our immediately. After a %15 reduction in our first stakeholders and for the whole community. year, in the following year we achieved to reduce our carbon emission 8%, which is even more I would like to thank ASYA team for all their help than our target (5%). We also cooperate with our and efforts in our sustainable revolution and logistics partners to reduce our indirect carbon preparing this report and to our stakeholders for impact that occurs during the transportation their valuable contributions. processes of our products. We focus on working with partners who uses environmental friendly Selahattin Önen technologies and experience environmental CEO projects where it operates. 06 ASYA Sustainability Report ABOUT THE REPORT Asya Fruit Juice and Food Ingredients Inc. operates in Ankara and Isparta, Turkey. In this report unless otherwise noted, ‘ASYA’ and ‘the Company’ refer to the information about headquarters in Ankara and the factory in Isparta. This report covers operations of ASYA mainly from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. It aims to inform stakeholders about ASYA, its operations and impacts of these operations. As a participant of UN Global Compact, ASYA fulfills COP (Communication of Progress) Report’s requirements in this report. In the sustainability context materiality refers to ASYA’s significant impacts considering internal and external stakeholder concerns. This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. As ASYA, we share our economic, environmental, social and governance performance transparently with our stakeholders via our first sustainability report. Contact person for further information: G101 Consultancy Elif Seçkin Önen info@g101.com.tr *Please also kindly share your feedbacks with us. (G4-3, G4-6, G4-28, G4-31) ASYA Sustainability Report 07 FOOD STEPS OF OUR BUSINESS STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 FINAL Journey of a single seed is miracle of nature. As ASYA, we get inspired by that miracle and offer natural and healthy products to our clients. 08 ASYA Sustainability Report ASYA IN SIGHT We started our journey in 1974 with fruit juice, today we are running as a strategic solution partner for all our stakeholders in food industry through a wide product range, extending from custom-made fruit sauces to fruit juice concentrates and purees. Our production principle is using state of the art technology and providing customized services. linesa ction roject s produ tion p . ntrate odel od Inc timiza nos jects ent m nd Fo conce ge op in Ava ory nt pro nagem uice a clear r R&D rgy an Eğirdi first f Labor mana ss ba SYA F actor ry to at on ou r d w at geme sed m ruit J y facto er usa a rease t of A of ou ent o chang proce r tion o f our ty inc e f our Begin Estab ration lishm capac ning o ning o ing of lishm i f ene f en Inaug u Reloc a Estab 40% Begin Begin n 19721975199319962005200520072009 Milestones of 40 years’ experience Begin ning o f natu ral ar oma c ap turing proce ss First ASYA carbo n foo tprint meas urem ent Decla ration of ou r comm i tmen t to UN Globa l Com pact princi Estab ples lishm ent o f A SY A Sou lkitch en Begin ning o f A SY A IBP Integ rated Busin ess P lannin g Launc h ing of our su staina ble ag ricult ure p roject Green TAG Estab li shme n t of o ur De io nized P roduc t ion Li ne Publi shing our fi rs t sust 20092010201220122013201320142014 ainab ility r eport ASYA Sustainability Report 09 10 ASYA Sustainability Report ASYA ALL AROUND THE WORLD We are a global player that exports to more than 20 countries, in 4 continents throughout the world. With our more than 40 years of experience we offer food ingredients and service solutions in many sectors from cosmetics to baby formula from drink to candy. EUROPE ASIA AMERICA AFRICA Austria Italy Azerbaijan USA Algeria Belgium Martinique China Canada Tunusia England Portugal India Mexico France Poland Israel Peru Germany Serbia Japan Greece Spain Malaysia Holland Sweden Russia Hungary Switzerland South Korea Ireland Ukraine (G4-8) ASYA Sustainability Report 11 AUSTRIABELGIUMENGLANDFRANCEGERMANYGREECE HOLLANDHUNGARYIRELANDAZERBAIJANCHINAINDIA ISRAELJAPANMALAYSIARUSSIASOUTH KOREAUKRAINE USACANADAMEXICOPERUALGERIATUNUSIA 12 ASYA Sustainability Report GOVERNANCE Asya is a member of AGE Group of Companies. AGE FOOD Holding CONSTRUCTION ENERGY InfrastrucSuperstrucElectric Electricity ture ture Project Project Production Trading HydroWind Geothermal Natural Sun electric Gas 14 ASYA Sustainability Report OUR VALUES Sustainability Team Work INTEGRITY Trust Excellence Believing in the importance of value based management, we focus on developing long term, transparent and trust based relationships with our stakeholders as our main principle. Our customer service approach is to stand behind our commitments without any compromise of total quality in production and processes. ASYA Sustainability Report 15 TEAM WORK Team Work is the key step of our success. Each team member work for the common goal and share their knowledge. Diversity of our team makes us powerful while coping with obstacles and creating new ideas. EXCELLENCE There are five basic components for our Excellence approach. High quality, focusing on solutions, effective communication and information channels, analyzing problems and taking necessary actions promptly. TRUST Occupational health and safety is our priority. Trainings based on safety defines our high standards to create trust and maintains them. Besides, competency, sincerity and credibility are the roots of trust. SUSTAINABILITY We focuses on company growth through value adding and profitability for our stakeholders. Being aware of our impacts to the world, we evaluate each change from social, economic, cultural and environmental perspectives. INTEGRITY Integrity carries on the Company with its values. Our values makes us aware of both our own impacts and our stakeholders’ impact to the World. Creating shared value is possible with integrity. Contributing to art and culture aiming to make visions visible to everyone is part of our integrity approach. 16 ASYA Sustainability Report EXTERNAL RECOGNITION Achieving sustainability depends on collective action. Based on this idea, in order to increase awareness about sustainability and CSR, for experience sharing and having a chance to take effective action, ASYA is participated various initiatives and non-profit institutions. Besides, our CEO, Selahattin Önen, takes an active role in Turkish Juice Industry Association as Board Member. ASYA IS PARTICIPANT OF; ASYA is Participant of; UN Global Compact Voluntary Turkish Juice Industry Association Voluntary Turkish Food&Beverage Industry Employers Association Voluntary The International Federation of Fruit Juice Producers Voluntary European Fruit Juice Association Voluntary Foreign Economic Relations Board Voluntary Sedex-B Type Membership Voluntary Ankara Chamber of Commerce Obligatory Ankara Chamber of Industry Obligatory Isparta Chamber of Commerce Obligatory Isparta Commodity Exchange Voluntary Central Anatolian Exporters Union Voluntary Mediterranean Exporters Union Voluntary Uludağ Exporters Union Voluntary İstanbul Exporters Union Voluntary (G4-15, G4-16) ASYA Sustainability Report 17 HIGHLIGHTS OF OUR PRODUCTION PRODUCTS We have a very wide range of products to offer best solutions for our customers. Asya’s wide range of products in 2014; Puree SPECIES Concentrates NFC Puree Concentrates Deionized JC Powder Apple Pear Quince Date White Grape Red Grape Pomegranate Sour Cherry Sweet Cherry Strawberry Black Carrot Red Beet Orange Lemon Appricot Peach Plum Damson (G4-4) 18 ASYA Sustainability Report 33820245006500 CAPABILITIES We focus on cutting edge technologies to sustain our quality. Our business model is built on continuous improvement of our product and services quality efficiency and effectiveness. Through our change and innovation process we act within the awareness of resource optimization for particularly water and energy. Our factory is built on 33.820 m2 facility area in Isparta, Turkey. Our process and storage area is 14.000 m2 . Our factory, which has 120.000 ton/year total fruit processing capacity and 24.500 ton/year total production capacity, has been equipped with high technology and increased manufacturing capacity to 40%. In 2006, -18C˚ cold storage capacity was increased up to 100%. Today our cold storage capacity is 6.500 ton. The other important improvements in 2006 was stopping using fuel oil no 6 and starting to use LNG (liquid naturel gas) for our production processes. This transformation provided energy saving and minimized air pollution impact of our production processes. ASYA Sustainability Report 19 620343079934289 FINANCIAL NUMBERS ASYA is a public, but not quoted on the stock exchange, company with 880 shareholders in total. We produced approximately 58.000.000 kg products in 2014. Our net sales of the year worth approximately 24.000.000 TL. All our products are manufactured in our production site in Isparta, Turkey. TOTAL ASSETS 62,034,307 TL TOTAL EQUITY 9,934,289 TL (G4-7, G4-9) 20 ASYA Sustainability Report OUR PEOPLE Human resources is the most valuable asset for us. Their occupational health and safety and occupational improvement is cared by the Company. Necessary trainings are organized for our team’s continuous improvement and high motivation. Annual training ASYA annual training Annual budget duration of ASYA team duration per man/hour for trainings 2116,5 hrs 35,27 20,000 TL As ASYA, we are strictly against child labor and forced labor. Further, we do not work or cooperate with companies and suppliers which practice child labor. In our factory there is no risk for incidents of child labor and young workers exposed to hazardous work. ASYA does not have any employees under age of 18. During hiring processes each employee identities are controlled and enrolled Social Security Institution by ASYA. All ASYA employees are free to quit job within scope of the law. Our Human Resource Department apply all legal procedures in favor of our employees in case of quitting jobs. ASYA Sustainability Report 21 Work Force of ASYA with Facts in 2014 Employees by Age; between 18-25 between 26-34 between 36-45 above 45 22 34 51 22 Employees by Category; Employees by Gender (full-time); blue collar white collar women men 95 34 22 94 Employees by employment contract; Employees by seasonal variations; full-time part-time permanent seasonal 116 13 85 44 We respect our employees’ personal differences and do not discriminate according to their personal differences. During hiring process we do not question our candidates’ sex, language, religion, race, political view or difference of opinion. Any practices in violation of universal human rights are considered unacceptable for ASYA. (G4-9, G4-10, LA9, HR3, HR5, HR6) ASYA Sustainability Report 23 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY Providing health and safe working environment is our responsibility. Determining risks and taking necessary measures provide safe working environment for ASYA team. We cooperate with professional Health and Safety consultant to achieve continuous development. We have ‘ASYA standards’ that focus on employee health and safety. During hiring process and periodic health controls those standards are pursued. In order to increase safety in production site, the machines, which pose risk, are surrounded for maintenance. We have built stainless steel wedge-wires where handling is not convenient. Sometimes our employees need to work in high places. In order to provide safe working conditions for them, we provide safe platforms. Our other precautionary actions are; increasing employees who have first-aid certificate, preparing site plans in which emergency exits are more visible, informing our employees about the site plans by putting them on the required parts of the production site, informing our related employees about chemicals which they expose, conducting fire and earthquake drill periodically, monthly meetings with workers’ representatives. Both in our head-quarter and factory there is no worker who have a high incidence or high risk of specific diseases. Asya was audited by Ministry of Labor and Social Security and passed successfully. (LA7) 24 ASYA Sustainability Report INNOVATION QUALITY POLICY We produce eco-friendly products with high quality, in compliance to food safety and legal regulations. Our approach to quality is Total Quality Management, including quality of our products, processes and human resource. Therefore as in our values, training and learning is the foundation of our quality policy and is a priority without exception. For continuous development in quality, we value traceability as a key success factor. To sustain our product traceability we execute detailed quality analyzes for each production party including pesticide and heavy metal in our accredited laboratory. Our product quality is certified by various institutions; International Organization for International Organization for International Organization for Republic of Turkey Ministry of Food, ????????? ????????? ????????? StandardizationFood safety Standardization-Quality Management Standardization-Quality Management Agriculture and Livestock management systems G-F K-Q TSE-ISO-EN TSE-ISO-EN 22000 9000 Association for the Inspection Canadian Organic Standards United States Department Halal Correct and Certification of ????????? ????????? ????????? of Agriculture Food and Supplies Food BRC Certificated International Food Standard Sure-Global-Fair ????????? Federation of Synagogues????????? ????????? Kosher Certificate (PR1) ASYA Sustainability Report 25 FOOD SAFETY Our products have direct impact on customers’ health. As a responsible company, we assess health and safety impacts for improvement. From development of product concept to supply, all stages are assessed in an appropriate manner. Our product safety is beyond the laws and regulations. Asya’s team put great effort in order to offer healthier and safer products. Gelatine free for apple/pomegranate juice concentrate WE BELIEV Lower patulin level IN NATURE Activated carbon free for all our products Alicyclobacillus filtration for our productions (PR1) 26 ASYA Sustainability Report ASYA SOUL KITCHEN Innovation is an imperative for our business. As ASYA we believe that experience, creativity, dynamism, convenience, and affection are the bases of innovation. Any creative, new idea is welcomed by ASYA team in our Soul Kitchen. 28 ASYA Sustainability Report OUR SUSTAINABLITY APPROACH As Asya, our impacts are under control with regular assessments. We set targets to increase Asya’s ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) performance. Each issue of triple bottom line is monitored by related departments and related organizations. Audit conclusions and feedbacks from our stakeholders are evaluated carefully and seriously. Relying on the evaluations, related measures are taken and consequences are shared with our stakeholders transparently. This loop creates significant value and improvement to our business processes. Selahattin Önen-Chairman / Social Impacts Our company values are integrated to all of our processes. Occupational health and safety, customer health and safety, nondiscrimination, anti-corruption, education and training, usage of environmental friendly technology and marketing communications are prior issues for Asya. All of these are important components of our business ethics. As a participant of UN Global Compact, we believe that business ethics leads success, and we can only achieve with our stakeholders’ support. Therefore, effective communication with our stakeholders plays an important role on our sustainability journey. (G4-34, G4-56) ASYA Sustainability Report 29 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Believing in the importance of value based management, we focus on developing long term, transparent and trust based relationships with our stakeholders as our main principle. ASYA has a strong and effective communication channels with its stakeholders. Dialogue with suppliers and clients has significant contribution to our whole business processes. Therefore, we try to inform and get feedback from our stakeholders regularly in different communication platforms. In order to have stronger and effective dialogue with our stakeholders, we benefit from different communication channels. Bulletins related to sustainability practices of the Company, periodic informative meetings, informative e-mails, web site, satisfaction surveys, grievance mechanism, trainings, conferences, social media, subscriptions, strategic alliances, press releases, press meetings, voluntary CSR activities and sponsorships are examples of our communication channels with our stakeholders. The stakeholder engagement in ASYA is shaped based on impacts of our operations. The frequency of engagement increases in parallel with the impact level. During the report preparation process we focus on the stakeholders which represent our most significant impacts. Internal Stakeholders External Stakeholders Employees Financial Institutions Government Board of Directors and the President Investors NGOs Customers Media Suppliers Society (G4-24, G4-25, G4-26) 30 ASYA Sustainability Report MATERIALITY MATTERS INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDER ASSESSMENT AND DECESIONS Very High Employee Waste Management Indirect Training Product Safety Economic Impact Occupational Stakeholder Health and Safety Dialogue Governance Supply Chain Compliance with Carbon Location Laws&Regulations Management Social Awareness Energy Efficiency Environment Friendly Technology Employee Quality Management Diversification High Very High ASYA’S SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS Determination of our important impacts is the first step of our sustainability strategy. We have a large supply chain in parallel with our product variety, customers in various sectors and millions of end users. So, our impacts considers very wide zone. Determination process of our significant impacts was a collective work with our stakeholders. We try to inform our stakeholders about each material issue via this report. (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21) ASYA Sustainability Report 31 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ASYA supports the precautionary approach as set out in Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development: “In order to protect the environment, capabilities. Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.” We define the current and potential risks and take action accordingly. Risk management comprises both environmental and health related risks. As a responsible corporate citizen, we assess risks and manage them. (G4-14) Ebru Gültekin-Quality Assurance Team Leader / Environmental Impacts As Asya we try to assess potential environmental impacts before operations and take necessary measures. Our experienced and sensitive team work for finding environmental friendly solutions for our customers. Each ASYA team member has the responsibility to ensure that our products and operations meet all regulations and laws. As ASYA, we are disposed to achieve beyond regulations and laws. We manage our greenhouse gas emissions to reduce our impact on climate change and our wastes to minimize land and water pollution. (G4-33) 32 ASYA Sustainability Report CARBON MANAGEMENT As a pioneer in our sector we evaluated our carbon footprint and following this process we executed an internal green revolution project to reduce our emissions. Our aim is to reduce our emissions %5 every year. Attaining our aim depends on various production conditions and production capacity. Increased demand and cold storage capacity causes higher electricity and refrigerant gas consumption. According to the results of carbon footprint assessment, our total corporate carbon footprint is 17.804,47 tone CO2e in 2014. The weighted percent of emission sources are; LNG consumption 37,2%, shipment 28,1%, and electricity consumption 15,57%. ASYA Sustainability Report 33 In order to minimize our CO2 impact we have taken particular measures; 1. Izolation of steam pipes in heat station are done. In this way LNG usage is minimized. 2. Mingler of sourceherry concentrate preheater isolation is done. In this way steam usage of mingler is decreased. 3. zolation of boiler room and flue outlet are done. 4. The bulbs are replace with environmental friendly ones for office lightning. In addition, for production site’s lightning roofing material is replaced with ones which let daylight in more. Through these replacements, 25.281kwh energy saving is achieved annually. 5. Air curtain unit is placed in front of one of the cold storage’s door. In this way, over electricity usage is eliminated. 6. One of the cold storage’s compressor motor is renewed to increase energy saving. 7. Waste water pumps are renewed. In this way we target energy saving and better waste water management. 8. Water meters are started use for measuring amount of waste water. ‘Carbon emission’ calculations include carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrogen oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbon (HFC), perfluorocarbon (PFC) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6). The calculation is made according to ISO 14064 criteria and includes 100% of greenhouse gases caused by operations of 34 ASYA Sustainability Report GHG EMISSIONS in METRIC TONS of CO2 EQUIVALENT Our environment policy is not limited with just our own operations. As ASYA we prefer to work with companies which have environmental policy and have environment friendly business processes. Logistics is one of the most important sector in terms of causing high degree of greenhouse gases. We prefer to work with logistic companies which have sustainability practices including assessment of environmental impact and decreasing negative impacts, occupational health and safety, customer privacy and social contributions. (EN3, EN6, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN19) 36 ASYA Sustainability Report WASTE MANAGEMENT As Asya, we try not to let our business processes cause land and water pollution. We waste management system including cooperation with governmental organizations for disposal of all type wastes. Our waste management system covers eight group of wastes. All groups are disposed in most appropriate method by professional organizations. The wastes related to our raw materials, fruits, are reused in other sectors like cosmetics. Disposal and Reused Methods ASYA Sustainability Report 37 (EN23) 38 ASYA Sustainability Report SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN We believe in integrating our sustainable production approach into our whole supply chain ASYA’s supply chain requires high product safety. For each part of supply chain protecting product quality represents our quality. Therefore, sustainable supply chain is serious and important issue for ASYA. Fresh fruit is the most important ingredient of ASYA products. Their quality directly reflect on our products. Therefore, for a more sustainable supply GREEN chain we started our sustainable agriculture project Green TAG. TAG Green TAG initiative is about raising sustainability and quality awareness amongst farmers by training them on how to raise productivity and improve efficiency considering environmental and social effects. ASYA Sustainability Report 39 We started our project with 100 small scale farmers from 6 different villages in the vicinity of our production area Eğirdir. By the end of our first year, we increased the quality of our product 85% comparing to previous year. By the end of 2014, we have 167 Green Tag members. Our target is to extend our scope to 250 farmers within 3 years. In 2014, for improvement of traceability from field to table we have started a new project called ‘Traceability System and Integrated Pest Control Methods’ in order to develop apple puree for babies within the Green Tag project. Total budget of our new project is 2,500,000 TL. Our project has gained financial support from Turkey’s most credited scientific institution TÜBİTAK (The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey). Traceability System Project target is to develop a food safety management system by getting under control the issues below; • Production ﬁeld location • Output amount • Apple cultivars • Challenges in the production ﬁeld • Agricultural pesticides and fertilizer • Irrigation methods • Pests, heavy metal, patulin (İngilizcesi?) Another sustainable agriculture project, ‘Sample Garden’, has been started with Süleyman Demirel University cooperation. All types of apple, land and water resources are examined within the project in Isparta with more than 1000 samples. Besides providing 5 training sessions on sustainable agriculture practices, we provided financial support to the Green Tag farmers who full fills our criteria’s successfully. 40 ASYA Sustainability Report 4 GOALS for GREEN TAG Raise quality awareness on both sides; farmersand consumers Green TAG has been awarded as the “CSR Project of the Year” at Increasing the quality of Turkish fruit the “National Platinum Apple to the highest standards Awards”. Also, Green Tag was finalist of Sustainable Business Achieving full traceability from farmer Awards organized by to consumer; transparent supply chain Sustainability Academy in 2014. Positioning “Green TAG” as a sign of high quality production Besides national sustainable supply chain, Asya has joined Sedex to improve ethical and responsible global supply chain. As B type participant of Sedex, accountability in supply chain is prior issue for Asya. Having accurate information about the product that our customers purchase is their right. Therefore, we inform our customers transparently and accurately by using various communication channels mentioned in ‘stakeholder engagement’ part of this report. (G4-12, EC8) ASYA Sustainability Report 41 SOCIAL INVESTMENTS Art&Culture In Turkey art & culture need extra support inorder to survive. Turkish artists and performers have great talent and passion towards their work of art. 26th Ankara International Film Festival is one of those important social activity which is organized by Global Mass Communication Studies Foundation. The foundation has been organising the Ankara International Film Festival for the past seventeen years. Asya’s CEO, Selahattin Önen, support 26th Ankara International Film Festival as board member of Global Mass Communication Studies Foundation. There are various kind of interactive actvities for young artists and art lovers in the scope of festival. Increasing awareness and knowledge, encouraging young talents, are some of purpose of the festival. 42 ASYA Sustainability Report Environmental Activities Asya volunteer team participate Give& Gain Day both in Ankara and Isparta on 10th of March. Our volunteer team clean the around of Eğirdir Lake in Isparta and METU forest in Ankara with Let’s Do It Turkey, which is a NGO aims to clean environment, team. We are sharing the happiness of going a step further in the way of a better corporate citizenship through giving support to the United Nations Global Compact which consists of 10 fundamental principles that are based on human rights, labor, anti-corruption and environment. Our first COP Report “ASYA at a Glance” can be reached from the link below; www.unglobalcompact.org/participant ASYA Sustainability Report 43 United Nations Global Compact Indicators Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 44 ASYA Sustainability Report GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) G4 INDICATORS G4 General Standard Disclosure Page/Link/Explanation External Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO Statement Page 4 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Page 6 G4-4 Page 17 G4-5 Headquarters: Tahran Caddesi No:19/4 Location of the organization’s headquarters 06700 Kavaklıdere ANKARA TURKEY G4-6 Page10 G4-7 Page 19 G4-8 Page 10 G4-9 Page 19, 21 G4-10 Page 21 G4-12 Page 40 There is no significant changes during the reporting G4-13 period (2014) regarding the organization’s size structure, ownership or its supplychain. G4-14 Page 31 G4-15 Page 16 G4-16 Page 16 ASYA Sustainability Report 45 G4 General Standard Disclosure Page/Link/Explanation External Assurance IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Page 6 G4-18 Page 30 G4-19 Page 30 G4-20 Page 30 G4-21 Page 30 Since this is the first sustainability report of ASYA, there is G4-22 no restatement of information provided in previous report. Since this is the first sustainability report of ASYA, there G4-23 is no significant changes from previous reporting period (2014) in the Scope and Aspect boundries. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Page 29 G4-25 Page 29 G4-26 Page 29 The key topics that stakeholders raised are reflected in G4-27 Materility Matters part of the report. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Page 6 G4-29 This is the first sustainability report of ASYA. G4-30 ASYA plans to publish its sustainability report annually. G4-31 Page 6 G4-32 Page 44 Asya’s sustainability report contains data which has been G4-33 subject to external auditing. The financial data provided has undergone independent auditing and been approved. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Page 28, 31 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Page 28 46 ASYA Sustainability Report MATERIAL ASPECTS AS DMA AND EXTERNAL INDICATOR DETAIL PAGE / LINK OMISSIONS LISTED IN INDICATORS ASSURANCE G4-19 ECONOMIC Indirect Economic Significant indirect economic impacts, EC8 Page 40 Impacts including the extent of impacts ENVIRONMENT The amount of energy used within Energy EN3 Page 34 the organization The decrease in the amount of energy EN6 Page 34 used Direct greenhouse gas emissions Emissons EN15 Page 34 (Scope 1) Energy indirect greenhouse gas EN16 Page 34 emissions (Scope 2) Other indirect greenhouse gas EN17 Page 34 emissions (Scope 3) Reduction of greenhouse gas EN19 Page 34 emissions Total weight of waste by type and EN23 Page 37 disposal method Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste EN25 N/A deemed under the terms of Basel Convention Asya has not been Monetary value of significant fines penalized for any and total number of non-monetary Compliance EN29 non-compliance with sanctions for non-compliance with any environmental environmental laws and regulations laws or regulations ASYA Sustainability Report 47 MATERIAL ASPECTS AS DMA AND EXTERNAL INDICATOR DETAIL PAGE / LINK OMISSIONS LISTED IN INDICATORS ASSURANCE G4-19 SOCIAL Labor Practices and Decent Work Our all employees, both women and men, Return to work and retention rates Employment LA3 returned to work after parental leave, by gender after parental leave in reporting period. Workers with high incidence or high Occupational Health LA7 risk of diseases related to their Page 23 and Safety occupation Average hours of training per year Training and LA9 per employee by gender, and by Page 21 Education employee category Human Rights Total number of incidences of There is no Non-Discrimination HR3 discrimination and the measures incident related to taken the subject Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of Child Labor HR5 child labor, and measures taken to Page 21 contribute to the elimination of child labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Forced or HR6 or compulsory labor, and measures Page 21 Compulsory Labor taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor SOCIETY There is no Incidences of corruption and Anti-Corruption SO5 incident related to measures taken the subject Total number of legal actions for antiNo legal process Anti-Competitive competitive behavior, anti-trust, and SO7 related to the Behaviour monopoly practices and the results of subject these actions 48 ASYA Sustainability Report MATERIAL ASPECTS AS DMA AND EXTERNAL INDICATOR DETAIL PAGE / LINK OMISSIONS LISTED IN INDICATORS ASSURANCE G4-19 There is no fine Monetary value of significant fines as a result of not and total number of non-monetary Compliance SO8 complying with sanctions for non-compliance with legislation and laws and regulations regulations Percentage of significant product and Product service categories for which health PR1 Responsibility and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and There is no voluntary codes concerning the PR2 incident related to health and safety impacts of products the subject and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and There is no PR4 voluntary codes concerning product incident related to and service information and labeling, the subject by type of outcomes There is no Marketing PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products incident related to Communications the subject Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations There is no and voluntary codes concerning PR7 incident related to marketing communications, the subject including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Total number of substantiated There is no complaints regarding breaches PR8 incident related to of customer privacy and losses of the subject customer data Monetary value of significant fines There is no for non-compliance with laws and PR9 incident related to regulations concerning the provision the subject and use of products and services a t a s y w . a s . c t e o w m w
