Mizuho Financial Group 2016 Integrated Report –Annual Review– April 2015 – March 2016 Building the future with you The most trusted financial services a broad customer base, contributing and Japan. To be our customer’s most trusted partner with innovaThe most trusted tive thinking and the extensive financial experience and financial services expertise accumulated from relationships with widegroup ranging customers. To continuously provide the best leading-edge financial The best financial services to each of our customers, the related economies services provider and societies we serve, by anticipating changes on both the global and local stages. To maximize our extensive expertise and collective capaThe most cohesive bilities as experienced financial services professionals in financial services order to meet the diversified and changing needs of our group customers, economies and societies. Mizuho Financial Group group with a global presence and to the prosperity of the world, Asia, 2016 Integrated Report 1 Contents 4 Value Creation Process 6 Business Domain 8 Mizuho’s Strengths 10 Financial Highlights 11 ESG Highlights 14 Mizuho in Fiscal 2015 16 Board of Directors 18 Message from the Group CEO 24 Message from the Group CFO Who We Are What We Aim to Do Our Strategies for Value Creation 26 New Medium-term Business Plan: Progressive Development of “One MIZUHO” —The Path to a Financial Services Consulting Group 32 Retail & Business Banking Company 36 Corporate & Institutional Company 40 Global Corporate Company 44 Global Markets Company 48 Asset Management Company 52 Global Products Unit 56 Research & Consulting Unit 60 Proactive Initiatives for New Technology 62 Initiatives for Responsible Investment and Financing 64 Management Support for SME Customers and Regional Revitalization Editorial Policy Besides financial information, this Integrated Report includes information regarding such subjects as corporate identity, corporate strategies, and ESG (environment, society, and governance). The report presents information on Mizuho’s efforts related to strategies, governance, corporate culture, and other subjects along with information on how those activities are leading to the creation of value for Mizuho and the society over the short, medium, and long terms. It was edited with the intention of providing stakeholders with concise and clear explanations in a story-like form. We hope this report will further improve understanding of Mizuho and its goal of being “the most trusted financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, contributing to the prosperity of the world, Asia, and Japan.” Guidelines Referred To Scope of the report Publication Information Definition International Integrated Reporting Period covered: Date of issue: September 2016 MHFG: Mizuho Financial Group Council’s International Integrated From April 1, 2015 to March 31, MHBK: Mizuho Bank Reporting Framework 2016 MHTB: Mizuho Trust & Banking (published on December 2013) Also includes some information MHSC: Mizuho Securities after April 2016 TCSB: Trust & Custody Services Bank Scope covered: MHAM: Mizuho Asset Management In principle, MHFG and its DIAM: DIAM subsidiaries and affiliates MHRI: Mizuho Research Institute MHIR: Mizuho Information & Research Institute MHPW: Mizuho Private Wealth Management The Group: MHFG and its subsidiaries and affiliates 2 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Financial Review Company Information 66 Corporate Governance 100 Six-Year Major Financial Data 106 Office Network 74 Message from the Chairman of (FY2010-2015) 108 Group Companies the Board of Directors 101 Review and Analysis for Fiscal 2015 112 Corporate Profile 76 Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) 78 Mizuho’s Definition of the Three Lines of Defense 79 Internal Audit Structure Appendix 80 Risk Management 82 Compliance 114 Compliance Contacts 84 Management of Customer Protection 115 Risk Management Structure 86 Activities to Fulfill Fiduciary Duties 132 Business Continuity Management 88 IT Strategy 133 Senior Executive 90 Human Resources Strategy 134 Location of Overseas Offices 94 Measures to Form a Common Culture 137 Investor Information throughout the Group 139 Disclosure Policy 95 Initiatives to Improve Customer Satisfaction (CS) 140 Privacy Policy Regarding Customer and Be the Best Financial Services Provider Information 96 Initiatives for Reducing the Environmental Burden 141 Financial Analysis [Under Japanese GAAP] 97 Social Contribution Initiatives 149 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial 98 Stakeholder Communication Group, Inc. [Under Japanese GAAP] 251 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries [Under Japanese GAAP] 265 Status of Capital Adequacy 345 Websites All figures contained in this report are calculated using accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”). Forward-Looking Statements This Integrated Report contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including estimates, forecasts, targets and plans. Such forward-looking statements do not represent any guarantee by management of future performance. In many cases, but not all, we use such words as “aim,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “endeavor,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “probability,” “project,” “risk,” “seek,” “should,” “strive,” “target” and similar expressions in relation to us or our management to identify forward-looking statements. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategies, and management may fail to achieve its targets, for a wide range of possible reasons, including, without limitation: increase in allowance for loan losses and incurrence of significant credit-related costs; declines in the value of our securities portfolio; changes in interest rates; foreign currency fluctuations; decrease in the market liquidity of our assets; revised assumptions or other changes related to our pension plans; a decline in our deferred tax assets; the effect of financial transactions entered into for hedging and other similar purposes; failure to maintain required capital adequacy ratio levels; downgrades in our credit ratings; our ability to avoid reputational harm; our ability to implement our Medium-term Business Plan and other strategic initiatives and measures effectively; the effectiveness of our operational, legal and other risk management policies; the effect of changes in general economic conditions in Japan and elsewhere; and amendments and other changes to the laws and regulations that are applicable to us. Further information regarding factors that could affect our financial condition and results of operations is included in “Item 3.D. Key Information—Risk Factors,” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” in our most recent Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and our report on Form 6-K furnished to the SEC on July 29, 2016, both of which are available in the Financial Information section of our web page at www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/ and also at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The contents of this Integrated Report were prepared prior to the announcement of our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2016. We do not intend to update our forward-looking statements. We are under no obligation, and disclaim any obligation, to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by the rules of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 2016 Integrated Report 3 Who We Are Value Creation Process Mizuho’s Corporate Philosophy, which is contained in its (customer-focused perspective) and “operational excellence” Corporate Identity statement, includes “bringing fruitfulness and through its sophisticated risk-taking capability and finanfor each customer and the economies and the societies in cial intermediary functions, Mizuho is fundamentally commitwhich we operate. Mizuho creates lasting value. It is what ted to maintaining close relationships with its customers and makes us invaluable.” to building the future of economies and societies as the most To implement this Corporate Philosophy, Mizuho, drawing trusted financial partner in providing solutions for its customers on its strengths and taking account of changes in the business and communities. environment in Japan and overseas, is structuring a new busiSeeking to establish competitive advantage and to inness model, a “financial services consulting group” by taking crease its corporate value by securing sustainable and stable the “One MIZUHO Strategy” to the next stage. Specifically, profits, Mizuho will fulfill even greater social missions than based on the foundations of the “customer first” principle ever before. 4 Mizuho Financial Group Who We Are What We Aim to Do Our Strategies for Value Creation Foundations for Our Corporate Value Financial Review 5 2016 Integrated Report Who We Are Business Domain Mizuho Financial Group (”the Group”) is composed of MHFG (holding company) and its subsidiaries and affiliates and provides banking, trust banking, securities and other financial services. Since April 2016, Mizuho has introduced an in-house company structure based on customer segments. The aim of this structure is to utilize Mizuho’s strengths and competitive advantage, under a holding company which integrates the banking, trust banking and securities functions, to responsively provide highest-quality financial services that closely match customer needs. Two units independent from the in-house companies were established to further enhance expertise and support all of the in-house companies. Group Structure of Mizuho Holding Company Mizuho Financial Group (MHFG) Banking Trust Banking Securities Core Group Companies Trust and Custody Services Bank (TCSB) Mizuho Asset Management (MHAM) Mizuho Mizuho DIAM*1 Mizuho Bank Trust & Banking Securities Mizuho Research Institute (MHRI) (MHBK) (MHTB) (MHSC) Mizuho Information & Research Institute (MHIR) Mizuho Private Wealth Management (MHPW) *1. An affiliate under the equity method *2. U.S. bank holding company (launched on July 1, 2016) Core Group Company Note: In July 2016, DIAM, the asset management function of Mizuho Americas *2 MHTB, MHAM and Shinko Asset Management entered into a definitive integration agreement. The effective date of integration will be October 1, 2016, subject to certain conditions precedent, and the name of the new company will be “Asset Management One.” 6 Mizuho Financial Group In-house Company Structure Who We Are Retail & Business Banking Individual Customers SMEs P32 Global Products Unit Research & Consulting Unit Company Middle Market Corporations Large Corporations Corporate & Institutional Financial Institutions What We Aim to Do P36 Company Public-Sector Entities Americas EMEA Global Corporate Company East Asia P40 Our Strategies for Value Creation Asia & Oceania Global Markets Company Investors P44 Transaction Investment Banking Foundations for Our Corporate Value Asset Management Company Investors P48 P52 P56 [Reference] Net Business Profits in Fiscal 2015 Calculated taking account of the in-house company system based on results by division in fiscal 2015 (billions of ¥) FY2015 Results Before head office Financial Review expense deduction Retail & Business Banking Company 16 87 Corporate & Institutional Company 253 276 Global Corporate Company 170 192 Global Markets Company 398 428 Asset Management Company 22 22 (Exchange rate: US$1=¥123) 2016 Integrated Report 7 Who We Are Mizuho’s Strengths Broad Customer Base (As of June 30, 2016 excluding ATM network) Japan Mizuho is the sole megabank to have branches in all 47 prefectures, and has the No. 1 ATM network*1 in Japan Branches in Japan: approximately 800 Of which joint branches among MHBK, MHTB and MHSC: approximately190 ATMs*2: approximately 6,700 *1. Mizuho is No.1 in terms of the number of proprietary ATM locations along with the number of other ATM locations offering the similar user fees through its own membership service. *2. Approximately 1,800 MHBK ATM locations and 4,900 Aeon Bank ATM locations (as of March 31, 2016) Individual Comprehensive SME & Middle Coverage of Listed Customers: Securities Accounts: Market Borrowers, etc. Companies in Japan: 24 million 1.65 million 100,000 70% Global Broad global network with a focus on Asia, where economic growth is continuing 117 offices worldwide, covering 38 countries and regions Europe, Middle East, Americas: and Africa: 39 Coverage of Forbes 24 Global 200* Asia & Oceania: (Non-Japanese Corporate Customers) 54 80% *Top 200 corporations from Forbes Global 2000 (excluding financial institutions) Location of Overseas Offices, See P134 8 Mizuho Financial Group Products Capability Outstanding performance in each field achieved through offering optimal solutions Who We Are What We Aim to Do Our Strategies for Value Creation No. 1 in Industry Expertise among Japanese Banks Foundations for Our Corporate Value Mizuho’s Industry Research Department has amassed in-depth understanding and Disseminating Information expertise on industries and corporations, and, by combining its analyst functions, strateMizuho releases reports including Mizuho gist function, and corporate finance support function, offers global and comprehensive Industry Research, which analyzes industry solution. from a broad perspective, and MIZUHO Since April 2016, as part of Mizuho’s “One Think Tank,” the department has Research & Analysis, which surveys areas strengthened cooperation with the group’s research and consulting functions to contribfrom macroeconomic trends to industry ute to tackling customers’ diverse business issues. Research & Consulting Unit, See P56 structure changes and developments in individual business fields. Corporate finance Financial Review Analyst function Strategist function support function Provides a wide range Provides business strategy Supports the formuladevelopment support of industry expertise retion of customers’ and policy advice based garding industry trends financial and manageon a solid background of in Japan and overseas industry expertise ment strategies 2016 Integrated Report 9 Who We Are Financial Highlights Cash Dividend per Share of Common Stock (¥) 800 8 7.5 7.5 7.5 6.5 6.0 6.0 600 6 400 4 200 2 0 0 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (Estimate) (Estimate) BIS Capital Ratio Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio Tier 1 Capital Ratio (%) Total Capital Ratio 80 6.0 20 15.41 60 4.5 15 14.36 14.58 12.64 11.35 11.50 10.50 40 3.0 10 8.80 9.43 20 1.5 5 0 0 0 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 March 31, March 31, March 31, 2014 2015 2016 *1. Excluding loans to MHFG. “Overseas Offices” is calculated based on an aggregate of banking and trust account basis and represents loans booked at overseas offices, including the impact of foreign exchange translation *2. Aggregate figures for MHBK and MHTB on a non-consolidated basis 10 Mizuho Financial Group ESG Highlights Mizuho addresses environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues to contribute to the sustainable development of society and to create corporate value For more details, please access MHFG’s websites. http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/csr/index.html Who We Are Environment Environment-related Funding Drawing on its knowledge as a global financial group, Mizuho will develop and offer financial products and services that encourage society to promote environmental considerations. What We Aim to Do Environment-related Awards 800 Finance for solar photovoltaic (PV) power plant project located in Jordan which was arranged by MHBK was awarded Environmental Finance of the Year (Solar Category) from 600 Environmental Finance in March 2016. With an expected output of 52.5 megawatts, this is one of the largest solar 400 PV power plant projects in the Middle East. It is also the first solar power project in the Middle East financed by commerOur Strategies for Value Creation cial banks. 200 0 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Initiatives for Smart City Project Mizuho’s goal is to support growth strategies of Japanese industries and promote the development of high-quality, sustainable infraFoundations for Our Corporate Value structure from a financial standpoint using our smart city project management expertise with Japanese environmental technology. Smart City Projects with Mizuho’s Involvement Smart community demonstration project in Greater Manchester, UK Environmental city project in Economic-Technological Smart community development Development Area in Tianjin, China plan in Haryana State, India Environmental city development project in Nansha, Guangzhou, China Smart community demonstration Financial Review project in Slovenia Integrated township development with eco-friendly infrastructure Smart grid demonstration project project in Chennai, India in Hawaii, U.S.A. Environmental monitoring of industrial park project in Saudi Arabia 2016 Integrated Report 11 Who We Are Society Revitalizing Local Communities Mizuho has invested a total of around ¥10.2 billion in 17 funds and is providing industry knowledge and capital with the aim of contributing to the development of Japan’s economy and society, strengthening the competitiveness of Japanese industries through the collaboration with regional banks, national and local public entities, and investing in Sixth Industry Funds and regional vitalization funds. Regional Revitalization-related Funds Invested by Mizuho Legend The Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Sixth Industry Fund Hokkaido Bank Agribusiness Fund: Name of Fund Amount (MHBK investment) ¥3.0 billion (¥300 million) Other regional vitalization funds Revitalization Fund for Name of Fund Core Regional Businesses Amount (MHBK investment) (Throughout Japan): Mizuho Tohoku ¥29.05 billion (¥1.5 billion) Industrial Development Fund: ¥6.1 billion (¥6 billion) Tohoku Future Tomato Sixth Industry Tajima and Yabu Sixth Hack Osaka Fund: Support Fund: Support Fund: Industry Support Fund: ¥4.8 billion (¥500 million) ¥2.0 billion (¥180 million) ¥1.0 billion (¥100 million) ¥200 million (¥48 million) Gogin Agriculture, Fukushima Regional Forestry, and Fisheries Sixth Industry Recovery Fund: Support Fund: ¥2.0 billion (¥250 million) ¥1.0 billion (¥100 million) Hiroshima Agriculture, Tochimaru Sixth Industry Forestry, and Fisheries Growth Support Fund: Growth Support Fund: ¥2.0 billion (¥230 million) ¥1.0 billion (¥100 million) Towa Fund for the Aichi Local Agriculture, Support of Agriculture, Hiroshima Innovation Forestry, and Fisheries Forestry and Fisheries as Fund II: Growth Support Fund: Sixth Industries: ¥6.52 billion (¥500 million) ¥1.0 billion (¥100 million) ¥1.08 billion (¥80 million) Shigin Sixth Industry Kiyo Sixth Industry Hyakugo Sixth Support Fund: Support Fund: Industry Fund: ¥1.0 billion (¥100 million) ¥1.0 billion (¥100 million) ¥500 million (¥50 million) (As of March 31, 2016) Governance As a Company with Three Committees, MHFG has built a corporate governance framework centering on the Board of Directors. Corporate Governance, See P66-73 Board of Directors Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Internal Non-executive Chairman*1 Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Director Percentage of Outside Directors*1 46%*2 100% 100% 60% Number of Meetings Held in FY2015 13 6 8 18 (Average Attendance Rate)*3 (100%) (100%) (95%) (100%) *1. As of June 24, 2016 *2. Over half of members (61%) are Non-Executive Directors. *3. Average attendance rate for Directors as of March 31, 2016 12 Mizuho Financial Group ESG Highlights Society Initiatives to Promote Diversity and Work-life Balance Who We Are Mizuho strives to improve its work environments and change mindsets within the company so that each and every employee in the Group can work without difficulty, feel motivated by their work and exercise their abilities to their maximum potential. Human Resources Strategy, See P90-93 Percentage of Management Positions Filled by Women (Domestic) (%) Goal: around 17% 20 35 18.0 15.9 14.3 15 13.0 30 11.6 What We Aim to Do 13.7 10 12.0 25 10.5 Goal: around 13% 9.2 8.1 5 20 0 0 March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016  Banking division (MHBK + MHTB)  Securities division (MHSC) Our Strategies for Value Creation Diversity-related Awards Childcare Support In March 2016, MHFG was awarded as a “New Diversity In March 2016, our six group Management Selection 100” company for actively engaging in companies* were certified as diversity management by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and “Platinum Kurumin” by the Industry (METI). Also it was chosen as “Nadeshiko Brand” for Minister of Health, Labour and initiatives related to promoting women’s participation in the Welfare, a special certified workforce by METI, and Tokyo Stock Exchange. company that provides superior childcare support for its employees Foundations for Our Corporate Value based on “Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children.” New Diversity Management Nadeshiko Brand *MHFG, MHBK, MHTB, MHSC, MHIR and TCSB Selection 100 ESG Evaluation The ESG initiatives that have been carried out by Mizuho thus far have received high evaluations, and Mizuho has been a part of social responsibility investment indices both inside and outside Japan. Social Responsibility Indices which include Mizuho (as of June 2016) Financial Review 2016 Integrated Report 13 Who We Are Mizuho in Fiscal 2015 We positioned fiscal 2015 as the year in which the Group would do its utmost to establish competitive advantages, and together strived to further promote the evolution of the integrated strategy among banking, trust banking and securities functions and enhance its corporate governance. Governance Organization Strategy June 1, 2015 July 24, 2015 September 30, 2015 Filing of Corporate Governance Report Established the “Incubation PT” as Signed a memorandum of understandStrategy and Management Base with Tokyo Stock Exchange, describing our an independent team under the ing on integration of asset management actions in response to all of the principles of holding company (MHFG) with companies P48 the Corporate Governance Code the objective of strengthening September 30, 2015 group-wide initiatives to create Entered into a capital and business alliance new businesses using cutting-edge with Matthews Asia to strengthen asset technologies P60 Tokyo 2020 management business P51 April 14, 2015 Became Tokyo 2020 Gold Partner to Strategy support the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games* August 24, 2015 Began to provide bank agency services at all domestic branches in Japan and some of the head office business divisions of MHSC Apr. 2015 May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Transaction banking Corporate banking Research May 15, 2015 August 5, 2015 (Tokyo) August 28, 2015 Commenced to provide supply chain December 4, 2015 (Osaka) Published research report entitled, Products and Services finance using IT to meet cashflow imHeld business matching forum “Internet of Things (IoT): Current provement needs of overseas companies (Promoting tourism to Japan) Status and Outlook Based on Research P54 on IoT and Artificial Intelligence” Market Research September 7 to 11, 2015 July 6, 2015 Held “Mizuho Investment Conference,” one of Announced policy proposal regarding the largest seminars in Japan on Japanese stocks “Promoting Overseas Development of the Medical Industry Using ICT” International banking September 28, 2015 Issued Thai baht-denominated bonds under AMBIF (ASEAN+3 Multi-Currency Bond Issuance Framework) (worth approx. ¥10 billion) P43 *Mizuho Financial Group is a Tokyo 2020 Gold Banking Partner 14 Mizuho Financial Group Who We Are Governance Strategy February 12, 2016 May 13, 2016 Published Policies regarding Announced new medium-term business plan: Mizuho’s Fiduciary Duties Progressive Development of “One MIZUHO” – The Path External evaluation P86-87 to a Financial Services Consulting Group P26-31 June 9, 2016 Selected as “Competitive IT Strategy External evaluation Strategy Company 2016” by October 28, 2015 March 16, 2016 What We Aim to Do METI and the Tokyo Stock Announced acquiring shares of Simplex Designated as “Nadeshiko Brand” by the Exchange Real Estate Management and Simplex Ministry of Economy, Trade REIT Partners to enhance its asset and Industry (“METI”) and management business P55 the Tokyo Stock Exchange P13 Strategy July 1, 2016 Launched Mizuho Americas, a US bank Our Strategies for Value Creation holding company Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. 2016 Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Personal banking Personal banking Corporate banking & investment banking Foundations for Our Corporate Value October 30, 2015 November 2, 2015 March 1, 2016 Commenced “SMART FOLIO” Commenced MHBK card Arranged project financing for the concession advisory service by asset manloans, “Executive Plan” of Kansai International Airport and Osaka agement robots P61 International Airport, the largest airport concession in Japan Personal banking Corporate banking December 3, 2015 March 3, 2016 Banking services for wearable smartEstablished private equity fund “Gulf Japan phones won a “Security Committee Food Fund” to promote export of agricultural, Special Award in MCPC* 2015” forestry and fishery products to the Middle East from Japan Financial Review P39 *Mobile Computing Promotion Consortium (Contains some information dated after April 1, 2016.) 2016 Integrated Report 15 Who We Are Board of Directors ⑬ ⑪ ⑨ ⑧ ⑩ ⑫ ⑦ ⑤ ③ ① ② ④ ⑥ Yasuhiro Sato ① Ryusuke Aya ⑪ Koichi Iida ⑬ President & Group CEO Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer (Representative Executive Officer) Head of Risk Management Group / Group CRO Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group / Apr. 2010 General Manager of Risk Management Group CFO Mar. 2003 Executive Officer / Senior Corporate Officer of International Banking Unit of Mizuho Division of MHCB Apr. 2011 General Manager of Syndicated Finance Corporate Bank (MHCB) Apr. 2012 Executive Officer / General Manager of Structuring Division of MHCB Apr. 2004 Managing Executive Officer / Risk Management Division of MHFG Apr. 2012 General Manager of Corporate Banking In charge of business promotion (until Nov. 2013) Division No.10 Executive Officer / General Manager of Head of Corporate Coverage Department I Mar. 2006 Executive Managing Director / Risk Management Division of MHBK of MHSC (until Apr. 2016) Head of Corporate Banking Unit Executive Officer / General Manager of Jul. 2013 General Manager of Corporate Banking Apr. 2007 Deputy President / Chief Auditor Risk Management Division of MHCB Division No.10 of MHBK* Apr. 2009 President & CEO (until Jul. 2013) Jul. 2013 Executive Officer / General Manager of Apr. 2015 Executive Officer, General Manager of Risk Management Division of MHBK* Corporate Banking Division No.10 Jun. 2009 Member of the Board of Directors of MHFG Nov. 2013 Managing Executive Officer / Head of Apr. 2016 Managing Executive Officer, Head of Jun. 2011 Member of the Board of Directors of MHBK Risk Management Group of MHFG Financial Control & Accounting Group of President & Group CEO of MHFG (until Jun. 2014) MHFG (until Jun. 2014) Managing Executive Officer / Head of Executive Managing Director, Head of Jul. 2013 President & CEO of MHBK* Financial Control & Accounting Group of Risk Management Group of MHBK Apr. 2014 Member of the Board of Directors (current) Managing Executive Officer / In charge of MHBK (current) Member of the Board of Directors of MHTB Risk Management Group of MHTB Jun. 2016 Member of the Board of Directors, (current) Managing Executive Officer / In charge of Managing Executive Officer / Head of Member of the Board of Directors of MHSC Risk Management Group of MHSC Financial Control & Accounting Group of (current) MHFG (current) Apr. 2014 Executive Managing Director / Head of Jun. 2014 Member of the Board of Directors, Risk Management Group of MHBK (current) President & Group CEO of MHFG (current) Jun. 2014 Member of the Board of Directors, Hideyuki Takahashi ⑧ Managing Executive Officer / Head of Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors Shusaku Tsuhara ⑩ Risk Management Group of MHFG (current) Member of the Audit Committee (Chairman) Senior Managing Executive Officer Apr. 2007 Executive Officer / Senior Corporate Officer Head of Compliance Group / Group CCO of Strategic Planning Group of MHCB Koji Fujiwara ⑫ Apr. 2010 Executive Officer / General Manager of Managing Executive Officer Apr. 2009 Managing Executive Officer / Head of Global Executive Secretariat of MHFG Head of Strategic Planning Group / Group CSO Portfolio Management Unit, Head of Apr. 2012 Managing Executive Officer / In charge of Apr. 2010 General Manager of Investor Relations Financial Institutions & Public Sector Branch Banking Group of MHBK Division of MHFG Business Unit, Head of Global Alternative Investment Unit Jul. 2013 Managing Executive Officer / Apr. 2012 Executive Officer / General Manager of In charge of Corporate Banking of MHBK* Investor Relations Division Apr. 2010 Managing Executive Officer / Chief Financial Officer and Chief Portfolio Management Apr. 2015 Senior Managing Executive Officer / Head Apr. 2014 Managing Executive Officer / Officer of Compliance Group of MHFG Head of Strategic Planning Group Senior Executive Managing Director / Head Executive Managing Director / Head of Apr. 2011 Managing Executive Officer / Chief Financial of Compliance Group of MHBK (current) Strategic Planning Group of MHBK (current) Officer, Chief Portfolio Management Officer and Chief Information Officer Jun. 2015 Member of the Board of Directors, Senior Jun. 2014 Member of the Board of Directors, Managing Executive Officer / Head of Managing Executive Officer / Head of Compliance Group of MHFG (current) Strategic Planning Group of MHFG (current) 16 Mizuho Financial Group Apr. 2012 Managing Executive Officer / Head of Tetsuo Seki ③g Tatsuo Kainaka ⑤g Financial Control & Accounting Group of Member of the Compensation Committee Member of the Nominating Committee MHFG Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Compensation Committee (Chairman) Managing Executive Officer / Head of Member of the Audit Committee Financial Control & Accounting Group of Apr. 1963 Joined Yawata Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. MHBK (until Apr. 2013) Jun. 1993 Director of Nippon Steel Corporation Apr. 1966 Appointed as Public Prosecutor Who We Are Managing Executive Officer / Head of Apr. 1997 Managing Director Jan. 2002 Superintending Prosecutor of the Tokyo Financial Control & Accounting Group of High Public Prosecutors Office MHCB (until Apr. 2013) Apr. 2000 Representative Director and Executive Vice President Oct. 2002 Justice of the Supreme Court Managing Executive Officer / In charge of Strategic Planning, Financial Control & Jun. 2003 Executive Advisor Mar. 2010 Admitted to the Tokyo Bar Association Accounting Group of MHTB (until Apr. 2013) Jun. 2004 Senior Corporate Auditor Apr. 2010 Joined Takusyou Sogo Law Office (current) President & CEO of Mizuho Financial Jan. 2011 President of the Life Insurance Policyholders Strategy (until Apr. 2014) Jun. 2006 Independent Director of Terumo Corporation (until Sep. 2008) Protection Corporation of Japan (current) Jun. 2012 Executive Managing Director / Nov. 2013 Member of the Board of Directors Head of Financial Control & Accounting Mar. 2007 Outside Director of Sapporo Holdings Limited (until Sep. 2008) (Outside Director) of MHBK (until Jun. 2014) Group of MHFG Jun. 2007 Outside Director of Tokyo Financial Exchange Jun. 2014 Member of the Board of Directors Apr. 2013 Deputy President / Head of Financial Control (Outside Director) of MHFG (current) & Accounting Group (until Apr. 2014) Inc. (until Sep. 2008) Deputy President & Executive Officer / Head Oct. 2007 Chairperson of the Japan Corporate What We Aim to Do of Financial Control & Accounting Group of Auditors Association (until Oct. 2008) Hirotake Abe ⑥g MHBK Outside Director of Japan Post Holdings Member of the Audit Committee Deputy President & Executive Officer / Head Co., Ltd. (until Sep. 2008) Jan. 1970 Joined Tohmatsu Awoki & Co. of Financial Control & Accounting Group of Jun. 2008 Executive Advisor to Nippon Steel Jun. 1985 Temporarily transferred to Deloitte & MHCB Corporation (until Sep. 2008) Touche New York Office (until Oct. 1992) Managing Executive Officer / In charge of Strategic Planning, Financial Control & Oct. 2008 President (Representative Director) of the Jul. 1990 Senior Partner of Tohmatsu & Co. Accounting Group of MHTB (until Apr. 2014) Shoko Chukin Bank, Ltd. Jun. 2001 CEO (until May 2007) Managing Executive Officer / In charge of Jun. 2013 General Advisor (current) Financial Control & Accounting Group of Jun. 2004 Executive Member of Deloitte Touche Jun. 2015 Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Tohmatsu Limited (until May 2007) MHSC (until Apr. 2014) Director) of MHFG (current) Jul. 2013 Deputy President & Executive Officer / Head Jun. 2007 Senior Adviser of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Mar. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of (until Dec. 2009) of Financial Control & Accounting Group of Our Strategies for Value Creation Sapporo Holdings Limited (current) MHBK* Jan. 2010 Established the Certified Public Accountant Apr. 2014 Member of the Board of Directors of MHFG Hirotake Abe Office (current) (current) Takashi Kawamura ④g Jun. 2015 Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Nominating Committee (Outside Director) of MHFG (current) Jun. 2014 Member of the Board of Directors of MHBK Member of the Compensation Committee (current) Apr. 1962 Joined Hitachi, Ltd. Hiroko Ota ⑦g Jun. 1995 Director Nobukatsu Funaki ⑨ Chairman of the Board of Directors Member of the Audit Committee Jun. 1997 Executive Managing Director Member of the Nominating Committee Mar. 2010 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Apr. 1999 Executive Vice President and Representative Apr. 1996 Associate Professor, the Graduate School of MHCB (until Jun. 2013) Director Policy Science, Saitama University Apr. 2013 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Outside Apr. 2003 Director (until Jun. 2007) Oct. 1997 Associate Professor, National Graduate Member) of MHSC (until Jun. 2014) Jun. 2003 Chairman of the Board and Representative Institute for Policy Studies Foundations for Our Corporate Value Jun. 2013 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of MHFG Executive Officer, Hitachi Software Apr. 2001 Professor, National Graduate Institute for Engineering Co., Ltd. Policy Studies Jun. 2014 Member of the Board of Directors (current) Jun. 2005 Chairman of the Board, Hitachi Plant Apr. 2002 Director for Economic Research, Cabinet Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. (until Office Mitsuo Ohashi ②g Jun. 2009) Mar. 2003 Deputy Director General for Economic Member of the Nominating Committee (Chairman) Jun. 2006 Chairman of the Board, Hitachi Software Research, Cabinet Office Mar. 1959 Joined Mitsui Bank, Ltd. Engineering Co., Ltd. (until Jun. 2007) Apr. 2004 Director General for Economic Research, Dec. 1961 Joined Showa Denko K.K. Jun. 2007 Chairman of the Board, Hitachi Maxell, Ltd. Cabinet Office May 1988 General Manager of Corporate Planning (until Jun. 2009) Aug. 2005 Professor, National Graduate Institute for Division Apr. 2009 Representative Executive Officer, Chairman, Policy Studies Mar. 1989 Director / General Manager of Corporate President and Chief Executive Officer, Sep. 2006 Minister of State for Economic and Fiscal Planning Division Hitachi, Ltd. Policy Mar. 1993 Managing Director Jun. 2009 Representative Executive Officer, Chairman, Aug. 2008 Professor, National Graduate Institute for President and Chief Executive Officer and Policy Studies (current) Mar. 1995 Senior Managing Director Director Mar. 1997 President and Chief Executive Officer Apr. 2009 Vice-President, National Graduate Institute Apr. 2010 Representative Executive Officer, Chairman for Policy Studies (until Mar. 2011) Jan. 2005 Representative Director and Chairman of and Director the Board of Directors Jun. 2014 Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Financial Review Apr. 2011 Chairman of the Board Director) of MHFG (current) Jun. 2005 Member of the Board of Directors Apr. 2014 Director (Outside Director) of MHFG (current) Jun. 2014 Advisor (until Jun. 2016) * The former MHBK and the former MHCB conducted Mar. 2007 Director and Chairman of the Board of Member of the Board of Directors (Outside a merger on July 1, 2013, whereby the former Directors of Showa Denko K.K. Director) of MHFG (current) MHCB was the surviving company in an absorptionMar. 2010 Senior Advisor type merger, and the former MHCB changed its Mar. 2014 Senior Counselor (current) trade name to MHBK. Internal director who cocurrently serves as executive officer Internal non-executive director Outside director 2016 Integrated Report 17 What We Aim to Do Message from the Group CEO As a “financial services consulting group,” we aim to be the most-trusted partner in solving problems and supporting the sustainable growth of customers and communities. Yasuhiro Sato President & Group CEO Member of the Board of Directors Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 18 Mizuho Financial Group As President & Group CEO of MHFG, I would like to express Understanding of Management Environment our deep appreciation for your continued interest in and support of our Group. Although the world economy is likely to continue to grow, the We announced a new medium-term business plan for slowdown in the rate of growth in the United States and in the Who We Are the next three-year period starting from fiscal 2016, entitled emerging countries, such as China, will limit the overall ecoProgressive Development of “One MIZUHO”—The Path to a nomic growth going forward, and uncertainty about its future Financial Services Consulting Group. course is growing. While paying careful attention to the developTo enable you to gain a more in-depth understanding of ment of regulatory reforms of the global financial system, we are Mizuho, including the spirit of the new medium-term busiaware of the necessity for establishing a financial base supported ness plan, I would like to provide an explanation of our plans. by a balance sheet that is resilient against the uncertainties in the world economy, and by a sustainable and stable profit structure. First, let us take a look at the business model transitions Also, in view of structural changes in the economic and What We Aim to Do that have been made in the financial industry. What we social environment in Japan and overseas, including Japan’s have positioned as Phase IV, or the decade of the 2010s, is declining birthrate and the aging and shrinking population, the a time of exploring a new business model after the Lehman globalization of business activities, continuing technological Crisis. In the previous medium-term business plan, Mizuho innovation, climate change and other factors, as a global finanpresented a progressive business model, the “One MIZUHO cial services group with its base in Japan, we will help address Strategy,” which promoted the integrated strategy among and contribute to the solutions of a wide range of social issues. banking, trust banking and securities functions. In preparing Consideration of these factors has given us a renewed awareour new medium-term business plan, we gave consideration ness of the necessity of creating new business opportunities. Our Strategies for Value Creation to creating a new business model that would take account Especially, in the midst of technological progress, the acceleratof the management environment, the accomplishments and ing financial innovation, as exemplified by Fintech, has made challenges under the previous medium-term business plan, clear the need to create new value for our customers by workthe unchanging value as a financial institution and Mizuho’s ing together with selected third parties, and thereby establish Corporate Identity. unique competitiveness. Transition of the Business Model for the Financial Industry, Our Corporate Philosophy and Unchanging Value as a Financial Institution Foundations for Our Corporate Value Financial Review 2016 Integrated Report 19 What We Aim to Do Accomplishments and Challenges to be Addressed New Medium-term Business Plan under the Previous Medium-term Business Plan From the implications gained from our views of the manageUnder the previous medium-term business plan, One MIZUHO ment environment, we concluded that we would formulate a New Frontier Plan— Stepping Up to the Next Challenges, new medium-term business plan for creating a new business we focused on the actual needs of our customers, and, model as a “financial services consulting group” in order for us to to respond effectively to their diverse and differing needs, effectively respond to possible changes in the business environwe introduced a group management structure by which ment, maintaining and continuing the core value of the previous group-wide business units took the lead in formulating and medium-term business plan, the “customer first” principle. promoting business strategies and initiatives for banking, trust This new plan will further perfect and move our “One banking, securities and other functions. Over the three years MIZUHO Strategy” to the next stage upward, which will lead of the previous plan, under the banner of One MIZUHO, we us to support the sustainable growth of our customers and positioned the “customer first” principle (customer-focused communities. This is the fundamental idea of the new plan. perspective) as a cornerstone of the plan and implemented Defining our objectives as being “a financial services conour “One MIZUHO Strategy.” As a result, we met almost all sulting group – The most trusted partner in solving problems of our financial targets and made progress toward reforming and supporting the sustainable growth of customers and to a sustainable and stable profit structure. We also successcommunities,” we set five basic policies in the new plan, based fully enhanced our corporate governance by shifting to a on our risk appetite policy for the medium-term and business “Company with Three Committees” and by strengthening the portfolio analysis. These policies were further specified as 10 functions of the holding company. basic strategies relating to business strategies, financial strateOn the other hand, as one of the Global Systemically gies and management foundations. Important Financial Institutions (G-SIFIs), we believe that it is Furthermore, we set “fully implementing the ‘customer necessary for us to further strengthen our capital base and first’ principle” and “pursuing ‘operational excellence,’” as establish a sustainable and stable profit structure through the two fundamental requirements for becoming a “financial such measures as further cost structure reforms. services consulting group.” Achievements of Principal Financial Targets under the Previous Medium-term Business Plan 20 Mizuho Financial Group Message from the Group CEO Fully Implementing the “Customer First” activities, we will be positioned to offer a superior selection of Principle (Customer-Focused Perspective) consulting services. Accompanying changes in the economy and society, customer Regarding the fourth pillar, on October 1, 2016, Mizuho needs are becoming increasingly diverse and more sophisticated plans to consolidate the asset management functions of Who We Are year by year. To respond to these needs, we must forecast several existing group entities into a new company, which future trends in the economy and society from many different will be named “Asset Management One.” The new company perspectives, and, as a partner of our customers in the mediwill fulfill its fiduciary duties* and, by strengthening its asset um-to-long term, we must always move with them and identify management and product offering capabilities through the not only the needs and problems that are already apparent but merger, it will deliver solutions of the highest level that are in also discover latent needs and problems that customers have its customers’ best interests and aim to become the number not yet noticed. By offering customers appropriate and timely one asset management company in Asia. solutions, we will realize our objective of implementing the For the fifth pillar, we have brought together the full What We Aim to Do “customer first” principle. To put this into action, in addition complement of our research and consulting functions to form to the three pillars of banking, trust banking and securities a newly established Research & Consulting Unit as “One Think functions, we will fully deploy the consulting capabilities of Tank.” By structuring think tank functions that are the best in the Group’s asset management function as the fourth pillar Japan, we have differentiated our services in this field and will and research & consulting functions as the fifth pillar. With the work to become the most trusted partner in solving the varitop-quality services provided by these five pillars of our business ous challenges of our customers and communities. Formulation of the Medium-term Business Plan Our Strategies for Value Creation Foundations for Our Corporate Value Financial Review 2016 Integrated Report 21 What We Aim to Do *Fiduciary duties is a general term for the broad range of various roles and The third objective is to clarify responsibility for profits. responsibilities that fiduciaries are expected to fulfill when engaging in certain Having introduced in-house company ROE, we have clearly business activities in order to live up to the trust that is placed in them by their customers. The term appears—as a loan word in Japanese—in the defined the responsibility of the heads of the in-house Financial Service Agency’s Strategic Directions and Priorities. companies for profits. At the same time, we have delegated necessary authority to these heads of the companies for formulation of strategy, and allocation of managerial and Pursuit of “Operational Excellence” human resources, etc. The term “operational excellence” in some companies is We introduced the in-house company system to accomused to mean primarily cost reduction and improvement in plish these three objectives, but the ultimate goal is to fully productivity. At Mizuho, however, we use the term to mean implement the “customer first” principle and effectively simplifying and streamlining daily activities, speeding-up of respond to the needs of our customers. Under a holding decision-making, reviewing the cost structure, and other company structure, each in-house company will commit itself activities to improve overall business efficiency. In addition, to deliver the best possible services to our customers to meet we have defined “operational excellence” to mean actively their actual needs in an integrated manner between the head incorporating financial innovation, including Fintech, that office and front lines, among banking, trust banking and will enhance the added value of customer services. To realize securities functions, and also along with asset management these objectives, we have recently formed an Operational and research & consulting functions. Excellence Promotion Committee which I chair, and we are pursuing operational excellence on a group-wide basis. Embedding a Corporate Culture that Encourages the active participation of our Introduction of the In-House Company System workforce to Support a Stronger Mizuho To thoroughly strengthen our “customer first” approach (cusOne essential element for creating a strong organization that tomer-focused approach) and, to realize our goal of becoming can realize the goal of being a “financial services consulting a “financial services consulting group,” we have introduced a group” is to take initiatives to embed a corporate culture that new in-house company system based on customer segments. encourages active workforce participation. This organizational reform has three objectives. To promote the active participation of the workforce, we The first objective is to ensure consistency of strategy. will conduct a fundamental reform of our human resource The new in-house company structure, which will provide management in order to motivate all employees to step integrated banking, trust banking and securities functions forward in their own careers and to contribute to our organiseamlessly through the same in-house companies, will allow zation, and to have them fully demonstrate their capabilities us to take more-consistent actions according to the attributes as much as possible by continuously helping them develop of each customer during all processes from the formulation their expertise. of strategy at head office to its execution on the front lines. As for our efforts to establish and strengthen our corpoThe second objective is to speed up our decision-making rate culture that is now putting down its roots as a result of processes and enhance the Group’s front-line capabilities. To our past initiatives, we will continue to encourage all employthis end, we reorganized our ten existing units into five inees to put the Mizuho Values* into practice, and to further house companies and two units. By making the organization promote internal communication. simpler, we will realize streamlining of head office operations *The values and principles shared by all of Mizuho’s internal stakeholders to pursue the “Vision”: Customer First, Innovative Spirit, Team Spirit, Speed and and faster decision-making, and by shifting more head office Passion. personnel to the front lines, we are aiming to further enhance the front-line capabilities. 22 Mizuho Financial Group Message from the Group CEO Group Management Policy in Fiscal 2016 Amid this environment, Mizuho is determined to fulfill its To further pursue the “customer first” principle in fiscal social responsibilities with a view to its unchanging value as a 2016, as we give due attention to the uncertainties arising financial institution. This means that we must contribute to the from changes in the management environment, we will be economic and social development of the world, Asia and Japan, Who We Are working to initiate the in-house company system and move it and that we must also proactively respond to the expectations on track. At the same time, by promoting specific measures of all our stakeholders, including our shareholders as well as to attain “operational excellence,” we will endeavor to our customers, our communities, our own management, staff realize our objective of being a “financial services consulting and their families. group” as we steadily implement the ten basic strategies set To rise to this task, we will continue to perfect the “One in the new medium-term business plan. MIZUHO Strategy” by creating a new business model as a “financial services consulting group.” We will be fundamentally committed to maintaining close relationships with our customWhat We Aim to Do ers through our sophisticated risk taking capability and financial In Conclusion intermediary function and build the future of economies and During the three years under the new medium-term business societies as the most trusted financial partner in providing soluplan, in addition to an uncertain regulatory environment, tions for our customers and communities. Moreover, we will financial institutions face a number of challenges affecting work to establish a sustainable competitive advantage, increase the management environment. These include an approaching our corporate value and fulfill even greater social missions than paradigm shift marked by instability in the economic structure ever before. under which emerging markets were the drivers of growth, Our Strategies for Value Creation and by prolonged stagnation in natural resource prices, as well Note: The above contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform as the appearance of game-changing factors such as a new Act of 1995. See the disclaimer at the bottom of page 3 of this Integrated competitive environment in all financial services fields as a result Report for information regarding factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements. of rapid development of financial innovations. Foundations for Our Corporate Value July 2016 Financial Review Yasuhiro Sato President & Group CEO Member of the Board of Directors Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 2016 Integrated Report 23 What We Aim to Do Message from the Group CFO We aim to contribute to the sustainable growth of our stakeholders as a “financial services consulting group” through establishing a stable profit structure and a robust financial base, while engaging in sound risk-taking. Member of the Board of Directors Managing Executive Officer Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group (Group CFO) Koichi Iida Mizuho’s Financial Management Principles Mizuho’s View of the Business Environment and Financial Targets under the Mizuho aims to contribute to the sustainable growth of its diverse range of stakeholders, particularly its customers, the New Medium-term Business Plan economies and industries of Japan and countries around the View of the Business Environment world, and its shareholders. During the term of the new medium-term business plan entiTo achieve this, our fundamental approach to financial tled “Progressive Development of ‘One MIZUHO,’” which was management is to establish a stable profit structure and a roannounced in May 2016 and will cover the three-year period bust financial base that can withstand changes in the business ending in fiscal 2018, we cannot look forward to economic environment, and to fulfill our sound risk-taking function to growth at the same levels as in the past. Factors accounting help our customers, economies, and industries realize growth. for this will be the less favorable growth in the emerging countries, including China, which was a driving force for global economic growth, the stagnation in crude oil and other Summary of Fiscal 2015 natural resource prices, and absence of strong growth moAs a result of the challenging business environment including mentum in the industrialized countries. In Europe and Japan, increased uncertainties in the domestic and overseas economic negative interest rate policies have been introduced, and the environment during the second half of fiscal 2015, Consolidated business environment for financial institutions is expected to Net Business Profits amounted to ¥852.8 billion (year-on-year remain challenging. In addition, continuous consideration is decrease of ¥24.1 billion). On the other hand, Credit-related being given to strengthen global financial regulations. Costs amounted to ¥30.4 billion, which remained below the planned level, and as a result of progress in cross-shareholdings Financial Targets disposal, Net Gains Related to Stocks amounted to ¥205.6 As we work steadily to implement our new medium-term billion (year-on-year increase of ¥73.7 billion). Therefore, business plan, we will also move forward with reforms in our Consolidated Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent was business structure with a view to the next generation, and ¥670.9 billion (year-on-year increase of ¥59.0 billion). build a stable profit structure and a robust financial base and, Regarding our capital, Consolidated Common Equity Tier thereby, establish a resilient financial structure. 1 Capital Ratio (CET1 Capital Ratio)*1 was 10.85% on a fullySpecific financial targets of the New Medium-Term effectives basis*2, maintaining a sufficient level. Business Plan include attaining CET1 Capital Ratio*1 of ap*1. Calculated by Mizuho including Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock proximately 10%, Consolidated ROE*2 of approximately 8%, (balance as of March 31, 2015 : ¥213.1 billion, balance as of March 31, 2016: RORA (Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent on Risk¥98.9 billion, mandatory conversion date: July 1, 2016) *2. Calculated by Mizuho based on fully-effective Basel III Rule as of March weighted Assets) of approximately 0.9%, Group Expense 2019, deducting total amount of regulatory adjustments 24 Mizuho Financial Group Ratio*3 of approximately 60% (high 50% level, excluding and pursue “operational excellence” and proceed with activiexpenses related to the next-generation IT systems, etc.), and ties to improve productivity and reform the cost structure. Cross-shareholdings Disposal of ¥550.0 billion*4. Establishing a Robust Financial Base Who We Are Disposal of Cross Shareholdings To minimize the potential impact on our financial position due to fluctuations in stock prices, we will reduce book value of such shares by ¥550.0 billion between March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2019, the final year of the new medium-term business plan. Cross-Shareholdings Disposal Plan Aggregate of the necessary reduction amount is What We Aim to Do approximately 40% of the total Japanese stock portfolio (as of March 31, 2015) Disposal plan by March 31, 2019 Holdings of Japanese stocks: ¥1,962.9 billion* (as of March 31, 2015) Our Strategies for Value Creation Dispose of at least approximately 70% of the necessary reduction amount by March 31, 2019 Financial Strategy in the New Medium-term Aim to achieve 40% to 50% of the above disposal plan by March 31, 2017 Business Plan through accelerating dialogue and negotiation with customers *Other securities which have readily determinable fair values. Acquisition cost basis To increase risk and cost return, we will establish a stable profit structure and robust financial base to establish a Maintaining an Optimal Balance between Strengthening resilient financial structure through implementing the followa Stable Capital Base and Providing Steady Returns to Foundations for Our Corporate Value ing financial strategies. Shareholders To strengthen Mizuho’s capabilities for coping with changes Establishing a Stable Profit Structure in the business environment, including trends in global finanStrengthen Income from Customer Groups Centering on cial regulations, Mizuho will work to build a stable capital Non-interest Income Business through a Major Shift of base to a level that is comparable with competing financial Management Resources groups. In addition, we will continuously aim to make steady Through fully implementing the “customer first” principle, dividend payouts with a dividend payout ratio on a consoliwe will make a major shift of management resources, includdated basis of approximately 30% as a guide for our considing risk assets and personnel, to business areas where high eration, in order to realize steady returns to shareholders. profitability and growth are expected, and aim to strengthen In addition, as we maintain a grasp of changes in the profitability in Customer Groups mainly through development business environment, we will work to strengthen control of non-interest income business. over our balance sheets in order to optimize risk and return Financial Review by managing risk-weighted assets and controlling liquidity Reforming Productivity and Cost Structure by Pursuing proactively and flexibly. Operational Excellence Note: The above contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements Transcending the framework of in-house companies and head within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See the disclaimer at the bottom of page 3 of this Integrated office, we will conduct a thorough review, without exception, Report for information regarding factors that could cause actual results to of issues faced by the front-lines and existing work procedures differ from those in the forward-looking statements. 2016 Integrated Report 25 Our Strategies for Value Creation New Medium-term Business Plan: Progressive Development of “One Outline of the New Medium-term Business Plan Beginning in fiscal 2016, Mizuho began to implement its new Specifically, we will further reinforce the “customer first” three-year medium-term business plan, entitled Progressive principle (customer-focused perspective) that we promoted in the Development of “One MIZUHO”—The Path to a Financial previous medium-term business plan. At the same time, in reServices Consulting Group. sponse to the challenging business environment, we will pursue In addition to an uncertain regulatory environment, finan“operational excellence” as part of a project to promote greater cial institutions face a number of challenges affecting the busiimprovements and efficiency of our operational processes. ness environment. These include approaching a turning point Under the new medium-term business plan, Mizuho will in the global economy marked by instability in the economic perfect the “One MIZUHO Strategy” by creating a new busistructure under which emerging markets were the drivers ness model as a “financial services consulting group” based of growth and by prolonged stagnation in natural resource on the foundations of the “customer first” principle and prices, as well as the appearance of game-changing factors operational excellence. The new medium-term business plan such as the rapid development of financial innovations. The sets forth what Mizuho aims to become in the medium-term new medium-term business plan seeks to establish a new busithrough the implementation of 5 basic policies and 10 basic ness model for the financial industry in light of these business strategies in three areas. In the 10 basic strategies, the plan environment changes. indicates what must be implemented with a focus on business strategy, financial strategy and management foundations. 26 Mizuho Financial Group MIZUHO” —The Path to a Financial Services Consulting Group Operational Excellence Mizuho’s operations are the actions that we take to fulfill the operations supporting the integrated management of banking, Who We Are goals of the “One MIZUHO Strategy.” By pursuing “operatrust banking and securities functions as well as both domestic tional excellence,” we will make our operations more efficient, and overseas operations. In addition, we will incorporate technotake the four elements of operation, namely: speed, quality/ logical innovation such as Fintech and new ideas. Through these accuracy, cost and sustainability, to a higher level, differentiate processes, Mizuho will aim for improving operational efficiency our “customer first” strategy from those of our competitors and enhancing value for customers through raising the sophistiand enhance the added value of our services, which will lead cation of its operations. to establishing a sustainable competitive advantage. Accordingly, we have newly formed our Operational ExcelTo accomplish this, we will thoroughly review our existlence Promotion Committee, which is chaired by the Group ing business processes, and will work to share and standardize CEO, and will promote these initiatives across the Group. What We Aim to Do Our Strategies for Value Creation Foundations for Our Corporate Value Financial Review 2016 Integrated Report 27 Our Strategies for Value Creation Five Basic Policies 1. Introduction of the In-House Company System To further strengthen our “customer first” approach, on April This new structure strengthens our “customer first” (the 1, 2016, we introduced an in-house company system based market-driven) approach. on customer segments. The aim of this system is to leverIn addition, we reorganized our product and research funcage Mizuho’s strengths and competitive advantage, which is tions into two independent units, to enhance expertise and prothe seamless integration of Mizuho’s banking, trust banking mote the group-wide utilization of these functions. The Group’s and securities functions under a holding company structure, research & consulting functions have been consolidated into to speedily provide high-quality financial services that closely the Research & Consulting Unit as “One Think Tank,” thereby match customer needs. Previous to this transition, under creating an ensemble of experts dedicated to helping customers the former business unit structure, the units were organized develop solutions to any issue they may be dealing with. across several entities and each specialized in serving specific From the view of implementing an effective management segments of customers. Further pursuing this concept, the structure based on customer segments, we have introduced ROE in-house company system allows for the organization to take as a performance indicator for each in-house company and have stronger, faster, and more consistent action according to the made it clear that the heads of these companies have responsibility attributes of each customer during all processes from the for profits and have delegated necessary authority for this purpose. formulation of strategy to its execution. Based on the Group’s risk appetite policies (basic poliSpecifically, Mizuho has established the following five incies regarding the Group’s risk-taking), Mizuho is working to house companies, each covering a different customer segment: increase profitability and reform its risk-return structure. We the Retail & Business Banking Company, the Corporate & Instiare also endeavoring to streamline our head office operations tutional Company, the Global Corporate Company, the Global and implement speedy decision-making processes to further Markets Company, and the Asset Management Company. enhance the Group’s front-line business and sales capabilities. 28 Mizuho Financial Group New Medium-term Business Plan: Progressive Development of “One MIZUHO” —The Path to a Financial Services Consulting Group 2. Selecting and Focusing of Business Area Mizuho has clarified areas of focus and areas to streamline based on attractiveness of the respective markets and its competitive advantages. With a view to improving profitability, becoming even more customer focused, and optimizing business promotion, we are Who We Are working to improve profitability by streamlining and revisiting strategies and reallocating management resources into areas of focus. What We Aim to Do Our Strategies for Value Creation 3. Establishment of a Resilient Financial Base We are endeavoring to strengthen profitability by improving risk-return and controlling expenses and, to achieve a stable profit structure and create a robust financial base, Mizuho is accumulating additional capital and aiming for reforms that will establish a resilient financial structure. Related page: Message from the Group CFO, P24-25 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Financial Review 2016 Integrated Report 29 Our Strategies for Value Creation 4. Active Involvement in Financial Innovation Technological advances such as “Artificial Intelligence” and “Big Data” are opening up new opportunities that may be game changing for a wide range of financial service fields. Working together with selected third party Fintech companies, Mizuho looks to offer products delivering improved and new customer value. Related page: P60-61 5. Embedding a Corporate Culture that Encourages the Active Participation of Our Workforce to Support a Stronger Mizuho With objective of creating a sustainable competitive advantage, Mizuho is continuing its initiatives to make major reforms in its human resource management and strengthening its activities to establish a strong corporate culture. Related page: P90-93 ,94 30 Mizuho Financial Group New Medium-term Business Plan: Progressive Development of “One MIZUHO” —The Path to a Financial Services Consulting Group Financial Targets for Fiscal 2018 Under the new medium-term business plan, Mizuho has established the following financial targets for fiscal 2018, which will be the Who We Are plan’s final year. These are to establish a stable profit base, create a robust financial base, and transform into a resilient financial structure. What We Aim to Do Our Strategies for Value Creation Foundations for Our Corporate Value Financial Review 2016 Integrated Report 31 Our Strategies for Value Creation Retail & Business Banking Company We will become a financial services consulting company which grows along with our customers by providing the most suitable solutions for a variety of individual and corporate customer needs. Head of Retail & Business Banking Company Toshitsugu Okabe Offering more sophisticated and speedier services than before spanning seamlessly the range from banking, trust banking, securities to asset management and research & consulting to a wide variety of customers The Retail & Business Banking Company was formed through the services. Mizuho is also working to increase customer convenience consolidation of the Personal Banking Unit, Retail Banking Unit, through initiatives that include further developing and increasing and Corporate Banking Unit. This Company provides services to the sophistication of its Internet and smartphone banking services. individual customers, small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) For SMEs and middle-market corporate customers, the and middle-market corporations. Company provides the best solutions swiftly for their management For individual customers, drawing on the Group’s capabiliissues such as growth strategies, dealing with business inheritance ties, the Company offers optimal products and services, in ways issues, launching overseas operations, and others. For corporate that comprehensively satisfy customer needs in the fields of asset owners and others, the Company responds to the wide range of management and asset succession. Moreover, Mizuho has banking needs of customers for assistance in asset succession, asset managebranches in every prefecture in Japan and stands No. 1 among ment, and other matters by formulating optimal solutions in an Japanese megabanks in ATM network and number of joint branchintegrated manner among banking, trust banking, securities, asset es through which it provides banking, trust banking and securities management, and research and consulting functions in the Group. 32 Mizuho Financial Group Key Aspects of the Company Conditions in the External Environment Issues for Mizuho Mizuho’s Strengths Who We Are  Concerns about the slowdown in  Accelerate integrated strategies for  Group’s areawide strategy promothe global economy, changes in the banking, trust banking, securities, tion structure business environment resulting from asset management, and research  Customer base and channel network negative interest rate policies and consulting as well as integrated • Corporates: About 600,000 customers  Increasing prominence of the shift strategies for corporations and their • Individuals: About 24 million from savings to investment and the owners • Staffed locations: 790 locations business inheritance issues  Structuring efficient front-line systems  The greater entry into financial and optimizing service channels sector by companies in other  Expansion of services for beginner businesses utilizing Fintech and early-stage investors What We Aim to Do New Medium-term Business Plan for the Company (FY2016 through FY2018) Pursuing optimal solutions to a variety of customer needs and realizing reforms in the profit structure with balance sheet control Along with changes in the financial environment and rapid progstrategies based on our comprehensive financial services consultress in financial innovation, customer needs are becoming more ing capabilities while also strengthening our initiatives related Our Strategies for Value Creation and more diverse, sophisticated, and global in scope. By demonto business inheritance, initial public offerings (IPOs), and other strating comprehensive financial services consulting capabilities, activities. Through these initiatives, the Group is working together with the group companies working together as a whole, Mizuho to provide optimal integrated solutions to meet the needs of both will not only respond to emerging customer needs but also idencorporations and their owners. tify latent needs and issues that customers have yet to realize, and Net Business Profit for Fiscal 2018 (Plan) then offer optimal services. The Group is steadily expanding its transactions base by sup100 porting individual customers in encouraging their shift from “sav75 ings to investment” by providing optimal proposals for responding Foundations for Our Corporate Value to their needs for asset management, asset succession, and other 50 services. We are also developing new business domains by innovating businesses that make use of new financial technologies, 25 such as Fintech, and big data. 0 For small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and middleFY2015 (Results) FY2018 (Plan) market corporations, we are providing support for their growth 50 +¥10 4.0 500 + 1.7 times trillion 40 3.5 400 Financial Review 30 3.0 300 +0.24 million 20 2.5 200 0 0 0 FY2015 (Results) FY2018 (Plan) FY2015 (Results) FY2018 (Plan) Note: The above contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See the disclaimer at the bottom of page 3 of this Integrated Report for information regarding factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements. 2016 Integrated Report 33 Our Strategies for Value Creation Major Strategies under the New Medium-term Business Plan 4Provide financial services consulting in an inteValue for customers grated manner among banking, trust banking, g Pursue the provision of optimal solutions securities, asset management, and research and to wide ranging customer needs in an consulting functions integrated manner among banking, trust 4Accelerate initiatives for encouraging the shift from savings to investments banking, securities, asset management, and research and consulting functions 4Establish new business domains by expanding the transactions base through alliances with other companies and adding channels not requiring Key strategies Value for society face-to-face contact g Facilitate flow of funds for supporting 4Establish overwhelming competitive advantage growth in individual monetary assets and in our business inheritance-related services enabling sustainable growth in the Japa4Meet the needs for corporations and their ownnese economy ers by supporting growth strategies, drawing on g Contribute to sustainable growth in the Mizuho’s consulting capabilities Japanese economy by offering support for 4S trengthen support for innovative start-ups growth strategies of SMEs and middlemarket corporations Providing Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth of Customers and Society The new Area One MIZUHO Promotion Project To provide the highest quality integrated financial services to customers, drawing on Mizuho’s banking, trust banking and securities capabilities, Mizuho initiated its Area One MIZUHO Promotion Project in fiscal 2014. The banking, trust banking and securities functions in each region convene meetings to identify, from a wide perspective, and then implement what will be necessary to become “the most trusted financial services group.” Beginning in fiscal 2016, Mizuho newly launched its Area One MIZUHO Promotion Project with the aim of growing together with regional economies and societies, confront the issues that must be addressed in each region through integrated banking, trust banking and securities functions, and then implementing initiatives to solve various issues in collaboration with regional governments, regional financial institutions, local businesses, members of regional communities, and others. By building cooperative relationships with local cities, towns, and villages as well as regional banks, local chambers of commerce and others, Mizuho will be able to take active initiatives in counteracting the decline in local regions due to shrinking population, the rise in welfare and medical needs along with the demographic aging of the population, and, thereby contribute to regional economies and societies. 34 Mizuho Financial Group Retail & Business Banking Company Review of Fiscal 2015 Responding to wide-ranging customer financial needs and steadily expanding the transactions base for asset management, corporate lending, etc. Individual Customers Who We Are Offering each and every customer optimal products and 2.6 services, providing in-depth responses to the financial needs of individual customers, we widened the customer base for asset management. 2.5 In addition, through the introduction of asset management roboadvisors utilizing Fintech, strengthening smartphone and SNS services, etc., we took initiatives to increase What We Aim to Do customer convenience. As a result, Mizuho has been award0 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 ed the Mobile Computing Promotion Consortium (MCPC) award for five consecutive years. 40,000 SME and Middle-market Corporations In addition to responding actively to fund-raising needs, we offered a wide range of solutions for corporations and their 37,500 Our Strategies for Value Creation owners that include solving management issues, helping asset succession arrangements and managements for business owners and other customers, and, thereby, worked to 0 expand our customer base. March 31, March 31, March 31, We also provided support for corporate growth strategies 2014 2015 2016 from a “market-in” standpoint, offering assistance in M&A, formulating corporate strategy and financial strategy in entering 31 overseas markets, while also offering support for business inheritance and other related matters appropriate to the growth Foundations for Our Corporate Value stage of each customer. Through these activities we endeavored to assist customers in increasing their corporate value. 30 0 March 31, March 31, March 31, TOPICS 2014 2015 2016 Initiatives to support innovative start-ups ess developme sin nt Bu Business For innovative start-ups that have superior technology and ideas, Mizuho provides both loans matching Matching services Industry, academia, and equity financing, while also actively offering business development opportunities such as for large and government corporations [Operation] collaboration business matching as well as through collaboration with industry, academia, and government MHBK Training/education Innovative Start-ups Financial Review Finance for ministries. Other assistance includes holding seminars for training and mentoring. programs for venture businesses Coordination Department venture businesses In April 2016, MHBK newly established its Innovative Start-ups Coordination MHSC nt o rin g Strategic Research Department, and MHSC formed a Strategic Research Department with the aim of improvGroup Department Seminars Venture Capital me Fu ing and strengthening its activities to support start-ups. Through these activities, Mizuho nd Mentoring network n, in Limited partnership for new business io aims to provide financial support that will lead to sustainable growth in Japanese economy g (LP) investments divisions of at large corporations uc and creation of new jobs. Ed 2016 Integrated Report 35 Our Strategies for Value Creation Corporate & Institutional Company We will become our customers’ most “Trusted Global Partner” by drawing on all our comprehensive capabilities to offer solutions that respond to customers’ diverse issues and needs. Head of Corporate & Institutional Company Kosuke Nakamura As its customers’ “Trusted Global Partner,” Mizuho offers a full lineup of financial solutions The Corporate & Institutional Company was formed and commenced operations following the combination of the Corporate Banking Unit (Large Corporations) and the Financial Institutions & Public Sector Business Unit. This Company is in charge of providing services to large corporations, financial institutions, and public-sector entities in Japan. In the large corporate customer market, based on its strong and long-standing relationships with large corporate customers in Japan, the Company offers a full lineup of financial solutions that combine its specialized functions in banking, trust banking and securities to meet customer needs for fund-raising and fund-management as well as for formulation of corporate management and financial strategies. In the financial institutions market, requirements of customers for formulation of capital policies and the sophistication of asset management are rising, and the Company offers optimal solutions to meet their needs based on collaboration among group companies. For public sector entities, the Company provides comprehensive financial services including supporting for fund-raising through underwriting public bonds and performing services as a designated financial institution. Also, as one of the important issues in the Japanese economy is revitalizing regional economies, the Company is working to transform agriculture, forestry, and fisheries industries into growth sectors and is actively introducing PPP and PFI arrangements* to facilitate financing of airport and public facilities projects. *PPP, or Public Private Partnership is a scheme that enables collaboration between the public and private sectors in projects that offer public services. PFI, or Private Finance Initiative, is a typical form of PPP under which private-sector funds and knowhow are used in the maintenance and operation of public facilities and the private-sector participants in PFI projects take the initiative in supplying public services. 36 Mizuho Financial Group Key Aspects of the Company Conditions in the External Environment Issues for Mizuho Mizuho’s Strengths Who We Are g Concerns about the slowdown in the g Further integration of management g Strong relationships with its customglobal economy, changes in the of banking, trust banking and ers and customer base in each business environment resulting from securities functions market negative interest rate policies g Restructuring the business portfolio g Ahead of competitors in integrating g Globalization of customers’ business through selectivity and concentration banking, trust banking and securities activities, and a trend toward strategic g Strengthen responsiveness to projects functions emphasis on the interests of shareholders requiring a high level of sophisticag Sophisticated risk-taking capabilities g Trends toward convergence in some tion, including equity finance, crossaccumulated through developing areas of strategies with competitors border M&A, and other functions new financial businesses and knowg More active initiatives in the public and g Building an efficient front-office how What We Aim to Do private sectors for growth industries including system and business processes agriculture and revitalize regional economies New Medium-term Business Plan for the Company (FY2016 through FY2018) Further evolving the “One MIZUHO Strategy” and restructuring the business portfolio through rebalancing management resources The needs of customers are becoming increasingly diverse, sophisOur Strategies for Value Creation Net Business Profit for Fiscal 2018 (Plan) ticated, and global in scope. In addition, regulations regarding the risk-weighted assets and balance sheets of financial institutions are 300 being tightened. The Company aims to pursue the further development of the 250 “One MIZUHO Strategy,” create the highest-level operating sys200 tems in Japan, and become the most “Trusted Global Partner” of its customers. At the same time, the Company is transforming its 150 business model through the rebalancing of management resources, including organizational units, human resources, and assets, to 0 Foundations for Our Corporate Value FY2015 (Results) FY2018 (Plan) build a robust and profitable business portfolio. In specific terms, this means realizing business synergies through alliances and collaborative arrangements with parties within and outside the Company and rebalancing of management resources. Moreover, the Company will accelerate its activities to achieve collaboration of banking, trust banking, and securities functions and build teamwork among its operating bases in Japan and overseas. Through the implementation of these strategies, the Company is working to increase profitability and raise its presence in league tables. FY2015 FY2018 League Tables (Results) (Plan) Financial Review Domestic Straight Bonds and Municipal Bonds (Underwriting amount) No. 1 No. 1 Total Equity Underwriting Worldwide (Underwriting amount) No. 3 No. 2 M&A (Any Japanese involvement) (Number of transactions) No. 1 No. 1 Note: The above contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See the disclaimer at the bottom of page 3 of this Integrated Report for information regarding factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements. 2016 Integrated Report 37 Our Strategies for Value Creation Major Strategies under the New Medium-term Business Plan Value for customers g O ffering optimal solutions to respond quickly to 4Realize business synergies among large corporations, financial institutions, and customers’ diverse issues and needs public-sector entities and collaborate further g P rovide support for financial and business stratwith other in-house companies/units egy that help customers’ sustainable growth P rovide risk money based on sophisticated 4Strategic and flexible staffing in focus areas g  where growth and profitability are expected risk-taking capabilities 4Increase profitability through asset rebalancing Key strategies Value for society 4Progressive measures for integration of management in banking, trust banking and securig C ontribute to Japanese and global economic ties functions and acceleration of borderless development through providing stable and steady response in Japan and overseas flows of funds to large corporations, financial institutions, and public sector entities 4Structure business systems and operating processes to improve execution and successg H elp revitalize Japanese economy through fully implement the Company’s strategy contributing to nurturing new industries, realigning existing industries, and revitalizing regional economies Providing Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth of Customers and Society Arrangement of risk money investment program responding to growth funding needs of Japanese companies Financial institutions are expected to play roles in supporting companies from a Risk Money Corporations, etc. broad perspective by sharing risk, providing industry and business knowledge, Joint Investment Targeted Investment and supporting the creation of corporate governance frameworks. Funds Company MHBK MHBK has arranged a joint investment program, “Blue Partners Fund,” in • Capital enhancement cooperation with the Development Bank of Japan. In a wide range of situations, • Risk sharing through Investment Japanese companies need funding for business growth. By supporting corporate joint investments (DBJ) Development • Carve out support growth and providing risk money through joint investments with companies and Risk Money Bank of Japan Targeted • Support for business provision of equity capital, MHBK is contributing to strengthening the competiCompany inheritance Blue Partners tiveness of Japan’s economy and society. Support for transforming agriculture, forestry, and fisheries into the sixth industrial sector through collaboration with regional financial institutions and central/regional governments MHBK has invested in 13 agriculture, forestry, and fisheries sixth industry funds nationwide in collaboration with regional financial institutions and central/regional governments, and these funds have invested in 15 related projects. Looking forward, by drawing on its customer base throughout Japan, MHBK is supporting the transformation of Japan’s agricultural, forestry, and fisheries industries into growth sectors and working to contribute to the revitalization of Japan’s economy and society through regional revitalization. 38 Mizuho Financial Group Corporate & Institutional Company Review of Fiscal 2015 Working to Steadily Realize Increased Profits through Building a Strong Presence in Each Customer Segment Large Corporations Who We Are We worked to meet customer needs for fund-raising and asset management as well as for financial and management strate4 280 gies, and took the initiative in assisting in the development of + % new industries and growth sectors by providing a wide range 270 of solutions and drawing on our industrial expertise. 260 In addition, MHSC realigned its systems for serving large corporations and increased its customer relationship managers. 250 What We Aim to Do MHBK and MHTB stepped up their collaboration in the areas of real estate and pension funds and strengthen their market0 FY2014 FY2015 ing capabilities. Financial Institutions and Public Sector Entities In view of the overseas M&A initiatives of major insurance companies and their moves to step up their overseas business development as well as the needs of regional financial instituOur Strategies for Value Creation tions for formulating capital policies and increasing the sophis55 tication of their asset management, we won the mandates as 50 + 13% financial advisor and lead arranger, and took the initiative in proposing a wide range of asset management products. 45 For public sector entities, we maintained our leading share 40 in underwriting public sector bonds and offered services as a designated financial institution for such customers as the 0 Tokyo metropolitan government. FY2014 FY2015 In addition, in collaboration with financial institutions and Foundations for Our Corporate Value public-sector entities, we expanded our investments in agriculture, forestry, and fisheries sixth industry funds and undertook other active initiatives to promote regional revitalization. TOPICS Establishment of private equity funds for promoting exports to the Middle East Mizuho established the Gulf Japan Food Fund and launched its investment activities. This is a private equity fund which aims to provide support on the financing side for expanding exports of Japanese agricultural, forestry and fisheries products, while, at the same time, working to Financial Review improve food security in the six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)*. The objective of this fund is to invest in joint ventures newly established by Japanese and Middle Eastern companies in the food and agriculture related businesses with the aim of promoting their growth. This fund is also working to add value and create markets that match Japanese corporations with those in the Middle East. *A total of six countries are member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council: Saudi Arabia, Gulf Japan Food Fund Signing Ceremony the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and Kuwait. 2016 Integrated Report 39 Our Strategies for Value Creation Global Corporate Company We aim to be a company that achieves sustainable growth backed by in-depth understanding of our customers’ businesses and strengths in the field of corporate finance. We provide solutions to customers, adapting to major changes in world economic trends and the regulatory environment. Head of Global Corporate Company Akira Sugano Offering optimal solutions to Japanese companies entering new markets and blue-chip companies around the world The Global Corporate Company mainly serves Japanese companies operating overseas and non-Japanese companies, focusing on bluechip customers with international business operations. For Japanese corporate customers, we support their business expansion beyond the borders through financial solutions and consulting services ranging from providing information for customers considering entry into new markets to advising on business and financial strategies. For non-Japanese corporate customers, we focus our resources on selected companies, responding to a broad range of needs while working to expand our business with them through building long-term relationships. We support their business and financial strategies in an integrated manner through collaboration among banking, trust banking, and securities functions, providing them not only with financing but also with M&A advisory, bond underwriting (i.e. debt capital market (DCM) origination), transaction banking, and other solutions. In addition, in order to enhance our support for these companies, we are establishing more new offices around the world and are actively forming business alliances with financial institutions and government-affiliated institutions of various countries. 40 Mizuho Financial Group Key Aspects of the Company Conditions in the External Environment Issues for Mizuho Mizuho’s Strengths Who We Are g Uncertainty in the European economies, g Sustainably expanding the blue-chip g Blue-chip customer base and strong the slowdown of growth in China and customer base on a global scale portfolio other emerging economies, prolonged g Improving profitability through g Strong presence in Asia and stagnation in natural resource prices, cross-selling of securities and market North America and rising geopolitical risks products, transaction services, etc. g Strong capabilities to provide solug Trend among U.S. and European banks to g Upgrading of product and service tions backed by integrated banking focus on their home markets or specialize offerings as well as strengthening and securities functions in the regions and fields where they have capabilities for making proposals to g Broad office network in Asia and competitive advantages customers access to information on local g Increase in funding costs denominated g Further enhancement of non-yen companies and regulations What We Aim to Do in non-yen currencies, increase in currency-denominated deposits and scarcity of liquidity and capital due to diversification of non-yen currency tightening regulations funding sources New Medium-term Business Plan for the Company (FY2016 through FY2018) Developing a sustainable customer, service, and business base with growth potential for realizing our objectives Our Strategies for Value Creation As the world economy becomes increasingly uncertain and the trend deposits and diversify its funding sources through the issuance of nonof tightening regulations continues, the Company works to strongly yen currency-denominated bonds. and sustainably support customers’ businesses to become their most Moreover, the Company is actively pursuing operational excellence reliable business partner. to improve its business processes. As for non-Japanese companies, we have selected about 300 Net Business Profits for Fiscal 2018 (Plan) corporate groups on a worldwide basis for focus and are developing long-term relationships with them for mutual sustainable growth. 250 Furthermore, we adopt the industry sector-based approach to these 200 192* 190± companies, focusing on sectors where we have an in-depth under170 Foundations for Our Corporate Value standing and a record of accomplishments. Along with this approach, 150 we offer solutions based on our Group-wide services reinforced by transaction banking, which we are working to strengthen in order to 100 provide enhanced services and generate more profits. 0 Meanwhile, in order to secure the liquidity in non-yen currencies, the FY2015 (Results) FY2018 (Plan) Company is working to strengthen its non-yen currency-denominated Overseas Non-interest Income* Non-yen Currency-denominated Deposits* + 30% + 10% Financial Review FY2015 (Results) FY2018 (Plan) FY2015 (Results) FY2018 (Plan) * Global Corporate Company managerial basis, * Major overseas subsidiaries including MHBK, Global Corporate Company managerial basis, excluding commitment fees and guarantee fees, etc. non-yen currency-denominated customer deposits, planned amount versus FY2015 estimate Note: The above contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See the disclaimer at the bottom of page 3 of this Integrated Report for information regarding factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements. 2016 Integrated Report 41 Our Strategies for Value Creation Major Strategies under the New Medium-term Business Plan 4Improving the business portfolio • Concentration of capital and liquidity in portfolios with high profitability Value for customers • Expanding the Super 30 (50) Strategy to Global 300 g Support the global development of customers’ Strategy businesses by offering optimal solutions for their 4Maximizing cross-selling business and financial strategies • Maintain the top 10 positions in DCM in the Americas and use our presence in the U.S. to strengthen DCM business on a global basis Key strategies Value for society • Enhance capabilities for offering proposals for customers’ business and financial strategies, using the industry g Contribute to realignment of industries on a sector-based approach global scale and industrial development in • Strengthen transaction banking to secure stable nonemerging economies interest income and non-yen currency base g Contribute to further development of financial 4Reinforcing the business and management base markets in countries around the world and • Enhance non-yen currency funding capabilities human resources development • Pursue operational excellence Providing Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth of Customers and Society Development of the Non-Japanese Focus Strategy: From the Super 30 (50) to Global 300 Previously, Mizuho selected around 30 to 50 corporate groups for focused business promotion, in each of the following four regions: the Americas, EMEA, Asia & Oceania, and East Asia. However, since economic sizes, growth rates, and market maturity, etc., vary by region, we now select targeted corporate FY2018 groups on a global basis and pursue what we renamed Global 300 Strategy. As FY2015 Approximately More than 300 of fiscal 2015, we had selected more than 250 such global corporate groups, and we are aiming to expand the list to about 300 corporate groups by fiscal 250 groups 2018 to ensure sustainable growth of our customer base. groups We are working to build long-term relationships with our Global customer groups, including their top management. Backed by our strengths in analyzing fundamentals and trends in addition to our know-how and expertise in business and finance in making proposals, we will offer a broad range of products and services to address our customers’ needs and thereby contribute to the development of industries worldwide. 42 Mizuho Financial Group Global Corporate Company Review of Fiscal 2015 Steadily raised Mizuho’s global presence by expanding our non-Japanese customer base and our office network around the world Who We Are Accelerated our focus strategy for non-Japanese companies (Super 30 and Super 50 Strategy) In addition to supporting the global business expansion of our (millions of US$) 150 9th 4 Japanese corporate customers, we have selected approximately (3.5%) 13th 30 to 50 non-Japanese customers for focused business promotion (2.9%) 120 14th 3 at each of the four regional units: the Americas, EMEA, Asia & (2.5%) Oceania, and East Asia. In North America, we acquired the wholeWhat We Aim to Do 90 2 sale asset portfolio from the Royal Bank of Scotland and hired more than 100 staff from their operations, thus further strengthening our banking and securities collaboration and expanding our blue-chip 60 1 customer base. In fiscal 2015, we ranked within the top 10 in the U.S. DCM league table ranking, reflecting our increasing presence 0 0 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 beyond the borders. Expanded Our Network and Alliances * Bonds with issuance amount of US$250 million and above Our Strategies for Value Creation To provide in-depth support to companies entering new markets issued by investment grade corporations in the Americas. and expanding their businesses abroad, we are continuing to Source: Dealogic augment our global office network. In fiscal 2015, we opened a branch in Yangon and a front office in Thilawa in Myanmar. We also opened a branch in Ahmedabad in India and a representative office in San Francisco in the U.S. More recently, we opened a new branch in Vienna, Austria. In addition, to provide support for Japanese companies entering new markets, we proactively concluded memorandums of understanding for business cooperation Foundations for Our Corporate Value with government-affiliated institutions and financial institutions around the world. Opening ceremony for the Ahmedabad Branch TOPICS Responding to mediumto long-term funding needs in Asian currencies and initiatives to nurture the growth of Asian bond markets In July 2015, MHBK issued bonds denominated in offshore renminbi. In addition, in September 2015, MHBK issued Thai baht (THB) denominated bonds in the Thai domestic market based on the ASEAN+3 Multi-Currency Bond Issuance Framework (AMBIF)*, which was the first issuance of bonds under this framework. Both of these issues were listed on the Tokyo Pro-Bond Market. Going forward, Mizuho will actively respond to the needs of its customers for funding Financial Review denominated in Asian local currencies and work to contribute to the development of bond markets in Asia. (The issuance of THB-denominated bonds was selected by the Thai Bond Market Association as the Deal of the Year 2015.) Ceremony for presentation of the Best Bond * AMBIF: The ASEAN+3 Multi-Currency Bond Issuance Framework is part of the Asian Bond Market Initiative, Award by the Thai Bond Market Association which has been jointly established by the finance ministries and central banks of the ASEAN+3 countries. The framework aims to standardize documentation and procedures related to bond issuance among these countries to promote cross-border bond transactions. 2016 Integrated Report 43 Our Strategies for Value Creation Global Markets Company By drawing on the broad range of products and services of Mizuho’s banking, trust banking, and securities functions, we will provide comprehensive solutions to effectively meet customer needs while generating high and stable profits, and are aiming to become a top-class Asian player in the global market. Head of Global Markets Company Junichi Kato Providing solutions using market products to customers and managing a stable portfolio in ALM / Investment businesses The Global Markets Company conducts sales & trading by offering solutions to customers through providing market products, and engages in ALM* and investment businesses through asset management and fund-raising. In the Sales & Trading business, the Company responds to the risk hedging and asset management needs of a wide range of customers in Japan and overseas. It has an in-depth understanding of customers’ needs and draws on detailed analysis and forecasts of financial market trends. It also takes advantage of its sophisticated knowledge and experience, etc., in various financial products and its expertise to offer optimal solutions to each customer. In the ALM / Investment business, it identifies changes in the market quickly through early warning control, and implements diversified investment suited to the market environment and the outlook. In this way, it works to conduct portfolio management that achieves a high and stable performance. *Asset liability management (ALM): Comprehensive management of assets and liabilities 44 Mizuho Financial Group Key Aspects of the Company Conditions in the External Environment Issues for Mizuho Mizuho’s Strengths Who We Are g Higher volatility in each market due g Responding to the needs of investors g Sophisticated product capabilities based to uncertainty about the future including hedge funds, overseas on collaboration among banking, trust outlook, declining risk appetite of management companies, etc. banking and securities functions market participants, and increasing g Enhancement of portfolio g Sales & Trading structure that geopolitical risks management provide customized solutions for a g Growing needs among customers for wide variety of needs by customer risk hedges and asset management segment and individual company g Portfolio management structure that optimizes asset allocation and adjusts risks by diversified investment deWhat We Aim to Do pending on market environment New Medium-term Business Plan for the Company (FY2016 through FY2018) Achieve the aims of Mizuho’s market business model by pursuing “Customer First” Principle (Customer-focused Perspective) Our Strategies for Value Creation The Company responds to various kinds of risk hedging and Net Business Profit for Fiscal 2018 (Plan) asset management needs of customers related to interest rates, foreign exchange, equities, etc., by offering market products. The 600 Company’s basic strategy under its new medium-term business 450 398 428* plan is to achieve Mizuho’s market business model by offering 330± products and solutions that meet the needs of each customer 300 segment and individual company through the “customer first” 150 approach. In the Sales & Trading business, it works to offer optimal solu0 Foundations for Our Corporate Value tions to meet customer needs through collaboration between FY2015 (Results) FY2018 (Plan) banking and securities functions. It places a particular focus on its business for global investors, expanding its product line-up and upgrading its capabilities. In the ALM / Investment business, it is enhancing portfolio management through emphasis on early warning control and (billions of ¥) diversified investment, aiming to generate stable profits. 400 375 With Sales & Trading and ALM / Investment as its two pillars 350 + 25% of business, the Global Markets Company aims to establish a 300 base for generating stable profits and enhance its capabilities for 300 providing high quality services to its customers. 250 Financial Review 0 FY2015 (Results) FY2018 (Plan) *Global Markets Company managerial basis Note: The above contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See the disclaimer at the bottom of page 3 of this Integrated Report for information regarding factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements. 2016 Integrated Report 45 Our Strategies for Value Creation Major Strategies under the New Medium-term Business Plan 4Make further progress in Sales & Trading toward providing customized solutions for a Value for customers wide variety of needs by customer segment g Provide optimal solutions based on market and individual company products that respond to a wide range of risk 4Strengthen business with investors hedge and management needs  Key strategies 4Enhance portfolio management based on early warning control and diversified investment Value for society 4Respond to new technologies, including g As global financial professionals, provide market artificial intelligence liquidity and contribute to the sound develop4Increase productivity by pursuing operational ment of financial markets through participation excellence in industry groups Providing Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth of Customers and Society Initiatives to help customers attain sustainable growth and contribute to the sound development of financial markets through responding to risk hedge and asset management needs Mizuho provides support for customers’ business and financial strategies by offering high-quality solutions that make use of market products and answers to customer needs for risk hedges and asset management, through collaboration among its banking, trust banking and securities functions. We also cover a wide range of business domains, and among companies providing clearing services of Japan Securities Clearing Company (JSCC), MHBK stands No.1 in such services for yen interest rate derivatives. In addition, we are an active participant in the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) and other industry groups. Within these associations, we provide support to our customers for respondDealing room in the Head Office of MHBK ing to regulations and contribute to the sound development of financial markets by making proposals based on our abundant knowledge and know-how accumulated through various businesses. 46 Mizuho Financial Group Global Markets Company Review of Fiscal 2015 Provided effective portfolio management and strengthened capabilities for providing services to customers Sales & Trading Business Trends in Sales & Trading-related Income*1,2 Who We Are In the Sales & Trading business, MHBK worked to further develop its business by offering proposals for optimal market products, such as foreign exchange, interest rate, commodi145 136 + %6 130 128 ties, etc., responding to changes in the market environment. Meanwhile, MHSC took steps to strengthen its capabilities for 115 offering products in the equity and fixed income businesses. 100 In addition to these initiatives, in Japan and overseas, we 100 What We Aim to Do focused on further advancing the collaboration between 0 our banking and securities functions, and thereby steadily FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 expanded our customer business. *1. Index with FY2013 results defined as 100 *2. Transaction Banking Unit managerial basis ALM / Investment Business In the ALM / Investment business, business environment was Trends in ALM / Investment-related Income*1,2 quite challenging as investment yields dropped substantially along with the global decline in interest rates and shrink130 4 + % Our Strategies for Value Creation age in the spreads between short-term and long-term. We 119 worked to identify changes in the market at an early stage, 120 114 and then conduct operations that timely capture market 110 movements. In addition, we took sufficient account of risk 100 and return, and, through optimal allocation among bonds, 100 equities, credit instruments, etc. worked to manage portfolios based on diversified investment. 0 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 *1. Index with FY2013 results defined as 100 *2. Transaction Banking Unit managerial basis Foundations for Our Corporate Value TOPICS Issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated Formosa Bonds (offshore bonds issued in the Taiwan market) To support customers’ business in non-yen currencies, Mizuho issues non-yen currency denominated bonds not only in U.S. dollars but also Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars, etc., to provide a stable non-yen currency funding base. In fiscal 2015, we newly issued Formosa Bonds denominated in U.S. dollars. In this way, Mizuho is working to further diversify Financial Review its non-yen currency funding sources and follow on from this to expand opportunities for offering products to large investors in the Taiwan market. 2016 Integrated Report 47 Our Strategies for Value Creation Asset Management Company Contribute to activating domestic financial assets through asset management business by fulfilling the highest level of fiduciary duties* and satisfying customer needs. *Fiduciary duties is a general term for the broad range of various roles and responsibilities that fiduciaries are expected to fulfill when engaging in certain business activities in order to live up to the trust that is placed in them by their customers. Head of Asset Management Company Katsunobu Motohashi Newly established Asset Management One* will work together with Mizuho’s banking, trust banking, and securities functions to provide customers with products and services that will respond to a broad range of their needs * Newly formed Asset Management One will commence operations in October 2016 and bring together the asset management functions of the Group in a single company. The Asset Management Company works together with its banking, trust banking, securities, and companies providing asset Assets under Management as of March 31, 2016 management to serve the needs of a wide range of customers, from individuals to institutional investors (pension funds, financial ¥39 trillion ¥13 trillion institutions, business corporations, etc.) by providing products and (75.0%) (25.0%) services of the highest quality. A new asset management company will be formed from the integration of DIAM, the asset management functions of MHTB, ¥52 trillion MHAM, and Shinko Asset Management and will play a central role in the Company. This company will be established and begin operations in October 2016, named as “Asset Management One.”  Investment Trusts Asset Management One will bring together their asset manage Investment Advisory ment know-how in the domains of investment trusts, investment advisory, trust banking, and life insurance. It will offer products and services that will aim to substantially increase customer satisfaction. In addition, MHBK and MHTB are in charge of management and administration for DC pension plans*1, which are long-term and *1. Defined Contribution Pension Plan *2. Defined Benefit Pension Plan tax-exempt asset formation scheme. *3. Under wrap accounts, individual customers sign discretionary asset Furthermore, MHTB will administer DB pension plans*2, while management contracts with securities companies or trust banks, and they MHSC is responsible for management of wrap accounts*3. provide services covering from asset management to administration services. 48 Mizuho Financial Group Key Aspects of the Company Conditions in the External Environment Issues for Mizuho Mizuho’s Strengths Who We Are g Expansion of the range of tax-exg Strengthen its capabilities for providg Strong capabilities for asset manageempt asset formation scheme, ing products and services to accelerment and product offerings of Asset including introduction of NISA* and ate the shift “from savings to Management One in which Mizuho’s DC pension plan reforms investments” among individual asset management know-how in g Ongoing shift from savings to investcustomers investment trusts, investment ments g Strengthen the offerings of highadvisory, trust banking, and life value-added products and services, insurance were integrated g Possibility that public pension payments may be cut in the future due as well as its consulting functions, to the decline in the birthrate and for institutional investors demographic aging of the population What We Aim to Do g Introduction of a negative interest rate policy by the Bank of Japan *NISA: Small-lot, tax-exempt investment accounts New Medium-term Business Plan for the Company (FY2016 through FY2018) Developing product capabilities, which is the driver for the asset management Our Strategies for Value Creation business The Company will contribute to the vitalization of household Net Business Profit for Fiscal 2018 (Plan) financial assets through providing high-quality products and services that draw on the strengths developed in a variety of 40 business lines of the companies to be integrated into Asset 30 Management One, and develop investment products which will be suitable to mediumto long-term asset building for individual 20 customers who need stable asset formation and solutions for Foundations for Our Corporate Value 10 coping with negative interest rate as well as products which can substitute for deposits, thus encouraging a shift “from savings to 0 investments.” FY2015 (Results) FY2018 (Plan) For institutional investors who have sophisticated asset management needs such as further portfolio diversification and stabilization and identifying alternatives to investments in government bonds, the Company will make full use of the management (billions of ¥) 1,500 know-how of Asset Management One. In addition, in the pension business, it is expanding its service 1,200 1,200 + 50% offerings along with its consulting functions. 900 800 Financial Review 600 0 FY2015 (Results) FY2018 (Plan) *Exchange Traded Funds Note: The above contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See the disclaimer at the bottom of page 3 of this Integrated Report for information regarding factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements. 2016 Integrated Report 49 Our Strategies for Value Creation Major Strategies under the New Medium-term Business Plan 4Developing product capabilities • Offer products that respond to the needs of depositors under a negative interest rate environment and that meet the requirements of institutional investors Value for customers for ESG*1 and engagement*2 *1. An abbreviation for environment, society, and governance, g Respond to the increasingly diverse and sophistiwhich is one of the criteria used by investors for selecting cated needs of institutional investors and investees provide proactive asset management support *2. “Having constructive dialogue” with investee companies to encourage them to increase their corporate value and attain for individuals’ asset formation efforts sustainable growth Key strategies 4Focusing on investment trust business • Provide optimal asset management services that Value for society respond to customer needs through group-wide g Contribute to future expansion of national collaboration wealth, supply funds for growth to companies, and work toward realizing a virtuous circle in 4Expand services for the pension business the economy by promoting the shift “from • Strengthen consulting functions for pension funds savings to investments” • Address reforms in the pension systems, including the DC pension system for individuals Providing Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth of Customers and Society Develop and offer asset formation products that will provide a bridge for individual customers to shift “from savings to investments” In view of the declining birthrate and aging of the population, In addition, through these initiatives, we will contribute to vitalizing there is a strong possibility that the level of payments from public domestic financial assets. pensions may erode. Accordingly, it will become increasingly im* This ratio shows the amount of public pension payments that pensioners portant for individuals to build their asset portfolios through asset receive when they begin to receive pensions at age 65, compared with the cash salaries received (including bonuses) of persons of working age. management on their own initiative. According to the “2014 Actual Valuation of the Employees’ Pension Insurance and the National Pension,” prepared by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, the income replacement ratio* was 62.7% in fiscal 2014, but the outlook is for a gradual decline to 50.6% by fiscal 2043. In addition, it is necessary to consider the possibility that cash and deposits set aside by individuals for their retirement would be eroded by inflation. In view of this pension market environment, to meet the mediumto long-term asset formation needs of individual customers, Mizuho is working to develop and offer asset management products that will lead to the shift “from savings to investments.” 50 Mizuho Financial Group Asset Management Company Review of Fiscal 2015 For individual customers, we offered investment trust, fund Number of Corporate DC Subscribers wrap, and other products to meet their needs for mediumto (thousands) 7 Who We Are 1,200 long-term asset formation. For institutional investors, we of1,024 + % fered advice on asset allocation and the combination of asset 1,000 960 management strategies based on analysis and evaluation of 813 their portfolios. 800 Also in the DC pension plan business, Mizuho is in the top 600 ranks in terms of the number of subscribers and assets under management in corporate-type DC pension plans. 0 May 31, May 31, May 31, (Source) 2013 2014 2015 Newsletter on Pension & Investments What We Aim to Do Decided to Integrate Group Asset Management Functions: Birth of a Leading Asset Management Company in Asia The company’s name, “Asset Management As of March 31, 2016 One,” represents our vision of becoming the MHFG Dai-ichi Life Insurance number one asset management company MHTB in terms of customer trust by providing a MHBK MHSC MHAM DIAM (Asset management function) higher level of satisfaction through the colShinko laboration among the four companies inteAsset Management Our Strategies for Value Creation grated into the new company. Furthermore, After integration the new name also represents our aim to MHFG Dai-ichi Life Insurance become the number one asset management company in Asia and become competitive MHBK MHSC MHTB Asset Management One with the largest global asset management Re-outsource asset management companies. The establishment of Asset Management One will mark the birth of an asset management company that is outstanding Assets Under Management (trillions of ¥) quality and quantity. In terms of quality, in the public investment 60 Foundations for Our Corporate Value trust and investment advisory, it will offer various funds that have 53 52 been highly regarded by third parties. In terms of quantity, Asset 50 47 Management One will have assets under management (AUM) of 40 ¥52 trillion, which will make it a top-class AUM in Asia. It will also result in the top ranks in terms of funds entrusted from Japan’s 30 GPIF*, which is the largest public pension fund in the world. 0 *1. Government Pension Investment Fund March 31, March 31, March 31, *2. As of March 31, 2015 (Source) GPIF 2014 2015 2016 TOPICS Capital and business alliance with Matthews Asia* *Brand name for Matthews International Capital Management Financial Review Mizuho entered into a strategic capital and business alliance with Matthews Asia, which is an independent, privately owned firm and the largest dedicated Asia investment specialist in the United States. The alliance will enhance Mizuho’s capabilities to respond to customers’ needs as well as expand Mizuho’s global asset management platform. Mizuho will work to expand the lineup of competitive investment products that cover the pan-Asia region. 2016 Integrated Report 51 Our Strategies for Value Creation Global Products Unit By providing optimal solutions for customers, drawing on Mizuho’s capabilities across its banking, trust banking, and securities functions as well as in-house companies, we aim to become a professional group that realizes the development of “financial services consulting group.” Head of Global Products Unit Daisuke Yamada Offering sophisticated optimal solutions through the fusion of investment banking and transaction banking functions The Global Products Unit was formed from the integration of global custody, fund management, securities transfer agency Mizuho’s Investment Banking Unit and Transaction Banking Unit. services, and securities administration. In the investment banking business, the Unit offers optimal This Unit acts as the functional product platform for the solutions through collaboration across the banking, trust banking Group as a whole and endeavors to further increase Mizuho’s and securities functions, focusing on the five areas of M&A, real level of professionalism and the usage of functions across cusestate, asset finance, project finance, and corporate finance. tomer segments. Adhering to the market-driven approach that For the transaction banking business, services provided include Mizuho is aiming for, this Unit is working to enhance its expertise domestic remittances, foreign exchange, cash management, in financial products and to offer solutions for a wide range of trade finance, correspondent bank yen settlements, yen custody, customers across the in-house companies in Mizuho. Main Product Lineups MHBK MHTB MHSC Acquisition Finance Real Estate Brokerage M&A Advisory Real Estate Finance Real Estate Trust/ Asset Finance Asset Management Real Estate Private Fund Arrangements Customers Project Finance Trust Solutions Syndicated Loans Asset Finance Arrangements Securitization Business Domestic and overseas transactions Using Individuals’ Funds • Cash Management Debt Capital Markets (Bond Underwriting) • FX/Global Transaction Transfer Agency • Trade Finance Custody (for domestic customers) Equity Capital Markets (Equity Underwriting) Custody (for overseas customers) 52 Mizuho Financial Group Key Aspects of the Unit Conditions in the External Environment Issues for Mizuho Mizuho’s Strengths Who We Are g Increasing risks of price fluctuations g Strengthening our service capabilig Structures that enable organic in equities, bonds, real estate, ties through accelerating seamless combinations of the expertise of natural resources, and other assets operation of banking, trust banking, Mizuho’s group companies caused by growing uncertainty in and securities functions g Best-in-class record of accomplishthe global economy g Strengthening our global operations ments in M&A advisory, project g Expansion of new settlement busiin line with product lineup finance, asset-backed securities nesses as a result of advancements g Developing products responding to (ABS), syndicated loans, DCM (bond in settlement methods and technonew technologies and changes in underwriting), custody, cash manlogical innovation such as Fintech the business environment agement systems (CMS), and other areas g Structuring front-line systems to What We Aim to Do promote efficient businesses New Medium-term Business Plan for the Unit (FY2016 through FY2018) Offer optimal solutions for customer needs as a professional group of financial products To realize Mizuho’s aim of being customer first (the market-in) integrated manner among banking, trust banking, and securities Our Strategies for Value Creation approach, Mizuho need to respond to constantly changing cusfunctions on a global basis and to enhance its expertise, in order tomer needs, by identifying changes in the external environment to continuously provide optimal products and services. and various risks that may emerge from them. In addition, by strengthening its initiatives in new business With customers’ needs increasingly sophisticated and didomains, the Unit will work to contribute to improving customer versified, the Unit will advance the management system in an convenience. Offering seamless solutions of banking, trust banking Offering solutions for each customer at each stage of and securities functions (Investment banking) cash management (Transaction banking) Foundations for Our Corporate Value Financial Review Note: The above contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See the disclaimer at the bottom of page 3 of this Integrated Report for information regarding factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements. 2016 Integrated Report 53 Our Strategies for Value Creation Major Strategies under the New Medium-term Business Plan 4Strengthen capabilities for providing products seamlessly among banking, trust banking and securities functions Value for customers g Contribute to customers’ businesses and finan4Strengthen proactive initiatives in new business domains cial strategies as their needs become more diversified and sophisticated through providing • Offer new fund-raising solutions that make use of optimal solutions globally funds of individual investors, etc. • Offer new settlement solutions using Fintech Key strategies Value for society 4Promote Operational Excellence, structure systems for supplying optimal products, and g Offer solutions on a global basis, taking advanstrengthen the human resource and operatage of sophisticated expertise, and contribute tional base to the development of the social infrastructure • Expand comprehensive business promotions on a g Contribute to the development of global settleglobal basis ments system through participating in activities • Rebalance organizations and personnel, etc. of industry groups, etc. Providing Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth of Customers and Society Started providing supply chain finance that supports improvements in customer’s cashflows Mizuho has begun to provide supply chain finance systems for large corporaMizuho tions that contribute to improving the cash conversion cycle* by improving 6. Payment before 7. Due date of the due date 3. Request for 4. Approval of payment of the efficiency of cash settlements with suppliers in Japan and overseas and of purchase purchase of purchase of receivables of receivables receivables receivables the efficiency of cashflow management. These systems improve the efficiency of cash usage for customers, and, at the same time, help to facilitate the cash 2. Request for Supply 5. Notice of transfer of inflow and outflow for suppliers, thus making it possible to strengthen their purchase of Chain Finance receivables/approval receivables ties with suppliers. 1. Invoice upload Buyer *Number of days it takes a customer to collect cash used for procurements from sales Supplier (Customer) of its products • Strengthen • Shorten Cash Relationships with Conversion Cycle Supplier Providing of new fund raising methods aimed at wider use of renewable energy sources To assist in the development of a sustainable society, Mizuho is providing various types of support to expand the use of renewable energy. In June 2016, Takara Leben Infrastructure Fund, which is investing mainly in mega solar power plants, became the first fund to list on the Infrastructure Fund Market of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. At that time, Mizuho provided its full support with MHSC acting a listing lead manager, MHTB performing the role of Administrator of the Investors’ Registry, and MHBK taking the lead role in arranging the financing. Leben Solar Shioya 54 Mizuho Financial Group Global Products Unit Review of Fiscal 2015 Compiling a top-class list of accomplishments in each of its business lines and put in place frameworks for promoting further business development Investment Banking Business Who We Are We arranged various deals, including major acquisition deals Principal Accomplishments in the FY2015 Investment Banking Results overseas and business succession deals as financial advisor M&A Advisory for Announced Deals (FA), and the first project financing for the concession busi(Japan Corporations)*1 No. 1 ness* in Japan. In addition, in order to establishing competitive advantage, Project Finance (Japan)*2 No. 1 we expanded our bond underwriting divisions and strengthSyndicated Loans (Japan) *3 No. 1 ened our capabilities to respond to real estate investors. ABS Lead Manager*4 No. 1 What We Aim to Do *Arrangements under which the operation of public facilities, etc., is assigned Japan Publicly Offered Bonds to a private sector business, while the ownership of the facilities remains with the public sector. (Industrial Bonds & Electric Power Bonds)*5 No. 1 *1. Number of deals basis, excluding real estate deals Transaction Banking Business *2. Amount basis, bookrunner basis *3. Amount basis, bookrunner basis We have strengthened consulting functions that include *4. Amount basis, Asset Backed Securities establishing a dedicated team to provide “one stop” services, *5. Underwriting amount basis, excluding own bonds responding to increasing customers’ requirements for efficient global cash management, and the formation of a dediOur Strategies for Value Creation cated team to provide services in the stock transfer business Principal Accomplishments in FY2015 Transaction Banking Results for newly listed companies. In addition, we expanded services to increase convenience CMS*1 No. 1 for customers, including the introduction of a supply chain Custody (Sub-Custodian) *2 No. 1 finance system to help customers increase the efficiency of *1. Cash Management Service their cash management and provide support for strengthenMizuho won the first place in terms of customer satisfaction in the CMS ing relationships with suppliers, and services that allow corranking survey of Asia Money magazine (in the Japanese market, covering companies with large sales). porate customers to open new accounts via the Internet. *2. Securities custody and administration for securities investments Foundations for Our Corporate Value Mizuho won the first place in custody bank survey rankings in Japan in both Global Custodian magazine and Global Investor magazine. TOPICS Acquisition of shares of Simplex Real Estate Management and Simplex REIT Partners In order to enhance its asset management capabilities and MHTB expand its business areas, which are expected to show further development and expansion, MHTB made Simplex Real Estate 100% Management, an asset management company for privateplacement real estate funds, and Simplex REIT Partners, an asFinancial Review set management company of REIT, its subsidiaries through the establishment of Simplex Investment Advisors. Mizuho will offer high-quality and professional services by utilizing the abundant 100% expertise of these two companies. 2016 Integrated Report 55 Our Strategies for Value Creation Research & Consulting Unit Through the establishment of “One Think Tank,” which is the first full-scale research and consulting unit to be established by a Japanese bank, we aim to create a team of experts dedicated to addressing the various challenges our customers may face. Head of Research & Consulting Unit Keiichiro Ogushi Offering optimal solutions to the issues customers are facing and issues they may face as “One Think Tank” The Research & Consulting Unit was launched by gathering toThe Unit’s research functions cover a range of fields from gether all the Group’s research and consulting functions into a industries to the macroeconomy, and its consulting functions are single unit of experts that is dedicated to addressing the various spread over many fields that are of general interest to customers, challenges our customers may face. ranging from management and financial strategy to highly speThe Unit is comprised of the MHBK Industry Research cialized areas such as the environment, social security, and IT. The Department, the MHTB Consulting Department, the MHSC companies and departments within the Unit act as “One Think Research & Consulting Unit, MHIR, MHRI, and Mizuho-DL Tank” and collaborate seamlessly, to formulate and offer compreFinancial Technology. hensive solutions based on sophisticated expertise and know-how. Three Areas to Strengthen Research & Consulting Unit One Think Tank Formation of Coordinate with all in-house MHBK Industry Research Research independent companies as a utility (support) Industry Department unit function Macroeconomy MHRI Offer optimal solutions to Advance the globalization of our Managerial/ MHTB a broad range of research and consulting functions Financial Consulting Department Consulting Globalization to support the growth strategies Strategies customers in of our wide range of customers Mizuho-DL both inside and outside Japan Financial Technology the private and Environment, social public sectors welfare, IT consulting/ MHIR Eliminate duplicated functions and development, etc. Selection and rebalance resources toward concentration growth areas where customer < Public sector > MHSC of functions needs are concentrated Securities markets Research & Consulting Unit 56 Mizuho Financial Group Key Aspects of the Unit Conditions in the External Environment Issues for Mizuho Mizuho’s Strengths Who We Are g Rapidly-changing, difficult to foreg Creating further business opportunig Research function that has broad cast economic, financial, and social ties that draw on the specialties of coverage of trends ranging from the environment group companies macroeconomy to industry g Increasingly diverse, complex and g Strategic reconfiguration of research g Consulting functions that cover a global issues faced by customers & consulting functions and rebalancwide range of fields from manageg Homogenization of strategies impleing of human resources ment and financial strategy to the mented by competitors, including g Expanding opportunities for offering environment, social security, and IT collaboration of banking, trust research and consulting functions g Top-class team in Japan with about banking and securities functions 3,500 professionals What We Aim to Do New Medium-term Business Plan for the Unit (FY2016 through FY2018) Fuse research and consulting functions and contribute broadly to addressing issues as “One Think Tank” “One Think Tank” has four key strategies: establish its position as this information with many customers, the Unit will structure a a utility (support) function, increase its brand value, strengthen system that better reflects customer feedbacks. Our Strategies for Value Creation capabilities for responding globally, and contribute to business To strengthen its capabilities for responding globally, the Unit expansion by the market-driven approach. Implementation of will expand its systems on a global basis to respond to the needs these strategies will strengthen the Unit’s research and consulting of customers in Japan and overseas, which are becoming increasfunctions. ingly global in scope, diverse, and complex. To establish its position as a utility (support) function, the Unit To contribute to business expansion by the market-driven must concentrate its expertise and offer seamless information approach, the Unit must move closer to its customers to underand solutions to the in-house companies to help customers adstand their needs and create customer support systems that will dress a diverse range of issues. enable the provision of optimal solutions to a diverse range of To increase its brand value, the Unit must communicate the customer needs. Foundations for Our Corporate Value accomplishments of “One Think Tank.” In addition to sharing Offering solutions as “One Think Tank” Financial Review Note: The above contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See the disclaimer at the bottom of page 3 of this Integrated Report for information regarding factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements. 2016 Integrated Report 57 Our Strategies for Value Creation Major Strategies under the New Medium-term Business Plan 4Offer the Unit’s expertise seamlessly and support across in-house companies Value for customers 4Increase Mizuho’s brand value by actively communicating accomplishments of g  ontribute to its customers’ growth strategies C “One Think Tank” by addressing their increasingly complex issues with comprehensive solutions offered in an 4Improve business capabilities on a global basis and support the strategies of customers integrated manner among group companies under “One Think Tank” broadly in Japan and overseas Key strategies 4Create new growth areas drawing on the Group’s network Value for society 4Strengthen support for growth of innovative Contribute to the vitalization of regional areas companies g and the fostering of next-generation growth 4Establish overwhelming superiority in industries by making use of the industry experconsulting function for customers’ growth tise of the MHBK Industry Research Department, strategies and business inheritance for the the expertise of MHIR, and the research function upper middle segment of companies of the MHRI to offer policy recommendations Providing Solutions that Support Sustainable Growth of Customers and Society Providing growth support through comprehensive and optimal solutions to the issues customers are facing and issues they may face In economic, financial, and social environments that are constantly undergoing severe changes, the issues that customers face are becoming increasingly diverse. Through the market-driven approach, in addition to the issues customers currently face, Mizuho brings together the expertise of “One Think Tank” to prepare comprehensive and optimal solutions for latent issues that customers are not currently aware of. Through these activities, Mizuho sup× ports the growth strategies of its customers. Fostering next-generation growth fields based on in-depth knowledge of industry trends In an external environment where changes in the economic and the industrial structure as well as technological progress are accelerating, Mizuho endeavors to understand the directions of change in society from an industrial perspective through promoting solutions to customers’ mediumto longterm issues. Drawing on its in-depth expertise about industrial trends and the capabilities for providing support for formulating corporate strategy as well as its capabilities for making policy proposals, Mizuho takes active initiatives in creating and fostering next-generation growth fields. 58 Mizuho Financial Group Research & Consulting Unit Composition of the Unit Concentrate research functions and consulting functions in “One Think Tank” Who We Are MHBK Industry Research Department MHTB Consulting Department With a focus on large companies that have As the consulting department of a trust and distinctive features, this department offers (1) banking company with extensive experiences in industry analyst functions, offering a wide range the trust business and real estate, this departof expertise regarding industry trends in Japan ment offers a range of consulting functions and overseas, (2) strategist functions that include focusing on business and asset inheritance What We Aim to Do providing business strategy development support and formulation of financial solutions to and policy advice based on a background of solid customers which include high-net-worth industry expertise, and (3) corporate finance individuals and business owners, as well as a support function for the formulation of customwide range of companies from SMEs to large ers’ financial and management strategies. corporations. Our Strategies for Value Creation Mizuho-DL Financial Technology MHSC Research & Consulting Unit Mizuho-DL Financial Technology is a joint This unit has a large staff of analysts that have venture founded by MHBK, Dai-ichi Life Insurreceived high appraisals in Japan from Nikkei ance, and Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance. Veritas and other magazines. As the public For its broad customer base, which includes research department for equities and bonds in financial institutions as well as corporations, institutional investors and public-sector organiOne Think Tank MHSC, this unit offers information to institutional investors in Japan and overseas in zations, this company provides research and collaboration with its overseas offices. development services on financial technologies Foundations for Our Corporate Value focused around actuarial sciences as well as consulting and investment advisory services. MHRI MHIR MHRI has in-depth research functions for Having strengths in five fields, namely: the domestic and overseas macroeconomic, environment and energy, social security, financial, and policy matters. In addition, the management and IT strategy, information and institute, as a comprehensive think tank with telecommunications, and science, MHIR offers more than 20,000 membership companies, research and consulting functions for strategy provides Mizuho’s broad customer base in formulation and implementation as well as Financial Review Japan and overseas with a diversity of informasystem solutions for customers that include tion and solutions. industrial corporations, financial institutions, central government organization, and research institutes. 2016 Integrated Report 59 Our Strategies for Value Creation Proactive Initiatives for New Technology Along with the progress in information technology, the diversification of communication methods accompanying the expansion in the use of social media, and the penetration of electronic settlements into our daily lives, financial technology is evolving at a dramatic pace. Amid this operating environment, through collaborating with external organizations and making use of cutting-edge technology, Mizuho is endeavoring to create new businesses and provide highly convenient services for our customers more so than before, so as to create an advanced brand image as a financial institution. Technology Policy Improve our products and services and implement business process reforms by utilizing outside expertise and technologies Promotion Structure Established Incubation PT as an independent organizational unit across the Group • To strengthen new business creation and initiatives across Mizuho Financial Group the Group, Mizuho established “Incubation PT,” an independent and specialized team, in July 2015. Incubation PT • “Incubation PT,” by drawing on expertise and technolMHBK MHTB MHSC Other Group Companies ogy from outside the Group, is working to create new businesses that cause “disruptive innovation” and are not bound by prevailing notions and ideas. • In addition, the director in charge of Incubation PT as Chief Digital Innovation Officer is in overall charge of the management of creating new business and makes decisions flexibly and quickly. 60 Mizuho Financial Group Specific Initiatives to Date Incubation PT is drawing on cutting-edge component technologies and actively collaborating with other companies through open innovation* with the aim of providing new services Who We Are *Open innovation: An approach to creating innovative services and businesses by not relying exclusively on internal resources but also bringing in technology and ideas from external organizations. Principal component technologies: Artificial Intelligence (AI), Big Data, Blockchain, and Robotics, etc. SMART FOLIO (Robo-Advisor) Collaboration with Money Forward This service is provided over the Internet and gives suggestions for investTo provide support for corporate customers in raising efficiency in ment trust portfolios based on customers’ risk appetite for free of charge. their accounting operations, Mizuho has introduced its automated What We Aim to Do For customers who use Mizuho Direct, the SMART services incash receipt reconciliation and salary payment. These serFOLIO service has value-added functions that aim vices combine the cloud computto help customers reach their investment objectives ing services of Money Forward, through goal approach analyses, and support them and Mizuho’s bank settlement to select savings-type insurance products. services. Simple Balance Checking Services through LINE Collaboration with Money Tree On the LINE service for balance checking, customers Through collaboration with Money Tree, which provides personal fiwith MHBK accounts can confirm their balance and nancial management services, Mizuho provides Our Strategies for Value Creation activities on account simply by sending a stamp of the its “Mizuho Direct” application platform with official character of MHBK. the Lifetime Financial Record service, which enables viewing customers’ account activities on smartphones over the customers’ lifetime. Mediumto Long-term Initiatives Fusion of AI and Robotics The humanoid robot “Pepper,” which combines AI and robotics, joined MHBK in July 2015. Foundations for Our Corporate Value Pepper provides a new kind of hospitality for customers by making small talk about finance and giving them guidance. In addition, in May 2016, Mizuho took up the next challenge of combining Pepper with IBM’s Watson technology to provide more sophisticated services. Welcoming Ceremony held for Pepper to MHBK Open Innovation Initiatives In October 2015, Mizuho held a Fintech Forum, and more than 200 persons attended, mainly from start-up companies. Going forward, Mizuho will continue these initiatives to actively bring in expertise and technology from the outside, and endeavor to create new businesses and improve services for customers. Mizuho Fintech Forum Financial Review Blockchain-related Technology Blockchain* technology holds the promise of making the system faster, safer and lower-cost. Mizuho participates in the international consortium led by U.S. start-up company R3 CEV and is conducting testing of a number of original technologies in collaboration with outside companies and taking other initiatives with the aim of commercializing Blockchain technology at an early date. *Blockchain: A distributed database that contains a growing list of data records that is secured from tampering and revision 2016 Integrated Report 61 Our Strategies for Value Creation Initiatives for Responsible Investment and Financing Finance: Initiatives for Applying the Equator Principles As a global financial institution, Mizuho is committed to meet management through Equator Principles creates value for our the banking needs of the communities in Japan and around the stakeholders by reducing the credit risk and by ensuring enviworld, where it operates. To deliver on its responsibilities as a ronmentally and socially responsible development of projects. bank, and for the sound development of economies and societThrough the implementation of Equator Principles, Mizuho ies, Mizuho draws on its sophisticated risk taking capabilities serves to fulfill its social responsibilities as a financial institution structured within its firm risk management framework. by taking a responsible approach MHBK recognizes that large scale development projects to financing that leads to both may have adverse impacts on the environment and local economic development as well as communities. To minimize and/or mitigate the environmental environmental preservation. and social risks associated with such large scale develop* The Equator Principles are a set of voluntary guidelines adopted by private ments, MHBK, in collaboration with the project proponents financial institutions to ensure that large-scale development or construction projects appropriately consider the associated potential impacts on the (customers), conducts appropriate environmental and social natural environment and the affected communities. risks assessment/due-diligence as required under Equator For further details, please access the following URL: Principles*. Mizuho believes that environmental and social risk http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/csr/environment/equator/index.html Overview of Environmental and Social Risk Management/Assessment Process Required under Equator Principles (EP) Closed transactions* Screened for EP Compliance (By region) TOPICS (Number of Projects) Activities to promote awareness of environmental and 90 social risk management 67 60 9 MHBK, together with the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Sumitomo 49 47 Mitsui Banking Corporation, published a practitioners’ guidebook on 10 30 8 the Equator Principles in March 2016. MHBK believes that this publica30 23 17 tion, which is the first such publication on the Equator Principles in 28 22 Japan, will help promote awareness regarding the Equator Principles 16 0 and other significant environmental and social risk management guideFY2013 FY2014 FY2015 lines and frameworks, and will lead to enhanced information sharing Europe/Middle East/Africa Asia/ Oceania Americas among the various industries and financial institutions in Japan. *The figures above have been confirmed by the third party. 62 Mizuho Financial Group Investment: Initiatives for Fulfilling the Stewardship Responsibilities as Institutional Investors Mizuho believes that improving and fostering the investee version of the Stewardship Code for “responsible institutional companies’ enterprise value and its sustainable growth investors” to fulfill their stewardship responsibility as responWho We Are through constructive engagement (involving purposeful diasible institutional investors. logue) will enhance the mediumto long-term investment Asset Management One, the asset management company return for its customers. that Mizuho is scheduled to form in October 2016 through MHTB, MHAM, Shinko Asset Management, and DIAM consolidation of the group asset management companies, will accept and are implementing the principles of the Japanese also work to fulfill its stewardship responsibilities. Examples of Specific Initiatives What We Aim to Do MHTB has worked actively to increase the investee companies’ for these matters is organized into two sections, one for acenterprise value and capital efficiency in the medium-to-long tive management and the other for index management. The term, and has pursued the objective of promoting sustainable Responsible Investment Committee deliberates and reviews growth through constructive engagement based not only on progress on stewardship activities, including the exercise of financial information of the investee companies but also these voting rights, and conducts dialogues with investee compacompanies’ non-financial information, including corporate nies, while striving at all times to refine and improve Mizuho’s governance and how investee companies address social and stewardship initiatives. In addition, the Secretariat prepares environmental issues. In July 2014, a Responsible Investment records of dialogues between analysts and investee compaOur Strategies for Value Creation Committee was newly formed to strengthen the framework nies, keeps these in good order, and shares this information for fulfilling stewardship responsibilities, and the Secretariat with the Responsible Investment Committee. Stewardship Framework Chart MHTB Investee Companies Responsible Investment Committee Decision maker: Chief Investment Officer Roles • Deliberation and reporting on the status of stewardship Foundations for Our Corporate Value • Guidelines for executing voting rights Dialogue with Investee • Agenda items requiring careful consideration (major items) Company (Engagement) before implementation Secretariat • Active management section • Index management section Exercise of Voting Rights Principal Items for Engagement (Fiscal 2015) 2% 5% Management strategies and business plans that contribute to increas5%  Business Strategies ing corporate value in the medium-to-long term  Business Performance Changes in corporate performance and causal factors Financial Review Financial strategies, capital policies, and other matters that contribute  Capital Structure 27% 61% to increasing capital efficiency and sustainable growth  Corporate Governance Management systems and related matters, corporate governance Responding to risk factors that may have a major impact on management  Risks and others Responding to other matters that may have a major impact on management (anti-social behavior, etc.) 2016 Integrated Report 63 Our Strategies for Value Creation Management Support for SME Customers and Regional Revitalization Management Support for SME Customers Mizuho shares information on the needs and issues of its customers at various stages in their development, offers them proposals for solutions, and supports their implementation. Mizuho will strive to strengthen its follow-up measures after good understanding of customers’ perspectives consultations and applications regarding financing, the adjustThe specialized section to support the business revitalizament of loan conditions and other items and to proactively tion within the credit group in Mizuho works intensively to offer consulting services regarding management challenges provide support for SME customers’ business improvement aimed at providing problem resolution proposals. Thereby we and business revitalization. In addition, Head Office and frontfulfill our responsibilities as a financial institution to provide lines cooperatively provide consultation and support for the support for customers’ business expansion, business improvecustomers, collaborating with external organizations, external ment, business revitalization, and other efforts based on a specialists, and other financial institutions. Support for Business Establishment and Business Expansion Mizuho Growth Support Fund Support for Overseas Business Activities MHBK and Mizuho Capital jointly set up the “Mizuho Growth Mizuho actively provides support for its customers who are Support Fund,” which provides risk money for diverse purposes, entering other countries in Asia and other parts of the world. including business start-ups, mezzanine funding, and MBOSpecialized departments within Mizuho and its offices in Japan and related needs. overseas come together to offer a range of solutions. In addition, Mizuho uses external Investment Track Records of Mizuho Growth Fund organizations to provide Cumulative Total of Investments 122 companies information, including ¥5.9 billion the holding of seminars, for its customers entering Cumulative Total of Investments overseas markets. 64 companies ¥3.4 billion Cumulative Total of Investments Support for Business Revitalization and Shifting to Other Industries 31 companies ¥1.2 billion Mizuho collaborates with external organizations and other finanFY2013 FY2014 FY2015 cial institutions to provide assistance to its customer for revitalizing their businesses and shifting to other lines of business. Case 1 Business Matching For a business customer intending to close its current business (wholeTo support its customers’ corporate growth strategy, Mizuho saler of marine products), Mizuho utilized the Regional Economy actively engages in business matching to provide opportunities Vitalization Corporation of for its customers to meet with one another and discover opporJapan (REVIC), which offer tunities for business expansion. In addition to individual matchspecial assistance for tackling ing on the request from our customers or our proposal, Mizuho business challenges once more also sponsors business discussion forums from time to time in to work out the customer’s places throughout Japan. obligations and the guarantees of their management. Forums Held in Fiscal 2015 Number of forums held: Themes: Manufacturing, inbound tourism, Case 2 8 times innovation, revitalization of regional areas, etc. For a customer (in the lodging business) burdened with excessive debt, MIZUHO collaborated with the revitalization support associaNumber of companies participated: Number of business discussions: tions, credit guarantee associations and others to provide thorCumulative total of 740 Approximately 1,700 oughgoing revitalization support through the use of the secondary corporations method. 64 Mizuho Financial Group Regional Revitalization Initiatives As a result of the trend in Japan toward concentration of busiUtilizing its network of branches in each of Japan’s prefecnesses and other activities sole in Tokyo, regional populations are tures, Mizuho is striving to promote the revitalization of regional Who We Are expected to decline and their economies to shrink in the future. economies and industries by providing its customers with smooth Revitalization of regional towns is an urgent task, through a virtusupplies of funding, engaging in management consultations, and ous circle in which people and jobs return to regional areas. supplying various other kinds of management support. Case Examples Aiming for Recovery following the earthquake disaster in Fukushima Prefecture What We Aim to Do In March 2016, MHFG and Fukushima Prefecture signed a collaborative agreement. This agreement looks to the holding of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games when Mizuho, as a Gold Banking Partner* will work with Fukushima Prefecture, to generate a positive mood in the prefecture with the objective of hastening recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake. With the goal of recovery from the megaquake, Mizuho and Fukushima have collaborated in many ways, and will work to step up these activities, including sponsoring sporting events jointly in Fukushima. * Mizuho is a Tokyo 2020 Gold Bank Partner Signing of the collaborative agreement Our Strategies for Value Creation Revitalizing local industry in Ehime Prefecture In April 2015, MHBK concluded a comprehensive agreement on industrial promotion and other activities with Ehime Prefecture. Under this agreement Mizuho and Ehime Prefecture are creating frameworks for revitalizing local industries, including Ehime’s traditional arts, crafts and regional brands. In addition to a wide range of activities aimed at regional revitalization, Mizuho moves forward on specific initiatives to contribute to what the government has specified as “creating towns, people and jobs” through making various proposals and suggestions based on Mizuho’s industry expertise. Those include the transformation of agriculture, forestry and fisheries into sixth industries, building industrial Signing of the comprehensive agreements clusters, and so on. Foundations for Our Corporate Value Finance Facilitation and Management Guarantee Guideline Initiatives Finance Facilitation Initiatives Earnestly determined to fulfill a financial institution’s social role by appropriately responding to such customer requests as of facilitating finance, Mizuho works to promote facilitating those for new loans and loan condition adjustments, and by finance in accordance with the Group’s fundamental policies striving to utilize its consulting functions. Initiatives Related to “Guidelines for Management Guarantee” Mizuho, in line with “Guidelines for Management Guarantees,” Accomplishments in Fiscal 2015 Related to Management Guarantees Financial Review is working to establish and maintain good relationships of trust (MHBK+MHTB) Items Number with its customers. Number of new loans without guarantees 29,634 Number of loans using alternatives* to management guarantees 28 Number of loans for which existing guarantees were removed 1,640 *Asset Backed Loans, Guarantee with suspensive condition, Guarantee with condition subsequent 2016 Integrated Report 65 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Corporate Governance MHFG, as the Group’s holding company, is taking continuing growth, and contributing to economic and industrial develinitiatives to realize “what we aim to be” with regard to our opment and prosperity of society inside and outside of Japan, Board of Directors and corporate governance. To fulfill our we have established our corporate governance system consocial role and mission by giving due regard to creating value sisting with the Board of Directors at its core, and endeavor for shareholders and other stakeholders, realizing improved to further enhance our corporate governance. corporate value through continuous and stable corporate Basic Policy and Principal Features regarding MHFG’s Corporate Governance System Basic Policy regarding MHFG’s Corporate Governance System The basic policy regarding MHFG’s corporate governance system is as follows. Principal Features of MHFG’s Corporate Governance System The principal features of MHFG’s corporate governance system are stated below. These include the fact that non-executive directors account for a majority of the Board of Directors. 66 Mizuho Financial Group Corporate Governance System We have adopted a “Company with Three Committees” with the belief that, under the current legal system, a “Company with Three Committees” is the most effective as a system to realize the basic policy regarding MHFG’s corporate governance system. Who We Are What We Aim to Do Our Strategies for Value Creation Outside Directors Each outside director has deep insight and knowledge and to get an overview and understanding of the overall manextensive experience in areas such as corporate management, agement of Mizuho, the ability to grasp essential issues and Foundations for Our Corporate Value risk management, compliance with laws and regulations, risks, and the ability to appropriately interview management crisis management, financial accounting, internal control, and express opinions to and persuade management, etc. In macroeconomic policy, organizational and cultural reform, or addition, all the outside directors satisfy the Independence global management. Each outside director also has the ability Standards of Outside Directors of MHFG. For MHFG’s “Overview of Independence Standards of Outside Directors,” please refer to our website http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/company/structure/governance/g_report.html#director Name Reason for Selecting Him/Her Mitsuo Expected to contribute to strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of MHFG’s Board of Ohashi Directors, leveraging his extensive experience and deep insight as a top executive. Expected to contribute to (i) strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of MHFG’s Board of Tetsuo Directors, (ii) MHFG’s effort to further enhance internal control systems and group governance, etc., leveraging his extensive experience Seki and deep insight as a top executive, etc. Takashi Expected to contribute to (i) strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of MHFG’s Board of Financial Review Kawamura Directors, (ii) MHFG’s effort to enhance group governance, etc., leveraging his extensive experience and deep insight. Expected to contribute to (i) strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of MHFG’s Board of Tatsuo Directors and (ii) the further enhancement of the corporate governance, compliance and risk management system of MHFG, leveraging Kainaka his extensive experience, deep insight and high level of expertise as a prosecutor, judge and attorney-at-law. Hirotake Expected to contribute to strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of MHFG’s Board of Abe Directors, leveraging his extensive experience, deep insight and high level of expertise as a certified public accountant. Expected to contribute to strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of MHFG’s Board of DirecHiroko tors, leveraging her extensive experience and deep insight as a university professor and a former Minister of State for Economic and Fiscal Ota Policy, which includes, among other things, the ability to see things from macroeconomic perspective (e.g., from a public policy and economic policy perspective) as well as a high level of awareness of the problems that must be resolved for the revival of the Japanese economy. 2016 Integrated Report 67 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Board of Directors The main roles of the Board of Directors of MHFG are making decisions on business execution such as basic management policies, which are legally-specified matters to be determined solely by the Board of Directors, and supervising the execution of duties by directors and executive officers. How the Board of Directors Meetings Are Operated The Board of Directors has delegated decision-making, in outside directors. principle, to the President & Group CEO for items other than The Board of Directors held 13 meetings during fiscal those legally specified as matters to be determined solely 2015 and had high-quality discussions regarding mediumby the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of term issues in preparation for the new medium-term busiDirectors plays a central role in narrowing down the agendas ness plan. In addition, to realize such objectives as providing to enable concentration on truly necessary proposals and, directors with a good understanding of the overall manageregarding proposals associated with core management isment from a panoramic perspective, the Board of Directors sues, the Board of Directors promotes comprehensive discusreceived reports on such topics as the execution of priority sions of essential points in a free and vigorous manner with strategies, business performance and other important issues. the inclusion of high-quality opinions and suggestions from Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors As a front runner in the area of corporate governance, For the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Mizuho is aiming to increase its corporate value through Directors for fiscal 2015, self-evaluation was made regardpursuing “growth-oriented” governance reforms designed to ing the gap between present conditions and “what we aim foster “earning potential.” to be” in terms of the Board of Directors and corporate In order to confirm the progress and results of the reforms governance and issues to be addressed and measures to and to identify issues to be addressed going forward, we be taken going forward were discussed, after considering conduct the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of inputs from the standpoints of an independent third party Directors as a whole. institution. 68 Mizuho Financial Group Corporate Governance Summary of Evaluation It was confirmed that “what we aim to be” with regard to MHFG’s Board of Directors and corporate governance was largely realized and that the Board of Directors is exerting their supervisory function to foster “earning potential.” Based on the following points, it was also evaluated that the effectiveness of the Board of Directors was reasonably secured: Who We Are (1) The Board of Directors as a whole kept promoting corporate governance reform, under the leadership of the Group CEO (2) The Board of Directors exercised the supervisory function that contributes to fostering “earning potential” by continuously encouraging executive officers to try new ways to increase corporate value (3) Especially, for fiscal 2015, high-quality discussions were made at the Board of Directors meetings in preparation for formulating the new medium-term business plan Efforts Going Forward What We Aim to Do For the evaluation of fiscal 2015, it was also confirmed and shared that in order to take the effectiveness of the Board of Directors to the next level, additional efforts are necessary and we continually make further efforts on the following three points: (1) To further make deliberations at the Board of Directors meetings more fulfilling and efficient Efforts are to be made to further make deliberations more fulfilling and efficient, in ways such as clarifying key issues to be deliberated on a proposal and narrowing down agenda items. (2) To further utilize outside directors’ insights and reflect them on business execution In order to reflect outside directors’ insights on business execution in a more effective manner and to strengthen “earning potential,” efforts are to be made to deepen mutual understanding between the outside directors and the executive officers, such Our Strategies for Value Creation as exchanging outside directors’ objective views and the executive officers’ information on actual business as well as circumstances particular to financial institutions, etc. (3) To agree on how the Board of Directors should be engaged in dialogue with stakeholders How the Board of Directors should be engaged in dialogues with stakeholders are to be discussed and shared as mediumto longterm issues.  Method of Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors in Fiscal 2015 The Board of Directors conducted self-evaluation through the views given to all directors, as well as hearings of certain Foundations for Our Corporate Value following procedure: executive officers, the Corporate Secretariat supporting the (1) The Outside Director Session (where only outside directors Board of Directors and the Audit Committee office; and attended) conducted an interim evaluation; (3) The Board of Directors in the April 2016 meeting took into ac(2) A third party evaluation with inputs from a third party count the evaluations mentioned above, and discussed issues institution was made, based on questionnaires and interto be addressed and measures to be taken going forward Nominating Committee The role of the Nominating Committee of MHFG is to deterand MHSC) and exercise the approval rights held by MHFG mine the contents of proposals regarding the appointment with respect to the appointment and removal of representaand dismissal of directors of MHFG to be submitted to the tive directors and senior directors of the core subsidiaries. Financial Review general meeting of shareholders, exercise the approval rights Currently, the Nominating Committee is comprised of four held by MHFG with respect to the appointment and dismissal outside directors. of directors of each of the core subsidiaries (MHBK, MHTB, 2016 Integrated Report 69 Foundations for Our Corporate Value How the Nominating Committee Meetings Are Operated Regarding appointment of directors and other issues of MHFG specialized expertise gained through work experience and and the core subsidiaries, the President & Group CEO drafted other factors. They also undertook such measures as those to proposals in accordance with the Nominating Committee ensure opportunities to obtain information from individual perChairman’s instructions and the Nominating Committee sonal interviews and reports presented by officers to the Board engaged in repeated deliberations regarding those proposals. of Directors. Through these activities, the Committee worked During this process, the Human Resources Review Meeting, to create a highly transparent process of appointing directors, which consists of the President & Group CEO and outside principally by outside directors to ensure its effectiveness. directors who serve as members of the Nominating Committee The Committee held six meetings in fiscal 2015 and and Compensation Committee, undertook deliberations based decided on the candidates for directors and approved the on consideration of objective indicators of external evaluations, selection of directors of core subsidiaries. Compensation Committee The role of the Compensation Committee is to determine compensation system for directors and executive officers of the compensation for each individual director and execuMHFG and the core subsidiaries. tive officer of MHFG, exercise the approval rights held by Currently, the Compensation Committee is comprised of MHFG regarding compensation of each individual director of three outside directors. the core subsidiaries, and determine the basic policies and How the Compensation Committee Meetings Are Operated Considering such factors as MHFG’s mediumto long-term compensation more appropriately reflect the performance of business performance and economic and social circumeach of directors and executive officers, etc. by setting more stances, the President & Group CEO drafted proposals with appropriate ratios of variable compensation by lowering the respect to the compensation policy based on the role and fixed compensation portion, introducing performance payresponsibility assigned to and the performance of each of the ments and performance stock compensation. Directors, in accordance with the Compensation Committee The Committee held eight meetings in fiscal 2015 and Chairman’s instructions, and the Compensation Committee made decisions regarding the revision of the compensation engaged in repeated deliberations regarding those proposals. system for directors and executive officers of MHFG and To properly incentivize members of management to work the core subsidiaries. The Committee also decided on the toward sustainable growth and restrain excessive risk takcompensation of individual directors and executive officers ing, MHFG has established a highly transparent and objecof MHFG and the compensation of individual directors of the tive process for reviewing the compensation system that is core subsidiaries. conducted mainly by outside directors. This system makes Audit Committee The Audit Committee of MHFG audits the execution of duties porate management of subsidiaries and others by executive by the directors and executive officers, monitors and inspects officers, and prepares audit reports. the establishment and management of the internal control Currently, the Audit Committee is comprised of two system of MHFG and its subsidiaries, monitors and inspects internal non-executive directors and three outside directors. the condition of the execution of duties with respect to cor70 Mizuho Financial Group Corporate Governance How the Audit Committee Meetings Are Operated Regarding items necessary for audits of directors’ and execumeetings held by the business execution departments, extive officers’ performance of duties, the Audit Committee obamine important decision-related documents, obtain reports Who We Are tained timely and appropriate reports and explanations from from directors, etc., and coordinate operations with the directors, executive officers, employees, and the accounting Internal Audit Group and other group units. auditor (hereinafter, “directors, etc.”) and gave instructions In fiscal 2015, the Audit Committee held 18 meetings and and recommendations when necessary. passed resolutions concerning such matters as the formulaIn addition, the Audit Committee has ensured the effection of audit plans and agreement on the basic audit plans of tiveness of its audits by confirming the processes and conthe Internal Audit Group. It also confirmed such matters as the tents of decision making by the business execution departsituation regarding the execution of duties by directors and by ments through such measures by full-time Audit Committee executive officers, etc. What We Aim to Do members as those to arrange for the attendance at important Human Resources Review Meeting We established the Human Resources Review Meeting that officers as defined in the Companies Act, and executive officonsists of the President & Group CEO and outside directors cers as defined in our internal regulations with title of MHFG, who serve as members of the Nominating Committee and and executive officers as defined in our internal regulations Our Strategies for Value Creation Compensation Committee as a deliberative body that mainly with title of core subsidiaries, as well as assessment of execuconducts the deliberation of proposals to appoint executive tive officers. Risk Committee We established the Risk Committee that in principle fully with respect to the supervision of the determination and the consists of non-executive directors or external experts as implementation relating to risk governance. an advisory body that mainly advises the Board of Directors Foundations for Our Corporate Value Outside Director Session We established the Outside Director Session that consists rectors’ understanding of Mizuho and share the top manageof all outside directors and the President & Group CEO as a ment’s awareness of issues through communication among forum for free discussions with an aim to deepen outside didirectors. Financial Review 2016 Integrated Report 71 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Senior Executives Members of the Board of Directors/ Junichi Kato Akihiro Nakanishi Executive Officers as Defined in the Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of Global Markets Company In charge of Specific Business of Retail & Business Companies Act Banking Company Katsunobu Motohashi Yasuhiro Sato Senior Managing Executive Officer Kazuya Kobayashi President & CEO Head of Asset Management Company Managing Executive Officer (Representative Executive Officer) In charge of Specific Business of Global Corporate Masayuki Yonetani Company Member of the Board of Directors Senior Managing Executive Officer Group CEO Head of Internal Audit Group (Group CA) Kouji Arita Shusaku Tsuhara Managing Executive Officer Keiichiro Ogushi Joint Head of Operations Group Senior Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors Head of Research & Consulting Unit Akira Nakamura Head of Compliance Group (Group CCO) Managing Executive Officer Daisuke Yamada In charge of Specific Business of Corporate & Ryusuke Aya Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Institutional Company Head of Global Products Unit / In charge of Member of the Board of Directors Incubation Project Team Teiji Teramoto Head of Risk Management Group (Group CRO) Managing Executive Officer Satoshi Ishii Head of Europe, Middle East and Africa Koji Fujiwara Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of Human Resources Group (Group CHRO) Masahiro Otsuka Member of the Board of Directors Managing Executive Officer Head of Strategic Planning Group (Group CSO) Deputy Head of Retail & Business Banking Executive Officers as Defined in Our Koichi Iida Company Internal Regulations and Specialist Managing Executive Officer Officers Takashi Saito Member of the Board of Directors Managing Executive Officer Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group Satoshi Miyazaki Deputy Head of Global Markets Company (Group CFO) Deputy President & Executive Officer Deputy President (Western Japan (Kinki, Chugoku, Seiji Imai Hideyuki Takahashi and Shikoku regions)) Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors Head of Asia & Oceania excl. East Asia Yasuo Agemura Nobukatsu Funaki Senior Managing Executive Officer Takahiko Yasuhara Member of the Board of Directors In charge of Specific Business of Global Markets Managing Executive Officer Head of East Asia Mitsuo Ohashi Company Member of the Board of Directors Hiroshi Suehiro Motonori Wakabayashi Tetsuo Seki Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of the Americas / In charge of Compliance Deputy Head of Research & Consulting Unit Member of the Board of Directors with US FBO Regulation Shuji Kojima Takashi Kawamura Member of the Board of Directors Takeshi Watanabe Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Internal Audit Group Tatsuo Kainaka In charge of Specific Duties Kazuhisa Sawa Member of the Board of Directors Tetsuhiko Saito Managing Executive Officer Hirotake Abe Senior Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Strategic Planning Group / Deputy Member of the Board of Directors In charge of Specific Business of Retail & Business Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group / Banking Company Deputy Head of IT & Systems Group / Deputy Head Hiroko Ota of Operations Group Member of the Board of Directors Tetsuo Iimori Managing Executive Officer Nobumitsu Watanabe Toshitsugu Okabe Managing Executive Officer In charge of Specific Business of Retail & Business Deputy President & Executive Officer Deputy Head of Global Corporate Company / Banking Company (Representative Executive Officer) Deputy Head of Global Markets Company / Head of Retail & Business Banking Company Haruki Nakamura Deputy Head of Global Products Unit Managing Executive Officer Daisaku Abe Takashi Kamada Joint Head of IT & Systems Group Deputy President & Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of IT & Systems Group / Head of Operations Yuusei Matsubara Deputy Head of Retail & Business Banking Group (Group CIO / Group COO) Managing Executive Officer Company In charge of Specific Business of Corporate & Kosuke Nakamura Yoshihito Bando Institutional Company Deputy President & Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of Corporate & Institutional Company Amane Oshima Deputy Head of Asset Management Company Managing Executive Officer Akira Sugano Masashi Hara Deputy Head of Global Markets Company Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of Global Corporate Company Deputy Head of Global Products Unit 72 Mizuho Financial Group Corporate Governance Isao Nakamura Masamichi Ishikawa Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer Who We Are Deputy Head of Corporate & Institutional Company General Manager for Asset Management Company / Deputy Head of Research & Consulting Unit Makoto Umemiya Toshio Sobue Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer General Manager of Financial Planning Department Deputy Head of Risk Management Group / Deputy Head of Compliance Group Naoto Takahashi Executive Officer Keisuke Saito General Manager of Next-Generation IT Systems Managing Executive Officer Coordination Project Team Deputy Head of Global Products Unit Kazushi Takeda Hiroaki Ehara Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Co-General Manager of East Asia Department What We Aim to Do Deputy Head of Human Resources Group / Deputy Head of Internal Audit Group Asashi Katou Executive Officer Hiroto Koda General Manager of IT & Systems Promotion Managing Executive Officer Department Deputy Head of Human Resources Group Eishi Shimizu Masahiro Miyamoto Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer General Manager of Channel Strategy Department Deputy Head of Corporate & Institutional Company Masahiko Abe Naofumi Fuke Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer General Manager of Corporate & Institutional Our Strategies for Value Creation Deputy Head of Retail & Business Banking Coordination Department Company Hisashi Kikuchi Hidefumi Kobayashi Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer General Manager of Corporate Secretariat Deputy Head of Research & Consulting Unit / Deputy Head of Financial Control & Accounting Yuzo Kanamori Group / Deputy Head of Risk Management Group Executive Officer Deputy Head of Global Corporate Company / Masaya Usuha Deputy Head of Global Products Unit Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Internal Audit Group Masahiko Katou Specialist Officer Tatsuya Yamada General Manager for IT & Systems Group Foundations for Our Corporate Value Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of IT & Systems Group / Yasumasa Mukai Deputy Head of Operations Group Specialist Officer General Manager for IT & Systems Group Kenji Tsujitsugu Managing Executive Officer Notes: Deputy Head of Corporate & Institutional Company 1. Mr. Mitsuo Ohashi, Mr. Tetsuo Seki, Mr. Takashi Kawamura, Mr. Tatsuo Kainaka, Mr. Hirotake Abe Masaya Oishi and Ms. Hiroko Ota are “outside directors” as proManaging Executive Officer vided for in Article 2, Item 15 of the Companies Act. Deputy Head of Asset Management Company 2. Mr. Tetsuo Seki, Mr. Takashi Kawamura, Mr. Tatsuo Taiji Kumagai Kainaka, Mr. Hirotake Abe and Ms. Hiroko Ota, who Managing Executive Officer are “outside directors” are “independent directors” Deputy Head of Compliance Group required by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. (As of June 24, 2016) Atsushi Takahashi Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Global Corporate Company / Financial Review Deputy Head of Global Products Unit / Deputy Head of Strategic Planning Group Kouji Yonei Executive Officer General Manager of IT & Systems Planning Department Shinji Taniguchi Executive Officer General Manager of Global Products Coordination Department 2016 Integrated Report 73 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors As a front-runner in the area of corporate governance, Mizuho is aiming to increase its corporate value through pursuing “growth-oriented” governance reforms designed to foster “earning potential.” Hiroko Ota 2004 Director General, Cabinet Office 2005 Professor, National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies 2006 Minister of State for Economic and Fiscal Policy 2008 Professor, National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies (current) 2014 Director of MHFG (Chairman of the Board of Directors) (current) How the Board of Directors Meetings Are Operated Mizuho began the full-scale corporate governance reforms depth what will be necessary for Mizuho to overcome its in fiscal 2014 and transformed the holding company into a weaknesses and acquire new strengths as well as what risks Company with Three Committees. This form of governance Mizuho will face over the coming three years. enables both the supervisory functions of the Board (defenThe Board held 13 meetings during the fiscal year, and sive governance) and its advisory functions (growth-oriented discussions at each of these sessions were quite lively. governance) to be strengthened, while the Board delegates Frequently, discussions lasted for close to four hours. As a to the management substantially more decision-making result of the participation of outside directors with experipower on business execution. As a result, the speed of ences in various fields, their ideas provided new perspectives decision-making increases, and the Board is able to engage on management issues. In addition, the presence of outside in discussions regarding substantive corporate management directors helps the management to have stronger commitissues. ment to leading Mizuho for creating value for various stakeThe most significant theme for the Board in fiscal 2015 holders. I believe the functions of the Board, both growthwas the formulation of the medium-term business plan, oriented and defensive, have become more effective over the which would begin in fiscal 2016. The Board discussed in past year. 74 Mizuho Financial Group As the Chairman of the Board of Directors The biggest role of the Chairman of the Board of Directors is delivered from the management and shared with outside Who We Are is to make discussions more lively and productive at the directors, the directors cannot perform their role properly. meetings. It is necessary to narrow down the matters to be Regarding this aspect, the Deputy Chairman of the discussed to ensure that enough time can be devoted to the Board, who holds the position of the Chairman of the items on the agenda, and clarify the issues to be discussed on Audit Committee concurrently, plays an important role. the matters to ensure substantive discussions. To do this, it is Mr. Takahashi, who holds this position, is a non-executive also necessary to make sure that concise and well-prepared director. He formerly held the position of CFO and has materials are submitted, and I work with the Corporate in-depth familiarity with management matters. Similarly, the Secretariat to prepare these documents in advance. Corporate Secretariat also plays important roles as a dediWhat We Aim to Do I feel it is important for effective governance that an cated organization. The Corporate Secretariat is responsible outside director serves as Chairman of the Board. I set the for preparations for each Board meeting and for sharing agenda from an outsider’s perspective, and this makes it posinformation with the outside directors. Looking ahead, sible to conduct persuasive discussions. On the other hand, the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, and the Corporate it is important that company information is properly commuSecretariat will keep working as a team to realize what the nicated to the outside directors. Unless correct information Board aims to be. Our Strategies for Value Creation Issues to Be Addressed Going Forward As is appropriate for a front-runner in corporate governance, on the evaluations they have accumulated since joining the the Board has worked together to implement governance organization, and there are concerns that personnel may be reforms. However, these reforms are not finished yet, and we marked down disproportionately for the mistakes they have are still on the way to further improving ourselves through made. I believe this leads personnel to avoid taking up the trial and error. In the evaluation of the effectiveness of the challenges of addressing difficult issues and making reforms. Foundations for Our Corporate Value Board in fiscal 2015, an interim evaluation was made at To overcome this tendency, at present, Mizuho is proceeding the Outside Director Session; a third-party evaluation with with a major reform of human resource management. It will inputs from an outside institution was made; and the Board take time for this reform to be felt and understood by each took into account the foregoing and discussed issues to be and every employee, but this is the most important. I will be addressed. paying close attention to how well the new human resource Moreover, not only the members of the Board but also management approaches take root in Mizuho. each and every Mizuho employee must understand the perIn fiscal 2016, the most important issue will be strengthspectives of shareholders, customers, and other stakeholders; ening profitability. Because the strategic direction was set they must also make judgments and take proper action. This up, it is essential for the management to set high targets and is what real governance reform means. I feel there is a teninsist that the targets be met. The progress toward the objecdency among people at Mizuho that they stay in organizatives of the newly introduced medium-term business plan Financial Review tional silos and that they do not care about outside matters, and the results of introducing the in-house company system, maybe because they came to lose confidence after experiencwhich is a key aspect of the new plan, must be reviewed in ing failures several times in the past. Under Mizuho’s tradidepth and subjected to full discussion, in order to realize an tional human resource management, personnel are selected even stronger Mizuho. according to the year-group of entering the company based 2016 Integrated Report 75 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) Role of Risk Appetite Framework The purpose of our risk appetite framework (RAF) is to (1) be the basis for establishing our business strategy, resource maximize our corporate value by securing sustainable and allocation and budget thus integrating risk management and stable profits and (2) fulfill our social responsibilities. Based on business strategy in order to maximize our risk-return. such purpose, our core risk appetite is to take appropriate risk The RAF is the cornerstone of Mizuho’s risk governance, and providing solutions based on our customers’ actual needs, and the Board of Directors is responsible for determining our establishing our competitive advantage against our peers. risk appetites and other fundamental matters including the In order to achieve this core risk appetite, we will further governance structure of RAF and the documentation of the concretely define our risk appetite in establishing our mediRisk Appetite Statement (RAS). um-term and fiscal year business plan. The risk appetite will Operation of Risk Appetite Framework Formulation of Risk Appetite Mizuho’s risk appetite consists of a risk appetite policy that awareness of these external environments, create specific serves as the fundamental policy regarding our risk-taking strategies and measures according to this policy and deteractivities and risk appetite metrics that serve as means of mine corporate resource allocation and profit plans. Our risk quantifying the level of risk-taking based on the risk appeappetite metrics is expressed in terms of capital strength, tite policy. profitability and liquidity utilizing measures such as CET1 Formulation of our risk appetite begins with discussions Capital Ratio, ROE and LCR. among management regarding our footing in external Further, quantitative level of risk appetite metrics are environments such as the macroeconomic environment, the cascaded down into our in-house companies, which are regulatory environment and the competitive environment, established according to the customer segments and are the and our future prospects. Main scenarios are then devised driving forces of our strategies, to ensure the effectiveness of to be shared through the organization. Management also our RAF. discusses risks that may adversely affect the Group, such as a The companies formulate their own business plans and recession or disturbances in the financial market, and devises carry out their business activities based on the Group’s risk scenarios. general risk appetite policy and the company’s specific risk We then formulate a risk appetite policy based on our appetite level. 76 Mizuho Financial Group Monitoring of Risk Appetite To ensure that the formulated risk appetite is achieved, the and risk appetite level. This monitoring enables timely and Group monitors progress on a quarterly basis, with additional appropriate actions, including revisions of our risk appetite Who We Are monitoring carried out as necessary. Specifically, we monitor and strategies, to be discussed and carried out in the event of changes in external environments compared to the scenarios environmental changes that increase risk or impede our risk we set initially, and progress in implementing our strategies appetite and strategies. and level of our capital compared to the risk appetite policy Verification of Risk Appetite by Stress Testing We assess the suitability of our risk appetite and the validity appetite and business plans. of our business plans through stress testing that assesses the Our stress testing also serves as a foundation for underWhat We Aim to Do financial effect of the set risk scenarios on our capital and standing the characteristics of our business portfolio and profitability. The results are analyzed and verified to confirm enables planning in advance about the course of action that that the required capital ratio and business results can be should be taken if the risk scenario occurs, which will enachieved even if the risk scenarios occur. If those cannot be hance our risk management. achieved, we discuss and then carry out a revision of our risk Our Strategies for Value Creation Foundations for Our Corporate Value Mizuho’s Risk Culture By embedding sound risk culture, every director and emout so that these guidelines become ingrained in the minds ployee maintains a high level of sensitivity and knowledge of every director and employee. regarding risk and endeavors to make correct decisions and These guidelines provide foundation for appropriate values take appropriate actions. This enables us to achieve our risk and courses of action that should be employed by Mizuho’s Financial Review appetite and strategies and maintain and improve our corpodirectors and employees when approaching risks. Each direcrate value. tor and employee can refer back to these guidelines if they Mizuho has established Behavioral Guidelines for a Sound are unsure of a judgment that needs to be made in their daily Risk Culture to heighten directors’ and employees’ risk work. This improves their responses and countermeasures sensitivity and improve their responses and countermeasures to risk and fosters a sound risk culture. These initiatives also in the event of risks. Measures such as training are carried prevent inappropriate behavior by directors and employees. 2016 Integrated Report 77 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Mizuho’s Definition of the Three Lines of Defense Basic Approach Following the concept of the “three lines of defense,” as tion divisions to ensure autonomous control with respect to shown in the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s the business promotion division and divisions in charge of “Corporate governance principles for banks” as revised and compliance and risk monitoring by the internal audit group is published in July 2015, we have established the Internal conducted appropriately and effectively. Audit Committee that is separate from the business promoMHFG’s Framework of Operations and Audit and Internal Control Framework Mizuho’s Definition of the Three Lines of Defense Autonomous Control Function First Based on the rules, procedures and risk appetite, conduct daily operations and has a primary responsibility for risks line and compliance matters identified in their section, banking offices, or head office as a risk owner, and for performing autonomous control activities (to identify, assess, and manage/control risks) Risk Management and Compliance Function Second line Oversee (monitor), measure and assess the first line’s autonomous control activities for risks and compliance, and be responsible for establishing and promoting basic policies for risk compliance control Internal Audit Function Third line Independent of the first and second lines, conduct assessment and examination of the operations of the first and second lines and be responsible for providing advice and rectification recommendations to settle issues 78 Mizuho Financial Group Internal Audit Structure Basic Approach Internal audits are designed as an integrated process, indeprocess, internal audits assist the Boards of Directors of each pendent from other business operations, for evaluating the of our group companies to fulfill their managerial duties Who We Are extent to which internal control achieves its objectives in key efficiently and effectively. areas, including appropriate risk management, efficient and In line with the Basic Policy for Internal Audit established effective business operations, reliable financial reporting and by MHFG, our core group companies conduct internal audits, compliance with laws, regulations and internal rules. We which include the auditing of their respective subsidiaries. In conduct internal audits from an objective and comprehensive addition, with respect to the management of risks applicable standpoint, independent of operational reporting lines, and across the Group, we coordinate internal audits throughout offer advice and remedial recommendations in connection the Group to assess the risk management status of the with any problems that may be identified. Through this Group as a whole. Internal Audit Management Structure What We Aim to Do MHFG Other Core Group Companies Our Internal Audit Committee determines all important matOther core group companies have also established effective ters concerning internal audits. The committee is chaired by and efficient internal audit structures adapted to the characthe President & Group CEO and is independent of our other teristics of their respective businesses. Our Strategies for Value Creation business operations. Our Internal Audit Committee monitors and manages internal audits at our core group companies Internal Audit Management Structure through internal audit reports submitted by such subsidiaries. Our Internal Audit Committee discusses and makes decisions regarding internal audits at our core group companies and submits the results, together with the results of their examination of the internal audit reports, to our Board of Directors. Foundations for Our Corporate Value MHBK and MHTB MHBK and MHTB have also established Internal Audit Committees that are independent of their other business operations. The two banks have established internal audit departments and credit review departments (Credit Assessment and Auditing Office at MHTB) to conduct internal audits at their respective domestic and overseas business offices, head office departments and group companies. Specifically, the internal audit departments assess the suitability and effectiveness of business activities associated with compliance and risk management. The credit review departments (Credit Assessment and Auditing Office at MHTB) audit credit ratings Financial Review and the status of credit management in addition to auditing the self-assessment of assets to verify the accuracy and suitability of matters deemed necessary to assure the soundness of assets. (As of June 24, 2016) 2016 Integrated Report 79 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Risk Management Basic Approach Mizuho recognizes the conducting of operations tailored to varMHFG maintains basic policies for risk management that ious types of risk and managing such risks as a key issue relatare applicable to the entire Group. In line with these basic ing to overall management. In order to implement our business policies, we endeavor to strengthen and enhance the sophisstrategy while maintaining our financial stability, we maintain tication of our risk management system. comprehensive risk management and control measures. Risk Management Structure Each of our subsidiaries adopts appropriate risk management Group as a whole. measures, while MHFG controls risk management for the At MHFG, the Risk Management Committee chaired 80 Mizuho Financial Group by the Group CRO provides integrated monitoring and ing risk management. management of the overall risk for the Group. The Group Our core group companies each maintains its systems CRO reports the risk management situation to the Board of for managing various types of risk, receiving reports on the Directors, etc. MHFG receives reports and applications constatus of risk at their respective subsidiaries, and gives them Who We Are cerning the risk management situation from our core group appropriate instructions concerning risk management. companies and gives them appropriate instructions concernGeneral Concept of Risk Management Basic Approach We classify our risk exposures according to the various kinds In line with the basic policies relating to overall risk manWhat We Aim to Do of risk, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and agement laid down by MHFG, companies within the Group operational risk, and manage them. identify risk broadly and take a proactive and sophisticated In addition to managing each type of risk individually, we approach to risk management, including methodologies for have established a risk management structure to identify and operations that involve exposures to multiple categories of evaluate overall risk and, to keep risk within limits that are risk such as settlement and trust businesses. managerially acceptable. Our Strategies for Value Creation Risk Category Definition The Group’s exposure to the risk of losses that may be incurred due to a decline in, or total loss of, the value of Credit risk assets (including off-balance-sheet instruments), as a result of deterioration in obligors’ financial position. The risk of losses incurred by the Group due to fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. Our definition includes the risk of losses incurred when it becomes impossible to execute transactions in the Market risk market because of market confusion or losses arising from transactions at prices that are significantly less favorable than usual. The risk of losses arising from funding difficulties due to a deterioration in our financial position that makes it difLiquidity risk ficult for us to raise necessary funds or that forces us to raise funds at significantly higher interest rates than usual. Foundations for Our Corporate Value The risk of losses that the Group may incur resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events. Operational risk consists of several components such as information technology Operational risk risk, operations risk, etc. Refer to page 115 of Risk Management Structure in the Appendix for specific components of operational risk. Risk Capital Allocation We endeavor to obtain a clear grasp of the Group’s overall ongoing financial health of the Group, we regularly monitor risk exposure and have implemented measures to keep such the manner in which risk capital is being used in order to risks within the Group’s financial base in accordance with the obtain a proper grasp of the risk profile within this framerisk capital allocation framework. work. Reports are also submitted to the Board of Directors Financial Review More specifically, we allocate risk capital to our core and other committees of each company. Risk capital is group companies, to control risk within the limits set for each allocated to MHBK, MHTB, MHSC and Mizuho Americas by company. We also control risk within managerially acceptable risk category, and is further allocated within their respective limits by working to ensure that the overall risk on a consolibusiness units. dated basis does not exceed financial strength. To ensure the 2016 Integrated Report 81 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Compliance Basic Approach As the leading Japanese financial services group with a global activities that conform to the norms accepted by society” and presence and a broad customer base, we remain conscious view ongoing compliance as one of the basic principles of of the importance of our social responsibilities and public sound business management. Each of our group companies mission at all times. maintains its own compliance structure in line with the basic We define compliance as “the strict observance of all laws policies established by MHFG. and regulations and the pursuit of fair and honest corporate Compliance Structure The President & CEO of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC Compliance Structure each generally oversees compliance matters of the respective company, and also heads their respective Compliance Committees at which important matters concerning compliance are discussed. The four companies also have individual compliance departments* under a chief compliance officer. These departments are responsible for compliance planning and implementation and control overall compliance management at the respective companies. At each organizational unit (such as branches and departments) at the four companies, the head of the unit is responsible for guidance and implementation related to compliance matters, and compliance officer or compliance administrator at each unit reviews the status of compliance. MHFG monitors the status of compliance of the Group through reports submitted by our core group companies and adopts appropriate responses when necessary. Compliance at subsidiaries of our core group companies is monitored and managed by their respective parent. *The functions and responsibilities of the department in charge based on the three lines of defense The department in charge works as the second line, oversees (monitors), measures, and assesses the first line’s autonomous control activities for risks and compliance, and is responsible for establishing and promoting basic policies for risk compliance control. Compliance Activities We have established the Mizuho Code of Conduct, which fully acquainted with the contents of the compliance manual. sets forth clear and concrete standards of ethical behavior, We monitor the status of compliance levels through self and distributed it to all managements and employees of the assessments and monitoring conducted by the compliance Group. Furthermore, each of our group companies has also department of each company. In addition, every fiscal year, prepared a compliance manual, which serves as a practical each of our group companies establishes a compliance guidebook for rigorous compliance enforcement and clarifies program, which contains concrete measures for compliance the laws and regulations that we must observe in pursuing enforcement such as management of the compliance frameour business activities and the compliance activities required work, training and assessments. Progress of the compliance to follow. Each group company also conducts compliance program is monitored every six months. training for managements and employees so that they are 82 Mizuho Financial Group Efforts to Prevent Money Laundering, etc. In response to an increase in international demands for We take various measures on a global basis, such as anti-money laundering and countering terrorist financing in performing customer due diligence/Know Your Customer Who We Are recent years, the Group has made the prevention of money (KYC) practices when establishing business relationships with laundering and terrorist financing a top management priorcustomers, preventing transactions with subjects to asset ity, and implements measures based on common policies freeze such as terrorists, and using monitoring systems etc. to throughout the Group. detect and report suspicious transactions. Severing Transactions with Anti-Social Elements What We Aim to Do In order to prevent anti-social elements from influencing coranti-social elements through group-wide cooperation. porate management and to avoid any harm caused by them, Furthermore, major group companies maintain centralMHFG established the “Mizuho Code of Conduct” which ized departments or appoint an officer to manage anti-social sets out a policy to sever any ties with anti-social elements element issues and make efforts to maintain effective that threaten the rule of law, public order, and safety. frameworks, for example, by establishing a manual on how MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC have each established an to manage such issues and conducting training sessions. If Anti-Social Elements Elimination Committee (chaired by the required for specific cases, we consult with third-party exPresident & CEO), which takes action to sever relations with perts and authorities to handle the cases. Our Strategies for Value Creation Initiatives under the “One MIZUHO Strategy” Within the “One MIZUHO Strategy,” initiatives are being ters in promoting collaboration among group companies. taken to raise the sophistication of compliance management For senior executives, joint compliance training is provided to smoothly advance expanding and deepening collaboration among MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. among banking, trust banking, and securities businesses. To provide optimal solutions for customers responsively, Our compliance training program includes information on as a “financial services consulting group,” our Compliance Foundations for Our Corporate Value preventing misuse of superior positions, managing conflicts Group is working to further increase the sophistication of of interest, and strictly confidential handling of customer compliance management on a group-wide basis. information, to make all employees fully aware of these matMizuho’s Internal Reporting Systems When the Group becomes aware of compliance issues, the compliance manual requires that such matters be reported immediately to department and branch managers, and consultations are held. In addition, we have established a compliance hotline that links to the Compliance Department and external law office for direct reporting by employees. Also, in light of internal and external conditions related to the internal reporting systems, MHFG is working to increase the effectiveness of these systems by establishing group-wide external reporting channels that are available in the evenings, on Saturdays and Sundays, and makes such services available in foreign languages. Each of the group companies is also working to make all employees fully acquainted with these systems by including such Financial Review information in the Compliance Manual, conducting training programs as well as by hanging posters and distributInternal poster to make ing pocket cards with contact points indicated to each and every employee. employees aware of the internal reporting systems “Internal Controls and Audit Hotline” for Accounting or Auditing Matters In addition to these reporting systems, MHFG has established a hotline within an external law office to receive reports from in and outside the company in connection with problems concerning internal controls and audits of accounts and financial reports. Refer to “Compliance Contacts” on page 114 for details. 2016 Integrated Report 83 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Management of Customer Protection Basic Approach Mizuho gives first priority to our customers, and, based on the operations of the Group from the perspective of customthe policy that earning the trust of our customers is the basis ers in order to ensure adequacy of operations and improve for ensuring sound management and earning the trust of customer convenience as well as compliance, and manage other stakeholders, we will continuously verify and improve customer protection uniformly in the Group. Overview of Management of Customer Protection Structure Mizuho defines management of customer protection as deManagement of customer protection refers to the manscribed below, clarifying the group management structure as agement required for achieving the following from the well as management methods, and ensuring that each comperspective of improving the protection of our customers and pany draws up customer protection management regulations. improving customer convenience. 1. Ensuring the adequacy and sufficiency of the explanation of transactions, products, etc. as well as the provision of information (explanation of products, etc.) to customers. 2. Ensuring the adequacy and sufficiency of handling customer consultations and complaints, etc. (customer service). 3. Ensuring the adequacy of the management of customer information (management of customer information). 4. Ensuring the adequacy of managing customers and handling of customer information in the event that group operations are outsourced (management of outsourcing). 5. Ensuring the adequacy of the management of the measures to be taken in order to appropriately address various situations of conflicts of interest that have stemmed from transactions with customers (management of conflicts of interest). In addition to designating the compliance department also manage customer protection management at their own as the customer protection general management division in group companies. each group company, the group companies establish their own management structure by stipulating which divisions are in charge of management of explanation of products, management of customer service, management of customer information, management of outsourcing, and management of conflicts of interest (hereinafter, customer management tasks). The President & Group CEO of MHFG generally oversees management of customer protection, and also heads the Compliance Committee in which related important matters are discussed. The President & Group CEO also appoints officers responsible for the general management of customer protection in order to promote the Group’s appropriate management. The Compliance Department is in charge of general management and monitors management of each customer management task. The division responsible for each customer management task draws up and implements proposals concerning the tasks under their jurisdiction. MHFG also provides centralized monitoring and customer protection management activities at the core group companies. The core group companies 84 Mizuho Financial Group Information Management Accompanying progress in IT, the usage of information has assets is of the highest importance. In our Group, we clarify Who We Are increased substantially, but, on the other hand, cyberattacks our management systems for information assets, security have risen in number. This has led to closer scrutiny of the management measures and information administration protection of personal information from a social standpoint. methods. Also, we train and raise the level of awareness of Mizuho, which provides comprehensive financial services each and every employee regarding the proper protection of in Japan and overseas, is aware information management information assets, and work to strengthen our information that aims to appropriately protect and use information management systems. Approaches to the Financial Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) System What We Aim to Do In order to deal expeditiously, fairly, and appropriately with Companies Association of Japan, and MHSC has conducted complaints, etc., from customers, each group company has consuch a contract with the Financial Instruments Mediation cluded basic contracts for the implementation of dispute resoAssistance Center (FINMAC) respectively. The designated dislution procedures with various dispute resolution institutions. pute resolution institutions take steps toward resolution from MHBK and MHTB have concluded such contracts with the a fair and neutral perspective in cases where the solutions to Japanese Bankers Association, which is a designated dispute customers’ complaints adopted by our group companies are resolution institution as defined in Japan’s Banking Act. In not accepted. Our Strategies for Value Creation addition, MHTB has concluded such a contract with the Trust Management of Customer Service Our Group, which has transactions with a wide range of centralized supervision and management of customer service customers, insists on responding appropriately to customer and verify the appropriateness of responses to complaints complaints and continues to work toward protecting and including whether complaints have been solved to customincreasing convenience for its customers. ers’ satisfaction and understanding. In cases where the same Foundations for Our Corporate Value Regarding complaints, we also insist on responding complaints are recurring, the related divisions are required to quickly and politely and always require appropriate reports formulate response policies, and the progress toward imon such matters. provement is monitored. In addition, education and training Furthermore, we regard customer feedbacks as important courses are planned and implemented to ensure that employmanagement assets and work continuously to improve our ees observe matters related to customer service management. operations and prevent recurrences of issues for increasing customer satisfaction. Customers The Group establishes its own management structure Group companies by stipulating which divisions are in charge of drawing up and implementing proposals related to the supervision of Reception Branches and Website External Reports call centers Postcards organizations customer service management. The divisions specified are responsible for centralized supervision and management of Financial Review Analysis Division(s) in charge customer service in core group companies, and they report to Improvement Related divisions management via the Compliance Committee, etc. Management Each of the group companies has specified procedures for hearing complaints and related matters, preparing reports and records, and monitoring the administration of reports and MHFG responses. In addition, the divisions in charge also conduct 2016 Integrated Report 85 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Activities to Fulfill Fiduciary Duties Basic Approach Strong capabilities in product development, sales, asset Each of Mizuho’s group companies specializes in a different management, and asset administration are indispensable to function, and in providing appropriate products and services that the successful conduct of asset management-related business. are in our customers’ best interests, MHFG has established and Our Group is dedicated to speed and flexibility in our responsannounced its Policies Regarding Mizuho’s Fiduciary Duties.* es to the constantly changing, diverse needs of our broad Each of Mizuho’s group companies announced its action range of customers—from individual investors to pension plan in compliance with the group management policies and funds, regional financial institutions, and other institutional each function, and is taking customer-oriented measures to investors—which are made possible by our full complement of implement these policies. * Fiduciary duties is a general term for the broad range of various roles and group companies with the expertise in banking, trust banking, responsibilities that fiduciaries are expected to fulfill when engaging in securities, and asset management required to provide top-tier certain business activities in order to live up to the trust that is placed in asset management-related products and services. them by their customers. Group Companies that Have Established and Disclosed Action Plans Policies by Function: Sales Asset Management and Product Development Asset Administration MHBK Group Management Policies MHTB MHSC TCSB DIAM MHAM Please refer to the respective websites Shinko Asset Management of each company for details. Note: With October 1, 2016, as the target date for consolidation of asset management activities, a new company, Asset Management One, is scheduled to take over these action plans for DAIM, MHTB, MHAM, and Shinko Asset Management. Policies Regarding Mizuho’s Fiduciary Duties Policies Regarding Mizuho’s Fiduciary Duties consist of the group management policies and policies by function. These are summarized as follows. Group Management Policies • Build governance systems to ensure the appropriate levels of independence between the holding company and the group’s asset management companies, and between the group’s sales companies and asset management companies Corporate • Establish and disclose specific plans of action on the part of each group company Governance • Report to the board of directors and other relevant parties the state of compliance pursuant to the Policies Regarding Mizuho’s Fiduciary Duties Evaluating • Establish an appropriate performance review system to evaluate initiatives which meet our customers’ needs and are in Performance their best interests The Rationality • Set rational levels of remuneration, fees and commissions according to the nature of the products and services provided of Remuneration, to customers Etc. Monitoring Conflicts of • Enhance monitoring of intra-group conflicts of interest Interest 86 Mizuho Financial Group Policies by Function: Function Policies 1. Building Appropriate Product Lines in Response to Customers’ Needs Who We Are (1) MHBK, MHTB and MHSC aim to provide customers with excellent investment opportunities on a group basis (2) Based on our customers’ investment objectives, thoroughly review our existing products and consider adopting new products which help customers to steadily build their assets 2. Providing Investment Products to Customers via Consulting Services (1) Accurately assess the state of our customers’ assets and liabilities and their tolerance for risk (2) Provide consulting services to improve our customers’ understanding of the characteristics of various products (3) Enhance our consulting capabilities and pursue new methods of making proposals using the latest technologies Sales (4) Promote a high degree of transparency in setting fees and commissions 3. Attentive Follow-Up Service to Help Customers Achieve Their Goals What We Aim to Do (1) Provide information and advice to assist customers in making appropriate investment decisions through attentive follow-up services (2) Reliably execute and improve our business activities so that customers can invest with confidence 4. Laying Foundations to Help Customers Invest with Confidence and Steadily Build Their Assets (1) Enhance useful services which help to improve the financial and investment knowledge of our customers (2) Enhance personnel development as an organization in order to provide consulting services of the highest standard 1. Enhancing Asset Management Our Strategies for Value Creation (1) Enhance investment analysis and decision-making capabilities through further reinforcements to our personnel base and asset management foundations (2) Pursue improvements in existing asset management methods and new methods and investment opportunities 2. Initiatives to Continuously Improve Product Quality and Develop New Products Based on Customers’ Needs (1) Improve the quality of our products through appropriate risk management and checking of products (2) Develop products with our understanding of our customers’ needs and our expertise as asset management Asset professionals Management & (3) Promote a high degree of transparency in setting management fees Product 3. Enhancing the Provision of Information and Services from the Customer's Perspective Foundations for Our Corporate Value Development (1) Practice the highest quality of service (2) Prioritize convenience and ease of understanding in providing customers with the most appropriate information (3) Enhance useful services which help to improve the financial and investment knowledge of our customers 4. Strengthening Corporate Governance (1) Build a corporate governance system that is of the highest standard in its industry and ensure the independence of the asset management entities (2) Make decisions pertaining to new product development based on objective evaluations and highly transparent processes 1. Strengthening the System for Providing Asset Administration Services (1) Advance initiatives to enhance our operational and IT infrastructure and develop personnel with a high degree of specialized expertise 2. Initiatives to Improve Service Quality and Develop New Services Financial Review Asset (1) Develop new services with the ultimate aim of providing optimal solutions Administration (2) Regularly examine the processes for setting asset administration fees to ensure that they reflect the nature of services 3. Enhancing the Provision of Information in Support of Customers’ Investment Activities (1) Enrich our various services for providing information to investors to enhance their investment management efforts 2016 Integrated Report 87 Foundations for Our Corporate Value IT Strategy Basic Approach IT systems are crucial elements of financial institutions’ among our banking, trust banking and securities functions. management and business strategies, and high-quality IT Under the new medium-term business plan, Mizuho will strategies are key means of differentiating an institution from aim for “strong IT systems” that are efficient and stable its competitors and establishing superior competitiveness. and will support its “One MIZUHO Strategy.” Mizuho will Based on this understanding and the lessons learned from continue to develop IT systems that will also mobilize the past system failures, we are engaged in risk management Group’s comprehensive capabilities to establish superior comdesigned to ensure the stable operations of IT systems which petitiveness, meet customer needs, and give a solid response is required for us to play important roles in the settlement to progress in IT, tighter financial regulations and other infrastructure. Amid a changing societal environment with the trends, while also providing global IT services in an integrated globalization of economy, the tightening of supervisory regulamanner among banking, trust banking and securities functions, and the emergence of Fintech, we are striving to meet tions. Moreover, from a systems perspective, we will pursue diversified customer needs by leveraging our IT systems to prooperational excellence and is continue to take initiatives to vide secure, safe and seamless services in an integrated manner strengthen IT governance. Apr. 2002~ Dec. 2004 Apr. 2010 to Mar. 2013 Apr. 2013~ from May 2016~ Dec, 2016 (Plan) Efforts to Strengthen IT Governance to Support Our Businesses We will continually make efforts to ensure stable systems opagement and measures for assuring cyber security on a grouperations by establishing frameworks for the safe and reliable wide basis, we are striving to strengthen IT governance. development of IT systems and implementing such IT investBased on this unified group-wide IT governance, we are ments as those that promote common system infrastructure, implementing efficient and optimal IT investments to support strengthen management and increase the stability of systems its in-house companies by customer segment for speedily already in operation. Furthermore, by promoting data manplanning and strongly implementing their business strategies. 88 Mizuho Financial Group Cyber Security Threats due to cyberattacks are forecast to further increase. Mizuho-CIRT External To protect the safety of its customers, with the MizuhoCollaborate Integrated SOC Who We Are organization CIRT*1 as the core, Mizuho is taking the initiative in colForensics Rescue/support Gather information/ laborating with specialized institutions outside the Group to implement countermeasures/ Monitor/respond investigate strengthen its capabilities for rapidly and effectively dealing Assets/services to be protected Attacker with cyberattacks through creating an integrated SOC*2, Targeted cyberattack Information upgrading multilayer defense systems, and other measures. assets Website alteration Protect *1. Cyber Incident Response Team DDoS attack Customer *2. Security Operation Center information Hacking Illegal money transfer Multilayer defense systems What We Aim to Do Data Management As “data management” for data collection and analysis to be used in management and business become more important to respond to global financial regulations and sophistication of MIS*3, we have prepared a data base to centralize management of collected and analyzed data relating to risks and Our Strategies for Value Creation profits, etc. In addition, with the aim of using big data for more sophisticated marketing, we will promote the development of a data analysis platform. *3. Management Information System Transition to Next-Generation IT Systems Foundations for Our Corporate Value Regarding the next-generation IT systems, the design and programming stages have been completed, and start-up tests are in progress. The next-generation IT system will unify the current three core banking account systems, and this will result in downsizing and streamlining IT systems. By developing independent components for each business and function, it will be possible to adapt flexibly to the introduction of new services and to reduce the development time and costs, and, by structuring cutting-edge core banking systems, we will be able to strengthen the infrastructure for providing services to customers and improve the processing speed of our operations. Going forward, looking to the completion of the system development, we will conduct thorough start-up tests, and, to make the transition to the new system smooth, we will specify the steps in the procedure. At the same time, we will conduct thorough training in our front offices, keep customers informed with notices. As one of our most important projects, we will take a thoroughgoing approach and work to transit our next-generation IT systems ahead of our competitors. Financial Review 2016 Integrated Report 89 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Human Resources Strategy Supporting Business Strategy Execution from the Human Resources (HR) Side Under Mizuho’s new medium-term business plan, entitled fore, Mizuho is committed to developing each and every one Progressive Development of “One MIZUHO”: The Path to a of our employees and helping them reach their full potential. Financial Services Consulting Group, Mizuho has entered a We also recognize the importance of developing strong leadnew stage where we will take on the challenge of building a ers who are capable of leading Mizuho in the future. new business model for a new era. As we enter this new stage, it is essential that we embed Achieving this new business model and thoroughly difa robust corporate culture throughout the Group. In terms of ferentiating Mizuho from our competitors requires not only HR, this means reforming our HR management systems and a strong business strategy, but also a dedicated, talented practices and encouraging changes in employee mindsets workforce who can implement the strategy effectively. Thereand behaviors. Our HR Vision and Primary Aim for HR Management In order to realize the tenets of Mizuho’s Corporate Identity, force. Therefore, Mizuho’s HR management is designed to Mizuho has established an HR Vision to encourage all emencourage employees to exercise their abilities to their maxiployees to take initiative and develop themselves. mum potential, and to continuously expand their capabilities To realize this HR Vision, Mizuho aims to continuously and expertise and enjoy long and fulfilling careers at Mizuho, increase employee engagement, creating a virtuous circle of by motivating them to both advance their own careers and growth between employees and the organization, and estabcontribute to the organization. lish competitive advantage for Mizuho in terms of its workHR Vision Mizuho Financial Group firmly believes that the personal development of individual employees contributes to the stable and sustainable growth of Mizuho as a whole. Mizuho recognizes those employees who make an effort to put the Mizuho Values into practice and helps employees to create a more fulfilling life through their work. • Mizuho encourages employees to utilize their strengths, and provides opportunities for them to use their skills and to develop their abilities. • Mizuho encourages employees who differ in terms of gender, country of origin, cultural background, and values to understand, respect, and inspire each other. • Mizuho works with its employees to create a corporate culture that encourages people to be passionate about and to take pride in their work. Fundamental Reform of HR Management Valuing the Individuality of Each Employee In developing employees’ capabilities, Mizuho will put a focus exercise their abilities to their maximum potential. on each employee’s particular characteristics, ways of thinkMizuho will support all employees’ active participation ing and behaviors (inherent qualities), and employees will be and expanding their areas of specialization depending on assessed on what they learn from all their experiences includtheir career goals, by providing them with job assignments ing mistakes. Employees also will be encouraged to apply and opportunities to actively use their experience, skills and their strengths to build up specific areas of specialization to expert knowledge. develop their capabilities and to achieve continual growth to Talent Acquisition and Employee Development Aligned with the Business Strategies for Each Customer Segment Mizuho’s talent acquisition and employee development is ing our business strategies for each customer segment and highly strategic and competitive, with the aim of supportachieving competitive advantage. 90 Mizuho Financial Group Some of the specific actions we will take are (1) to clarify order to effectively develop employees. the qualities and expertise (business experience, abilities, In addition to developing internal candidates, we will knowledge and skills, etc.) that are required of employees so actively acquire new talent who are experienced, marketthat we can realize the business strategies and (2) conduct valued professionals and appoint them to posts where they Who We Are strategic, cross-entity employee rotations and assignments in can contribute to enhancing Mizuho’s competitiveness. Future Executive Leaders Development Program Mizuho will implement a program to develop future execuwithin the organization through a combination of (1) gaining tive leaders who have the necessary strength and passion to experience in challenging posts which require a high level unite and lead a top-tier financial group and who can continof strategic planning and organizational management capaually drive change at Mizuho, selflessly lead the organization bilities and (2) a training program (seminars and individual and overcome difficult situations or times of crises. coaching) provided in partnership with external educational What We Aim to Do In order to cultivate the necessary competencies of the institutions. future executive leader candidates, we will focus on strengthCandidates for this development program will be selected ening (1) their ability to envision the future of the organizafrom a diverse pool of employees throughout the Group tion, (2) their ability to broadly unite and lead the organiza(banking, trust banking, securities, asset management and tion and (3) a high level of integrity, including strong ethics, research & consulting) and throughout the world. Selection morals and sense of propriety. will take into consideration their recent performance, and be Specifically, this program seeks to prepare and motivate based on the fields where they have the potential to play an candidates to take on the responsibility of the top roles important role. Our Strategies for Value Creation Globalization of Mizuho’s Talent and HR Management To enhance Mizuho’s global business, Mizuho will build an global talent who will play key roles in Mizuho’s global integrated HR management framework for all nationalities business, and actively and systematically appoint capable and cultures to ensure that the right person is placed in the employees, irrespective of nationality or ethnicity, to upper right position on a global basis. We will acquire and develop management posts. Promoting Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) We recognize that Mizuho must go beyond simply promoting tions and decision-making. In doing so, we aim to both Foundations for Our Corporate Value diversity. We need to be progressive in the implementation of enhance employee engagement, motivate employees to the next stage of our D&I initiatives in order to achieve a greatachieve personal growth, and create new value and innovaer degree of inclusion, and thus encourage the growth and tion. Mizuho will therefore implement a variety of initiatives active participation of all members of our diverse workforce. on a global basis and has established numerical targets with We will proactively incorporate the diverse perspectives, the aim of being at the forefront of diversity and inclusion in thinking and values of all employees into day-to-day operaevery country in which we have a presence. Numerical Targets (MHFG, MHBK, MHTB, MHSC) Area Target Achieve by Current Percentage of Management positions filled by employees Outside Japan 50% 33% hired outside Japan (MHBK) Percentage of management positions filled by women 10% 7% July 2016 July 2019 Financial Review Percentage of General manager equivalent and above 10% 3% (Outlook) management Manager equivalent and above 20% 10% positions filled by Japan women Assistant manager equivalent and above 30% 22% (total for the Percentage of new graduates hired for generalist track jobs above four 30% FY2019 34% FY2016 who are female companies) Percentage of paid annual leave taken by employees 70% FY2018 64% FY2015 Percentage of eligible male employees who take childcare leave 100% FY2018 1.5% FY2015 Percentage of employees who are persons with disabilities 2.3% June 2019 2.2% March 2016 2016 Integrated Report 91 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Mizuho’s HR Policy and D&I Statement Mizuho has established and externally released Mizuho’s HR strategy, HR system and HR management and the D&I HR Policy and a D&I Statement as a means of affirming Statement outlines Mizuho’s fundamental thinking, strategy our strong commitment to transparent HR management. and initiatives for fostering growth and promoting the active Mizuho’s HR Policy stipulates guiding principles for Mizuho’s involvement of Mizuho’s diverse workforce. Mizuho’s Corporate Identity Corporate Philosophy Vision Mizuho Values HR Vision Mizuho’s commitment to its employees in line with Mizuho’s Corporate Identity D&I Statement Mizuho’s HR Policy The fundamental strategy, areas of focus, and primary initiatives to foster growth Guiding Principles for Mizuho’s HR management under its HR Vision and promote the active involvement of all members of Mizuho’s diverse workforce HR Strategy/HR System/HR Management Mizuho’s HR Policy http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/csr/employee/index.html Primary Aim for Mizuho’s HR Management Mizuho aims to continuously increase employee engagement, creating a virtuous circle of growth between employees and the organization, and establish competitive advantage for Mizuho in terms of our workforce. Therefore, Mizuho’s HR management is designed to encourage employees to exercise their abilities to their maximum potential, and to continuously expand their capabilities and expertise and enjoy long and fulfilling careers at Mizuho, by motivating them to both advance their own careers and contribute to the organization. Policy Summary Based on its mediumto long-term talent acquisition strategy, Mizuho is seeking to raise its brand value in the Talent acquisition global recruitment market to attract and retain top-quality talent. Mizuho seeks to acquire both new graduates with high potential as well as more experienced professionals who can enhance Mizuho’s competitiveness. Employees are encouraged to identify specific fields where they have particular potential based on their areas Employee development of specialization, and to develop the expertise required in order to better contribute in the fields they identify. In line with the employee’s career development stage, employees will be compensated in a fair and transparent Evaluation, remuneration, manner based on an evaluation of their performance and contribution to the organization, an assessment of what and rewards they learn from all their experiences, including mistakes, and the degree to which they expand their capabilities. Mizuho implements strategic employee job assignments, appointments and transfers throughout the Group with a focus on putting the right person in the right position, building employees’ work experience, capabiliEmployee appointments ties and expertise, and strategically allocating personnel in order to maximize the effectiveness of our business and transfers strategies. This also includes developing executive leader candidates as a means of succession planning for key roles within the organization. Promotions shall be based on primary business competency standards aligned with the requirements for each Promotions job level. For employees in a more advanced stage of their career and who possess organizational leadership capabilities, promotion shall be based on which field they will be able to maximize their performance in. This program seeks to identify future executive leader candidates at an early stage from a diverse pool of Future Executive Leaders candidates throughout the Group and to prepare them to lead the organization through a rigorous developDevelopment Program ment program. Mizuho promotes and implements diversity and inclusion initiatives in order to ensure that all employees, reDiversity and inclusion gardless of their personal attributes and background, can perform to their full potential, continually contribute to the organization and achieve personal growth. Globalization of Mizuho’s To promote Mizuho’s global business strategies, Mizuho will strengthen its HR management structures and talent and HR management capabilities. 92 Mizuho Financial Group Human Resources Strategy D&I Statement http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/csr/employee/index.html Outline of Mizuho’s D&I Who We Are By proactively incorporating the diverse perspectives and thinking of our workforce into day-to-day operations and decision-making, Mizuho aims to create new corporate value as employees continually develop innovative products and transform service and operational processes, both of which are key to remaining competitive in the financial industry and in this fast-paced business environment. Areas of Focus in Promoting D&I Transforming HR management to maximize diversity and inclusion • Mizuho is committed to carefully reviewing and fundamentally reshaping its HR management as necessary in order to actively reflect What We Aim to Do the different perspectives, thinking, and values of our diverse workforce into daily work and organizational decision-making, and to ensure that every employee can exercise their abilities to their maximum potential, continually contribute to the organization, experience personal growth, and feel motivated and proud to be working at Mizuho. Transforming “work-life balance management” • Mizuho is committed to creating an engaging work environment which will encourage long-term retention and contribution. To that end, where appropriate, Mizuho will provide flexible work arrangements to accommodate significant changes in employees’ personal Our Strategies for Value Creation circumstances (such as the birth of a child), allowing them to choose the most effective option at the time to achieve a good work-life balance. Ensuring employee and executive officer mind-sets and behavior are in line with stated goals • Mizuho is committed to ensuring that all employees and executive officers have a good understanding of the purpose of Mizuho’s promotion of D&I initiatives, and to encourage and support them to always demonstrate the right mind-set and behavior. Foundations for Our Corporate Value Key Strategic Initiatives Accelerate merit-based appointment of deserving employees regardless of nationality, ethnicity or gender, etc. Create a supportive work environment that responds to employees’ issues and concerns Create a work environment that enables employees to achieve more flexible work arrangements Financial Review Build an organizational framework to recognize and reward employees who provide support for colleagues who need to work more flexibly to balance their work with childcare or care for other family members (“family care responsibilities”) Monitoring the progress status of D&I at Mizuho through utilization of a “D&I Index” 2016 Integrated Report 93 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Measures to Form a Common Culture throughout the Group Basic Approach One of the 10 Basic Strategies set in Mizuho’s new mediumthe minds of everyone in the Group, as well as carrying out term business plan is continued initiatives toward embedding initiatives to support every employee in putting the Mizuho a corporate culture to support the creation of a stronger Values into practice to build a strong corporate culture. Speorganization. cifically, we will strengthen our initiatives to encourage all The One MIZUHO Promotion Project Team works to share employees to put the Mizuho Values into practice and further Mizuho’s Corporate Identity and the new medium-term busipromote internal communication. ness plan among directors and employees and ingrain it in Measures to Form a Culture Strengthening Our Initiatives to Encourage All Employees to Put the Mizuho Values into Practice To strengthen our initiatives to encourage all employees to put the Mizuho Values into practice, each office formulates a ”Vision of Individual Offices” containing that office’s aims, and the staff members of each office are striving to effectively promote progress toward the realization of their respective visions. And, each office organizes the “One Mizuho Day” meetings to evaluate the actions taken in the previous fiscal year and deliberate about the initiatives that should be implemented in the current fiscal year. Various support initiatives are carried out to help deepen understanding of Mizuho’s Corporate A General Managers Off-site Meeting Identity and encourage employees to put the Mizuho Initiatives into practice, such as General Managin overseas department ers Off-site Meetings for the GMs of our domestic and overseas offices, who are the driving force in the establishment of culture, and other various forms of training for employees. Further Promoting Internal Communication Mizuho carries out various initiatives to promote group solidarity and communication among employees. In addition to events for employees such as the Mizuho Festival and Live Viewing of Japan’s national soccer team playing in a match, these include the Mizuho Volunteer Day, in which employees in each region or office carry out activities to contribute to society, and the One Mizuho Culture Prize, in recognition of outstanding examples of putting the Mizuho Values into practice. The Mizuho Festival 94 Mizuho Financial Group Initiatives to Improve Customer Satisfaction (CS) and Be the Best Financial Services Provider Basic Approach Adopting “customer first” principle, Mizuho aims to provide with our customers and work to build a trust relationship in the highest possible standard of financial services that meet the medium-to-long term, with an awareness that every acWho We Are our customers’ needs on a global basis. tion by every employee has a bearing on the satisfaction and We also place great importance on emotional connections trust of our customers. Improving CS by Providing Products and Services that Meet Customers’ Needs Mizuho is working to achieve its vision of being the best are paying close attention to the information this feedback financial services provider. We continued to receive feedback provides about the diverse and ever-changing needs of our What We Aim to Do from customers through various channels in fiscal 2015, customers, such as an extensive range of good-value prodincluding around 200,000 customer feedback cards and suructs, security features and expansion of convenient channels, veys for corporate customers both in Japan and overseas. We to improve our level of services. Cycle of CS Improvement Customers Providing Products and Grasp the Needs and Systems for Obtaining Services Approved by Customers Expectations of Customer Feedback Each Customer • Prompt proposals and information provision • Customer Feedback Cards Our Strategies for Value Creation • Highly professional consulting • Call Center • Extensive solution function • CS Surveys Each Group Company MHFG Improvement of CS Awareness among All Employees in the Group • Building of Systems for Cross-Sectional Promotion of CS throughout the Group • Use of Common CS Improvement Tools among the Group • Extensive Education and Training for CS Foundations for Our Corporate Value Main Achievements in Fiscal 2015’s Efforts to Be the Best Financial Services Provider 3-Star in Banking Industry Support Portal Rankings No.1 in Retail Banking Survey on Product Offering Adequacy MHBK received a top ranking of three stars in the Banking MHBK is No. 1 for two consecutive years in the Retail Banking Industry Support Portal Rankings hosted by HDI-Japan*, for Survey on Product Offering Adequacy, a survey carried out three consecutive years because of its stance addressing cusjointly by Nikkei and Nikkei Research. tomers’ inquiries, including the improvements to its website, such as the improvement of its structure, navigation flow and One-time Password Card extensive FAQs, based on feedback from its call center, web inquiries page and customer feedback cards, as well as the inMHBK was the first Japanese retail bank to introduce a oneFinancial Review troduction of Mizuho Messenger to increase inquiry channels. time password card with electronic transaction signing that * A support portal and inquiries service provides protection against all financial ranking event in which companies’ crimes that have been discovered at support centers in various industries are ranked every year by HDI-Japan, the this point. Japanese branch of the HDI (Help Desk Institute). 2016 Integrated Report 95 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Initiatives for Reducing the Environmental Burden Mizuho has established its “Policies for Environmental Initiaenacted more broadly. Also, the paper used by the Group is tives,” which include its policies for offering financial services required to be made from wood that has been produced in to promote environmental consciousness, for promoting accord with legal regulations in terms of the ecosystem and its environmentally conscious businesses, and for supporthuman rights. ing other environmentally conscious activities, through joint Along with these changes in the external environment, initiatives among the group companies for preserving the Mizuho has set targets to reduce the environmental impact earth’s environment. from its own business activities, is reviewing them periodicalAs climate change issues become more serious, local ly, and is continuously making efforts to improve its perforgovernment regulations related to reductions in emissions of mance. In addition, Mizuho conducts various enlightenment greenhouse gases and requirements for disclosure of such activities to raise the awareness of its management and staff emissions have been tightened. In view of the adapting the for global environmental issues and to encourage environParis Agreement, it is expected that such restrictions will be mentally conscious behavior. Initiatives and Targets for Reducing the Environmental Burden Taking account of the external environment, Mizuho has set tained from properly managed forests. Also, at the disposal goals for and is engaging in initiatives for reduction in CO2 stage, Mizuho is endeavoring to arrange for separation of emissions and procurement/recycling of paper. used paper products by type for recycling, while also reducRegarding CO2 emissions, in February 2016, Mizuho newly ing the volume of paper used by introducing tablet computestablished a long-term target for reducing emissions by fisers to move toward paperless office operations. cal 2030. To attain this target, Mizuho is promoting energy conservation through making investments, including introTargets and Results in Fiscal 2015 duction of LED lighting and replacement of existing equipActual result Targets for FY2015 ment with more energy-efficient ones, in addition to its daily FY2020: 10.5% reduction 17.9% efforts to reduce electricity usage. CO2*1 FY2030: 19.0% reduction reduction For the more environmentally conscious usage of paper, Maintain green purchasing ratio of 85% 99.8% or more*2 Mizuho has established its “Administrative Guidelines for EnPaper Paper recycling ratio of 95% or more for 94.7% vironmentally Responsible Procurement of Supplies, Goods, FY2020*3 and Contracted Services,” and, based on these guidelines, *1. CO2 emissions stemming from electricity usage in the domestic facilities of the Group (compared with fiscal 2009) Mizuho is actively working to procure paper products made *2. For ten group companies from recycled paper and products made from wood pulp ob*3. For major domestic offices Environmental Enlightenment for Employees Since fiscal 2008, Mizuho has conducted environmental campaigns for all domestic employees of the Group. Through fiscal 2015, an accumulated total of more than 310,000 employees have pledged participation in environmentally conscious activities. Based on these pledges, Mizuho has donated 15,690 seedlings to 116 local schools and hospitals and other locations in Japan. Planting of the seedlings donated by Mizuho Poster for increasing environmental awareness 96 Mizuho Financial Group Social Contribution Initiatives Mizuho believes that contributing to sustainable social develcontribution initiatives. opment through our social contribution initiatives enables us We are specifically focusing on (1) initiatives that take full to realize the vision of Mizuho’s Corporate Identity and build advantage of our management resources and contribute to the foundation for creating its corporate value and its develregional and social development, and (2) initiatives in collaboWho We Are opment. Participation in these initiatives also helps our staff ration and cooperation with regional societies that form the to grow and develop their sense of being members of society. foundation for the activities of the Group as well as governWe have established Policies for Social Contribution Initiament organizations, NPOs, regional communities and others. tives, and the Group is working together to implement social Support for Financial Education Mizuho has drawn on its practical knowledge and know-how financial education programs implemented by Mizuho has What We Aim to Do as a provider of comprehensive financial services to move reached approximately 48,000. ahead with the provision of support for financial education We are working to draw at least 20,000 people to our at two levels—elementary and secondary level and the higher financial education programs between fiscal 2016 and fiscal education level. In fiscal 2005, we clarified our policy regard2018 to meet the social needs of improving financial literacy ing the proactive promotion of support for financial educaand providing career education, as well as to contribute to fostion and, as a result of our progressive efforts in this regard, tering the next generation of people in the finance industry. the aggregate number of people who have participated in Our Strategies for Value Creation Activities in Elementary and Secondary Education Mizuho has been conducting a joint research on financial education with Tokyo Gakugei University since fiscal 2006. By leveraging the special strengths and networks of each of the two parties, the research project has developed financial education tools as well as taken diverse initiatives designed to promote the implementation of financial education programs on a broader scale. Based on the results of the research, Mizuho has arranged for its employees to visit schools and teach finance-related classes as guest instructors, and provided opportunities for school children and students for work experience. Activities in Higher Education Foundations for Our Corporate Value In the area of higher education, as an effort to develop human resources with high-level financial knowledge who will be responsible for the next generation, we have offered full-scale, donated lectures and courses at universities on an ongoing basis since fiscal 2006. Employees with hands-on expertise are deployed to give lectures and courses that leverage knowledge Mizuho has acquired through the comprehensive financial services. Furthermore, we endeavor to establish themes to take into account the latest economic and financial environment and business trends and other issues to make the lectures and courses more practical. A lecture at a university Volunteer Activities by Employees Since fiscal 2006, “Mizuho Volunteer Day” has been desigFinancial Review nated each year for management and employees to focus on engaging actively in substantive volunteer activities. Employees are engaged in a wide range of activities that were designed to meet community needs. In fiscal 2015, a total of approximately 6,000 Mizuho employAn activity at a domestic office An activity at an overseas office ees, their families, and others in 21 countries participated in it. 2016 Integrated Report 97 Foundations for Our Corporate Value Stakeholder Communication Having articulated its fundamental ethical posture toward its stakeholders in the Mizuho Code of Conduct, Mizuho proactively undertakes communication activities and strives to ensure that its corporate activities are in harmony with common sense as well as being fair and transparent. Mizuho’s Stakeholder Communication • Dialogue at branches and through our sales staff • Customer feedback cards • Call centers • Website • Questionnaires for customers and customer satisfaction surveys • PR activities • General meeting of shareholders, brochure entitled “Report to Our P 84, 95 Shareholders” • Appropriate responses to • Investor brieﬁngs, IR contact website page supervisory authorities • Dissemination of information through • Activities through industry websites and disclosure materials groups • PR activities • Public-private partnership • Responding to socially responsible Customers initiatives investment surveys, etc. • Policy recommendations P 99 Government Shareholders Authorities Mizuho • Purchasing activities and outsourcing contracts based on the Mizuho Code of Conduct as well as on • Education and training Suppliers and compliance regulations, Employees competitors outsourcing regulations, etc. • In-house communication activities • Coordination and cooperation in business • Employee opinion surveys activities • Labor-management • Cooperation through industry consultations Regional/Local communities groups and diverse initiatives • Arrangement for responding to consultations and complaints P 90 • Social contribution activities P 99 • Support for ﬁnancial education • Stakeholder dialogue • PR activities P 97 98 Mizuho Financial Group Communication Activities Example (1): Communication with Shareholders Mizuho places one of its highest management priorities on In addition, Mizuho holds meetings for explaining the continuing to disclose information to our shareholders and inmanagement strategy of its operating areas and participates Who We Are vestors in a fair, timely, and appropriate manner, in order for in conferences arranged by securities companies for investors. them to form relevant judgments and appraisals of the Group. For individual investors, we participate in Investor Relations (IR) events and convene investor information meetings in various locations in Japan. In September 2015, we also held an online IR meeting (live over the Internet) for individual investors, led by the executive officer in charge of IR. For analysts and institutional investors, following periodic What We Aim to Do announcements of financial results, Mizuho holds Internet conferences and IR meetings where members of manageInvestor briefings for institutional and individual investors Six briefings were held in fiscal 2015 ment give presentations on management strategy, financial Participants: approximately 1,500 investors in total position, and other topics. Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders We endeavor to improve accessibility to the Ordinary General tion and answer session. Meeting of Shareholders held each year at the end of June In addition, we post business reports and the summary of the Our Strategies for Value Creation by avoiding the day many companies hold their shareholdQ&A session at the shareholders’ meeting on MHFG’s website. ers’ meeting so that our shareholders are able to attend our meeting. The most recent meeting, the 14th ordinary general meeting of shareholders, was held on June 24, 2016 at the Tokyo International Forum, and was attended by 2,797 persons. At the shareholders’ meeting, we used a large screen to make the content as visually easy to understand as Foundations for Our Corporate Value possible, and shareholders participated actively in the quesThe 14th ordinary general meeting of shareholders Communication Activities Example (2): Participation in Initiatives Mizuho, given its global perspective and role as a financial institution, participates in domestic and overseas initiatives to advance activities for the formation of a sustainable society. United Nations Global Compact UNEP Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Ten principles addressing matters like human rights, International partnership of labor, the environment, and anti-corruption financial institutions concerning sustainable practices in the variEquator Principles ous operations in which financial Principles to require consideration of enviinstitutions are involved ronmental and social impacts of large-scale project-related financings Principles for Financial Action for Financial Review the 21st Century Website UN’s “Principles for Responsible Investment” (PRI) Initiatives by financial institutions in Japan for Principles which ensure environmental, social, financial action toward a sustainable society and corporate governance issues are incorporated Business and Biodiversity Offset Program into the decision-making processes of investment (BBOP) Montréal Carbon Pledge Initiatives to create a common global frameInitiatives by institutional investors for work for protection of biodiversity. Mizuho is measuring and disclosing the greena member of the BBOP advisory group house gas emissions of the equities portfolio they manage 2016 Integrated Report 99 Financial Review Six-Year Major Financial Data (FY2010-2015) Summary of Consolidated Performance (billions of ¥) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Consolidated Gross Profits 2,025.3 2,003.0 2,171.7 2,035.2 2,247.7 2,221.6 Net Interest Income 1,109.4 1,088.3 1,075.8 1,108.3 1,129.4 1,003.6 Fiduciary Income 49.3 49.0 48.5 52.0 52.6 53.4 Credit Costs for Trust Accounts — — — — — — Net Fee and Commission Income 458.8 458.9 507.3 560.7 593.3 607.5 Net Trading Income 243.9 150.3 215.0 187.4 262.9 310.5 Net Other Operating Income 163.6 256.4 324.8 126.7 209.3 246.4 General and Administrative Expenses (1,277.8) (1,283.8) (1,244.6) (1,258.2) (1,351.6) (1,349.5) Consolidated Net Business Profits* 741.7 719.1 912.1 744.2 876.9 852.8 Credit-related Costs (16.6) 27.7 (111.8) 112.8 (4.6) (30.4) Aggregate Figures for the 2 Banks 16.0 24.7 (114.1) 116.6 (7.8) (26.7) Net Gains (Losses) related to Stocks (70.5) (38.1) (82.9) 77.0 131.9 205.6 Net Gains (Losses) on Sales of Stocks 25.7 15.6 46.6 81.5 143.7 225.3 Losses on Impairment (Devaluation) of Stocks (94.4) (49.3) (125.8) (5.3) (5.3) (10.3) Equity in Income from Investments in Affiliates (6.1) 2.6 (11.1) 15.4 15.0 24.2 Other (6.1) (62.9) 29.2 5.1 (27.5) (74.0) Ordinary Profits 588.4 648.5 750.3 987.5 1,010.8 997.5 Net Extraordinary Gains (Losses) 46.9 67.8 (32.5) (2.2) (20.2) 10.7 Income Taxes Current (18.3) (55.3) (50.4) (137.0) (260.2) (213.2) Deferred (120.1) (97.4) (7.4) (77.9) (44.7) (69.2) Profit 496.9 563.6 659.9 770.3 685.6 725.7 Profit Attributable to Non-controlling Interests (83.7) (79.1) (99.4) (81.9) (73.7) (54.7) Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 413.2 484.5 560.5 688.4 611.9 670.9 *Consolidated Gross Profits – G&A Expenses (excluding Non-Recurring Losses) + Equity in Income from Investments in Affiliates and certain other, consolidation adjustments Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet (billions of ¥) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Assets 160,812.0 165,360.5 177,411.0 175,822.8 189,684.7 193,458.5 Loans and Bills Discounted 62,777.7 63,800.5 67,536.8 69,301.4 73,415.1 73,708.8 Securities 44,782.0 51,392.8 53,472.3 43,997.5 43,278.7 39,505.9 Liabilities 154,188.0 158,491.2 169,674.8 167,518.3 179,884.2 184,105.3 Deposits 79,233.9 78,811.9 84,241.9 89,055.5 97,757.5 105,629.0 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 9,650.2 11,824.7 15,326.7 12,755.7 15,694.9 11,827.5 Net Assets 6,623.9 6,869.2 7,736.2 8,304.5 9,800.5 9,353.2 Total Shareholders’ Equity 4,248.2 4,762.7 5,174.6 5,676.2 6,131.1 6,559.9 Retained Earnings 1,132.3 1,405.0 1,814.7 2,315.6 2,769.3 3,197.6 Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 80.9 146.6 752.5 781.0 2,029.9 1,607.8 Non-controlling Interests 2,292.1 1,957.6 1,806.4 1,844.0 1,635.5 1,182.6 Financial Indicators (%) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio (Consolidated) / / 8.16 8.80 9.43 10.50 Tier 1 Capital Ratio (Consolidated) / / 11.03 11.35 11.50 12.64 Capital Adequacy Ratio (BIS Standard) (Consolidated) 15.30 15.50 / / / / Total Capital Ratio (Consolidated) / / 14.19 14.36 14.58 15.41 Net Assets per Share (Yen) 177.53 187.19 229.70 253.25 322.86 322.46 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share (Yen) 20.47 20.62 22.96 28.18 24.91 26.94 Net Return on Equity (Consolidated) 11.78 11.36 10.99 11.65 8.60 8.37 100 Mizuho Financial Group Review and Analysis for Fiscal 2015 Financial and Economic Environment Reviewing the economic environment over the fiscal year GDP of Major Countries (Annual % rate change from previous year) (% change from previous year) ended March 31, 2016, although the global economy as Who We Are (Left scale) U.S. (Right scale) China 15 U.K. 15 a whole continued to recover gradually, weakness in the Euro Zone recovery is seen in some regions. As for the future direction 10 Japan 12 of the economy, although continued recovery is expected, 5 9 particularly in the major industrialized countries, lingering 0 6 concerns over a downturn in China’s economy, trends in re-5 3 source prices and increased geopolitical risk need continued -10 0 and careful observation. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 In the United States, the economy continued to be on a Source: Prepared by MHRI based on statistics from each country What We Aim to Do recovery trend under favorable employment conditions. As for the future direction of the economy, although steady recovery in the economy is expected to continue, concerns 130 130 over an economic downturn in emerging countries and 120 120 the possible effects of movements toward normalization of 110 110 monetary policy require attention. In Europe, the economies in the United Kingdom and the 100 100 Our Strategies for Value Creation Euro area continued to be steady, although the recovery 0 0 speed was slightly reduced. It is expected that the economies Jan. Jul. Jan. Jul. Jan. of the region will continue to exhibit the same trend; how2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 ever, factors such as high unemployment rates, the effect of the slowdown of the Russian economy and trends in monWTI Crude Oil Futures etary policy still continue to require attention. (Dollars per Barrel) In Asia, the slowdown of China’s economy continued. 150 In the future, although the economies of the region will be 120 supported by the effects of various policies, the Chinese 90 Foundations for Our Corporate Value economy is expected to experience slowdown due to down60 ward pressure from the adjustment of capital assets. As for 30 the economies of emerging countries, the situation in which 0 growth momentum was lacking continued. As for the future 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 direction of the economy, partially due to the effects of Source: Prepared by MHRI based on Bloomberg currency depreciation and the decline of resource prices, the pace of economic expansion is expected to remain gradual. In Japan, although exports and production are improving, 1.5 consumer spending remained weak and the economy as a 1.2 whole stayed in a temporary lull. As for the future direction 0.9 of the economy, the Japanese economy can be expected to 0.6 Financial Review pick up, supported by factors such as growth in consumer 0.3 spending backed by a recovery in employee compensation 0.0 and increased corporate earnings due to the decline in oil -0.3 Jan. Jan. Jan. Jan. Jan. Jan. Jan. prices; however, foreign exchange trends require attention. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 Integrated Report 101 Financial Review Summary of Consolidated Performance Historical Data (billions of ¥) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Consolidated Gross 1,806.9 1,996.6 2,025.3 2,003.0 2,171.7 2,035.2 2,247.7 2,221.6 Profit Consolidated 622.6 702.6 741.7 719.1 912.1 744.2 876.9 852.8 Net Business Profit*1 688.4 670.9 560.5 611.9 484.5 413.2 239.4 Net Income (Losses)* 2 (588.8) *1. Consolidated Gross Profits – G&A Expenses (excluding Non-Recurring Losses) + Equity in Income from Investments in Affiliates and certain other consolidation adjustments *2. Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent Consolidated (billions of ¥) Gross Profits of aggregate figures for the Two Banks on a Change from non-consolidated basis decreased by ¥30.3 billion on a yearFY2015 FY2014 FY2014 on-year basis to ¥1,599.3 billion reflecting the downturn of Consolidated Gross Profits 2,221.6 2,247.7 (26.1) domestic and overseas economic environments. Consolidated Net Business Profits* 852.8 876.9 (24.1) Credit-related Costs (30.4) (4.6) (25.7) General and Administrative Expenses of the Two Banks Net Gains (Losses) related to Stocks 205.6 131.9 73.7 increased by ¥2.6 billion on a year-on-year basis to ¥910.9 Ordinary Profits 997.5 1,010.8 (13.3) billion mainly due to a capture of increases in overseas exProfit Attributable to Owners of Parent 670.9 611.9 59.0 penses focusing on strategic expenses using strict cost control * Consolidated Gross Profits – G&A Expenses (excluding Non-Recurring Losses) + Equity in Income from Investments in Affiliates and certain other consolidation adjustments and the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Net Operating Revenues of MHSC on a consolidated basis MHBK+MHTB* (Aggregate figures on a non-consolidated basis)  (billions of ¥) increased by ¥19.6 billion on a year-on-year basis to ¥415.2 Change from billion mainly due to increases in commissions regarding FY2015 FY2014 FY2014 underwriting and sale of stocks and bonds. Gross Profits 1,599.3 1,629.7 (30.3) As a result, Consolidated Net Business Profits decreased by G&A Expenses (910.9) (908.3) (2.6) ¥24.1 billion on a year-on-year basis to ¥852.8 billion. (excluding Non-Recurring Losses) Net Business Profits 688.4 721.3 (32.9) Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent Credit-related Costs (26.7) (7.8) (18.9) Net Gains (Losses) related to Stocks 181.4 96.1 85.2 Consolidated Credit-related Costs amounted to ¥30.4 billion. Ordinary Profits 762.9 754.4 8.4 Consolidated Net Gains (Losses) related to Stocks increased Net Income 530.6 480.4 50.2 by ¥73.7 billion on a year-on-year basis to net gains of ¥205.6 *the Two Banks billion due to the progress in cross-shareholding disposal. MHSC (Consolidated) (billions of ¥) Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent of MHSC for fiscal Change from FY2015 FY2014 2015 increased by ¥2.5 billion on a year-on-year basis to FY2014 Net Operating Revenues 415.2 395.5 19.6 ¥61.1 billion due to the increase in net operating revenues SG & A Expenses (329.6) (311.1) (18.4) and extraordinary gain in relation to indemnity receipt from Ordinary Income 85.4 86.4 (1.0) the erroneous stock order. Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 61.1 58.6 2.5 As a result, Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent for Consolidated Net Business Profits fiscal 2015 increased by ¥59.0 billion on a year-on-year basis to ¥670.9 billion. This result shows a 106% achievement We recorded Consolidated Gross Profits of ¥2,221.6 billion for fisagainst the earnings plan for fiscal 2015 of ¥630.0 billion. cal 2015, decreasing by ¥26.1 billion from the previous fiscal year. 102 Mizuho Financial Group Review and Analysis for Fiscal 2015 Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated (billions of ¥) Securities March 31, March 31, Change from Who We Are 2016 2015 March 31, 2015 Securities were ¥39,505.9 billion, decreasing by ¥3,772.7 Assets 193,458.5 189,684.7 3,773.8 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year due to a decrease in JGBs. Securities 39,505.9 43,278.7 (3,772.7) Japanese Government 19,525.9 21,775.9 (2,250.0) JGB Balance (MHBK+MHTB)*1 Bonds Japanese Local (trillions of ¥) (Acquisition cost basis) 240.6 238.5 2.0 Government Bonds Mediumand Long-term Bonds*2 40 Floating-rate Notes Treasury Discount Bills Japanese Corporate Bonds 2,867.9 2,674.1 193.8 and Short-term Bonds 30.6 30 Japanese Stocks 3,898.7 4,500.7 (602.0) 9.0 What We Aim to Do Other 12,972.6 14,089.2 (1,116.6) 21.8 20 1.5 5.2 17.2 Loans and Bills Discounted 73,708.8 73,415.1 293.7 1.1 2.6 15.6 0.5 0.7 0.6 Loans 10 20.0 (MHBK+MHTB, banking 74,751.6 74,927.4 (175.7) 15.4 13.8 14.4 account+trust account) 0 Domestic Total 55,530.4 56,467.2 (936.7) Mar. 31, 2013 Mar. 31, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 Loans to SMEs and 32,780.3 32,575.7 204.5 Average Remaining Period*3 Individual Customers 2.5 years 2.4 years 2.6 years 2.5 years (Housing loans for *1. Other securities which have readily determinable fair values owner’s residential 9,949.7 10,263.0 (313.2) *2. Including bonds with remaining period of one year or less housing) Our Strategies for Value Creation *3. Excluding Floating-rate Notes Overseas Total 19,221.1 18,460.1 761.0 Liabilities 184,105.3 179,884.2 4,221.1 Japanese Stocks (Consolidated)*1 Deposits 105,629.0 97,757.5 7,871.5 (billions of ¥) (Acquisition cost basis) (%) Japanese Stocks Domestic Deposits Ratio of Acquisition Cost against Tier1 Capital*2 60 88,071.3 81,852.3 6,219.0 (MHBK+MHTB) 2,065.9 Individual Deposits 40,241.2 39,486.5 754.7 2,003.8 1,962.9 1,847.1 45 Corporate Deposits 40,695.0 36,528.0 4,167.0  Financial/Government 30 7,135.0 5,837.7 1,297.3 Institutions Negotiable Certificates of 15 11,827.5 15,694.9 (3,867.3) Deposit Foundations for Our Corporate Value Net Assets 9,353.2 9,800.5 (447.2) 0 Total Shareholders’ Equity 6,559.9 6,131.1 428.7 *1. Other securities which have readily determinable Common Stock and fair values 2,255.7 2,255.4 0.3 Preferred Stock *2. Basel III phase-in base (incl. Eleventh Series Class Capital Surplus 1,110.1 1,110.0 0.1 XI Preferred Stock in CET1 Capital), hedging effects are included in and after Mar. 2014 Retained Earnings 3,197.6 2,769.3 428.2 Treasury Stock (3.6) (3.6) 0 Disposing of Cross-shareholdings (Consolidated) Total Accumulated Other 1,607.8 2,029.9 (422.1) Disposed Amount in FY2015 ¥115.7 billion Comprehensive Income (Amount Sold*) (¥109.0 billion) Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other 1,296.0 1,737.3 (441.3) * Managerial basis (MHBK, MHTB and MHSC) Securities Deferred Gains or Losses 165.2 26.6 138.6 on Hedges Financial Review Revaluation Reserve for 148.4 146.4 2.0 Land Foreign Currency (53.6) (40.4) (13.2) Translation Adjustments Remeasurements of 51.7 160.0 (108.2) Defined Benefit Plans Stock Acquisition Rights 2.7 3.8 (1.0) Non-controlling Interests 1,182.6 1,635.5 (452.9) 2016 Integrated Report 103 Financial Review Loans Total Net Assets The combined total of loans for the two banks was Net Assets amounted to ¥9,353.2 billion, decreasing by ¥74,751.6 billion, a decrease of ¥175.7 billion from FY2014. ¥447.2 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year due to While the balance of domestic loans to large, medium and increase in Retained Earnings by recording Profit Attributable small businesses increased due to accurate assessment of to Owners of Parent and decrease in Non-controlling Interests demand, that of government and personal loans decreased, and Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities. resulting in an overall decrease of ¥936.7 billion (including a change of ¥1,235 billion in government loans). Our overseas loan balance (including loans booked offshore) increased by Non-Performing Loans (NPL) ¥761 billion, with a particularly marked increase in loans to The combined NPL balance of the two banks was ¥820.1 non-Japanese customers in the United States. billion, a decrease of ¥182 billion from FY2014, while the Loan Balance (MHBK + MHTB, banking account + trust account) NPL ratio decreased by 0.20 points from FY2014 to 1.00%. (trillions of ¥) Domestic Loan Balance Overseas Loan Balance We maintained a good credit portfolio, with both the NPL 80 74.9 74.7 balance and ratio remaining stable in a low position. 68.1 70.9 11.4 13.8 18.4 19.2 60 Disclosed Claims under the FRA* (MHBK + MHTB, banking account + trust account) 40 (trillions of ¥) Claims for Special Attention (%) 57.1 56.4 55.5 Claims with Collection Risk 56.7 1.5 Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially 4 20 1.2 Bankrupt Obligors NPL Ratio 1.0 3 0 1.0 0.9 Mar. 31, 2013 Mar. 31, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 0.8 2 0.5 1.71 1.21 1.00 1 Deposits 1.20 0 0 The combined domestic deposits of the two banks increased Mar. 31, 2013 Mar. 31, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 by ¥6,219 billion from FY2014 due to factors such as an *Financial Reconstruction Act increase in corporate deposits. Disclosed Claims under the FRA Domestic Deposits (MHBK + MHTB) (MHBK + MHTB, banking account + trust account) (billions of ¥) (trillions of ¥) Individual Corporate Financial/Government institutions March 31, March 31, Change from 100 2016 2015 March 31, 2015 88.0 74.4 77.0 81.8 7.1 Claims against Bankrupt and 5.1 5.8 68.0 56.6 11.3 75 5.2 Substantially Bankrupt Obligors 33.3 40.6 Claims with Collection Risk 353.6 402.5 (48.8) 31.4 36.5 50 Claims for Special Attention 398.4 542.9 (144.5) Subtotal 820.1 1,002.1 (182.0) 25 37.7 38.5 39.4 40.2 Normal claims 81,009.0 82,041.0 (1,031.9) 0 Total 81,829.2 83,043.1 (1,213.9) Mar. 31, 2013 Mar. 31, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 NPL Ratio 1.00% 1.20% (0.20%) BIS Capital BIS Capital Risk Assets The common equity Tier 1 capital was ¥6,566.4 billion, an The risk-weighted assets were ¥62,531.1 billion, a decrease increase of ¥413.3 billion from FY2014, due to the increase of ¥2,660.7 billion from FY2014, due to a decrease in credit in Retained Earnings by recording Profit Attributable to risk related assets and market risk equivalent amounts. Owners of Parent. 104 Mizuho Financial Group Review and Analysis for Fiscal 2015 BIS Capital Ratio Mizuho continues to perform disciplined capital management policy which maintains the optimum balance between The common equity Tier 1 ratio increased by 1.07 % from strengthening of stable capital base and steady returns to FY2014 to 10.50%. shareholders. Who We Are In our new medium-term business plan starting from BIS Capital Ratio (Consolidated) (billions of ¥) FY2016, we aim to achieve a common equity Tier 1 capital March 31, March 31, Change from ratio of approximately 10% by the end of the final year 2016 2015 March 31, 2015 Common Equity Tier 1 (FY2018) (fully-effective basis* (based on current regula6,566.4 6,153.1 413.3 Capital (CET1) tions), excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities), Capital Stock, Surplus and 6,460.3 5,917.1 543.1 Retained Earnings and enhance resilience to external environment stress. Additional Tier 1 Capital 1,338.6 1,347.2 (8.6) We will develop a resilient financial base that is able to Additional Tier 1 capital 300.0 — 300.0 withstand changes in a competitive environment by further instruments What We Aim to Do Eligible Tier 1 capital improving profitability, and implementing measures to iminstruments subject to 1,144.0 1,458.1 (314.1) phase-out arrangements prove efficiency, quality and reduction of costs. Tier 2 Capital 1,733.5 2,008.1 (274.5) *Calculated on a Basel III fully-effective basis at the end of fiscal 2018. Tier 2 capital instruments 493.5 330.4 163.1 Eligible Tier 2 capital instruments subject to 962.9 1,108.8 (145.8) phase-out arrangements Dividend Policy Total Capital 9,638.6 9,508.4 130.1 As a new policy to return profits to shareholders, starting from Risk-weighted Assets 62,531.1 65,191.9 (2,660.7) fiscal 2014, we have implemented a steady dividend payout Our Strategies for Value Creation Credit Risk Assets 57,588.4 58,602.7 (1,014.3) Market Risk Equivalent Assets 1,696.0 3,473.8 (1,777.7) policy setting a dividend payout ratio on a consolidated basis Operational Risk Equivalent of approximately 30% as a guide for our consideration. 3,246.6 3,115.3 131.3 Assets Total Capital Ratio Based on this policy, we made cash dividend payments 15.41% 14.58% 0.83% (Consolidated) on common stock of ¥7.50 (¥3.75 for interim dividends and Tier 1 Capital Ratio 12.64% 11.50% 1.14% ¥3.75 for year-end dividends) for the fiscal year ended March (Consolidated) Common Equity Tier 1 31, 2016. We also made cash dividend payments on Eleventh 10.50% 9.43% 1.07% Capital Ratio (Consolidated) Series Class XI for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 as prescribed. Foundations for Our Corporate Value Status of Capital Adequacy Cash Dividend per Share of Common Stock (¥) The total capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and common equity 8 7.5 7.5 Tier 1 capital ratio at the end of March 2016 were 15.41%, 6.5 6.0 12.64% and 10.50%, respectively. 6 4 BIS Capital Ratio Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio (Consolidated) 2 (%) Tier 1 Capital Ratio (Consolidated) 20 Total Capital Ratio (Consolidated) 0 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 14.58 15.41 15 14.36 Dividend Payout Ratio 12.64 11.35 11.50 26% 23% 30% 28% 10.50 10 8.80 9.43 Financial Review 5 0 Mar. 31, 2014 Mar. 31, 2015 Mar. 31, 2016 2016 Integrated Report 105 Company Information Office Network We utilize our office network, which covers every prefecture in Japan as well as major overseas cities, to respond to our customers’ diversified and globalizing financial needs while supporting the smooth progress of economic activities. 106 Mizuho Financial Group  MHBK received approval from the financial authority in Mexico to establish a full service banking institution in December 2015, and is making preparations to open the office in fiscal 2016. 2016 Integrated Report 107 Company Information Group Companies (As of March 31, 2016, except for each company’s network, which is as of June 30, 2016) Mizuho Bank MHBK is a leading bank with one of the largest customer base in Japan and a network encompassing Japan and financial and business centers around the world. Under the Group’s new medium-term business plan entitled Progressive Development of “One MIZUHO”: The Path to a Financial Services Consulting Group, MHBK is strengthening its collaboration among banking, trust banking and securities functions as well as asset management and think tank services, in order to offer the best financial solutions to a wide range of customers in a timely manner by bringing together the Group’s comprehensive strengths and demonstrate its consulting capability. The business environment for financial institutions is at a turning point due to fast-moving trends toward tightening global Nobuhide Hayashi financial regulations, the introduction of negative interest rate policy, and rapid technological innovation, more than at any President & CEO time before. Amid this environment, we are working to create Mizuho Bank, Ltd. new financial products and services with flexibility that respond to the diversified needs of our customers, increase customer convenience and bring them greater satisfaction. For individual customers, MHBK is increasing joint branches that can offer banking, trust banking, and securities services seamlessly, and also develop next-generation branches that can offer cutting-edge financial services. In addition, we are looking to the next generation of services through smartphones etc., making use of Fintech that combine financial with information and communications technology (ICT). For business owners, we are putting increasing emphasis on providing support for their growth strategies and business succession with regard to both The Yaesuguchi Branch in central Tokyo is an corporations and owners. example of Mizuho’s next-generation branches For corporate customers, MHBK is strengthening its functions to provide funds to customers, using its sophisticated risk-taking capabilities, and to offer specialized and unique solutions taking advantage of its industry expertise and product development abilities. In addition, we are providing support for customers to extend their businesses overseas through our global network, Date of Establishment: July 1, 2013 while also working to build long-term and multi-faceted Capital: ¥1,404.0 billion relationships with global corporations around the world. Location of Head Office: 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo MHBK will continue to fully implement its “customer 100-8176, Japan first” principle (customer-focused perspective). Each member Tel: +81-(0)3-3214-1111 of management and all staff will maintain his or her efforts Representative: Nobuhide Hayashi, President & CEO to strengthen our capabilities for constantly developing and implementing new approaches to help customers overcome and Number of Employees: 27,355 resolve the challenges they face, which we as MHBK refer to as Domestic Network: Head Office and Branches: 421 “frontline capabilities.” In these ways, we are doing our utmost Sub-branches: 41 to support our customers to help them realize their dreams by Overseas Network: Branches: 25 Relevant Offices: 17 providing the highest quality services and realize our goal of being their “most trusted bank.” Representative Offices: 6 Subsidiaries: 39 Website: http://www.mizuhobank.com/index.html 108 Mizuho Financial Group Mizuho Trust & Banking MHTB, under the Group’s new medium-term business plan entitled Progressive Development of “One MIZUHO”: The Path to a Financial Services Consulting Group, offers highly professional trust banking products and services that meet the increasingly diversified and sophisticated needs of all of Mizuho’s customers. At the same time, MHTB is continuing to strengthen its comprehensive consulting capabilities. For individual customers, against a background of the declining birthrate and aging of the population in Japan, and their growing interests in inheritance and asset succession, we are working to develop products that meet their needs, such as testamentary trusts, Qualified educational fund giving trusts, and Annual fund giving trusts. Going forward, MHTB Takeo Nakano will endeavor to continue to develop new trust products and services. Moreover, in order to increase convenience for President & CEO customers, we offer such products at branches of MHBK and Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. MHSC, strengthen capabilities to respond to customer needs of inheritance consultants who are assigned to all MHBK branches, and make various other efforts to leverage group capabilities in an integrated and seamless manner to meet a wide range of customers’ inheritance and asset succession needs. Regarding corporate owners’ business succession needs, we work in close collaboration with MHBK to provide consulting functions that make full use of our high level of trust-related expertise. For corporate customers, we provide solutions to address customer needs in the areas of real estate, securitization, stock transfer agency business, and pensions by drawing on our highly professional trust-related consulting capabilities. Trust Lounges: Lounges for Inheritance and In the asset management business, we will collaborate with Testamentary Consultation Asset Management One, which is to be newly established, and endeavor to develop and offer cutting-edge products to meet customer needs. Looking ahead, we will work to take the “One MIZUHO Strategy” to the next level and place thoroughgoing emphasis on our “customer first” principle (customer-focused perspective). Date of Establishment: March 12, 2003 As customer needs for trust-related services continue to grow, Capital: ¥247.3 billion we will enhance our trust banking expertise and substantially strengthen our comprehensive consulting capabilities to become Location of Head Office: 1-2-1, Yaesu, Chuo-ku, Tokyo “the most reliable trust and banking company.” 103-8670, Japan Tel: +81-(0)3-3278-8111 Representative: Takeo Nakano, President & CEO Number of Employees: 3,240 Domestic Network: Head Office and Branches: 36 Sub-branches: 19 (Trust Lounges: 18) Overseas Network: Subsidiaries: 2 Website: http://www. mizuho-tb.co.jp/english/index.html 2016 Integrated Report 109 Company Information Mizuho Securities In aiming to offer sophisticated value-added securities services which resonate with customers, MHSC pursues “One MIZUHO Strategy” which brings together banking, trust banking and securities functions under one umbrella to provide products and services of the highest quality to meet the diversified financial needs of our customers. For individual customers, we offer a wide range of financial products as well as high-quality investment information through our domestic branch network, which is the largest in the industry, the Internet, and our call center. We are boldly transforming our marketing approach and are concentrating on a more customer-focused approach with the objective of contributing to individual customers’ asset building in the Tatsufumi Sakai medium-to-long term. In addition, for the Group to work together to enhance services, we are promoting the opening President & CEO of joint branches among MHBK, MHTB and MHSC to offer our Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. products and services to customers of MHBK and MHTB who have securities-related needs. At all our branches, we offer bank agency services for MHBK, including proposals for opening bank accounts. In addition, all our branches are trust agents of MHTB that can handle testamentary-related services, Qualified educational fund giving trusts and other trust-related matters. We are accelerating these initiatives to fully leverage Mizuho’s unique strengths. To meet our corporate customers’ needs in equity and bond underwriting, M&A advisory, structured finance and other investment banking solutions, we have established a framework for offering highly professional proposals and services (which MHSC offers a wide range of research reports cater to our customers’ diverse financial needs) based on our experience and know-how backed by our extensive track record. Date of Establishment: January 4, 2013 Moreover, our Research Department has a large number of highranking analysts, and, through the collaboration of our global Capital: ¥125.1 billion sales and trading structures covering Tokyo, London, New York Location of Head Office: Otemachi First Square, 1-5-1, Otemachi, and Hong Kong, we are able to offer top-quality investment Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo products and investment information and, thereby, respond 100-0004, Japan effectively to customers’ investment strategies. Tel: +81-(0)3-5208-3210 Serving as the only comprehensive securities company able Representative: Tatsufumi Sakai, President & CEO to offer all the advantages of a “financial services consulting (Appointed on April 1, 2016) group,” each and every employee at MHSC is dedicated to Number of Employees: 6,994 enhancing their individual strengths and quality, and we will continue to build on the success we have achieved thus far Domestic Network: Tokyo Head Office and thanks to your continued support. regional head offices: 3 Branches: 104 Planet Booths: 166 Financial Advisors Sales Department: 1 Overseas Network: Representative Offices: 2 Subsidiaries: 22 Website: http://www.mizuho-sc.com/english/index.html 110 Mizuho Financial Group Group Companies Trust & Custody Services Bank (TCSB) Mizuho Asset Management (MHAM) As Mizuho’s trust bank specializing in asset administration, TCSB will MHAM’s core businesses are investment trust business, mainly for continue to provide high-quality, high-value-added trust and custody individuals and financial institutions, and investment advisory business, services to customers including large institutional investors. As of principally for public and private pensions, financial institutions and March 31, 2016, the balance of assets under custody and administracorporations. MHAM’s asset management products and services cover tion exceeded ¥380 trillion, one of the largest scale in Japan. a wide range from equities and bonds to alternative investments. Date of Establishment: January 22, 2001 Date of Establishment: July 1, 2007 Capital: ¥50,000 million Capital: ¥2,045 million Location of Head Office: Tower Z, Harumi Triton Square, 1-8-12, Location of Head Office: 3-5-27, Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo Representative: Hidetake Nakamura, President & CEO Representative: Akira Moriwaki, President & CEO Number of Employees: 236 Number of Employees: 631 Website: http://www.mizuho-am.co.jp/english Website: http://www.tcsb.co.jp/english/index.php DIAM Mizuho Research Institute (MHRI) DIAM is an asset management company in which The Dai–ichi Life MHRI is one of Japan’s leading think tanks, with a research division, Insurance and Mizuho both have equity holdings. DIAM collaborates consulting division and unique corporate membership services. with its offices in Europe, the United States and Asia to offer MHRI uses its excellent analytical skills and the organization’s investment trust products to individuals and corporate customers, as network in Japan and overseas to provide macroeconomic informawell as provide investment advisory services to customers including tion, policy recommendations and consulting services to solve the Japanese and overseas pension funds. specific issues of the national government, local governments and Date of Establishment: October 1, 1999 private companies. Capital: ¥2,000 million Date of Establishment: October 1, 2002 Location of Head Office: New Tokyo Building 5th Floor, 3-3-1, Capital: ¥900 million Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Location of Head Office: 1-2-1, Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Representative: Yasumasa Nishi, President & CEO Representative: Mitsuaki Tsuchiya, President & CEO Number of Employees: 436 Number of Employees: 288 Overseas Network Subsidiaries: 4 Website: http://www.mizuho-ri.co.jp/english/index.html Website: http://www.diam.co.jp/english/ Mizuho Information & Research Institute (MHIR) Mizuho Private Wealth Management (MHPW) With IT as its core technology, MHIR is a professional organization MHPW offers consulting services tailored to the needs of its customers. with more than 4,000 employees that provides assistance to corpoThese services range from consulting on customers’ financial matters rations in increasing their corporate value through its consulting, such as wealth management, arranging for business inheritance to system integration and outsourcing services. advice on customers’ individual matters, including health of the customers themselves as well as family members and children’s education. Date of Establishment: October 1, 2004 Date of Establishment: October 3, 2005 Capital: ¥1,627 million Capital: ¥500 million Location of Head Office: 2-3 Kanda-Nishikicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Location of Head Office: 1-1-5, Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Representative: Junichi Nishizawa, President & CEO Representative: Takeru Watanabe, President Number of Employees: 4,316 Number of Employees: 34 Website: http://www.mizuho-ir.co.jp/english/index.html Notes: 1. The representatives of each company have representation rights. 2. The number of employees does not include each company’s employees dispatched outside each company while it includes employees dispatched from outside each company. This figure also includes overseas local staff but excludes executive officers and temporary employees. 3. Overseas subsidiaries include head offices, branches and representative offices of subsidiaries. 4. In July 2016, DIAM, the asset management function of MHTB, MHAM and Shinko Asset Management entered into a definitive integration agreement. The effective date of integration will be October 1, 2016, subject to certain conditions precedent, and the name of the new company will be “Asset Management One.” 2016 Integrated Report 111 Company Information Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2016) Company Name: Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Stock Listing (Code): Tokyo Stock Exchange (8411) New York Stock Exchange (MFG) Location of Head Office: 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8176, Japan Tel. +81-(0)3-5224-1111 Representative: Yasuhiro Sato, President & Group CEO Capital: ¥2,255.7 billion Issued Shares: 25,945,277,657 shares Common Stock: 25,030,525,657 shares Preferred Stock: 914,752,000 shares Number of Employees: 1,318 (Total number of employees on a consolidated basis: 56,375) Date of Establishment: January 8, 2003 Rating Information (As of June 30, 2016) R&I JCR Moody’s S&P Fitch * Credit ratings for MTN programme (Joint Medium-term Note Programme with Mizuho International and Mizuho Securities USA, based on keep well agreement with MHFG and MHBK) 112 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix 2016 Integrated Report 113 Compliance Contacts “Internal Controls and Audit Hotline” —A system designed for obtaining concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters— Reporting Items: MHFG has established a hotline to receive • When reported matters are within the scope of the reportreports from in and outside the company ing items, MHFG will do reasonable efforts to investigate in connection with problems concerning the facts behind the information received and report back internal controls and audits of accounts and on the results. financial reports. • Anonymous tips are also acceptable, but there are cases Contact Point: This hotline has been established within an where it will not be possible to fully satisfy the intentions external law office. Please use conventional behind such tips owing to constraints on investigations and mail or e-mail for reporting. the inability to report back. Conventional mail: • Information on persons making such reports is not dis12th Floor, Kasumigaseki Bldg., closed to third parties other than the group companies Kasumigaseki 3-2-5, Chiyoda-ku, except in cases where the assent of the person in question Tokyo 100-6012 has been obtained or such disclosure is required under laws Mizuho Accounting Hotline, c/o Daiichi and ordinances, etc. Fuyo Law Office E-mail: kaikei-mizuho@daiichifuyo.gr.jp Approaches to the Financial Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) System In order to deal expeditiously, fairly and appropriately with The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution as complaints, etc., from customers, MHBK and MHTB have Defined in Japan’s Banking Act which MHBK and MHTB concluded the basic contract for the implementation of Concluded the Basic Contract with dispute resolution procedures with the Japanese Bankers The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution: Association, which is a designated dispute resolution instituthe Japanese Bankers Association tion as defined in Japan’s Banking Act. MHTB has also conContact: Advisory Center of the Japanese Bankers Association cluded the basic contract for the implementation of dispute Tel.: +81-(0)3-5252-3772 resolution procedures with the Trust Companies Association of Japan, which is a designated dispute resolution instituThe Designated Dispute Resolution Institution as Defined tion as defined in Japan’s Trust Business Act and Act on in Japan’s Trust Business Act and Act on Concurrent Concurrent Operation, etc. of Trust Business by Financial Operation, etc. of Trust Business by Financial Institutions Institutions. which MHTB Concluded the Basic Contract with The designated dispute resolution institution takes the The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution: steps toward resolution from a fair and neutral perspective in Trust Companies Association of Japan cases where the solutions to customers’ complaints adopted Contact: Trust Consultation Center of the Trust Companies by the two banks are not accepted. Association of Japan Tel.: +81-(0)3-6206-3988 114 Mizuho Financial Group Risk Management Structure Commitment to Risk Management Basic Approach Amid the growing diversity and complexity of banking opRisk Management Structure erations, financial institutions are exposed to various risks, including credit, market operations, information technology, legal, settlement and other risks. We recognize the conducting of operations tailored to the risks and managing such risks as a key issue relating to overall management. In order to implement our business strategy while maintaining our financial stability, we maintain comprehensive risk management and control measures. MHFG maintains basic policies for risk management established by its Board of Directors that are applicable to the entire group. These policies clearly define the kinds of risks to be managed, set forth the organizational structure and provide for the human resources training necessary for appropriate levels of risk management. The policies also provide for audits to measure the effectiveness and suitability of the risk management structure. In line with these basic policies, we maintain various measures to strengthen and enhance the sophistication of our risk management system. Risk Management Structure Each of our subsidiaries adopts appropriate risk management measures for its business based on the size and nature of its risk exposures, while MHFG controls risk management for the Group as a whole. At MHFG, the Risk Management Committee chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer (Group CRO) provides integrated monitoring and management of the overall risk for the Group. The Group CRO reports the risk management situation to the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee, the Executive Management Committee and the President & Group CEO, on a regular basis and as needed. MHFG regularly receives reports and applications concerning the risk management situation from our core group companies and gives them appropriate instructions concerning risk management. Our core group companies each maintains its own system for managing various types of risk, regularly receiving reports on the status of risk at their respective subsidiaries, and gives them appropriate instructions concerning risk management. 2016 Integrated Report 115 Approach to the Basel Regulatory Framework Basel III Framework, the regulations for international standards Financial Stability Board in November 2015, and the stricter of the health of banks, is being phased in from 2013, which capital requirements began to be phased in from March 31, consists of minimum capital requirements, a leverage ratio 2016. and a global liquidity standard. Basel III is based on the Basel A leverage ratio also has been implemented under “Pillar 3” II framework which requires the observance of “three pillars.” from March 31, 2015 and we began disclosing it accordingly. “Pillar 1” is minimum requirements relating to risk which Also a global liquidity standard has been implemented under should be maintained by banks. “Pillar 2” is the self-disci“Pillar 1” from March 31, 2015 in Japan, and we have been calplined risk management by financial institutions with a superculating our liquidity coverage ratio pursuant to such standard. visory review process. “Pillar 3” is market discipline allowing for assessment by the market through appropriate disclosure. Glossary We have been calculating our capital adequacy ratios by  Advanced Internal Ratings Based (AIRB) Approach applying the Advanced Internal Ratings Based approach for  AIRB is one of the calculation methods for credit risk assets the calculation of credit risk from March 31, 2009 and the provided for by Basel II. Under AIRB, both probability of default Advanced Measurement Approach for the calculation of opand loss given default used for calculation of credit risk assets are estimated by the bank’s own internal experiences. erational risk from September 30, 2009. In Japan, from March 31, 2013, the minimum capital requirements based on Basel III  Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) began to be phased in, and we have been calculating capital  AMA is one of the calculation methods for operational risk adequacy ratios based on the revisions to capital adequacy assets provided for by Basel II. AMA is a risk asset calculation guidelines published by the Financial Services Agency. The Bamethod based on statistics that not only utilizes data from sel Committee continues to review the treatments related to internal losses experienced by the company, but also utilizes scenario data to calculate the impact of events that may be capital requirements. We will comply with new requirements experienced in the future. appropriately. We have been identified as a G-SIB by the General Concept of Risk Management Basic Approach We classify our risk exposures according to the various kinds are managerially acceptable in both qualitative and quantitaof risk, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and tive terms. In line with the basic policies relating to overall operational risk, and manage each type of risk according to risk management laid down by MHFG, companies within its characteristics. In addition to managing each type of risk the Group identify risk broadly and take a proactive and individually, we have established a risk management structure sophisticated approach to risk management, including methto identify and evaluate overall risk and, where necessary, to odologies for operations that involve exposures to multiple devise appropriate responses to keep risk within limits that categories of risk such as settlement and trust businesses. Risk Capital Allocation We endeavor to obtain a clear grasp of the Group’s overall risk within managerially acceptable limits by working to risk exposure and have implemented measures to keep such ensure that the overall risk we hold on a consolidated basis risks within the Group’s financial base in accordance with the does not exceed shareholders’ equity and other measures risk capital allocation framework. of financial strength. To ensure the ongoing financial health More specifically, we allocate risk capital to our core group of the Group, we regularly monitor the manner in which companies, including their respective subsidiaries, to control risk capital is being used in order to obtain a proper grasp risk within the limits set for each company. We also control of the risk profile within this framework. Reports are also 116 Mizuho Financial Group Risk Management Structure submitted to the Board of Directors and other committees allocated within their respective business units based on of each company. Risk capital is allocated to MHBK, MHTB, established frameworks. MHSC and Mizuho Americas by risk category, and is further As part of our risk capital allocation management, we creAssessment of Balance between Risk under Stressed Condition and Capital ate multiple risk scenarios common to the Group, based on which we and our core group companies calculate potential 1. • Current economic conditions, economic outlook, etc. Development • Occurrence of historical stress events, etc. losses and risk amount arising from assumed stress events of Stress Scenarios Create multiple risk scenarios common to the Group across all risk types. The calculated losses and risk amount are used for assessing internal capital adequacy and verifying whether they balance with the Group’s capital. 2. Measure the impacts of stress events on the Group The risk scenarios for stress testing are formulated by based on the stress scenarios created Measurement taking into account the current economic conditions and the of Impacts of [Key items to be calculated] Stress Events Losses, VaR, etc. economic outlook and by assuming historical stress events, etc. from a risk management perspective to measure the impacts of stress events by scenario. 3. Analysis and Utilize stress test results for internal capital Utilization of Stress adequacy assessments, etc. Test Results 2016 Integrated Report 117 Credit Risk Management Basic Approach We define credit risk as the Group’s exposure to the risk of first approach is “credit management,” in which we manage losses that may be incurred due to a decline in, or total loss the process for each individual transaction and individual of, the value of assets (including off-balance-sheet instruobligor from execution until collection, based on our asments), as a result of deterioration in obligors’ financial sessment of the credit quality of the customer. Through this position. We have established the methods and structures process, we curb losses in the case of a credit event. The necessary for grasping and managing credit risk. second is “credit portfolio management,” in which we utilize MHFG manages credit risk for the Group as a whole. More statistical methods to assess the potential for losses related to specifically, we have adopted two different but mutually credit risk. Through this process, we identify credit risks and complementary approaches in credit risk management. The respond appropriately. Credit Risk Management Structure Credit Risk Management of MHFG The respective business policy committees of MHBK and Our Board of Directors determines the Group’s basic matters MHTB (the two banks) are responsible for discussing and pertaining to credit risk management. In addition, the Risk coordinating overall management of their individual credit Management Committee of MHFG discusses and coordinates portfolios and transaction policies toward obligors. The Chief matters relating to basic policies and operations in connecRisk Officer of each bank is responsible for matters relating tion with credit risk management and matters relating to to planning and implementing credit risk management. The credit risk monitoring for the Group. Under the control of credit risk management department of each bank is responthe Group CRO of MHFG, the Risk Management Department sible for planning and administering credit risk management and the Credit Risk Management Department jointly monitor, and conducting credit risk measuring and monitoring, and analyze and submit suggestions concerning credit risk and such department regularly presents reports regarding its risk formulate and execute plans in connection with basic matters management situation to MHFG. Each credit department pertaining to credit risk management. determines policies and approves/disapproves individual transactions in terms of credit review, credit management Credit Risk Management at Our Core Group Companies and collection from customers in accordance with the lines of Our core group companies manage their credit risk according to authority set forth by each bank. In addition, each bank has the scale and nature of their exposures in line with basic policies established internal audit groups that are independent of the set forth by MHFG. The Board of Directors of each company business departments in order to ensure appropriate credit determines key matters pertaining to credit risk management. risk management. Individual Credit Management Credit Codes Internal Rating System The basic code of conduct for all of our officers and employOne of the most important elements of the risk manageees engaged in the credit business is set forth in our credit ment infrastructure of the two banks is the use of an internal code. Seeking to fulfill the bank’s public and social role, rating system that consists of credit ratings and pool allocaour basic policy for credit business is determined in light of tions. Credit ratings consist of obligor ratings which represent fundamental principles focusing on public welfare, safety, the level of credit risk of the obligor, and transaction ratings growth and profitability. which represent the possibility of ultimately incurring losses related to each individual claim by taking into consideration 118 Mizuho Financial Group Risk Management Structure the nature of any collateral or guarantee and the seniority obligor classifications and are an integral part of the process of the claim. In principle, obligor ratings apply to all obligors for determining the reserves for loan losses and write-offs and are subject to regular reviews at least once a year to in our self-assessment of loans and off-balance-sheet instrureflect promptly the fiscal period end financial results of the ments (please refer to Connection between Obligor Ratings, obligors, as well as special reviews as required whenever the Definition of Obligor Classifications of Self-Assessments, obligor’s credit standing changes. This enables the two banks Claims Disclosed under the FRA and Non-Accrual, Past Due & to monitor both individual obligors and the status of the Restructured Loans). overall portfolio in a timely fashion. Because we consider obPool allocations are applied to small claims that are less ligor ratings to be an initial phase of the self-assessment prothan a specified amount by pooling customers and claims cess regarding the quality of our loans and off-balance-sheet with similar risk characteristics and assessing and managing instruments, such obligor ratings are closely linked to the the risk for each such pool. We efficiently manage credit Connection between Obligor Ratings, Definition of Obligor Classifications of Self-Assessments, Claims Disclosed under the FRA and Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Definition of Obligor Non-Accrual, Obligor Category I Ratings Category IV Claims Disclosed Past Due & Classifications Definition of Ratings (NonCategory II Category III (Major (Non-Collateralized) under the FRA Restructured of SelfCategorized) Category) Loans Assessment Obligors whose certainty of debt fulfillA1—A3 ment is very high, hence their level of credit risk is excellent. Obligors whose certainty of debt fulfillment poses no problems for the foreseeB1—B2 able future, hence their level of credit risk All credit Normal is sufficient. given to Obligors Obligors whose certainty of debt fulfillNormal C1—C3 ment and their level of credit risk pose no Obligors. Normal Claims problems for the foreseeable future. Obligors whose current certainty of debt fulfillment poses no problems, however, D1—D3 their resistance to future environmental changes is low. E1 Obligors who require close watching going forward because there are problems Credit given with their borrowings, such as reduced or to Watch suspended interest payments, problems Obligors Restructured Watch with fulfillment such as de facto postponeother than Loans Obligors Claims for SpeE2 R ments of principal or interest payments, or those problems with their financial positions as included in cial Attention Loans Past Due a result of their poor or unstable business Category I. for 3 Months conditions. or More Credit to Obligors who are not yet bankrupt but are obligors in financial difficulties and are deemed which has Credit given to to be very likely to go bankrupt in the pledged colIntensive Control Intensive Confuture because they are finding it difficult lateral or is Obligors other Claims with F1 trol Obligors to make progress in implementing their covered by than those inCollection Risk management improvement plans (includguarantees, cluded in Category Non-Accrual ing obligors who are receiving ongoing considered Credit to I and Category II. Delinquent support from financial institutions). of high obligors Loans Obligors who have not yet gone legally or quality, such which is The difference Substanformally bankrupt but who are substanas deposit covered between the Credit to Bankrupt tially Bankrupt G1 tially bankrupt because they are in serious collateral. by general assessed value and Substantially Obligors financial difficulties and are not deemed collateral, and market value Bankrupt Obligors, Claims against to be capable of restructuring. such as real of collateral on other than those Bankrupt estate and credit to Bankrupt in Category I, and Substanguarantees. and Substantially Category II and tially Bankrupt Bankrupt Obligors Obligors who have already gone bankrupt, Category III (credit Obligors, and Bankrupt (i.e., the portion Loans to BankH1 from both a legal and/or formal perspecthat is judged to equivalent Obligors of loans for which rupt Obligors tive. be unrecoverable final collection or without value). problems or losses are anticipated). 2016 Integrated Report 119 Method for Reserves and Write-Offs Normal Calculate the value of estimated loss based on the probability of failure over the coming year for loans by obligor rating and appropriate it Obligors for the General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans. Calculate the estimated loss on loans based on the probability of failure over the next three years and appropriate it for the General Reserve Watch for Possible Losses on Loans. Further, in regard to Special Attention Obligors, for obligors with large claims more than a certain amount, if Obligors the cash flow from the return of principal and interest payments can reasonably be estimated, set up a reserve under the DCF method. Provide an amount for Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans as calculated by one of the following methods after deducting amounts anticipated to be recoverable from the sale of collateral held against the claims and from guarantors of the claims: a) an amount Intensive calculated based on the overall ability of the obligor to pay, or b) the estimated loss calculated on the basis of the balance and the probControl ability of failure over the next three years. Obligors Further, for obligors with large claims more than a certain amount, if the cash flow from the return of principal and interest payments can reasonably be estimated, set up a reserve under the DCF method. Substantially Bankrupt Provide the entire balance after deducting amounts anticipated to be recoverable from the sale of collateral held against the claims and Obligors from guarantors of the claims for Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans, or write-off the entire balance. Bankrupt Obligors risk and credit screening by dispersing a sufficient number of our overall loan assets. Credit review involves analysis and of small claims within each pool. We generally review the screening of each potential transaction within the relevant appropriateness and effectiveness of our approach to obligor business department. In case the screening exceeds the auratings and pool allocations once a year in accordance with thority of the department, the credit group at headquarters predetermined procedures. carries out the review. The credit group has specialist departments for different industries, business sizes and regions, Self-assessment, Reserves for loan losses, Off-balancecarries out timely and specialized examinations based on the sheet Instruments and Write-offs characteristics of the customer and its market, and provides We conduct self-assessment of assets to ascertain the status appropriate advice to the business department. In addition, of assets both as an integral part of credit risk management in the case of obligors with low obligor ratings and high and in preparation for appropriate accounting treatment, downside risks, the business department and credit departincluding reserves for loan losses and off-balance-sheet ment jointly clarify their credit policy and in appropriate cases instruments and write-offs. During the process of selfassist obligors at an early stage in working toward credit assessment, obligors are categorized into certain groups soundness. taking into consideration their financial condition and their ability to make payments, and credit ratings are assigned to Corporate Restructuring, Collection and Disposal of all obligors, in principle, to reflect the extent of their credit Non-performing Loans risks. The related assets are then categorized into certain With respect to collection and disposal of non-performing classes based on the risk of impairment. This process allows loans, our specialist unit maintains central control and us to identify and control the actual quality of assets and pursues corporate restructuring or collection efforts, as determine the appropriate accounting treatment, including appropriate, toward taking the non-performing loans reserves for loan losses and off-balance-sheet instruments off-balance. Specifically, we believe that supporting the and write-offs. Specifically, the credit risk management restructuring efforts of corporations is an important role for department of each bank is responsible for the overall control financial institutions, and we support corporations undergoof the self-assessment of assets of the respective banks, coing restructuring by reviewing business plans, advising on operating with the administrative departments specified for restructuring methods and utilizing corporate restructuring each type of asset, including loan portfolios and securities, in schemes such as divestitures and mergers and acquisitions, executing and managing self-assessments. taking advantage of our group-wide resources. These efforts have been steadily producing satisfactory results. In addition, Credit Review we work on final disposal of non-performing loans efficiently Prevention of new non-performing loans through routine and swiftly by conducting bulk sales and by utilizing Mizuho credit management is important in maintaining the quality Servicing, our subsidiary that specializes in performing debt 120 Mizuho Financial Group Risk Management Structure collection services for our group companies. depositors. We provide debt forgiveness as per industry In the case of debt forgiveness, we examine the borguidelines that are shared among members of the Japanese rower’s condition carefully and make a determination based Bankers Association. on the possible impact on the interests of shareholders and Portfolio Management Risk Measurement granting excessive credit to certain areas, industrial sectors We use statistical methods to manage the possibility of and other groupings. We make appropriate management losses by measuring the expected average loss for a one-year to control these risks in line with our specific guidelines for risk horizon (Expected Loss) and the maximum loss within a each. The individual risk management departments of the certain confidence interval (“credit Value-at-Risk (VaR)”). The two banks are responsible for monitoring adherence to these difference between expected loss and credit VaR is measured guidelines and reporting to their respective business policy as the credit risk amount (Unexpected Loss). committees (please refer to Allocation of Risk Capital and In establishing transaction spread guidelines for credit Control of Credit Risk). transactions, we aim to ensure an appropriate return from the transaction in light of the level of risk by utilizing credit Loss Distribution cost data as a reference. Also, we monitor our credit portfolio from various perspectives and set guidelines noted below so that losses incurred through a hypothetical realization of the full credit VaR would be within the amount of risk capital and loan loss reserves. Risk Control Methods We recognize two types of risk arising from allowing unexpected loss to become too large. One type is “credit concentration risk,” which stems from granting excessive credit to certain individual counterparties or corporate groups. The other type is “chain-reaction default risk,” which arises from Allocation of Risk Capital and Control of Credit Risk Allocation of risk capital ≧ Credit VaR Credit concentration risk Chain reaction default risk 1 Individual company credit guidelines 3 Geographical area/country2 Corporate group-based credit based credit guidelines Control guidelines 4 Industrial sector-based credit guidelines MHBK: Sets 1 2 3 4 Equivalent to credit concentration risk amounts Equivalent to chain reaction default risk amounts MHTB: Sets 1 2 4 2016 Integrated Report 121 Market and Liquidity Risk Management Basic Approach We define market risk as the risk of losses incurred by the less favorable than usual. We define liquidity risk as the risk Group due to fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices of losses arising from funding difficulties due to a deterioraand foreign exchange rates. Our definition includes the risk tion in our financial position that makes it difficult for us of losses incurred when it becomes impossible to execute to raise necessary funds or that forces us to raise funds at transactions in the market because of market confusion or significantly higher interest rates than usual. MHFG manages losses arising from transactions at prices that are significantly market and liquidity risk for the Group as a whole. Market Risk Management Structure Market Risk Management of MHFG including business strategies, historical limit usage ratios, Our Board of Directors determines basic matters pertaining risk-bearing capacity (profits, total capital and risk manageto market risk management policies. The Risk Management ment systems), profit targets and the market liquidity of the Committee of MHFG broadly discusses and coordinates matproducts involved. ters relating to basic policies in connection with market risk management, market risk operations and market risk moniMarket Risk Management at Our Core Group Companies toring. The Group CRO of MHFG is responsible for matters MHBK, MHTB, MHSC and Mizuho Americas, which account relating to market risk management planning and operations. for most of the Group’s exposure to market risk, have formuThe Risk Management Department of MHFG is responsible lated their basic policies in line with the basic policies deterfor monitoring market risk, reports and analyses, proposals, mined by MHFG. Their Boards of Directors determine imporsetting limits and guidelines, and formulating and impletant matters relating to market risk management while their menting plans relating to market risk management. The Risk Chief Executive Officers are responsible for controlling marManagement Department assesses and manages the overall ket risk. Their respective business policy committees, includmarket risk of the Group. It also receives reports from our ing their ALM & Market Risk Management Committees, are core group companies on their market risk management that responsible for overall discussion and coordination of market enable it to obtain a solid grasp of the risk situation, submitrisk management. Specifically, these committees discuss and ting reports to the President & Group CEO on a daily basis coordinate matters relating to basic asset and liability manand to our Board of Directors and the Executive Management agement policies, risk planning and market risk management. Committee of MHFG on a regular basis. The Chief Risk Officer of each subsidiary is responsible for To manage market risk, we set limits that correspond matters pertaining to planning and implementing market risk to risk capital allocations according to the risk profiles of management. Based on a common group risk capital allocaour core group companies and thereby prevent market risk tion framework, the above-mentioned companies manage from exceeding our ability to withstand losses based on our market risk by setting limits according to the risk capital financial strength represented by capital, etc. The amount of allocated to market risk by MHFG. risk capital allocated to market risk corresponds to VaR and These companies have established specialized companyadditional costs that may arise in order to close relevant posiwide market risk management departments to provide tions. For trading and banking activities, we set limits for VaR integrated monitoring of market risk, submit reports, analyand for losses. For banking activities, we set position limits ses and proposals, set limits and formulate and implement based on interest rate sensitivity as needed. plans relating to market risk management. The risk manageThese limits are discussed and coordinated by the Risk ment departments of each company submit reports on the Management Committee, discussed further by the Executive status of market risk management to their respective Chief Management Committee, then determined by the President Executive Officers and top management on a daily basis, & Group CEO. Various factors are taken into account and to their Board of Directors and Executive Management 122 Mizuho Financial Group Risk Management Structure Committee on a regular basis. They also provide regular and settlements. When VaR is not adequate to control risk, reports to MHFG. To provide a system of mutual checks and the middle offices manage risk using additional risk indices, balances in market operations, they have established middle carry out stress tests and set stop loss limits as needed. They offices specializing in risk management that are independent monitor their market liquidity risk for individual financial of their front offices, which engage in market transactions, products in the market while taking turnover and other facand their back offices, which are responsible for book entries tors into consideration. Status of MHFG’s Market Risk Value-at Risk VaR by Risk Category (Trading Activities) We use the VaR method, supplemented with stress testing, (billions of ¥) as our principal tool to measure market risk. The VaR method Fiscal 2013 Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 measures the maximum possible loss that could be incurred Interest rate 2.0 2.7 1.5 1.6 due to market movements within a certain time period (or Foreign exchange 4.1 5.6 1.1 4.8 Equities 1.0 3.1 0.2 0.4 holding period) and degree of probability (or confidence Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 interval). Total 5.7 7.4 3.3 5.4 • Trading Activities VaR related to our trading activities is based on the following: Fiscal 2014 Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 • variance co-variance model for linear risk and MonteInterest rate 1.8 2.6 1.4 1.5 Carlo simulation for non-linear risk, which are simply Foreign exchange 3.0 5.8 1.6 5.6 Equities 0.5 1.3 0.2 0.3 aggregated to determine total risk; Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 • confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; Total 4.4 7.1 3.1 6.5 • holding period of one day; and • historical observation period of one year. Fiscal 2015 Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 The following tables show the VaR related to our trading Interest rate 1.8 3.7 0.6 1.1 activities by risk category for the fiscal years ended March 31, Foreign exchange 0.9 2.3 0.2 0.3 2014, 2015 and 2016 and as of March 31, 2014, 2015 and Equities 0.6 2.5 0.1 0.3 Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2016: Total 2.9 4.5 1.8 2.0 The following graph shows VaR figures of our trading activities for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016: Fiscal 2015 VaR (Trading Activities) (VaR: billions of ¥) 5 4 3 2 1 0 04/01/2015 04/15/2015 04/29/2015 05/13/2015 05/27/2015 06/10/2015 06/24/2015 07/08/2015 07/22/2015 08/05/2015 08/19/2015 09/02/2015 09/16/2015 09/30/2015 10/14/2015 10/28/2015 11/11/2015 11/25/2015 12/09/2015 12/23/2015 01/07/2016 01/21/2016 02/04/2016 02/18/2016 03/03/2016 03/17/2016 03/31/2016 2016 Integrated Report 123 The following table shows VaR figures of our trading • Characteristics of VaR Model activities for the fiscal years indicated: VaR is a commonly used market risk management technique. However, VaR models have the following shortcomings: VaR (Trading Activities) • By its nature as a statistical approach, VaR estimates (billions of ¥) possible losses over a certain period at a particular Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Change confidence level using past market movement data. Past As of fiscal year end 5.4 6.5 2.0 (4.5) Maximum 7.4 7.1 4.5 (2.5) market movement, however, is not necessarily a good Minimum 3.3 3.1 1.8 (1.3) indicator of future events, particularly potential future Average 5.7 4.4 2.9 (1.5) events that are extreme in nature. • VaR may underestimate the probability of extreme • Non-Trading Activities market movements. The VaR related to our banking activities is based on the • The use of a 99.0% confidence level does not take same conditions as those of trading activities, but the holding account of, nor makes any statement about, any losses period is one month. that might occur beyond this confidence level. The following graph shows the VaR related to our banking • VaR does not capture all complex effects of various risk activities excluding our cross-shareholdings portfolio for the factors on the value of positions and portfolios and year ended March 31, 2016. could underestimate potential losses. Interest Sensitivity Analysis (%) We also conduct interest sensitivity analyses of interest risk, 400 0.4 our main source of market risk. The following table shows sensitivity to yen interest risk in our banking activities as of 300 0.2 the dates indicated. Interest rate sensitivity (10 BPV) shows 200 0.0 how much net present value varies when interest rates rise by 10 basis points (0.1%), and it explains the impact of interest 100 -0.2 rate movements on net present value when shortand longterm interest rates behave differently. 0 -0.4 Interest Sensitivity by Maturity 04/01/2015 04/15/2015 04/29/2015 05/13/2015 05/27/2015 06/10/2015 06/24/2015 07/08/2015 07/22/2015 At March 31 (billions of ¥) 08/05/2015 08/19/2015 09/02/2015 09/16/2015 09/30/2015 10/14/2015 10/28/2015 11/11/2015 11/25/2015 2014 2015 2016 Change 12/09/2015 12/23/2015 01/07/2016 01/21/2016 02/04/2016 02/18/2016 03/03/2016 03/17/2016 Up to one year (2) (1) (2) (1) 03/31/2016 From one to five years (47) (35) (21) 14 The following table shows the VaR figures relating to our Over five years (12) (14) (25) (11) Total (62) (51) (50) 1 banking activities for the fiscal years indicated: VaR (Banking Activities) Cross-shareholding Portfolio Management Activities (billions of ¥) We take the market risk management approach with use Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Change of VaR and risk indices for cross-shareholdings portfolio As of fiscal year end 281.7 325.6 321.5 (4.0) Maximum 300.7 349.0 360.6 11.5 management activities as well as for trading activities and Minimum 186.8 265.0 190.0 (75.0) non-trading activities. The risk index for cross-shareholdings Average 253.5 307.9 284.9 (23.0) portfolio management for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, consisting of the sensitivity of the cross-shareholdings portfolio to a 1% change in the equity index of TOPIX, was ¥29.7 billion. 124 Mizuho Financial Group Risk Management Structure Back Testing and Stress Testing loss results of stress testing in trading activities using the In order to evaluate the effectiveness of market risk measuremethods described above: ments calculated using the VaR method, we carry out regular back tests to compare VaR with assumptive profits and Fiscal 2015 Stress Testing At March 31, 2016 (billions of ¥) losses. Assumptive profits and losses accounts for general market risk. The following graph shows daily VaR of trading Assumed maximum loss result calculated by stress testing 30.6 (holding period: one month) activities (based on the Basel regulatory framework) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, and the corresponding Outlier Criteria paired distribution of profits and losses. We had five cases As part of the capital adequacy requirements under Basel where losses exceeded VaR during the period. In addition, Regulatory Framework, the losses arising from a banking we conduct evaluations of the assumptions related to the book in hypothetical interest rate shock scenarios under VaR models. Based on the number of times losses exceeded certain stress conditions are calculated and compared with VaR through back testing and the results of the evaluation of broadly-defined capital. If the interest rate risk of the banking the model assumptions, we changed our VaR models to the book leads to an economic value decline of more than 20% Historical Simulation method, which has been used since the of broadly-defined capital, we will be deemed an “outlier” beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. Changes and may be required to reduce the banking book risk or to fundamental portions of the VaR models are subject to the adopt other responses. We measure losses arising from our approval of our Group CRO. banking book each month as a part of our stress tests. The table below shows the results of calculations of losses in the banking book in cases where interest rate fluctuations 6 occur under stress conditions. The results of calculations of losses in the banking book show that they are 5.3% of broadly-defined capital. Because the amount of risk on the 3 banking book is therefore well under the 20% threshold and within controllable limits, we do not fall under the “outlier” 0 category. Fiscal 2015 Results of Calculations under the Outlier (3) Framework (billions of ¥) BroadlyLoss Amount (6) defined ratio to of loss 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 capital capital At March 31, 2014 386.6 8,655.9 4.4% At March 31, 2015 529.2 9,508.4 5.5% At March 31, 2016 516.6 9,638.6 5.3% Effect of yen interest rate 73.5 Effect of dollar interest rate 340.4 Effect of euro interest rate 73.2 Because the VaR method is based on statistical assumpNotes: 1. In the above results of calculations of losses, a part of demand deposits without fixed intervals for amending tions, we conduct stress testing to simulate the levels of applicable interest rates is deemed core deposits and is losses that could be incurred in cases where the market treated accordingly in the calculation. 2. For the interest rate shock scenario used in connection with moves suddenly to levels that exceed these assumptions. the above figures, we generate annual rate fluctuation The stress testing methods we use include the calculation of data for five years derived from daily raw historical interest rate data of the past six years and then apply the actual losses on the basis of the largest fluctuations occurring over fluctuation data, which show a rise in interest rates, at a 99.0% confidence level to the shock scenario. a period of more than five years and the calculation of losses based on market fluctuations occurring during historical market events. The following table shows the assumed maximum 2016 Integrated Report 125 Market Risk Equivalent the average of stressed VaR for the preceding 60 business In order to calculate the amount of capital necessary to meet days (including the calculation date) multiplied by the same the capital requirements relating to market risk (the “marmultiplication factor as used in the bullet point above. ket risk equivalent”), we apply internal models to calculate The following table shows total market risk equivalent general market risk (risks related to factors that apply generas of the dates indicated calculated using the standardized ally to the market, e.g., interest rates, foreign exchange rates) measurement method and internal models: and the standardized measurement method to calculate specific risks (risks other than general market risk, e.g., credit quality and market liquidity of an individual security or instruFiscal 2015 Market Risk Equivalent At March 31 (billions of ¥) ment). In addition, our internal models are applied to trading 2015 2016 Change transactions with market liquidity based on the relevant Calculated using standardized 78.8 70.6 (8.1) holding period. measurement method Calculated using internal Under the internal models, the market risk equivalent is 199.0 65.0 (134.0) models expressed as the sum of: Total market risk equivalent 277.9 135.6 (142.2) The higher of (i) VaR on the calculation date and (ii) the Note: VaR and stressed VaR used to calculate market risk equivalent is based on the following: average of VaR for the preceding 60 business days (includ• variance co-variance model for linear risk and Monte-Carlo ing the calculation date) multiplied by a multiplication factor simulation for non-linear risk, which are simply aggregated to determine total risk; ranging from 3.00 to 4.00 that is determined based on the • confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; number of times VaR is exceeded upon back testing; and • holding period of 10 days; and • historical observation period of one year. The higher of (i) stressed VaR on the calculation date and (ii) Liquidity Risk Management Structure Liquidity Risk Management of MHFG To manage liquidity risk, we use indices pertaining to cash Our Board of Directors determines basic matters pertaining flow, such as limits on funds raised in the market that are to liquidity risk management policies. The Risk Management set based on a number of time horizons. Limits on liquidity Committee of MHFG broadly discusses and coordinates risk set for Japanese yen and foreign currencies taking into matters relating to basic policies in connection with liquidaccount characteristics and strategies of each core group ity risk management, operations, monitoring and proposes companies, are discussed and coordinated by the Risk responses to emergencies such as sudden market changes. Management Committee, discussed further by the Executive The Group CRO of MHFG is responsible for matters relating Management Committee and determined by the President to liquidity risk management planning and operations. The & Group CEO. In addition, our core group companies set Risk Management Department of MHFG is responsible for limits on liquidity risk for several currencies. Moreover, they monitoring liquidity risk, reports and analyses, proposals, and are working on measures to reduce their liquidity risk such as formulating and implementing plans relating to liquidity risk enhancing management related to local currencies. management. We have established a group-wide framework of liquidity In addition, the Group CFO of MHFG is additionally rerisk stage such as “Normal,” “Anxious” and “Crisis,” which sponsible for matters relating to planning and running cash reflects funding conditions. In addition, we set Early Warning flow management operations, and the Financial Planning Indicators (“EWIs”) and monitor on a daily basis to manage Department is responsible for monitoring and adjusting liquidity conditions. As EWIs, we select stock prices, credit the cash flow management situation and for planning and ratings, amount of liquidity reserve assets such as Japanese implementing cash flow management to maintain approprigovernment bonds, our funding situations and so on. ate funding liquidity. Reports on the liquidity risk manageWe have established a liquidity contingency funding ment are submitted to the Risk Management Committee, plan for emergency situations which are deemed to fall into the Executive Management Committee and the President & the “Anxious” or “Crisis.” In emergency situations, we will Group CEO on a regular basis. consider measures such as a reduction in the amount of 126 Mizuho Financial Group Risk Management Structure investments made, an expansion of funding from financial such as sudden market changes. The Chief Risk Officer is markets and deposits, the sale of investment securities and responsible for matters relating to liquidity risk management borrowings from the central bank. planning and operations and the senior executives of the In order to evaluate the sufficiency of liquidity reserve ALM and trading units are responsible for matters pertaining assets and the effectiveness of liquidity contingency funding to planning and conducting cash flow management. plan, we conduct stress testing under market-wide, idiosynThe methodologies used for ensuring precise control of cratic and combined scenario. Furthermore, we utilize stress liquidity risk include the formulation of management indices testing for evaluating the appropriateness of our annual pertaining to cash flow, such as limits on funds raised in the funding plan. market that are set based on a number of time horizons. As with MHFG, the above-mentioned companies have estabLiquidity Risk Management at Our Core Group Companies lished liquidity risk stage, such as “Normal” to “Anxious” MHBK, MHTB, MHSC and Mizuho Americas have formulated and “Crisis,” which reflects funding conditions and have their basic policies in line with the basic policies determined established liquidity contingency funding plan for emergency by MHFG. Their Boards of Directors determine important situations which are deemed to fall into the “Anxious” or matters relating to liquidity risk management while their “Crisis” categories. Chief Executive Officers are responsible for controlling liquidEach subsidiary has adopted stringent controls that call ity risk. Their respective business policy committees, including for the submission of reports on liquidity risk management their ALM & Market Risk Management Committees, are and cash flow management to the ALM & Market Risk responsible for overall discussion and coordination of liquidity Management Committee and other business policy commitrisk management. Specifically, these committees discuss and tees, the Executive Management Committee and the Chief coordinate matters relating to risk planning, cash flow manExecutive Officer of each subsidiary. agement planning and propose responses to emergencies Operational Risk Management Basic Approach We define operational risk as the risk of loss that we may asset risk, regulatory change risk and reputational risk. We incur resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, have determined risk management policies for each kind of people and systems or from external events. We recognize risk. MHBK, MHTB, MHSC, TCSB, Mizuho Americas, etc., rethat operational risk includes information technology risk, spectively manage operational risk in an appropriate manner operations risk, legal risk, human resources risk, tangible pursuant to risk management policies determined by MHFG. Operational Risk Management Structure MHFG, MHBK, MHTB, MHSC, TCSB, etc., share common cial operations and developments relating to information rules for data gathering, and we measure operational risk technology by utilizing control self-assessments and improvon a regular basis, taking into account possible future loss ing measurement methods. events and the changes in the business environment and internal management. Glossary We have established and are strengthening management  Control Self-Assessments  An autonomous method of risk management in which risk methods and systems to appropriately identify, assess, meainherent in operations is identified and, after evaluating and sure, monitor and control the operational risks which arise monitoring risks that remain despite implementing risk control, from the growing sophistication and diversification of finanthe necessary measures are implemented to reduce risk. 2016 Integrated Report 127 Definition of Risks and Risk Management Methods As shown in the below table, we have defined each compoagement methods in accordance with the scale and nature of nent of operational risk and we apply appropriate risk maneach risk. Definition Principal Risk Management Methods • Identify and evaluate the risk by setting specific standards that need to be complied with and implementing measures Risk that customers may suffer service disruptions, or that tailored based on evaluation results to reduce the risk. customers or the Group may incur losses arising from Information • Ensure ongoing project management in systems developsystem defects such as failures, faults, or incompleteness Technology Risk ment and quality control. in computer operations, or illegal or unauthorized use of • Strengthen security to prevent information leaks. computer systems. • Improve effectiveness of emergency responses by improving backup systems and holding drills. • Establish clearly defined procedures for handling operations. Risk that customers may suffer service disruptions, as well • Periodically check the status of operational processes. as the risk that customers or the Group may incur losses • Conduct training and development programs by headquarters. Operations Risk because senior executives or employees fail to fulfill their • Introduce information technology, office automation and tasks properly, cause accidents or otherwise act impropcentralization for operations. erly. • Improve the effectiveness of emergency responses by holding drills. • Review and confirm legal issues, including the legality of Risk that the Group may incur losses due to violation of material decisions, agreements and external documents, etc. Legal Risk laws and regulations, breach of contract, entering into • Collect and distribute legal information and conduct internal improper contracts or other legal factors. training programs. • Analyze and manage issues related to lawsuits. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to drain or loss of personnel, deterioration of morale, inadequate de• Conduct employee satisfaction surveys. Human velopment of human resources, inappropriate working • Understand the status of vacation days taken by personnel. Resources Risk schedule, inappropriate working and safety environment, • Understand the status of voluntary resignations. inequality or inequity in human resource management or discriminatory conduct. • Manage the planning and implementation of construction Risk that the Group may incur losses from damage to tanprojects related to the repair and replacement of facilities. Tangible Asset gible assets or a decline in the quality of working environ• Identify and evaluate the status of damage to tangible assets Risk ment as a result of disasters, criminal actions or defects in caused by natural disasters, etc., and respond appropriately asset maintenance. to such damage. • Understand important changes in regulations or systems that have significant influence on our business operations or Risk that the Group may incur losses due to changes in financial condition in a timely and accurate manner. Regulatory various regulations or systems, such as those related to • Analyze degree of influence of regulatory changes and Change Risk law, taxation and accounting. establish countermeasures. • Continuously monitor our regulatory change risk management mentioned above. • Establish framework to identify and manage, on an inteRisk that the Group may incur losses due to damage to grated basis, information that may have a serious impact on our credibility or the value of the Mizuho brand when group management and respond to such risk in a manner Reputational market participants or others learn about, or the media appropriate to its scale and nature. Risk reports on, various adverse events, including actual mate• Swiftly identify rumors and devise appropriate responses derialization of risks or false rumors. pending on the urgency and possible impact of the situation to minimize possible losses. We also recognize and manage Information Security Risk and Compliance Risk, which constitute a combination of more than one of the above components of operational risk, as operational risk. 128 Mizuho Financial Group Risk Management Structure Measurement of Operational Risk Equivalent Implementation of the AMA to the occurrence frequency of operational risk events, and We have adopted the AMA from September 30, 2009, for loss severity is expressed through a separate distribution. the calculation of operational risk equivalent in association Operational risk is calculated for each of the seven loss event with capital adequacy ratios based on Basel II. However, we types employing both internal loss data, based on our actual use the Basic Indicator Approach (BIA) for entities that are experience as operational loss events and scenario data. deemed to be less important in the measurement of operaScenario data, expressed as numerical values of occurrence tional risk equivalent and for entities that are preparing to frequency and loss severity, reflects external loss data and implement the AMA. The measurement results under the BEICFs, in order to estimate unexperienced potential future AMA are used not only as the operational risk equivalent loss events (of low frequency and high severity). in the calculation of capital adequacy ratios but also as Frequency Distribution and Severity Distribution are estiOperational VaR for internal risk management purposes for mated employing the above mentioned internal loss data and implementing action plans to reduce operational risk, etc. scenario data, and Monte-Carlo simulations are then applied to these distributions to measure operational risk. The deOutline of the AMA tailed steps of creation of scenario data are explained later in • Outline of Measurement System Scenario Analysis. We have established the model by taking account of four elements: internal loss data; external loss data; scenario • Estimation of Frequency Distribution and Loss Severity analysis and business environment; and internal control Distribution factors (BEICFs). We calculate the operational risk equivalent Frequency Distribution is estimated by applying information amount by estimating the maximum loss using a 99.9th on occurrence frequency of both internal loss data and scepercentile one-tailed confidence interval and a one-year nario data to Poisson Distribution. Loss Severity Distribution is holding period etc., employing both internal loss data (i.e., generated as the result of combining, through a statistical apactually experienced operational loss events) and scenario proach (Extreme Value Theory), of the actual distribution for data to reflect unexperienced potential future loss events in the low severity distribution portion created by internal loss the measurement. data and another loss distribution (Log-normal Distribution or In the measurement of operational risk equivalent as of Generalized Pareto Distribution) for the high severity distribuMarch 31, 2016, we did not exclude expected losses and also tion portion created by scenario data. did not recognize the risk mitigating impact of insurance. In addition, we did not take into account the events related to • Operational Risk of Large-scale Natural Disasters credit risk in measuring operational risk equivalent. Monte-Carlo simulation is applied to the datasets expressed as a combination of the probability of occurrence of large• Outline of Measurement Model scale natural disasters and the probable loss amount in case Operational risk equivalent is calculated as a simple sum of of such occurrence, as opposed to estimating Frequency those related to the seven loss event types defined by Basel Distribution and Loss Severity Distribution. II, large-scale natural disasters and litigation. In the measurement of operational risk equivalent as of March 31, 2016, we • Operational Risk of Litigation did not reflect the correlation effects among operational risk Each litigation is converted into data according to the profile related to each of the seven loss event types. of the individual litigation to which Monte-Carlo simulation is applied, as opposed to estimating Frequency Distribution • Operational Risk by the Loss Event Type and Loss Severity Distribution. In the measurement process, Loss Distribution (Compound Poisson Distribution) Approach we assume that final decisions will be made on all litigation (LDA) is adopted for the calculation of operational risk. LDA within one year. is based on the assumption that Poisson Distribution applies 2016 Integrated Report 129 Outline of Measurement Model • Verification Approach Loss event type(s) to be applied We confirm the appropriateness of the measurement model A Internal fraud/External fraud/Customers, products & business practices/Execution, delivery & process by verifying it, in principle, semi-annually. management B Employment practices and workplace safety Scenario Analysis C Damage to physical assets D Business disruption and system failure • Outline of Scenario Analysis In the process of scenario analysis, scenario data is created as numerical values of occurrence frequency and loss severity At MHFG, loss event types to which Approach A is applied reflecting external loss data and BEICFs, in order to estimate account for a considerable amount of operational risk. The unexperienced potential future operational risk events (of low detailed process of Approach A is explained below as a typifrequency and high severity). cal example of scenario analysis. As for external loss data, we refer to data publicly reported by domestic and overseas media, and such data are • Setting Units for Scenario Analysis reflected in the estimation of occurrence frequency and loss In order to ensure completeness and sufficiency, we set units severity distribution in the process of scenario analysis. In that are commonly applied across group entities that adopt addition, BEICFs are utilized as indices to adjust occurrence AMA (hereinafter, the “Group Entities”) by referencing frequency and loss severity distribution in the process of and categorizing risk scenarios recognized through control scenario analysis. self-assessment, internal loss data of the Group Entities We categorize scenario analysis into four approaches in and external loss data, etc. Then each of the Group Entities accordance with the characteristics of each loss event type selects the unit on which scenario analysis is conducted from and risk management structures. the units established on a group-wide basis in accordance with its business activities and operational risk profile. 130 Mizuho Financial Group Risk Management Structure • Estimation of Occurrence Frequency occurred, with reference to transaction amount data, external Basic occurrence frequency (once a year) is calculated for loss data, etc. Then the basic severity distribution is adjusted, each scenario analysis unit. If a certain scenario analysis unit if necessary, from the viewpoint of statistical data processing has relevant internal loss data of a pre-determined threshold to determine the final loss severity distribution. amount or above, its basic occurrence frequency is calculated based on such data, and if not, the basic occurrence frequen• Creation of Scenario Data cy (the occurrence frequency per year of losses at or above a For each scenario analysis unit, scenario data is generated as predetermined threshold) is calculated with reference to the a series of combinations of occurrence frequency per year at situation of occurrence of internal loss data of less than the each severity range, based on the final occurrence frequency threshold amount and/or external loss data. The basic ocand the final loss severity distribution. currence frequency is then adjusted within a pre-determined range for the purpose of reflecting the most recent BEICFs to determine the final occurrence frequency. Example of Scenario Data Final loss severity distribution Severity range (billions of ¥) Total 0.1 0.5 1 5 10 • Estimation of Loss Severity Distribution Occurrence ratio (%) 40 30 15 10 5 100 In order to estimate loss severity distribution, we use a Occurrence frequency predetermined series of severity ranges. Basic loss severity 0.4 0.3 0.15 0.1 0.05 1 (times) distribution is calculated for each scenario analysis unit as an Final occurrence frequency occurrence ratio (in percentile figures) of loss at each severity range when losses at or above a pre-determined threshold (As of July 1, 2016) 2016 Integrated Report 131 Business Continuity Management In light of its social responsibility to play an important role mulating countermeasures, etc. In addition, they will carry out in the social infrastructure as a financial institution, Mizuho activities such as collecting and analyzing signs and indicators places priority on securing an adequate level of continuity of the crisis, and reporting to the management without delay. of financial settlement functions and the swift and efficient We have also established a Business Continuity recovery of the business in the event of an emergency. This is Management Committee as one of the Business Policy a basic policy of the Group. Committees for unified improvement of business continuity The Group recognizes the risks of the occurrence of an management practices in the Group. The committee makes emergency situation in advance. In order to swiftly take preparations for minimizing the impact of an emergency, and measures to mitigate the risks in the event of an emergency, for the swift and efficient recovery of the business, by assessthe Group develops appropriate and effective countermeaing the assumed impact of an emergency beforehand and sures and a framework for business continuity management, formulating necessary countermeasures. ensures readiness for emergencies, and strives to disseminate Particular focus is placed on strengthening our response these within the organization in times of normalcy. for natural disasters, covering not only earthquakes and Specifically, we established Crisis Management Offices tsunamis but also volcanic eruptions, large-scale wind or in MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC that are responsible for water damage, and facilitating initial response for terrorism responses in the event of emergency and business continuity and riots. The Committee also focuses on responses to cybermanagement. The offices will function as a controller in the attacks that have been occurring with increasing frequency event of an emergency that may materially impact business throughout society. management, by collecting and analyzing information, forResponse to 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake Special teams were set up in MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and restoration process of the Earthquake. MHSC immediately after the Kumamoto Earthquake that Two staff members of the Kyushu Reconstruction Desk occurred in April 2016. Since then, they have played a cenwere posted at Kumamoto branch of MHBK to share infortral role in group-wide measures such as initial responses to mation with local companies, local financial institutions and reensure the safety and provide support for on-site staff and gional government entities in Kumamoto, Oita and other areas customers, as well as the maintenance and continuation of of Kyushu. They also work with the Kyushu Reconstruction financial settlement services that are a crucial part of social Support Task Force to make full use of Mizuho’s facilities to infrastructure. meet communities’ needs. Later, in May 2016, a Kyushu Reconstruction Support It is Mizuho’s social responsibility and public mission to Task Force was established in MHFG and a Kyushu Reconcontribute not only to the development of its customers but struction Desk in MHBK to provide group-wide support for also to economic and social development, taking advantage the affected area. of its diverse range of financial know-how, including indusThe Kyushu Reconstruction Support Task Force gathered trial expertise and public-private partnership schemes, and related knowledge within Mizuho and discussed and worked provide financial intermediation and consulting functions. to contribute to industrial and community recovery in the 132 Mizuho Financial Group Senior Executive Mizuho Bank Seiji Imai Yasuo Agemura* Managing Executive Officer Deputy President Members of the Board of Directors Head of Asia & Oceania excl. East Asia Head of Global Markets / Head of Global Markets Division / Head of Global Business & Markets Nobuhide Hayashi* Takahiko Yasuhara President & CEO (Representative Director) Managing Executive Officer Naofumi Fuke* Head of East Asia Senior Executive Managing Director Nobuyuki Fujii* Head of Retail & Business Banking Division Deputy President (Representative Director) Head of Business Promotion Mizuho Trust & Banking Hidefumi Kobayashi* Executive Managing Director Satoshi Miyazaki* Members of the Board of Directors Head of Global Finance / Head of Research & Deputy President (Representative Director) Consulting Unit / Head of Financial Control & Deputy President (Western Japan (Kinki, Chugoku, and Takeo Nakano* Accounting Group / In charge of Due Diligence Dept. Shikoku regions)) President & CEO (Representative Director) Masaya Usuha* Kiyoshi Miyake* Kazuhisa Sawa* Executive Managing Director Deputy President (Representative Director) Deputy President (Representative Director) SC Group Chief Audit Executive / Head of Business Promotion Head of Strategic Planning, Financial Control & Head of Internal Audit Group Accounting Group / Head of IT & Systems Group / Shusaku Tsuhara* Head of Operations Group / In charge of Executive Masaya Oishi* Senior Executive Managing Director Secretariat Executive Managing Director Head of Compliance Group In charge of JA Sales Dept. of Global Markets Division / Toshio Sobue* In charge of Retail & Business Banking Division Ryusuke Aya* Executive Managing Director Executive Managing Director Head of Risk Management Group / Taiji Kumagai* Head of Risk Management Group Head of Compliance Group / Head of Credit Group Executive Managing Director Head of Compliance Group Koji Fujiwara* Hiroaki Ehara* Executive Managing Director Executive Managing Director Atsushi Takahashi* Head of Strategic Planning Group Head of Human Resources Group / Executive Managing Director Head of Internal Audit Group Head of Strategic Planning Group / Koichi Iida* In charge of Investment Dept. Executive Managing Director Tsuyoshi Hatsuzawa Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group Member of the Board of Directors Kenji Fujii* Member of the Board of Directors Hideyuki Takahashi Yasuhiro Sato Head of Global Risk Management / Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Head of Risk Management Group Hirohisa Kashiwazaki Masayuki Satake Naomi Tsumura Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Yasuhiro Sato Yasuhiro Sato Member of the Board of Directors Masaru Ono Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Yukio Machida (Outside Director) Hidetaka Kawakita Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Eiji Ogawa (Outside Director) Member of the Board of Directors Toshio Kinoshita (Outside Director) Masaru Ono Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) (Outside Director) Mizuho Securities Seiji Koga Members of the Board of Directors Notes: Member of the Board of Directors 1. *indicates directors concurrently serving as (Outside Director) Yasuhiko Imaizumi executive officers. Chairman 2. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members and executive officers, excluding the directors Executive Officers Tatsufumi Sakai* concurrently serving as executive officers and President & CEO (Representative Director) executive officers responsible for global regional (Head of Each Region Overseas) Head of Global Investment Banking Division operations of MHBK, have not been listed. 3. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Hiroshi Suehiro Hiroto Koda* executive officers, excluding the directors Senior Managing Executive Officer Deputy President (Representative Director) Head of the Americas concurrently serving as executive officers of In charge of Special Missions / Head of Human MHTB and MHSC, have not been listed. Resources Group / In charge of Executive Secretariat / Teiji Teramoto In charge of Markets Strategic Intelligence Dept. / (As of June 24, 2016) Managing Executive Officer Attached to Strategic Planning Group Head of Europe, Middle East and Africa 133 Location of Overseas Offices (As of June 30, 2016) Network of Mizuho Bank Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Mizuho Capital Markets (HK) Limited Suzhou Branch 16th Floor, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Hong Kong, 17th Floor, Genway Building, 188 Wangdun Road, S.A.R., The People’s Republic of China TEL 852-2537-3815 Asia and Oceania Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province 215123, The People’s Republic of China (Country/Region) TEL 86-512-6733-6888 India Australia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Bangalore-Devanahalli Branch #462/440/339, 2nd Floor, Near Jain Temple, N.H.7/4-207, Sydney Branch Tianjin Branch B.B. Road, Vijayapura Cross, Devanahalli Town, Level 33, 60 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000, Australia 5th Floor, E2 ABC, East Wing Binhai Finance Zone, Bangalore Rural District 562 110, Karnataka, India TEL 61-2-8273-3888 No.20 Xinchengdong Road, TEDA, Tianjin 300457, TEL 91-80-4968-2000 The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-22-6622-5588 Chennai Branch Mizuho Australia Ltd. Level 33, 60 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000, Australia Unit No.11B, 11th Floor, Prestige Palladium Bayan, TEL 61-2-8273-3888 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Nos. 129 to 140, Greams Road, Chennai – 600 006, Wuhan Branch Tamil Nadu, India 5th Floor, Tower A, New World Center Tower, TEL 91-44-4928-6600 Cambodia 634 Jiefang Avenue, Hankou, Wuhan, Phnom Penh Representative Office Hubei Province 430032, Mumbai Branch 13A Floor, Phnom Penh Tower, #445, The People’s Republic of China Level 17 TOWER–A Peninsula Business Park, Monivong Blvd (St. 93/232) Sangkat Boeung Pralit, TEL 86-27-8342-5000 Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013, India Khan 7 Makara, Phnom Penh, Cambodia TEL 91-22-4911-2000 TEL 855-23-964-490 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Wuxi Branch New Delhi Branch China 8th Floor, Wuxi SI Park B, No.16 Changjiang Road, 1st Floor, DLF Capitol Point, Baba Kharag Singh Marg, WND, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province 214028, Connaught Place, New Delhi, 110001, India Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. The People’s Republic of China TEL 91-11-3041-0900 23rd Floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, TEL 86-510-8522-3939 100 Century Avenue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai Ahmedabad Branch 200120, The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-21-3855-8888 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Office No.402, 4th Floor, Commerce House–5, Nr. Vodafone House, Prahladnagar Corporate Road, Changshu Sub-Branch Prahladnagar Satellite, Ahmedabad–380 051, India Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Room701-704, Kechuang Building, No.333 Dongnan Road, TEL 91-79-4014-4666 Changshu New&Hi-tech Industrial Development Zone, Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone Sub-Branch Jiangsu Province, 215500, The People’s Republic of China Room 01, 08, 09, 10, 11, 12, 7F, Shanghai International TEL 86-512-6733-6888 Indonesia Communication and Trade Building, 55 Jilong Road, Shanghai 200131, The People’s Republic of China PT. Bank Mizuho Indonesia TEL 86-21-3855-8888 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Sinar Mas Land Plaza Menara 2, 24th Floor, Dalian Economic & Technological Jl. M. H. Thamrin No.51, Jakarta 10350, Republic of Indonesia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Development Area Sub-Branch TEL 62-21-392-5222 Beijing Branch 22nd Floor, International Business Building of Gugeng, 8th Floor, West Wing, World Financial Center, No.81 Hongmei Area, Dalian Economic & Technological Development Area, Dalian, Liaoning Province 116600, Korea No.1 Dong San Huan Zhong Road, Chaoyang District, The People’s Republic of China Beijing 100020, The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-411-8793-5670 Seoul Branch TEL 86-10-6525-1888 19th Floor, Seoul Finance Center, 136, Sejong-daero, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. TEL 822-3782-8500 Dalian Branch Kunshan Sub-Branch 23rd Floor, 24th Floor-A, Senmao Building, Room D,E, 18th Floor, Dongan Building, Malaysia 147 Zhongshan Road, Xigang District, No.258 Chunxu Road, Development Zone Kunshan City, Dalian, Liaoning Province 116011, Kunshan, Jiangsu Province 215300, Labuan Branch The People’s Republic of China The People’s Republic of China Level 9 (B) & (C), Main Office Tower, TEL 86-411-8360-2543 TEL 86-512-6733-6888 Financial Park Labuan, Jalan Merdeka, 87000 Federal Territory of Labuan, Malaysia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. TEL 60-87-417766 Guangzhou Branch Tianjin Heping Sub-Branch Room 1902, Tianjin International Building, Labuan Branch, Kuala Lumpur 25th Floor, International Finance Place, No.8 Huaxia Road, Zhujiang New Town, Tianhe District, Guangzhou, No.75 Nanjing Road, Heping Area, Tianjin 300050, Marketing Office Guangdong Province 510623, The People’s Republic of China Level 27, Menara Maxis, Kuala Lumpur City Centre, The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-22-6622-5588 50088 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia TEL 86-20-3815-0888 TEL 60-3-2070-6880 Nanjing Representative Office Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Room 2220, Suning Universal Hotel, 188 Guangzhou Road, Mizuho Bank (Malaysia) Berhad Nanjing, Jiangsu Province 210024, Level 27, Menara Maxis, Kuala Lumpur City Centre, Hefei Branch The People’s Republic of China 50088 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Room No.1902-1907, No.7 Office Building Wanda Plaza, TEL 86-25-8332-9379 TEL 60-3-2058-6881 130 Maanshan Street, Baohe District, Hefei, Anhui Province, The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-551-6380-0690 Xiamen Representative Office Myanmar Room 2102, The Bank Center, No.189 Xiahe Road, Siming District, Xiamen, Fujian Province 361003, Yangon Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. The People’s Republic of China Sedona Business Suites, Level4, Qingdao Branch TEL 86-592-239-5571 No.1 Ka Ba Aye Pagoda Road, Yankin Township, Yangon, 44th Floor, Qingdao International Finance Center, Republic of the Union of Myanmar 59 Hong Kong Middle Road, Shinan District, Qingdao, Hong Kong TEL 95-1-860-5501 Shandong Province 266071, The People’s Republic of China Hong Kong Branch Yangon Branch Thilawa Front Office TEL 86-532-8097-0001 17th Floor, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Hong Kong, Room No.204, Administration Building, S.A.R., The People’s Republic of China Corner of Thilawa Development Road and Dagon-Thilawa Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. TEL 852-2103-3000 Road, Thilawa SEZ, Thanlyin Township, Yangon, Republic of the Union of Myanmar Shenzhen Branch 30th Floor, Huanggang Business Center Tower1, Kowloon Sub-Branch TEL 95-1-230-9046 Jintian Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, 16th Floor, Sun Life Tower, The Gateway, Guangdong Province 518046, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Philippines The People’s Republic of China Hong Kong, S.A.R., The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-755-8282-9000 TEL 852-2102-5399 Manila Branch 25th Floor, Zuellig Building, Makati Avenue corner Paseo de Roxas, Makati City 1225, Metro Manila, Philippines TEL 63-2-860-3500 134 Singapore Germany The Americas Singapore Branch Duesseldorf Branch (Country/Region) 12 Marina View, #08-01 Asia Square Tower 2, Benrather Strasse 18-20, 40213 Duesseldorf, F.R. Germany Singapore 018961, Republic of Singapore TEL 49-211-13020 Bahamas TEL 65-6805-2000 Frankfurt Branch Mizuho Bank (USA) Nassau Branch Taiwan An der Hauptwache 7, 60313 Frankfurt am Main, 308 East Bay Street, P.O. Box N-7768, Nassau, Bahamas F.R. Germany Kaohsiung Branch TEL 49-69-29-72-95-0 Brazil 12th Floor, No.2, Chung Cheng 3rd Road, Kaohsiung 800, Taiwan Iran Banco Mizuho do Brasil S.A. TEL 886-7-236-8768 Avenida Engenheiro Luiz Carlos Berrini, 71610andar, Tehran Representative Office Brooklin Novo, São Paulo, SP, CEP. 04571-000, Brazil Taichung Branch 3rd Floor, No.1, 14th Street, Khaled Eslamboli Avenue, TEL 55-11-5504-9844 8th Floor, No.169, Fuhui Parkway, Taichung 407, Taiwan Tehran 15117, Iran TEL 886-4-2374-6300 TEL 98-21-8872-6593 Canada Taipei Branch Italy Canada Branch 100 Yonge Street, Suite 1102, Toronto, Ontario, 2nd Floor, Hung Kuo Building, 167 Tun Hua North Road, Taipei 105, Taiwan Milan Branch Canada, M5C 2W1 6th Floor, Largo Augusto 7, 20122 Milan, Republic of Italy TEL 1-416-874-0222 TEL 886-2-2715-3911 TEL 39-02-778-0001 Thailand Calgary Office Saudi Arabia Suite 1000, 888 3rd Street, South West, Calgary, Alberta, Bangkok Branch Canada, T2P 5C5 98 Sathorn Square Office Tower 32nd – 35th floor, Mizuho Saudi Arabia Company TEL 1-403-444-5375 North Sathorn Road, Silom, Bangrak, Bangkok 10500, North Lobby 1st Floor, Al Faisaliah Tower, Thailand King Fahd Road, Olaya District, Riyadh 11544, Vancouver Office TEL 66-2-163-2999, 2-002-0222 Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Suite 305, South Tower, 5811 Cooney Road, Richmond, TEL 966-11-273-4111 British Columbia, Canada, V6X 3M1 Eastern Seaboard Branch TEL 1-604-231-3725 300/7 ESIE Plaza 2, Unit No. 2-05 Moo 1, Tambol Ta Sit, South Africa Amphoe Pluak Daeng, Rayong 21140, Thailand Johannesburg Representative Office Cayman Islands TEL 66-3-899-7000 2nd Floor, West Tower, Maude Street, Cayman Branch Nelson Mandela Square, Sandton 2196, South Africa, P. O. Box 1353, Harbour Place, 5th Floor, Vietnam P.O.Box 785553, Sandton 2146 103 South Church Street, George Town, TEL 27-11-881-5410 Hanoi Branch Grand Cayman KY1-1108, Cayman Islands 4th Floor, 63 LTT Building, 63 Ly Thai To Street, Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam Spain Chile TEL 84-4-3936-3123/3124 Mizuho Bank Nederland N.V. Santiago Representative Office Ho Chi Minh City Branch Madrid Representative Office Av. Apoquindo 3472, Piso 7, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile Calle Orense 34, Planta 6, Edificio Iberia Mart II, TEL 56-2-3203-5773 18th Floor, Sun Wah Tower, 28020 Madrid, Spain 115 Nguyen Hue Boulevard, District 1, TEL 34-91-598-2905 Ho Chi Minh City, Socialist Republic of Vietnam Mexico TEL 84-8-3827-8260/8292 The Netherlands Mexico Representative Office Torres E3, Blvd. Manuel Avila Camacho No.32, Europe, the Middle East and Africa Mizuho Bank Nederland N.V. Piso 7, Oficina 702 Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, (Country/Region) Apollolaan 171, 1077 AS Amsterdam, The Netherlands Delegacion Miguel Hidalgo, 11000, Mexico, D.F., Mexico TEL 31-20-5734343 TEL 52-55-5281-5037 Austria Turkey U.S.A. Mizuho Bank-BA Investment Istanbul Representative Office Chicago Branch Consulting GmbH Office 813, Tekfen Tower 8th Floor, 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2020, Chicago, Landhausgasse 4/7, 1010 Vienna, Austria Buyukdere Caddesi No.209, 4. Levent 34394, Istanbul, IL 60606, USA TEL 43-1-5355868 Turkey TEL 1-312-855-1111 TEL 90-212-371-8474 Mizuho Bank Nederland N.V. Los Angeles Branch U.A.E. 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, Vienna Branch CA 90071, USA DC Tower 26th Floor, Donau-City-Strasse 7, Dubai Branch TEL 1-213-243-4500 1220 Vienna, Austria The Gate Village, Building Number 5, Level 2, TEL 43-1-269-1000-00 Dubai International Financial Centre, P.O.Box No:506607, Dubai, United Arab Emirates New York Branch 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020, USA Bahrain TEL 971-4-425-9200 TEL 1-212-282-3000 Bahrain Representative Office United Kingdom Suite 201-202, Entrance 4, 2nd Floor, Manama Center, Park Avenue Branch Manama, Bahrain London Branch 320 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10022, USA (P.O. BOX 5759, Manama, Bahrain) Bracken House, One Friday Street, London, EC4M 9JA, UK TEL 1-212-282-3000 TEL 973-17-224522 TEL 44-20-7012-4000 Atlanta Representative Office Belgium Mizuho Capital Markets (UK) Limited 3353 Peachtree Road NE, Atlanta Financial Center, Bracken House, One Friday Street, London, EC4M 9JA, UK Suite 500, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA Mizuho Bank Nederland N.V. TEL 44-20-3192-1300 TEL 1-404-364-1550 Brussels Branch Avenue Louise 480, 1050 Brussels, Belgium Russia Houston Representative Office TEL 32-2-645-5280 2700 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 1270, Houston, TX 77056, USA AO Mizuho Bank (Moscow) TEL 1-713-499-4800 France 5th floor, 20, bld.1, Ovchinnikovskaya nab., 115035 Moscow, Russian Federation Paris Branch TEL 7-495-212-0333 San Francisco Representative Office Washington Plaza 40, rue Washington, 201 Mission St, #1234, San Francisco, CA 94105, USA 75408 Paris Cedex 08, France TEL 1-415-432-4492 TEL 33-1-5383-4100 135 Location of Overseas Offices Mizuho Bank (USA) Network of Mizuho Securities Mizuho Securities USA Inc. 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020, USA Chicago Office TEL 1-212-282-3030 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 700, Chicago, IL 60606, USA Mizuho Bank (USA) Beijing Representative Office TEL 1-312-294-8800 8th Floor, Chang-Fu-Gong Office Building, Jia 26, Atlanta Representative Office Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang District, 3353 Peachtree Road NE, Atlanta Financial Center, Beijing 100022, The People’s Republic of China Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Suite 500, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA TEL 86-10-6523-4779 Chicago Office (Investment Banking) TEL 1-404-364-1550 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2020, Chicago, Shanghai Representative Office IL 60606, USA Mizuho Bank (USA) 17th Floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, TEL 1-312-855-1111 Chicago Representative Office No.100, Century Ave., Pudong New Area, 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2020, Chicago, Shanghai 200120, The People’s Republic of China Mizuho Securities USA Inc. IL 60606, USA TEL 86-21-6877-8000 Hoboken Office TEL 1-312-855-1111 Waterfront Corporate Center, 111 River Street, Suite 1100, Mizuho Investment Consulting Hoboken, NJ 07030, USA Mizuho Bank (USA) (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. TEL 1-201-626-1000 Houston Representative Office 33rd Floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, 2700 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 1270, Houston, TX 77056, USA No.100, Century Ave., Pudong New Area, Mizuho Securities USA Inc. TEL 1-713-499-4800 Shanghai 200120, The People’s Republic of China Houston Office (Investment Banking) TEL 86-21-6877-5888 2700 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 1270, Houston, Mizuho Bank (USA) TX 77056, USA Los Angeles Representative Office Mizuho Investment Consulting TEL 1-713-499-4800 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. CA 90071, USA Beijing Branch Mizuho Securities USA Inc. TEL 1-213-243-4500 6010, Chang-Fu-Gong Office Building, Jia 26, Los Angeles Office (Investment Banking) Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022, 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, Mizuho Bank (USA) The People’s Republic of China CA 90071, USA Park Avenue Branch TEL 86-10-6526-7577 TEL 1-213-243-4500 320 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10022, USA TEL 1-212-282-3030 Mizuho Securities Asia Limited Mizuho Securities USA Inc. 12th Floor, Chater House, 8 Connaught Road, Central, New York Office (Investment Banking) Mizuho Bank (USA) Hong Kong, S.A.R., The People’s Republic of China 1251 Avenue of the Americas, 30th Floor, TEL 852-2685-2000 New York, NY 10020, USA San Francisco Representative Office TEL 1-212-282-3000 201 Mission St, #1234, San Francisco, CA 94105, USA TEL 1-415-432-4492 Mizuho Securities India Private Limited Level 18, TOWER–A, Peninsula Business Park, Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013, India Mizuho Alternative Investments, LLC TEL 91-22-4353-7600 San Francisco Office 757 Third Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10017, USA 3 Embarcadero Center, Suite 1620, San Francisco, TEL 1-212-282-4804 CA 94111, USA Mizuho Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. TEL 1-415-268-5500 12 Marina View #10-01A, Asia Square Tower 2, Mizuho Capital Markets Corporation Singapore 018961 1440 Broadway, 25th Floor, New York, NY 10018, USA TEL 65-6603-5688 Mizuho Securities USA Inc. TEL 1-212-547-1500 San Francisco Office (Investment Banking) Mizuho Bank (Switzerland) Ltd 201 Mission Street, 12th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105 USA Mizuho Desk Loewenstrasse 32, 8021 Zurich, Switzerland TEL 1-415432-4492 TEL 41-44-216-9111 (Country/Region) Mizuho International plc Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Austria Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7AU, U.K. Philadelphia Office TEL 44-20-7236-1090 Two Logan Square, 100 N. 18th Street, Suite 326, Raiffeisen Bank International AG Philadelphia, PA 19103 USA Am Stadtpark 9, A-1030 Vienna, Austria TEL 43-1-71707-1375 Mizuho International plc TEL 1-267207-3541 Frankfurt Office U.A.E. An der Welle 4, 60322 Frankfurt am Main, Germany TEL 49-69-4272-93001 Network of DIAM Mashreqbank psc Japan Desk, Mashreqbank Building 3F,Dubai Internet City, Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Mashreqbank, P.O.Box 1250, Dubai, United Arab Emirates DIAM Asset Management (HK) Limited TEL 971-4-363-2324/2285 London Office Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7AU, U.K. Suites 1221-22, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Hong TEL 44-20-7776-5800 Kong, S.A.R, The People’s Republic of China “Mizuho Desk” TEL 852-2918-9030 By forming tie-ups with major financial institutions in regions where Mizuho does not possess offices, we Mizuho Securities USA Inc. 320 Park Avenue, 12th Floor, New York, NY 10022, USA DIAM SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. offer our customers financial services through various TEL 1-212-209-9300 2 Shenton Way #12-01 SGX Centre I, Singapore 068804 institutions. (Transactions are conducted directly between TEL 65-6532-5470 the customer and the local financial institution.) Mizuho Securities USA Inc. DIAM U.S.A., Inc. Atlanta Office 400 Park Avenue, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10022, USA 3455 Peachtree Road, 5th Floor, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA Network of Mizuho Trust & Banking TEL 1-404-995-6830 TEL 1-212-350-7650 DIAM International Ltd Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7AU, UK Mizuho Trust & Banking Atlanta Office (Investment Banking) TEL 44-207-090-6591 (Luxembourg) S.A. 3353 Peachtree Road NE, Suite 500, Atlanta, 1B, rue Gabriel Lippmann, L-5365 Munsbach, GA 30326, USA Grand Duchy of Luxembourg TEL 1-404-364-1550 TEL 352-42-16-17-1 Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. (USA) Boston Office 135 W. 50th Street, 16th Floor, New York, NY 10020, USA TEL 1-212-373-5900 125 High Street, 21st Floor, Boston, MA 02110, USA TEL 1-617-235-1722 136 Investor Information Date of Establishment (Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock) January 8, 2003 Percentage of shares Shares held outstanding (%) Paid-in Capital Chubu Electric Power Company, ¥ 2,255.7 billion 1 5,000,000 5.05 Incorporated 2 SAPPORO HOLDINGS LIMITED 2,000,000 2.02 Issued Shares 25,945,277,657 shares 2 SOHGO SECURITY SERVICES CO., LTD. 2,000,000 2.02 Common Stock: 25,030,525,657 shares 2 SoftBank Group Corp. 2,000,000 2.02 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock: 914,752,000 shares 2 Century Tokyo Leasing Corporation 2,000,000 2.02 Number of Shareholders 2 TOSOH CORPORATION 2,000,000 2.02 Common Stock: 981,319 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock: 649 2 MATSUBARA–KOSAN 2,000,000 2.02 CORPORATION 8 Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 1,500,000 1.51 Major Shareholders (Common Stock) Percentage 8 INPEX CORPORATION 1,500,000 1.51 of shares Shares held outstanding (%) 8 SEIHOKU CORPORATION 1,500,000 1.51 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 1 1,129,574,200 4.51 Notes:1. Figures for the percentage of shares outstanding are rounded down to (Trustee account) the nearest second decimal place. The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 2. The percentages of shares outstanding are calculated by excluding the 2 821,774,700 3.28 treasury stock (815,828,400 shares). Furthermore, the treasury stock is (Trustee account) not included in the above list of major shareholders. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 3 559,050,700 2.23 (As of March 31, 2016) (Trustee account 9) THE BANK OF NEW YORK 4 416,016,531 1.66 MELLON SA/NV 10 STATE STREET BANK 5 374,193,016 1.49 WEST CLIENT TREATY 505234 6 Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. 303,932,700 1.21 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 7 299,745,300 1.19 (Trustee account 7) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 8 285,004,500 1.13 (Trustee account 5) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 9 284,944,400 1.13 (Trustee account 6) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 10 283,683,600 1.13 (Trustee account 1) Notes:1. Figures for the percentage of shares outstanding are rounded down to the nearest second decimal place. 2. The percentages of shares outstanding are calculated by excluding the treasury stock (6,939,703 shares). 137 Investor Information Stock Listing Record Date for Distribution of Dividends from Surplus (Common Stock) The record dates for distribution of dividends from surplus of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Company shall be March 31 and September 30 of each year. Accounting Auditors Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Shareholder Register Manager ADR* Information Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Outline of Mizuho Financial Group’s ADR Share Unit 1. Exchange : New York Stock Exchange 100 shares 2. Ticker Symbol : MFG 3. CUSIP : 60687Y109 4. Conversion ratio : 1 ADR = 2 common shares Fiscal Year 5. Depositary bank : The Bank of New York Mellon April 1 to March 31 101 Barclay Street New York, NY 10286 Convocation of General Meetings of Shareholders Phone: 1-201-680-6825 An ordinary general meeting of shareholders of the Company U.S. Toll Free: 888-269-2377 shall be convened no later than 3 months from the last day of http://www.adrbnymellon.com/ each business year and an extraordinary general meeting of 6. Local custodian bank : Mizuho Bank, Ltd. shareholders shall be convened whenever necessary. * ADRs are securities issued for the purpose of trading in the U.S. in place of Record Date the underlying stock of foreign companies. As ADRs are registered with the 1. The Company shall deem shareholders having voting rights SEC as U.S. securities, they are traded, settled and held in custody in substantively the same manner as the stocks of U.S. companies. ADR is an appearing in writing or electronically in the register of shareacronym for American Depositary Receipts. holders as of the end of March 31 of each year as the shareholders who are entitled to exercise their rights at the ordinary general meeting of shareholders for the relevant business year. 2. The provision of the preceding paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to the record date for voting rights at the general meetings of holders of classes of stock, where there is a matter to be resolved at an ordinary general meeting of shareholders that requires, in addition to such resolution, a resolution by the relevant general meeting of holders of class of stock. 3. In addition to the preceding two paragraphs, the Company may set an extraordinary record date, when necessary, by a determination by Executive Officer(s) under the authority delegated by the Board of Directors and upon giving a prior public notice thereof. Organizations that Decide Dividends from Surplus, Etc. The Company shall decide distribution of dividends from surplus and other matters provided for in each item of Article 459, Paragraph 1 of the Companies Act of Japan, not by a resolution of a general meeting of shareholders, but by a resolution of the Board of Directors, unless otherwise provided for in laws or regulations. 138 Disclosure Policy Basic Principles as all managers and other employees within Mizuho Financial We are committed to growing together with our customers in a Group who engage in financial reporting, accounting or stable and sustainable manner and bringing together our groupdisclosure. We have also developed the “Internal Controls wide expertise to contribute to the prosperity of economies and and Audit Hotline”, a system designed for obtaining concerns societies throughout the world as the leading Japanese financial regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters from services group with a global presence and a broad customer both inside and outside Mizuho Financial Group. base. For this reason, we place one of the highest management priorities on continuing to disclose information to our customers, Disclosure Methods, Other shareholders, and investors both in and outside Japan in a fair, (1) Disclosure Methods timely and appropriate manner, in order that they may form With respect to the information which is required to be proper judgments and appraisals of the group. To achieve this disclosed pursuant to applicable domestic and international aim, we observe applicable domestic and international laws and laws and regulations as well as stock exchange rules, we regulations as well as stock exchange rules relating to corporate follow the defined disclosure procedures such as publishing disclosure, and we establish and implement appropriate such information in business reports (Jigyo-Hokoku), annual Disclosure Controls and Procedures. securities reports (Yukashoken-Hokokusho), Integrated Report (Annual Review) and other disclosure publications, as well as Disclosure Controls and Procedures providing such information through the information distribu(1) Establishment and Implementation of Disclosure Controls tion systems of domestic and international stock exchanges and Procedures and through press releases. We also endeavor to disclose Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures are established to other information in a fair, timely and appropriate manner. observe applicable domestic and international laws and When we disclose such information, we basically publish on regulations as well as stock exchange rules and to implement our website the information we disclose. In addition, we fair, timely and appropriate corporate disclosure. The endeavor to utilize the latest disclosure methods and tools to Disclosure Controls and Procedures are the process carried out provide more fair and widespread disclosure. by directors, officers and employees of Mizuho Financial Group (2) Investor Relations Activities and include Internal Controls over Financial Reporting deIn accordance with our Basic Principles described above, and signed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability with due attention to two-way communication, we endeavor of Financial Reporting and the Preparation of Financial sincerely to facilitate a proper understanding of our manageStatements. We have established the basic principles underlyment strategies, financial condition and other matters. In this ing our Disclosure Controls and Procedures as well as our way, we aim to earn the trust of the market and obtain an internal rules related to Disclosure Controls and Procedures appropriate market reputation. that govern the management framework for the entire Beginning with the disclosure required by applicable domesMizuho Financial Group including group companies, and we tic and international laws and regulations as well as stock endeavor to establish, implement and continuously improve exchange rules, we endeavor to grasp properly the types of our Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Our Disclosure information desired by the market and to disclose useful and Committee is the Business Policy Committee that is responsible appropriate information voluntarily and proactively. Regarding for discussing and coordinating matters relating to Disclosure disclosure of information we consider particularly important, Controls and Procedures. we communicate such information on an ad hoc basis as and (2) Evaluation of Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and when necessary, even if a press release has already been Procedures issued, through such means as special briefing sessions. Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures are documented, and In addition, we respect various disclosure principles includevaluation of the overall effectiveness of our Disclosure ing fair disclosure. Accordingly, at individual calls, private Controls and Procedures is conducted regularly by reviewing meetings or conferences hosted or attended by representathe contents of such documentation and their implementatives of Mizuho Financial Group we endeavor to limit carefully tion. In addition, evaluation of the effectiveness and appropriour explanations to matters already disclosed and facts ateness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures is conducted commonly known. through internal audits. (3) Correction of Misconceptions in the Markets (3) Others If we identify significant misconceptions regarding Mizuho We established a “Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals” Financial Group in the market due to the spread of rumors or to be observed by all directors and executive officers, as well otherwise, we endeavor to investigate their causes and correct such misconceptions promptly. 139 Privacy Policy Regarding Customer Information Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (“MHFG”) hereby establishes and • Mizuho Financial Group entrusts management of personal announces the “Privacy Policy Regarding Customer Information” information that is necessary to achieve the purpose of use (“this Policy”), which sets forth MHFG’s policies for protecting to a third party. customers’ personal information and MHFG’s basic approach in • Mizuho Financial Group is one of the parties in a consolidahandling customers’ personal information (including the customtion transaction. ers’ Individual Number and personal information containing the • Mizuho Financial Group uses personal information jointly Individual Number (hereafter collectively referred to as “Specific with designated entities that are publicly informed. Personal Information, etc.”)), applicable to Mizuho Financial However, with respect to Specific Personal Information etc., Group which is composed of MHFG, its consolidated subsidiaries Mizuho Financial Group will not provide it to third parties except and affiliates (which are accounted for by the equity method) in cases specified in the “Act on the Use of Numbers to Identify a that are listed in MHFG’s Financial Reports. Specific Individual in the Administrative Procedure”. Policy of Management Handling of Sensitive Information Mizuho Financial Group recognizes appropriate protection and Mizuho Financial Group will not acquire, use and provide to any use of personal information to be important social responsibilithird party sensitive information (e.g. political views, religion, ties, and makes every effort to appropriately protect and use participation in labor union, race, ethnic group, family origin, personal information complying with laws and regulations legal address on family registry and medical information) unless including the “Personal Data Protection Law in Japan”, “Act on authorized by law or it is necessary to conduct business on the Use of Numbers to Identify a Specific Individual in the condition that Mizuho Financial Group has customer consent. Administrative Procedure” and other related regulations and the internal rules of Mizuho Financial Group, including this Policy Security Measures / Safeguards when Mizuho Financial Group conducts business. Mizuho Financial Group will maintain and manage accurate and up-to-date personal information, and prevent leakage of inforProper Acquisition mation with necessary and appropriate security measures. Mizuho Financial Group will acquire personal information that is Moreover, it will conduct necessary and appropriate supervision necessary to conduct its business by proper and lawful means. of employees and service providers (including subcontractors, etc.) of who handles personal information. Purpose of Use Mizuho Financial Group will specify the purpose of use of perContinuous Improvement sonal information and will handle the personal information Mizuho Financial Group will continuously review this Policy within the scope necessary to achieve that purpose, and will not according to the development of information technologies and use it beyond that scope. the changes in social demand, and improve the handling of In cases where special restrictions exist on the use of particular personal information. personal information under laws and/or regulations such as the use of the Individual Number under the “Act on the Use of Customer Requests concerning retained Personal Data Numbers to Identify a Specific Individual in the Administrative Mizuho Financial Group will endeavor to properly and promptly Procedure”, Mizuho Financial Group will not handle that particucope with following requests from customers: lar personal information for purposes not relevant to said matters. • notification of the purpose of use The purpose of use of personal information is set forth • disclosure of retained personal data through the web site or other measures provided by each com• correction, addition and deletion of retained personal data pany of the Mizuho Financial Group. that do not reflect the facts • suspension of use and elimination of retained personal data Providing Personal Information to Third Parties • suspension of providing retained personal data to a third party Mizuho Financial Group will not provide personal information to any third party in principle unless the individual concerned has Comments & Requests agreed to such use or it is authorized by law. However, Mizuho Mizuho Financial Group will endeavor to cope with customer’s Financial Group may provide personal information to relevant comments and requests for the management of personal inforentities that are otherwise specified without customer consent in mation sincerely and promptly. following cases: 140 Financial Analysis [Under Japanese GAAP] 142 Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 144 Status of Asset Quality 141 Financial Analysis Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc.  Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (Consolidated) Billions of yen As of or for the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total Income ¥ 3,235.6 ¥ 3,180.8 ¥ 2,940.7 ¥ 2,914.0 ¥ 2,808.5 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent (Note 1) 670.9 611.9 688.4 560.5 484.5 Comprehensive Income 304.5 1,941.0 832.9 1,270.8 627.5 Net Assets 9,353.2 9,800.5 8,304.5 7,736.2 6,869.2 Total Assets 193,458.5 189,684.7 175,822.8 177,411.0 165,360.5 Deposits 117,456.6 113,452.4 101,811.2 99,568.7 90,636.6 Loans and Bills Discounted 73,708.8 73,415.1 69,301.4 67,536.8 63,800.5 Securities 39,505.9 43,278.7 43,997.5 53,472.3 51,392.8 Net Assets per Share (Yen) (Note 2) 322.46 322.86 253.25 229.70 187.19 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share (Yen) (Note 2) 26.94 24.91 28.18 22.96 20.62 Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share (Yen) (Note 2) 26.42 24.10 27.12 22.05 19.75 Capital Adequacy Ratio (BIS Standard) (Note 3) / / / / 15.50% Total Capital Ratio (International Standard (Basel III)) (Note 3) 15.41% 14.58% 14.36% 14.19% / Tier 1 Capital Ratio (International Standard (Basel III)) (Note 3) 12.64% 11.50% 11.35% 11.03% / Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio (International Standard (Basel III)) (Note 3) 10.50% 9.43% 8.80% 8.16% / Net Return on Equity 8.3% 8.6% 11.6% 10.9% 11.3% PER (Times) 6.23x 8.47x 7.23x 8.66x 6.54x Cash Flow from Operating Activities 4,104.1 6,654.9 (2,286.0) 5,858.6 4,163.0 Cash Flow from Investing Activities 3,687.8 2,619.2 10,607.4 (749.6) (6,175.6) Cash Flow from Financing Activities (521.0) (903.4) (305.7) (283.8) (680.6) Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the fiscal year 35,089.1 27,840.7 19,432.4 11,347.5 6,483.1 Notes: 1. We have applied “Revised Accounting Standard for Business Combinations” (ASBJ Statement No. 21, September 13, 2013) and others and presentation of Net Income has been changed to Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent from this fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. 2. “Net Assets per Share,” “Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share” and “Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share” are calculated in accordance with “Revised Accounting Standard for Earnings per Share” (ASBJ Statement No. 2, September 13, 2013) and “Revised Guidance on Accounting Standard for Earning per Share” (ASBJ Guidance No. 4, September 13, 2013). 3. Capital Adequacy Ratio, Total Capital Ratio, Tier 1 Capital Ratio and Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio are based on the “Standards for Determining the Status of Capital Adequacy in consideration of assets held by a bank holding company and by its subsidiaries, in accordance with Banking Law Article 52-25” (Financial Services Agency Ordinance Announcement No.20, March 27, 2006). Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. has applied the new framework(Basel III) starting the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. 142 Billions of yen As of or for the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Operating Income ¥ 333.5 ¥ 377.7 ¥ 316.8 ¥ 262.1 ¥ 37.7 Net Income 304.3 349.0 285.8 241.3 10.2 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 2,255.7 2,255.4 2,254.9 2,254.9 2,254.9 Number of Shares Issued and Outstanding Common Stock 25,030,525,657 shares 24,621,897,967 shares 24,263,885,187 shares 24,164,864,477 shares 24,048,165,727 shares Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752,000 shares 914,752,000 shares 914,752,000 shares 914,752,000 shares 914,752,000 shares Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock — shares — shares — shares 36,690,000 shares 36,690,000 shares Net Assets 5,197.2 5,096.2 4,900.4 4,788.9 4,688.3 Total Assets 7,064.2 6,603.1 6,251.3 6,202.1 6,128.4 Net Assets per Share (Yen) (Note 1) 203.58 198.15 188.90 182.43 177.82 Dividends per Share (Yen) (Interim Dividends per Share) (Yen) Common Stock 7.5 7.5 6.5 6 6 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 20 20 20 20 20 Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock (Note 2) — — — 30 30 Common Stock 3.75 3.5 3 3 3 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 10 10 10 10 10 Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock (Note 2) — — — 15 15 Net Income per Share (Yen) (Note 1) 12.17 14.11 11.53 9.69 0.06 Diluted Net Income per Share (Yen) (Note 1) 11.98 13.74 11.25 9.46 0.06 PER (Times) 13.81x 14.95x 17.68x 20.53x 2,017.69x Dividend Propensity 61.62% 53.12% 56.33% 61.91% 8,967.54% Notes: 1. “Net Assets per Share,” “Net Income per Share” and “Diluted Net Income per Share” are calculated in accordance with “Revised Accounting Standard for Earnings per Share” (ASBJ Statement No. 2, September 13, 2013) and “Revised Guidance on Accounting Standard for Earning per Share” (ASBJ Guidance No. 4, September 13, 2013). 2. As Mizuho Financial Group Inc. acquired and cancelled all of the Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock as of July 11, 2013, the cash dividends per share of the Thirteenth Series Class XIII Preferred Stock for and after fiscal 2013 have not been recorded. 143 Financial Analysis Status of Asset Quality Credit-related Costs Credit-related Costs (Consolidated) Billions of yen For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 Change Credit-related Costs ¥ 30.4 ¥ 4.6 ¥ 25.7 Expenses related to Portfolio Problems (including Reversal of (Provision for) General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans) 47.7 87.0 (39.3) Losses on Write-offs of Loans 46.6 84.5 (37.8) Gains on Reversal of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans and others (17.2) (82.3) 65.0 Credit Costs for Trust Accounts — — — Overview of Non-performing Loans (NPLs) as of March 31, 2016 (the Two Banks) (Banking Accounts) Billions of yen 1. Self-Assessment 2. Disclosed Claims under 3. Non-Accrual, Past Categorization Nonthe Financial ReconstDue & Restructured Obligor Category II Category III Category IV ruction Act (FRA) Loans Categorization 68.0 Claims against Bankrupt Loans to Bankrupt Obligors Bankrupt and Substantially Reserve and Substantially Bankrupt Collateral, Guarantees, etc.: Direct 21.9 Bankrupt Obligors Ratio Obligors 60.5 Write-offs 100% 68.0 68.0 Reserves for Possible Losses: 7.4 Coverage Ratio 100% Non-Accrual 291.4 59.3 Claims with Collection Risk Delinquent Loans Intensive Control 353.0 Collateral, Guarantees, etc.: Amounts for 350.8 Obligors 176.1 Reserve reserves are 350.8 Reserves for Possible Losses: Ratio Coverage Ratio 83.0% recorded under 115.3 66.0% Non-Categorization 43.7 (Note 2) Reserve Ratio against Loans Past Due for Claims for Special Uncovered Portion Three Months or More 41.4% Claims against Special Attention (Note 1) Claims for Special Attention Obligors 0.9 Watch Obligors Attention 398.4 Collateral, Guarantees, etc.: ·Coverage Ratio: 67.7% 398.4 155.0 ·Reserve Ratio Coverage Ratio 64.2% Restructured Loans Reserves for Possible Losses: for Uncovered Portion: 44.3% ·Reserve Ratio 397.5 100.7 against Total amount of Special Attention Obligors Claims: 25.7% Other Watch Obligors Reserve Ratio against Total amount of Claims Total Coverage Normal Obligors ·Other Watch Obligors: 3.66% Ratio 75.3% ·Normal Obligors: 0.07% Total Total Total 81,815.3 817.2 773.4 Notes: 1. Claims for Special Attention is denoted on an individual loans basis. Claims against Special Attention Obligors includes all claims, not limited to claims for Special Attention. 2. The difference between total Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans and total Disclosed Claims under the FRA represents the amount of claims other than loans included in Disclosed Claims under the FRA. 144 Status of Disclosed Claims under the FRA Disclosed Claims under the FRA (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Billions of yen As of March 31, 2016 2015 Change Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors ¥ 83.1 ¥ 77.3 ¥ 5.8 Claims with Collection Risk 361.2 404.2 (42.9) Claims for Special Attention 464.0 618.4 (154.4) Total ¥ 908.4 ¥ 1,100.0 ¥ (191.5) Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs, the amounts of which are indicated in the table below.  Billions of yen 2016 2015 Change Amount of Partial Direct Write-offs ¥ 157.3 ¥ 226.6 ¥ (69.2) (Trust Accounts) Billions of yen As of March 31, 2016 2015 Change Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Claims with Collection Risk 2.8 2.9 (0.1) Claims for Special Attention — — — Total ¥ 2.8 ¥ 2.9 ¥ (0.1) (Consolidated and Trust Accounts) Billions of yen As of March 31, 2016 2015 Change Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors ¥ 83.1 ¥ 77.3 ¥ 5.8 Claims with Collection Risk 364.1 407.2 (43.0) Claims for Special Attention 464.0 618.4 (154.4) Total ¥ 911.3 ¥ 1,103.0 ¥ (191.6) 145 Financial Analysis Status of Asset Quality Status of Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2016 2015 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors ¥ 24.3 ¥ 10.2 ¥ 14.0 Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 396.7 425.7 (29.0) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 0.9 3.4 (2.5) Restructured Loans 463.1 614.9 (151.8) Total ¥ 885.0 ¥ 1,054.4 ¥ (169.3) Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs, the amounts of which are indicated in the table below.  Billions of yen 2016 2015 Change Amount of Partial Direct Write-offs ¥ 143.9 ¥ 205.0 ¥ (61.0) Ratio to Total Loans % As of March 31, 2016 2015 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors 0.03% 0.01% 0.01% Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 0.53 0.57 (0.04) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 0.00 0.00 (0.00) Restructured Loans 0.62 0.83 (0.20) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans / Total Loans 1.20% 1.43% (0.23)% Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs. Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2016 2015 Change Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans ¥ 459.5 ¥ 525.4 ¥ (65.9) General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans 304.8 344.4 (39.6) Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans 154.6 180.3 (25.6) Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries 0.0 0.6 (0.5) Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs, the amounts of which are indicated in the table below.  Billions of yen 2016 2015 Change Amount of Partial Direct Write-offs ¥ 157.8 ¥ 227.2 ¥ (69.4) Reserve Ratios for Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans % As of March 31, 2016 2015 Change After Partial Direct Write-offs 51.92% 49.83% 2.08% Note: Reserve Ratio = Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans / Total Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans. 146 (Trust Accounts) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2016 2015 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 2.8 2.9 (0.1) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More — — — Restructured Loans — — — Total ¥ 2.8 ¥ 2.9 ¥ (0.1) Ratio to Total Loans % As of March 31, 2016 2015 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors .—% .—% .—% Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 20.84 18.68 2.15 Loans Past Due for Three Months or More .—. .—. .— Restructured Loans .— .— .— Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans / Total Loans 20.84% 18.68% 2.15% (Consolidated and Trust Accounts) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2016 2015 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors ¥ 24.3 ¥ 10.2 ¥ 14.0 Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 399.6 428.7 (29.1) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 0.9 3.4 (2.5) Restructured Loans 463.1 614.9 (151.8) Total ¥ 887.9 ¥ 1,057.4 ¥ (169.4) Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs. Ratio to Total Loans % As of March 31, 2016 2015 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors 0.03% 0.01% 0.01% Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 0.54 0.58 (0.04) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 0.00 0.00 (0.00) Restructured Loans 0.62 0.83 (0.20) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans / Total Loans 1.20% 1.44% (0.23)% Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs. 147 Financial Analysis Status of Asset Quality Status of Loans by Industry Outstanding Balances by Industry (Consolidated) Billions of yen, % 2016 2015 Change Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding As of March 31, Balance Composition Balance Composition Balance Composition Domestic Total (excluding Loans Booked Offshore) ¥ 52,074.3 100.00% ¥ 52,540.1 100.00% ¥ (465.7) / Manufacturing 8,152.9 15.66 7,953.8 15.14 199.1 0.52)% Agriculture & Forestry 44.8 0.09 42.3 0.08 2.5 0.01 Fishery 1.2 0.00 0.9 0.00 0.3 0.00 Mining, Quarrying Industry & Gravel Extraction Industry 234.5 0.45 264.0 0.50 (29.4) (0.05) Construction 729.2 1.40 758.4 1.44 (29.1) (0.04) Utilities 2,365.0 4.54 2,424.5 4.62 (59.5) (0.08) Communication 1,299.5 2.50 1,231.3 2.34 68.2 0.16 Transportation & Postal Industry 2,252.6 4.33 2,283.1 4.35 (30.4) (0.02) Wholesale & Retail 4,999.4 9.60 5,047.1 9.61 (47.6) (0.01) Finance & Insurance 3,700.0 7.10 3,915.8 7.45 (215.8) (0.35) Real Estate 6,869.3 13.19 6,453.1 12.28 416.2 0.91 Commodity Lease 1,988.7 3.82 1,784.4 3.40 204.2 0.42 Service Industries 2,666.3 5.12 2,488.9 4.74 177.4 0.38 Local Governments 913.7 1.75 1,005.5 1.91 (91.7) (0.16) Governments 2,480.7 4.76 3,605.2 6.86 (1,124.5) (2.10) Other 13,375.8 25.69 13,281.1 25.28 94.7 0.41 Overseas Total (including Loans Booked Offshore) 21,634.5 100.00 20,874.9 100.00 759.5 / Governments 979.7 4.53 681.9 3.27 297.8 1.26 Financial Institutions 5,202.7 24.05 5,252.8 25.16 (50.1) (1.11) Other 15,452.0 71.42 14,940.1 71.57 511.8 (0.15) Total ¥ 73,708.8 / ¥ 73,415.1 / ¥ 293.7 / Note: Domestic Total = MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries (excluding their overseas offices). Overseas Total = Overseas offices of MHFG's domestic consolidated subsidiaries and MHFG's overseas consolidated subsidiaries. Status of Loans by Nationality of Borrowers Balance of Loans to Restructuring Countries (Consolidated) As of March 31, 2016 Billions of yen, % As of March 31, 2015 Billions of yen, % Argentina ¥ 0.0 Egypt ¥ 5.2 Argentina 0.0 Total ¥ 0.0 Total ¥ 5.2 Ratio to Total Assets 0.00% Ratio to Total Assets 0.00% Note: Listed are loans to the government and related agents in restructuring countries for which Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries are accounted as stipulated under the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (JICPA) Banking Audit Committee Report No.4. 148 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. [Under Japanese GAAP] 150 Independent Auditors’ Report 151 Consolidated Financial Statements 163 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 149 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Independent Auditors’ Report The Board of Directors Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc., which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2016, and the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in net assets, and cash flows for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, all expressed in Japanese yen. Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan, and for designing and operating such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in Japan. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. The purpose of an audit of the consolidated financial statements is not to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control, but in making these risk assessments the auditor considers internal controls relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. as of March 31, 2016, and their consolidated financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan. Convenience Translation We have reviewed the translation of these consolidated financial statements into U.S. dollars, presented for the convenience of readers, and, in our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been properly translated on the basis described in Note 1. June 23, 2016 Tokyo, Japan 150 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Assets Cash and Due from Banks (Notes 17, 39, 41 and 42) ¥ 36,315,471 ¥ 29,096,166 $ 322,259,927 Call Loans and Bills Purchased (Note 41) 893,545 444,115 7,929,232 Receivables under Resale Agreements (Note 41) 7,805,798 8,582,239 69,267,888 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions (Note 41) 3,407,390 4,059,340 30,236,851 Other Debt Purchased (Notes 41 and 42) 2,979,797 3,239,831 26,442,430 Trading Assets (Notes 10, 17, 41 and 42) 13,004,522 10,781,735 115,400,860 Money Held in Trust (Notes 41 and 42) 175,638 157,728 1,558,603 Securities (Notes 11, 17, 26, 41 and 42) 39,505,971 43,278,733 350,572,113 Loans and Bills Discounted (Notes 12, 17 and 41) 73,708,884 73,415,170 654,085,410 Foreign Exchange Assets (Note 13) 1,447,743 1,623,736 12,847,131 Derivatives other than for Trading Assets (Notes 41 and 43) 3,157,752 3,544,243 28,021,588 Other Assets (Notes 14, 17 and 42) 4,144,131 4,066,424 36,774,612 Tangible Fixed Assets (Notes 15, 28 and 40) 1,085,791 1,078,051 9,635,211 Intangible Fixed Assets (Note 40) 804,567 657,556 7,139,650 Net Defined Benefit Asset (Note 25) 646,428 743,382 5,736,345 Deferred Tax Assets (Note 27) 36,517 36,938 324,052 Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees (Note 26) 4,798,158 5,404,843 42,578,387 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (Notes 16 and 41) (459,531) (525,486) (4,077,837) Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments — (2) — Total Assets ¥ 193,458,580 ¥ 189,684,749 $ 1,716,732,453 151 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheetー(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Liabilities and Net Assets Liabilities Deposits (Notes 17, 18 and 41) ¥ 117,456,604 ¥ 113,452,451 $ 1,042,298,380 Call Money and Bills Sold (Notes 17, 19 and 41) 2,521,008 5,091,198 22,371,182 Payables under Repurchase Agreements (Notes 17 and 41) 16,833,346 19,612,120 149,377,462 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions (Notes 17 and 41) 2,608,971 2,245,639 23,151,759 Commercial Paper (Note 20) 1,010,139 538,511 8,963,882 Trading Liabilities (Notes 10 and 41) 10,276,133 8,743,196 91,189,403 Borrowed Money (Notes 17, 21 and 41) 7,503,543 7,195,869 66,585,710 Foreign Exchange Liabilities (Note 13) 492,473 473,060 4,370,164 Short-term Bonds (Note 22) 648,381 816,705 5,753,675 Bonds and Notes (Notes 23 and 41) 6,120,928 6,013,731 54,316,516 Due to Trust Accounts (Note 41) 5,067,490 1,780,768 44,968,414 Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities (Notes 41 and 43) 2,571,597 3,474,332 22,820,105 Other Liabilities (Note 24) 5,532,596 4,261,955 49,095,721 Reserve for Bonus Payments 62,171 59,869 551,705 Reserve for Variable Compensation 2,836 — 25,167 Net Defined Benefit Liability (Note 25) 51,514 47,518 457,131 Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits 1,685 1,527 14,959 Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans 267 13 2,370 Reserve for Contingencies 5,271 7,845 46,779 Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 16,154 15,851 143,356 Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures 39,245 48,878 348,258 Reserves under Special Laws 2,024 1,607 17,962 Deferred Tax Liabilities (Note 27) 414,799 524,321 3,680,886 Deferred Tax Liabilities for Revaluation Reserve for Land (Note 28) 67,991 72,392 603,347 Acceptances and Guarantees (Note 26) 4,798,158 5,404,843 42,578,387 Total Liabilities ¥ 184,105,335 ¥ 179,884,211 $ 1,633,732,680 Net Assets Common Stock and Preferred Stock (Note 29) ¥ 2,255,790 ¥ 2,255,404 $ 20,017,666 Capital Surplus 1,110,164 1,110,006 9,851,493 Retained Earnings 3,197,616 2,769,371 28,375,336 Treasury Stock (Note 29) (3,609) (3,616) (32,033) Total Shareholders' Equity 6,559,962 6,131,166 58,212,462 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities (Note 42) 1,296,039 1,737,348 11,500,930 Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges 165,264 26,635 1,466,537 Revaluation Reserve for Land (Note 28) 148,483 146,419 1,317,631 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments (53,689) (40,454) (476,434) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans (Note 25) 51,752 160,005 459,251 Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 1,607,851 2,029,955 14,267,915 Stock Acquisition Rights (Note 30) 2,762 3,820 24,515 Non-controlling Interests 1,182,668 1,635,595 10,494,881 Total Net Assets 9,353,244 9,800,538 82,999,773 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 193,458,580 ¥ 189,684,749 $ 1,716,732,453 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 152 Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Income Interest Income (Note 31) ¥ 1,426,256 ¥ 1,468,976 $ 12,656,461 Fiduciary Income 53,458 52,641 474,386 Fee and Commission Income 751,712 729,341 6,670,619 Trading Income (Note 32) 313,106 262,963 2,778,478 Other Operating Income (Note 33) 326,065 365,264 2,893,476 Other Income (Note 35) 365,036 301,652 3,239,302 Total Income 3,235,636 3,180,840 28,712,722 Expenses Interest Expenses (Note 31) 422,574 339,543 3,749,883 Fee and Commission Expenses 144,160 135,981 1,279,266 Trading Expenses (Note 32) 2,598 — 23,063 Other Operating Expenses (Note 34) 79,650 155,924 706,810 General and Administrative Expenses (Note 30) 1,349,593 1,351,611 11,976,156 Other Expenses (Note 36) 228,807 207,147 2,030,413 Total Expenses 2,227,384 2,190,208 19,765,591 Income before Income Taxes 1,008,252 990,632 8,947,131 Income Taxes: Current 216,354 260,799 1,919,912 Refund of Income Taxes (3,065) (531) (27,204) Deferred 69,260 44,723 614,609 Total Income Taxes 282,549 304,992 2,507,317 Profit 725,702 685,640 6,439,814 Profit Attributable to Non-controlling Interests 54,759 73,705 485,928 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ¥ 670,943 ¥ 611,935 $ 5,953,886 153 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Per Share of Common Stock Yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Net Income: Basic ¥ 26.94 ¥ 24.91 $ 0.24 Diluted 26.42 24.10 0.23 Cash Dividends 7.50 7.50 0.07 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Profit ¥ 725,702 ¥ 685,640 $ 6,439,814 Other Comprehensive Income (Note 37): (421,108) 1,255,433 (3,736,873) Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities (438,896) 1,004,848 (3,894,723) Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges 138,829 33,252 1,231,959 Revaluation Reserve for Land 3,630 7,531 32,217 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments (10,712) 15,144 (95,061) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans (109,362) 183,108 (970,471) Share of Other Comprehensive Income of Associates Accounted for Using Equity Method (4,597) 11,548 (40,794) Comprehensive Income ¥ 304,594 ¥ 1,941,073 $ 2,702,941 Comprehensive Income Attributable to Owners of Parent: ¥ 250,405 ¥ 1,862,651 $ 2,222,075 Comprehensive Income Attributable to Non-controlling Interests: 54,188 78,422 480,866 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 154 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets Millions of yen Shareholders' Equity Common Total Stock and Capital Retained Treasury Shareholders' For the Fiscal Year ended Preferred Surplus Earnings Stock Equity March 31, 2016 Stock Balance as of the beginning ¥ 2,255,404 ¥ 1,110,006 ¥ 2,769,371 ¥ (3,616) ¥ 6,131,166 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 935 (48,999) (48,063) Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting ¥ 2,255,404 ¥ 1,110,942 ¥ 2,720,371 ¥ (3,616) ¥ 6,083,102 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 386 386 772 Cash Dividends (195,264) (195,264) Profit Attributable to Owners 670,943 670,943 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (653) (653) Stock Disposition of Treasury 81 659 741 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 1,566 1,566 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from (1,245) (1,245) Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 386 (777) 477,244 6 476,859 period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 2,255,790 ¥ 1,110,164 ¥ 3,197,616 ¥ (3,609) ¥ 6,559,962 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 155 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assetsー(Continued) Millions of yen Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net Total Stock NonUnrealized Deferred Foreign RemeasureTotal Revaluation Accumulated Acquisition Controlling Gains Gains or Currency ments of Net Assets Reserve for Other Rights Interests (Losses) on Losses on Translation Defined Land Comprehensive For the Fiscal Year ended Other Hedges Adjustments Benefit Plans Income March 31, 2016 Securities Balance as of the beginning ¥ 1,737,348 ¥ 26,635 ¥ 146,419 ¥ (40,454) ¥ 160,005 ¥ 2,029,955 ¥ 3,820 ¥1,635,595 ¥ 9,800,538 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting (48,063) Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting ¥ 1,737,348 ¥ 26,635 ¥ 146,419 ¥ (40,454) ¥ 160,005 ¥ 2,029,955 ¥ 3,820 ¥1,635,595 ¥ 9,752,474 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 772 Cash Dividends (195,264) Profit Attributable to Owners 670,943 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (653) Stock Disposition of Treasury 741 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 1,566 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from (1,245) Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other (441,308) 138,628 2,064 (13,235) (108,252) (422,104) (1,057) (452,927) (876,089) than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the (441,308) 138,628 2,064 (13,235) (108,252) (422,104) (1,057) (452,927) (399,230) period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 1,296,039 ¥ 165,264 ¥ 148,483 ¥ (53,689) ¥ 51,752 ¥ 1,607,851 ¥ 2,762 ¥1,182,668 ¥ 9,353,244 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 156 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assetsー(Continued) Millions of yen Shareholders' Equity Common Total Stock and Capital Retained Treasury Shareholders' For the Fiscal Year ended Preferred Surplus Earnings Stock Equity March 31, 2015 Stock Balance as of the beginning ¥ 2,254,972 ¥ 1,109,508 ¥ 2,315,608 ¥ (3,874) ¥ 5,676,215 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 16,107 16,107 Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting ¥ 2,254,972 ¥ 1,109,508 ¥ 2,331,715 ¥ (3,874) ¥ 5,692,322 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 431 431 863 Cash Dividends (176,136) (176,136) Profit Attributable to Owners 611,935 611,935 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (273) (273) Stock Disposition of Treasury 66 531 598 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 1,856 1,856 Reserve for Land Net Changes in Items other than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 431 498 437,655 258 438,843 period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 2,255,404 ¥ 1,110,006 ¥ 2,769,371 ¥ (3,616) ¥ 6,131,166 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 157 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assetsー(Continued) Millions of yen Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net Remeasure Total Stock NonUnrealized Deferred Foreign Total Revaluation -ments of Accumulated Acquisition Controlling Gains Gains or Currency Net Assets Reserve for Defined Other Rights Interests (Losses) on Losses on Translation Land Benefit Comprehensive For the Fiscal Year ended Other Hedges Adjustments Plans Income March 31, 2015 Securities Balance as of the beginning ¥ 733,522 ¥ (6,677) ¥ 140,745 ¥ (63,513) ¥ (22,979) ¥ 781,096 ¥ 3,179 ¥ 1,844,057 ¥ 8,304,549 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 573 16,681 Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting ¥ 733,522 ¥ (6,677) ¥ 140,745 ¥ (63,513) ¥ (22,979) ¥ 781,096 ¥ 3,179 ¥ 1,844,631 ¥ 8,321,230 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 863 Cash Dividends (176,136) Profit Attributable to Owners 611,935 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (273) Stock Disposition of Treasury 598 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 1,856 Reserve for Land Net Changes in Items other 1,003,826 33,313 5,674 23,059 182,985 1,248,859 640 (209,035) 1,040,464 than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 1,003,826 33,313 5,674 23,059 182,985 1,248,859 640 (209,035) 1,479,307 period Balance as of the end of the ¥1,737,348 ¥ 26,635 ¥ 146,419 ¥ (40,454) ¥ 160,005 ¥ 2,029,955 ¥ 3,820 ¥ 1,635,595 ¥ 9,800,538 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 158 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assetsー(Continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Shareholders' Equity Common Stock Total Capital Retained Treasury and Preferred Shareholders' For the Fiscal Year ended Surplus Earnings Stock Stock Equity March 31, 2016 Balance as of the beginning $ 20,014,240 $ 9,850,091$ 24,575,127 $ (32,088) $ 54,407,370 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 8,304 (434,815) (426,511) Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting $ 20,014,240 $ 9,858,395 $24,140,312 $ (32,088) $ 53,980,859 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 3,426 3,426 6,852 Cash Dividends (1,732,761) (1,732,761) Profit Attributable to Owners 5,953,886 5,953,886 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (5,798) (5,798) Stock Disposition of Treasury 723 5,853 6,576 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 13,899 13,899 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from (11,051) (11,051) Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 3,426 (6,902) 4,235,024 55 4,231,603 period Balance as of the end of the $ 20,017,666 $ 9,851,493 $28,375,336 $ (32,033) $ 58,212,462 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 159 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assetsー(Continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net RemeasureTotal Stock NonUnrealized Deferred Foreign Total Revaluation ments of Accumulated Acquisition Controlling Gains Gains or Currency Net Assets Reserve for Defined Other Rights Interests (Losses) on Losses on Translation Land Benefit Comprehensive For the Fiscal Year ended Other Hedges Adjustments Plans Income March 31, 2016 Securities Balance as of the beginning $ 15,417,062 $ 236,361 $1,299,313 $ (358,988) $ 1,419,877 $ 18,013,625 $ 33,901 $14,514,117 $86,969,013 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting (426,511) Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting $ 15,417,062 $ 236,361 $1,299,313 $ (358,988) $ 1,419,877 $ 18,013,625 $ 33,901 $14,514,117 $86,542,502 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 6,852 Cash Dividends (1,732,761) Profit Attributable to Owners 5,953,886 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (5,798) Stock Disposition of Treasury 6,576 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 13,899 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from (11,051) Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other (3,916,132) 1,230,176 18,318 (117,446) (960,626) (3,745,710) (9,386) (4,019,236) (7,774,332) than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the (3,916,132) 1,230,176 18,318 (117,446) (960,626) (3,745,710) (9,386) (4,019,236) (3,542,729) period Balance as of the end of the $11,500,930 $ 1,466,537 $1,317,631 $ (476,434) $459,251 $14,267,915 $ 24,515 $10,494,881 $82,999,773 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 160 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Cash Flow from Operating Activities Income before Income Taxes ¥ 1,008,252 ¥ 990,632 $ 8,947,131 Depreciation 159,953 156,946 1,419,413 Losses on Impairment of Fixed Assets 4,412 11,358 39,160 Amortization of Goodwill 830 3,698 7,368 Equity in Loss (Gain) from Investments in Affiliates (24,299) (15,052) (215,634) Increase (Decrease) in Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (53,529) (103,554) (475,013) Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments (2) (25) (23) Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans 253 (1,245) 2,253 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Contingencies (678) 1,600 (6,023) Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Bonus Payments 3,918 5,113 34,769 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Variable Compensation 2,836 — 25,167 Decrease (Increase) in Net Defined Benefit Asset (65,012) (38,437) (576,916) Increase (Decrease) in Net Defined Benefit Liability 3,123 4,297 27,718 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits 157 (19) 1,402 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 303 (600) 2,694 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures (9,633) (6,078) (85,485) Interest Income—accrual basis (1,426,256) (1,468,976) (12,656,461) Interest Expenses—accrual basis 422,574 339,543 3,749,883 Losses (Gains) on Securities (356,138) (219,340) (3,160,342) Losses (Gains) on Money Held in Trust (178) (145) (1,581) Foreign Exchange Losses (Gains)—net 470,492 (645,471) 4,175,104 Losses (Gains) on Disposition of Fixed Assets (2,729) 8,541 (24,219) Decrease (Increase) in Trading Assets (2,450,614) 999,513 (21,746,516) Increase (Decrease) in Trading Liabilities 1,716,637 359,772 15,233,269 Decrease (Increase) in Derivatives other than for Trading Assets 291,667 (639,290) 2,588,232 Increase (Decrease) in Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities (821,313) 386,732 (7,288,251) Decrease (Increase) in Loans and Bills Discounted (1,784,739) (2,289,581) (15,837,602) Increase (Decrease) in Deposits 5,569,737 9,815,972 49,425,308 Increase (Decrease) in Borrowed Money (excluding Subordinated Borrowed Money) 459,006 (544,370) 4,073,182 Decrease (Increase) in Due from Banks (excluding Due from Central Banks) (295,214) 471,141 (2,619,701) Decrease (Increase) in Call Loans, etc. (60,388) 918,102 (535,886) Decrease (Increase) in Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 651,949 951,399 5,785,340 Increase (Decrease) in Call Money, etc. (4,087,190) (1,521,429) (36,269,329) Increase (Decrease) in Commercial Paper 505,568 (253,152) 4,486,362 Increase (Decrease) in Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 363,332 (3,839,692) 3,224,175 Decrease (Increase) in Foreign Exchange Assets 99,358 88,558 881,697 Increase (Decrease) in Foreign Exchange Liabilities 20,826 149,446 184,813 Increase (Decrease) in Short-term Bonds (Liabilities) (168,323) 232,137 (1,493,689) Increase (Decrease) in Bonds and Notes ¥ (177,448) ¥ 992,919 $ (1,574,663) 161 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flowsー(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Increase (Decrease) in Due to Trust Accounts ¥ 3,286,722 ¥ 480,112 $ 29,166,053 Interest and Dividend Income—cash basis 1,458,441 1,476,736 12,942,064 Interest Expenses—cash basis (386,135) (346,060) (3,426,526) Other—net 43,034 (84,770) 381,881 Subtotal 4,373,564 6,826,983 38,810,578 Cash Refunded (Paid) in Income Taxes (269,366) (172,024) (2,390,336) Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities 4,104,197 6,654,958 36,420,242 Cash Flow from Investing Activities Payments for Purchase of Securities (43,017,178) (81,055,617) (381,730,218) Proceeds from Sale of Securities 36,284,439 76,467,302 321,984,552 Proceeds from Redemption of Securities 10,774,422 7,599,068 95,611,167 Payments for Increase in Money Held in Trust (21,840) (5,770) (193,809) Proceeds from Decrease in Money Held in Trust 3,945 16,408 35,010 Payments for Purchase of Tangible Fixed Assets (67,298) (216,299) (597,204) Payments for Purchase of Intangible Fixed Assets (257,072) (187,451) (2,281,240) Proceeds from Sale of Tangible Fixed Assets 12,913 1,585 114,591 Proceeds from Sale of Intangible Fixed Assets 0 0 0 Payments for Purchase of Stocks of Subsidiaries (affecting the scope of consolidation) (24,432) — (216,810) Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities 3,687,897 2,619,227 32,726,039 Cash Flow from Financing Activities Proceeds from Subordinated Borrowed Money 40,000 — 354,956 Repayments of Subordinated Borrowed Money (189,000) (100,000) (1,677,168) Proceeds from Issuance of Subordinated Bonds 434,517 150,000 3,855,866 Payments for Redemption of Subordinated Bonds (107,600) (464,705) (954,832) Proceeds from Issuance of Common Stock 4 6 44 Proceeds from Investments by Non-controlling Shareholders 1,353 866 12,010 Repayments to Non-controlling Shareholders (452,500) (241,729) (4,015,441) Cash Dividends Paid (195,283) (176,186) (1,732,926) Cash Dividends Paid to Non-controlling Shareholders (49,877) (71,644) (442,612) Payments for Purchase of Stocks of Subsidiaries (not affecting the scope of consolidation) (2,626) — (23,310) Payments for Repurchase of Treasury Stock (13) (12) (120) Proceeds from Sale of Treasury Stock 2 2 23 Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities (521,023) (903,401) (4,623,510) Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents (22,723) 37,565 (201,650) Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 7,248,347 8,408,350 64,321,121 Cash and Cash Equivalents at the Beginning of the Fiscal Year 27,840,775 19,432,425 247,056,311 Cash and Cash Equivalents at the End of the Fiscal Year (Note 39) ¥ 35,089,122 ¥ 27,840,775 $ 311,377,432 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 162 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Basis for Presentation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared from the accounts maintained by Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (“MHFG”) and its consolidated subsidiaries in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Company Law of Japan and the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, and in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”) which are different in certain respects from the application and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards. Certain items presented in the consolidated financial statements which were previously filed with the Director General of the Kanto Local Finance Bureau are reclassified for the convenience of readers outside Japan. The notes to the consolidated financial statements include information which is not required under Japanese GAAP but is presented herein as additional information. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. Totals may not add up exactly because of such truncation. Amounts in U.S. dollars are included solely for the convenience of readers outside Japan. The rate of ¥112.69=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2016 has been used for translation. The inclusion of such amounts is not intended to imply that Japanese yen has been or could be readily converted, realized or settled into U.S. dollars at that rate or any other rate. 2. Scope of Consolidation (a) The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, “the Group”), including Mizuho Bank, Ltd. (“MHBK”), Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (“MHTB”), Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. (“MHSC”) and certain other subsidiaries. The numbers of consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2016 and 2015 were 143 and 150, respectively. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, Simplex Investment Advisors Inc. and seven other companies were newly included in the scope of consolidation as a result of acquisition of the stocks and other factors. During the period, Mizuho Financial Strategy, Co., Ltd. and 14 other companies were excluded from the scope of consolidation as a result of merger and other factors. (b) There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2016 and 2015. 3. Application of the Equity Method (a) There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries under the equity method as of March 31, 2016 and 2015. (b) The numbers of affiliates under the equity method as of March 31, 2016 and 2015 were 27 and 21, respectively. Investments in affiliates include Orient Corporation, The Chiba Kogyo Bank, Ltd., Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam and certain other affiliates. During the period, Matthews International Capital Management, LLC and five other companies were newly included in the scope of the equity method as a result of acquisition of the stocks and other factors. (c) There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries not under the equity method as of March 31, 2016 and 2015. (d) Certain other affiliates, including Asian-American Merchant Bank Limited, are not accounted for under the equity method, as they are not significant to the consolidated financial statements of MHFG. 163 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4. Balance Sheet Dates of Consolidated Subsidiaries (a) Balance sheet dates of consolidated subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 are as follows: July 31 1 company December 29 12 companies December 31 51 companies March 31 79 companies (b) Consolidated subsidiaries with balance sheet dates of December 29 were consolidated based on their tentative financial statements as of and for the period ended December 31. The consolidated subsidiary with balance sheet dates of July 31 was consolidated based on its tentative financial statement as of and for the period ended the consolidated balance sheet date. Other consolidated subsidiaries were consolidated based on their financial statements as of and for the period ended their respective balance sheet dates. The necessary adjustments have been made to the financial statements for any significant transactions that took place between their respective balance sheet dates and the date of the consolidated financial statements. 164 5. Standards of Accounting Method (1) Credited Loans pursuant to Trading Securities and Trading Income & Expenses Credited loans held for the purpose of trading are, in line with trading securities, recognized on a trade date basis and recorded in Other Debt Purchased on the consolidated balance sheet. Other Debt Purchased related to the relevant credited loans is stated at fair value at the consolidated balance sheet date. Interest received and the gains or losses on the sale of the relevant credited loans during the fiscal year, including the gains or losses resulting from any change in the value between the beginning and the end of the fiscal year, are recognized in Other Operating Income and Other Operating Expenses on the consolidated statement of income. (2)Trading Assets & Liabilities and Trading Income & Expenses Trading transactions intended to take advantage of short-term fluctuations and arbitrage opportunities in interest rates, currency exchange rates, market prices of securities and related indices are recognized on a trade-date basis and recorded in Trading Assets or Trading Liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Income or expenses generated on the relevant trading transactions are recorded in Trading Income or Trading Expenses on the consolidated statement of income. Securities and other monetary claims held for trading purposes are stated at fair value at the consolidated balance sheet date. Derivative financial products, such as swaps, futures and option transactions, are stated at their fair values, assuming that such transactions are terminated and settled at the consolidated balance sheet date. Trading Income and Trading Expenses include the interest received and paid during the fiscal year, the gains or losses resulting from any change in the value of securities and other monetary claims between the beginning and the end of the fiscal year, and the gains or losses resulting from any change in the value of financial derivatives between the beginning and the end of the fiscal year, assuming they were settled at the end of the fiscal year. (3) Securities In accordance with “Accounting Standard for Financial Instruments” (the Business Accounting Deliberation Council, January 22, 1999), MHFG classifies securities, excluding those of investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates, into three categories based upon management's intent. These securities are accounted for as follows: (i) Trading securities are carried at market value and included in Trading Assets. (ii) Bonds held to maturity are stated at amortized cost (straight-line method) and determined by the moving average method. (iii) Other securities are securities which are not classified as either trading securities or bonds held to maturity. Other securities which have readily determinable fair value are stated at fair value with changes in net unrealized gains or losses, net of applicable income taxes after excluding gains and losses as a result of the fair-value hedge method, included directly in Net Assets. The fair value of Japanese stocks is determined based on the average quoted market price over the month preceding the consolidated balance sheet date. The fair value of securities other than Japanese stocks is determined at the quoted market price if available, or other reasonable value at the consolidated balance sheet date (cost of securities sold is calculated primarily by the moving-average method). Other securities, the fair values of which are extremely difficult to determine, are stated at acquisition cost or amortized cost which is determined by the moving-average method. In addition, investments in affiliates not under the equity method are stated at acquisition cost as determined by the moving average-method. Securities which are held as trust assets in Money Held in Trust accounts are valued in the same way as Securities above. Certain Securities other than Trading Securities (excluding Securities for which it is deemed to be extremely difficult to determine the fair value) are devalued to the fair value, and the difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value is treated as a loss for the fiscal year (“impairment (devaluation)”), if the fair value (primarily the closing market price at the consolidated balance sheet date) has significantly deteriorated compared with the acquisition cost (including amortized cost), and unless it is deemed that there is a possibility of a recovery in the fair value. The amounts of impairment (devaluation) were ¥9,161 million ($81,294 thousand) and ¥3,206 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 165 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements The criteria for determining whether a security's fair value has “significantly deteriorated” are outlined as follows: ・Security whose fair value is 50% or less of the acquisition cost ・Security whose fair value exceeds 50% but is 70% or less of the acquisition cost and the quoted market price maintains a certain level or lower (4) Bills Discounted In accordance with “Accounting and Auditing Treatment relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Financial Instruments for Banks” (The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“JICPA”) Industry Audit Committee Report No. 24), bills discounted are accounted for as financing transactions. The banking subsidiaries have rights to sell or pledge these bankers' acceptances, commercial bills, documentary bills and foreign exchange bills purchased. The face value of these bills amounted to ¥1,304,681 million ($11,577,619 thousand) and ¥1,370,730 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (5) Derivative Transactions Derivative transactions are valued at fair value with changes in fair value included in current income. Derivatives qualifying as hedges are mainly accounted for using either the fair-value hedge method or the deferred method of hedge accounting (see (22) Hedge Accounting). (6) Tangible Fixed Assets (Except for Lease Assets) Depreciation of buildings is computed mainly by the straight-line method, and that of others is computed mainly by the declining-balance method. The range of useful lives is as follows: Buildings 3 years to 50 years Others 2 years to 20 years (7) Intangible Fixed Assets (Except for Lease Assets) Amortization of Intangible Fixed Assets is computed by the straight-line method. Development costs for internally-used software are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful lives of mainly from five to ten years as determined by MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries. (8) Lease Assets Depreciation of lease assets booked in Tangible Fixed Assets and Intangible Fixed Assets which are concerned with finance lease transactions that do not transfer ownership is mainly computed by the same method as the one applied to fixed assets owned by us. (9) Deferred Assets Bond issuance costs are expensed as incurred. 166 (10) Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans of major domestic consolidated subsidiaries are maintained in accordance with internally established standards for write-offs and reserve provisions: • For claims extended to obligors that are legally bankrupt under the Bankruptcy Law, Special Liquidation under the Company Law or other similar laws (“Bankrupt Obligors”), and to obligors that are effectively in similar conditions (“Substantially Bankrupt Obligors”), reserves are maintained at the amounts of claims net of direct write-offs described below and the expected amounts recoverable from the disposition of collateral and the amounts recoverable under guarantees. • For claims extended to obligors that are not yet legally or formally bankrupt but are likely to be bankrupt (“Intensive Control Obligors”), reserves are maintained at the amounts deemed necessary based on overall solvency analyses of the amounts of claims net of expected amounts recoverable from the disposition of collateral and the amounts recoverable under guarantees. • For claims extended to Intensive Control Obligors and Obligors with Restructured Loans (defined in Note 12 below) and others, if the exposure to an obligor exceeds a certain specific amount, reserves are provided as follows: (i) if future cash flows of the principal and interest can be reasonably estimated, the discounted cash flow method is applied, under which the reserve is determined as the difference between the book value of the loan and its present value of future cash flows discounted using the contractual interest rate before the loan was classified as a Restructured Loan, and (ii) if future cash flows of the principal and interest cannot be reasonably estimated, reserves are provided for the losses estimated for each individual loan. • For claims extended to other obligors, reserves are maintained at rates derived from historical credit loss experience and other factors. • Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries is maintained in order to cover possible losses based on analyses of the political and economic climates of the countries. All claims are assessed by each claim origination department in accordance with the internally established “Self-assessment Standard,” and the results of the assessments are verified and examined by the independent examination departments. In the case of claims to Bankrupt Obligors and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors, which are collateralized or guaranteed by a third party, the amounts deemed uncollectible (calculated by deducting the anticipated proceeds from the sale of collateral pledged against the claims and amounts that are expected to be recovered from guarantors of the claims) are written off against the respective claim balances. The total directly written-off amounts were ¥157,807 million ($1,400,372 thousand) and ¥227,209 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Other consolidated subsidiaries provide the amount necessary to cover the loan losses based upon past experience and other factors for general claims and the assessment for each individual loan for other claims. (11) Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments is maintained to provide against possible losses on investments in securities, after taking into consideration the financial condition and other factors concerning the investee company. (12) Reserve for Bonus Payments Reserve for Bonus Payments, which is provided for future bonus payments to employees, is maintained at the amount accrued at the end of the fiscal year, based on the estimated future payments. (13) Reserve for Variable Compensation To prepare for the payments of performance payments and stock compensation to be paid as variable compensation within compensation for directors and executive officers of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc., Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd., and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd., the estimated payment based on the standard amount regarding variable compensation of this fiscal year is provided. (14) Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits, which is provided for future retirement benefit payments to directors, corporate auditors, and executive officers, is recognized at the amount accrued by the end of the respective fiscal year, based on the internally established standards. 167 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (15) Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans is provided for possible future losses on sales of loans at the amount deemed necessary based on a reasonable estimate of possible future losses. (16) Reserve for Contingencies Reserve for Contingencies is maintained to provide against possible losses from contingencies which are not covered by other specific reserves. The balance is an estimate of possible future losses considered to require a reserve. (17) Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits is provided against the losses for the deposits derecognized from Liabilities at the estimated amount of future claims for withdrawal by depositors. (18) Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures is provided for the debentures derecognized from Liabilities at the estimated amount for future claims. (19) Reserve under Special Laws Reserve under Special Laws is Reserve for Contingent Liabilities from Financial Instruments and Exchange of ¥2,024 million ($17,962 thousand) and ¥1,607 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. This is the reserve pursuant to Article 46-5 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law and Article 175 of the Cabinet Office Ordinance regarding Financial Instruments Business, etc. to indemnify the losses incurred from accidents in the purchase and sale of securities, other transactions or derivative transactions. (20) Accounting Method for Retirement Benefits In calculating retirement benefit obligations, a benefit formula basis is used as a method of attributing expected retirement benefits to the period up to the end of this fiscal year. Unrecognized actuarial differences are recognized as income or expenses from the following fiscal year under the straight-line method over a certain term within the average remaining service period of the employees (mainly 10 years) of the respective fiscal years. Certain consolidated subsidiaries apply the simplified method that assumes the amount required for voluntary resignation at the end of the term to be retirement benefit obligations in computing net defined benefit liability and retirement benefit expenses. (21) Assets and Liabilities Denominated in Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and accounts of overseas branches of domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries and a domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiary are translated into Japanese yen primarily at the exchange rates in effect at the consolidated balance sheet date, with the exception of the investments in affiliates not under the equity method, which are translated at historical exchange rates. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies of the consolidated subsidiaries, except for the transactions mentioned above, are translated into Japanese yen primarily at the exchange rates in effect at the respective balance sheet dates. 168 (22) Hedge Accounting (a) Interest Rate Risk The deferred method, the fair-value hedge method or the exceptional accrual method for interest rate swaps are applied as hedge accounting methods. The portfolio hedge transaction for a large volume of small-value monetary claims and liabilities of domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries and some of domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiaries is accounted for by the method stipulated in the JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No.24, February 13, 2002. The effectiveness of hedging activities for the portfolio hedge transaction for a large volume of small-value monetary claims and liabilities is assessed as follows: (i) as for hedging activities to offset market fluctuation risks, the effectiveness is assessed by bracketing both the hedged instruments, such as deposits and loans, and the hedging instruments, such as interest-rate swaps, in the same maturity bucket. (ii) as for hedging activities to fix the cash flows, the effectiveness is assessed based on the correlation between the base interest rate index of the hedged instrument and that of the hedging instrument. The effectiveness of the individual hedge is assessed based on the comparison of the fluctuation in the market or of cash flows of the hedged instruments with that of the hedging instruments. Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges recorded on the consolidated balance sheet resulted from the application of the macro-hedge method based on the “Tentative Accounting and Auditing Treatment relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Financial Instruments for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No.15), under which the overall interest rate risks inherent in loans, deposits and other instruments are controlled on a macro-basis using derivatives transactions. These deferred hedge gains/losses are amortized as interest income or interest expenses over the remaining maturity and average remaining maturity of the respective hedging instruments. The unamortized amounts of gross deferred hedge losses on the macro-hedges, before net of applicable income taxes, were ¥319 million ($2,835 thousand) and ¥856 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The unamortized amounts of gross deferred hedge gains on the macro-hedges, before net of applicable income taxes, were ¥177 million ($1,573 thousand) and ¥704 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (b) Foreign Exchange Risk Domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries and some of domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiaries apply the deferred method of hedge accounting to hedge foreign exchange risks associated with various financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as stipulated in the “Accounting and Auditing Treatment relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Foreign Currency Transactions for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No.25, July 29, 2002). The effectiveness of the hedge is assessed by confirming that the amount of the foreign currency position of the hedged monetary claims and liabilities is equal to or larger than that of currencyswap transactions, exchange swap transactions, and similar transactions designated as the hedging instruments of the foreign exchange risk. In addition to the above methods, these subsidiaries apply the deferred method or the fair-value hedge method to portfolio hedges of the foreign exchange risks associated with investments in subsidiaries and affiliates denominated in foreign currency and Other securities denominated in foreign currency (except for bonds) identified as hedged items in advance, as long as the amount of foreign currency payables of spot and forward foreign exchange contracts exceeds the amount of acquisition cost of the hedged foreign securities denominated in foreign currency. (c) Inter-company Transactions Inter-company interest rate swaps, currency swaps and similar derivatives among consolidated companies or between trading accounts and other accounts, which are designated as hedges, are not eliminated and related gains and losses are recognized in the statement of income or deferred under hedge accounting, because these intercompany derivatives are executed according to the criteria for appropriate outside third-party cover operations which are treated as hedge transactions objectively in accordance with JICPA Industry Audit Committee Reports No.24 and 25. As for certain assets and liabilities of MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries, the deferred method, the fair-value hedge method or the exceptional accrual method for interest rate swaps are applied. 169 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (23) Consumption Taxes and Other With respect to MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries, Japanese consumption taxes and local consumption taxes are excluded from transaction amounts. (24) Amortization Method of Goodwill and Amortization Period Goodwill is amortized over an appropriate period not to exceed 20 years under the straight-line method. The full amount of Goodwill that has no material impact is expensed as incurred. (25) Scope of Cash and Cash Equivalents on Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows In the consolidated statement of cash flows, Cash and Cash Equivalents consist of cash and due from central banks included in “Cash and Due from Banks” on the consolidated balance sheet. 6. Change in Accounting Policies Application of “Accounting Standard for Business Combinations” and others MHFG has applied “Revised Accounting Standard for Business Combinations” (ASBJ Statement No. 21, September 13, 2013) (hereinafter, the “Business Combinations Accounting Standard”), “Revised Accounting Standard for Consolidated Financial Statements” (ASBJ Statement No. 22, September 13, 2013) (hereinafter, the “Consolidation Accounting Standard”), “Revised Accounting Standard for Business Divestitures” (ASBJ Statement No. 7, September 13, 2013) (hereinafter, the “Business Divestitures Accounting Standard” ) and other standards from the consolidated fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. Accordingly, the accounting methods have been changed to record the difference arising from changes in equity in subsidiaries which MHFG continues to control as capital surplus, and to record business acquisition costs as expenses for the fiscal year in which incurred. In addition, regarding business combinations occurring on or after April 1, 2015, the accounting method has been changed to retroactively reflect adjustments to the amount allocated to acquisition costs arising from the finalization of the provisional accounting treatment on the consolidated financial statements of the period in which the business combination occurs. Furthermore, presentation of Net Income and others has been changed and presentation of Minority Interests has been changed to Non-controlling Interests. In order to reflect the changes in presentation of financial statements, reclassification was made accordingly in the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. In the consolidated statements of cash flows for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, cash flow regarding acquisition or sale of the stocks of the subsidiaries unaccompanied by changes in the scope of consolidation has been classified into Cash Flow from Financing Activities. Cash flow regarding costs arising from acquisition of the stocks of the subsidiaries accompanied by changes in the scope of consolidation or costs arising from acquisition or sale of the stocks of the subsidiaries unaccompanied by changes in the scope of consolidation has been classified into Cash Flow from Operating Activities. The Business Combinations Accounting Standard and other standards have been applied in accordance with the transitional treatment set forth in Article 58-2 (3) of the Business Combinations Accounting Standard, Article 44-5 (3) of the Consolidation Accounting Standard and Article 57-4 (3) of the Business Divestitures Accounting Standard. The cumulative effects arising from the retroactive application of these new accounting policies to all the previous fiscal years were added to or deducted from capital surplus and retained earnings as of April 1, 2015. As a result, Goodwill decreased by ¥48,063 million, Retained Earnings decreased by ¥48,999 million, and Capital Surplus increased by ¥935 million as of April 1, 2015. In addition, Ordinary Profits and Income before Income Taxes for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 each increased by ¥3,960 million. As a result of reflection of the cumulative effects on the Net Assets as of April 1, 2015, Capital Surplus increased by ¥935 million and Retained Earnings decreased by ¥48,999 million as of April 1, 2015 in the consolidated statements of changes in net assets. 7. Issued but not yet Adopted Accounting Standard and Others Revised Implementation Guidance on Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets (ASBJ Guidance No.26, March 28, 2016) (i) Overview This accounting standard comes from guidance on recoverability of deferred tax assets provided in “Audit Guideline for Considering Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets” (JICPA Audit Committee Report No. 66) and the content of the guidance has been basically taken over and partially revised. 170 (ii) Scheduled Date of Application Mizuho Financial Group is scheduled to apply this accounting standard from the beginning of the fiscal year starting on April 1, 2016. (iii) Effect of Application of this accounting standard The effect of the application of this accounting standard is under consideration. 8. Change in Presentation of Financial Statements Refund of Income Taxes included within Current Income Taxes for the previous consolidated fiscal year has been separately presented from this consolidated fiscal year due to increased materiality. In order to reflect the change in presentation of financial statements, reclassification of the previous consolidated fiscal year has been made accordingly. As a result, Current Income Taxes of ¥260,268 million presented in the consolidated statement of income for the previous consolidated fiscal year has been reclassified as Current Income Taxes of ¥260,799 million and Refund of Income Taxes of ¥(531) million. 9. Securities Lending and Borrowing Transactions MHFG does not have unsecured loaned securities which the borrowers have the right to sell or repledge as of March 31, 2016 and 2015. MHFG has the right to sell or repledge some of unsecured borrowed securities, securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed with cash collateral. Among them, the totals of securities repledged were ¥11,479,189 million ($101,865,203 thousand) and ¥12,240,951 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and securities neither repledged nor re-loaned were ¥798,317 million ($7,084,187 thousand) and ¥1,264,787 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 10. Trading Assets and Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Trading Assets: Trading Securities ¥ 5,467,948 ¥ 5,042,005 $ 48,522,034 Derivatives for Trading Transactions 7,369,060 5,526,350 65,392,320 Derivatives for Trading Securities 167,514 213,379 1,486,506 Total ¥ 13,004,522 ¥ 10,781,735 $ 115,400,860 Trading Liabilities: Trading Securities Sold Short ¥ 2,630,040 ¥ 3,200,813 $ 23,338,721 Derivatives for Trading Transactions 7,500,312 5,335,870 66,557,034 Derivatives for Trading Securities 145,781 206,512 1,293,648 Total ¥ 10,276,133 ¥ 8,743,196 $ 91,189,403 171 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 11. Securities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Japanese Government Bonds ¥ 19,525,905 ¥ 21,775,918 $ 173,270,972 Japanese Local Government Bonds 240,680 238,587 2,135,777 Japanese Short-term Bonds 99 99 887 Japanese Corporate Bonds 2,867,899 2,674,037 25,449,457 Japanese Stocks*1 3,898,737 4,500,792 34,597,011 Other*2 12,972,648 14,089,298 115,118,009 Total ¥ 39,505,971 ¥ 43,278,733 $ 350,572,113 *1 Japanese Stocks included investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates of ¥238,076 million ($2,112,664 thousand) and ¥229,160 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. *2 Other included investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates of ¥81,335 million ($721,762 thousand) and ¥62,814 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 12. Loans and Bills Discounted Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Loans on Deeds ¥ 61,992,177 ¥ 61,263,590 $ 550,112,495 Overdrafts 7,981,743 7,960,639 70,829,204 Loans on Notes 2,925,491 3,216,933 25,960,525 Bills Discounted 427,206 418,171 3,790,985 Financing Receivables, including Factoring, Leasing and Property Financing 377,325 551,112 3,348,349 Other 4,941 4,723 43,852 Total ¥ 73,708,884 ¥ 73,415,170 $ 654,085,410 Loans and Bills Discounted as of March 31, 2016 and 2015 include the following: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Loans to Bankrupt Obligors*1 ¥ 24,315 ¥ 10,246 $ 215,774 Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans*2 396,720 425,778 3,520,460 Loans Past Due for Three Months or More*3 907 3,496 8,055 Restructured Loans*4 463,108 614,928 4,109,581 Total ¥ 885,052 ¥ 1,054,450 $ 7,853,870 *1 Loans to Bankrupt Obligors represent non-accrual loans to obligors who are legally bankrupt as defined in Article 96, Paragraph 1, Items 3 and 4 of the Corporate Tax Law Enforcement Ordinance (Government Ordinance No.97, 1965). *2 Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans represent non-accrual loans other than (i) Loans to Bankrupt Obligors and (ii) loans of which payments of interest are deferred in order to assist or facilitate the restructuring of obligors in financial difficulties. *3 Loans to Bankrupt Obligors or Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans, both of which are classified as non-accrual, are not included in this category. *4 Restructured Loans represent loans on which contracts were amended in favor of obligors (e.g., the reduction of or exemption from stated interest, the deferral of interest payments, the extension of maturity dates, or renunciation of claims) in order to assist or facilitate the restructuring of obligors in financial difficulties. Note: The amounts given in the above table are gross amounts before deduction of amounts for the Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans. 172 Commitment Line for Loans Overdraft protection on current accounts and contracts of the commitment line for loans are contracts by which banking subsidiaries are bound to extend loans up to the prearranged amount, at the request of customers, unless the customer is in breach of contract conditions. The unutilized balance of these contracts amounted to ¥88,290,896 million ($783,484,748 thousand) and ¥82,839,928 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Of these amounts, ¥68,209,392 million ($605,283,453 thousand) and ¥64,322,076 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, relate to contracts of which the original contractual maturity is one year or less, or which are unconditionally cancelable at any time. Since many of these contracts expire without being exercised, the unutilized balance itself does not necessarily affect future cash flows. A provision is included in many of these contracts that entitles the banking subsidiaries to refuse the execution of loans, or reduce the maximum amount under contracts when there is a change in the financial situation, necessity to preserve a claim, or other similar reasons. The banking subsidiaries require collateral such as real estate and securities when deemed necessary at the time the contracts are entered into. In addition, they periodically monitor customers’ business conditions in accordance with internally established standards and take necessary measures to manage credit risks such as amendments to contracts. 13. Foreign Exchange Assets and Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Foreign Exchange Assets: Foreign Bills Bought ¥ 877,475 ¥ 952,558 $ 7,786,635 Foreign Bills Receivable 301,643 416,944 2,676,751 Due from Banks (Foreign) 268,348 254,167 2,381,300 Advance to Foreign Banks 275 65 2,445 Total ¥ 1,447,743 ¥ 1,623,736 $ 12,847,131 Foreign Exchange Liabilities: Due to Banks (Foreign) ¥ 459,956 ¥ 416,320 $ 4,081,610 Advance from Foreign Banks 13,736 25,800 121,898 Foreign Bills Payable 14,599 26,251 129,555 Foreign Bills Sold 4,180 4,688 37,101 Total ¥ 492,473 ¥ 473,060 $ 4,370,164 14. Other Assets Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Accrued Income ¥ 279,470 ¥ 281,063 $ 2,479,992 Prepaid Expenses 45,073 43,258 399,977 Other 3,819,587 3,742,102 33,894,643 Total ¥ 4,144,131 ¥ 4,066,424 $ 36,774,612 173 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 15. Tangible Fixed Assets Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Land ¥ 605,626 ¥ 612,901 $ 5,374,266 Buildings 344,311 340,101 3,055,385 Lease Assets 24,919 18,566 221,131 Construction in Progress 19,698 13,786 174,799 Other 91,237 92,695 809,630 Total ¥ 1,085,791 ¥ 1,078,051 $ 9,635,211 Accumulated Depreciation ¥ 857,628 ¥ 842,605 $ 7,610,507 Book Value Adjusted for Gains on Sales of Replaced Assets and Others 34,267 35,685 304,086 16. Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans ¥ (304,828) ¥ (344,496) $ (2,705,020) Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans (154,689) (180,386) (1,372,699) Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries (13) (603) (118) Total ¥ (459,531) ¥ (525,486) $ (4,077,837) 17. Assets Pledged as Collateral The following assets were pledged as collateral: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Trading Assets ¥ 2,674,897 ¥ 2,567,206 $ 23,736,780 Securities 10,631,675 11,209,154 94,344,446 Loans and Bills Discounted 5,475,195 6,580,383 48,586,351 Other Assets 1,015 1,006 9,009 The following liabilities were collateralized by the above assets: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Deposits ¥ 813,050 ¥ 772,816 $ 7,214,929 Call Money and Bills Sold — 1,265,000 — Payables under Repurchase Agreements 6,090,727 7,861,692 54,048,520 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 2,553,436 2,121,374 22,658,945 Borrowed Money 6,115,880 5,516,730 54,271,722 174 In addition, the settlement accounts of foreign and domestic exchange transactions or derivatives transactions and others were collateralized, and margins for futures transactions were substituted by Cash and Due from Banks of ¥45,101 million ($400,227 thousand) and ¥34,156 million, Trading Assets of ¥98,922 million ($877,832 thousand) and ¥210,434 million, Securities of ¥4,323,535 million ($38,366,633 thousand) and ¥4,518,541 million, and Loans and Bills Discounted of ¥307,997 million ($2,733,142 thousand) and ¥191,639 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Other Assets included guarantee deposits of ¥119,149 million ($1,057,322 thousand) and ¥119,437 million, collateral pledged for derivatives transactions of ¥743,406 million ($6,596,920 thousand) and ¥529,449 million, margins for futures transactions of ¥192,188 million ($1,705,460 thousand) and ¥193,743 million, and other guarantee deposits of ¥187,592 million ($1,664,679 thousand) and ¥41,713 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 18. Deposits Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Current Deposits ¥ 7,998,604 ¥ 7,183,120 $ 70,978,831 1 Ordinary Deposits* 52,384,886 45,900,575 464,858,339 Deposits at Notice 931,867 863,870 8,269,304 Time Deposits 38,483,960 38,409,156 341,502,892 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 11,827,533 15,694,906 104,956,369 Other 5,829,751 5,400,823 51,732,645 Total ¥ 117,456,604 ¥ 113,452,451 $ 1,042,298,380 *1 Ordinary Deposits includes savings deposits. 19. Call Money and Bills Sold Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Call Money ¥ 2,521,008 ¥ 5,091,198 $ 22,371,182 Bills Sold — — — Total ¥ 2,521,008 ¥ 5,091,198 $ 22,371,182 20. Commercial Paper Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Average interest rates*1 As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 2016 2015 Commercial Paper ¥1,010,139 ¥538,511 $8,963,882 0.60% 0.22% *1 Average interest rates are the weighted-average interest rates of debts calculated from the interest rates and outstanding balances at the end of the fiscal year. 175 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 21. Borrowed Money Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Average interest rates*1 As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 2016 2015 Borrowed Money ¥7,503,543 ¥7,195,869 $ 66,585,710 0.26% 0.32% Bills rediscounted ― ― ― —% —% 2,3 Other Borrowings* 7,503,543 7,195,869 66,585,710 0.26% 0.32% *1 Average interest rates are the weighted-average interest rates of debts calculated from the interest rates and outstanding balances at the end of the fiscal year. *2 Other Borrowings included subordinated debt of ¥307,000 million ($2,724,288 thousand) and ¥456,000 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. *3 Repayments for Other Borrowings are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2017 ¥ 1,381,168 million ($ 12,256,356 thousand) 2018 ¥ 114,054 million ($ 1,012,110 thousand) 2019 ¥ 4,164,975 million ($ 36,959,583 thousand) 2020 ¥ 867,637 million ($ 7,699,330 thousand) 2021 ¥ 67,124 million ($ 595,660 thousand) 22. Short-term Bonds Major components of Short-term Bonds at March 31, 2016 were as follows: Issuer Issue Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Interest rates Due MHFG Jan. 2016 ¥ 78,000 $ 692,164 0.11% Apr. 2016 [78,000] [692,164] MHSC Oct. 2015–Mar. 2016 513,700 4,558,524 0.00%–0.10% Apr. 2016– [513,700] [4,558,524] Feb. 2017 *1 Nov. 2015–Mar. 2016 56,681 502,987 0.07%–0.23% Apr. 2016– [56,681] [502,987] Jun. 2016 Total ¥ 648,381 $ 5,753,675 *1 indicates the total amount of Short-term Bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, Allstar Funding Co., Ltd, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, BLUE HEAVEN FUNDING CORPORATION, JAPAN SECURITIZATION CORPORATION and ETERNAL FUNDING CORPORATION. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. No collateral was provided for the above Short-term Bonds. Major components of Short-term Bonds at March 31, 2015 were as follows: Issuer Issue Millions of yen Interest rates Due MHFG Jan. 2015–Mar. 2015 ¥ 261,000 0.11% Apr. 2015– [261,000] Jun. 2015 MHBK Mar. 2015 25,000 0.06% Apr. 2015 [25,000] MHSC Oct. 2014–Mar. 2015 456,500 0.03%–0.12% Apr. 2015– [456,500] Oct. 2015 *1 Oct. 2014–Mar. 2015 74,205 0.12%–0.28% Apr. 2015– [74,205] May 2015 Total ¥ 816,705 *1 indicates the total amount of Short-term Bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, Allstar Funding Co., Ltd, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, BLUE HEAVEN FUNDING CORPORATION, ASTRO CAPITAL CORPORATIONⅡand ETERNAL FUNDING CORPORATION. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. No collateral was provided for the above Short-term Bonds. 176 23. Bonds and Notes Major components of Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2016 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Interest Issuer Description Issue Millions of yen dollars rates Due MHFG Straight Bonds Jul. 2014– ¥ 584,517 $ 5,186,951 0.62%– Jul. 2024Oct.2015 [—] [—] 4.35% MHTB Straight Bonds Dec. 2005 10,000 88,739 2.24% Dec. 2020– [—] [—] MHBK Straight Bonds Aug. 2005– 4,376,773 38,839,058 0.10%– Apr. 2016– Mar. 2016 [670,580] [5,950,668] 9.00% (US$ 17,046,442 thousand) (AUD 930,000 thousand) (SGD 250,000 thousand) (HKD 1,220,000 thousand) (CNY 250,000 thousand) (THB 3,000,000 thousand) *1 Straight Bonds Jul. 2012– 337,361 2,993,712 4.20%– Jul. 2022– Mar. 2014 [—] [—] 4.60% Mar. 2024 (US$ 2,993,712 thousand) *2 Straight Bonds Sep. 2005– 48,600 431,272 1.30%– Jun. 2018– May 2012 [—] [—] 2.75% *3 Straight Bonds Jan. 2003– 763,675 6,776,784 0.00%– Apr. 2016– Mar. 2016 [143,009] [1,269,048] 16.00% Mar. 2046 (US$ 1,158,490 thousand) (AUD 31,600 thousand) (EUR 295,000 thousand) (BRL 14,500 thousand) Total ¥ 6,120,928 $ 54,316,516 *1 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 2 Limited and Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 3 Limited. *2 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Finance (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Finance (Curaçao) N.V. and Mizuho Finance (Aruba) A.E.C. *3 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, MHSC, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho International plc and Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. The amounts of foreign currency-denominated bonds are shown in original currencies in parentheses ( ). 3. Repayments for Bonds and Notes are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2017 ¥ 813,589 million ($ 7,219,717 thousand) 2018 ¥ 1,334,120 million ($ 11,838,855 thousand) 2019 ¥ 580,037 million ($ 5,147,193 thousand) 2020 ¥ 809,661 million ($ 7,184,861 thousand) 2021 ¥ 270,333 million ($ 2,398,915 thousand) 4. Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2016 included subordinated bonds and notes of ¥1,713,478 million ($15,205,244 thousand). 5. No collateral was provided for the above Bonds and Notes. 177 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Major components of Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2015 were as follows: Interest Issuer Description Issue Millions of yen rates Due MHFG Straight Bonds Jul. 2014– ¥ 150,000 0.62%– Jul. 2024Dec.2014 [—] 4.25% Dec. 2029 MHTB Straight Bonds Dec. 2005– 42,200 1.91%– Dec. 2015– Aug. 2009 [30,000] 3.19% MHBK Straight Bonds Aug. 2005– 4,624,117 0.10%– Apr. 2015– Mar. 2015 [540,420] 9.00% (US$ 14,249,587 thousand) (AUD 660,000 thousand) (SGD 100,000 thousand) *1 Straight Bonds Jul. 2012– 359,949 4.20%– Jul. 2022– Mar. 2014 [—] 4.60% Mar. 2024 (US$ 2,992,846 thousand) *2 Straight Bonds Jul. 1995– 54,000 1.30%– Jun. 2018– May 2012 [—] 3.90% *3 Straight Bonds Jan. 2003– 783,464 0.00%– Apr. 2015– Mar. 2015 [179,556] 18.80% Mar. 2045 (US$ 655,930 thousand) (AUD 18,970 thousand) (EUR 371,047 thousand) (BRL 14,500 thousand) Total ¥ 6,013,731 *1 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 2 Limited and Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 3 Limited. *2 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Finance (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Finance (Curaçao) N.V. and Mizuho Finance (Aruba) A.E.C. *3 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, MHSC, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho International plc, Mizuho Bank (China),Ltd and Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. The amounts of foreign currency-denominated bonds are shown in original currencies in parentheses ( ). 3. Repayments for Bonds and Notes are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2016 ¥ 1,566,681 million 2017 ¥ 740,623 million 2018 ¥ 1,366,009 million 2019 ¥ 406,159 million 2020 ¥ 844,199 million 4. Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2015 included subordinated bonds and notes of ¥1,409,149 million. 5. No collateral was provided for the above Bonds and Notes. 178 24. Other Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Accrued Expenses ¥ 174,043 ¥ 139,417 $ 1,544,445 Unearned Income 148,994 149,019 1,322,161 Income Taxes Payable 96,714 158,755 858,232 Lease Liabilities*1*2 37,810 29,128 335,528 Other 5,075,034 3,785,635 45,035,355 Total ¥5,532,596 ¥ 4,261,955 $ 49,095,721 *1 Average interest rate is 1.50% and 1.78% in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. It is the weighted-average interest rate of debts calculated from the interest rates and outstanding balances at the end of the fiscal year. *2 Repayments for Lease Liabilities are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2017 ¥ 9,586 million ($ 85,071 thousand) 2018 ¥ 8,744 million ($ 77,598 thousand) 2019 ¥ 8,083 million ($ 71,731 thousand) 2020 ¥ 6,227 million ($ 55,263 thousand) 2021 ¥ 3,799 million ($ 33,720 thousand) 25. Reserve for Employee Retirement Benefits (1) MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries have adopted the Corporate Pension Fund Plans (“Kigyo Nenkin Kikin Seido”), and the Termination Allowance Plans (“Taishoku Ichijikin Seido”) as Defined-Benefit Corporate Pension Plans. In addition, MHFG and certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries have adopted DefinedContribution Pension Plans as a part of the Termination Allowance Plans while certain other domestic consolidated subsidiaries have established employee retirement benefit trusts. (2) Defined-Benefit Corporate Pension Plans (i) Adjustment between the balances of Retirement Benefit Obligations at the beginning and at the end of the period Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Balance of Retirement Benefit Obligations at the beginning of the period ¥ 1,360,954 ¥ 1,319,387 $ 12,076,978 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Policies ― (22,582) ― Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting Changes in Accounting Policies ¥ 1,360,954 ¥ 1,296,804 $ 12,076,978 Service Cost 37,858 33,703 335,951 Interest Cost 9,269 11,975 82,260 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences incurred 125,669 82,747 1,115,177 Retirement Benefits paid (67,041) (67,070) (594,919) Other (1,562) 2,795 (13,866) Balance of Retirement Benefit Obligations at the end of the period ¥ 1,465,148 ¥ 1,360,954 $ 13,001,581 Note: The above Retirement Benefit Obligations includes the amount measured by certain consolidated subsidiaries under the simplified method. 179 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (ii) Adjustment between the balances of Plan Assets at the beginning and at the end of the period Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Balance of Plan Assets at the beginning of the period ¥ 2,056,818 ¥ 1,686,455 $ 18,252,006 Expected Return on Plan Assets 39,260 36,875 348,393 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences incurred (33,958) 332,402 (301,346) Contributions from employer 48,924 48,776 434,151 Contributions from employee 1,192 1,178 10,582 Retirement Benefits paid (50,649) (49,929) (449,456) Other (1,525) 1,058 (13,535) Balance of Plan Assets at the end of the period ¥ 2,060,062 ¥ 2,056,818 $ 18,280,795 (iii) Adjustment between the balances of Retirement Benefit Obligations and Plan Assets at the end of the period and Adjustment to the balances of Net Defined Benefit Liability and Net Defined Benefit Asset recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Retirement Benefit Obligations ¥ 1,465,148 ¥ 1,360,954 $ 13,001,581 Plan Assets (2,060,062) (2,056,818) (18,280,795) Net amount of Liability and Asset recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet ¥ (594,914) ¥ (695,863) $ (5,279,214) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Net Defined Benefit Liability ¥ 51,514 ¥ 47,518 $ 457,131 Net Defined Benefit Asset (646,428) (743,382) (5,736,345) Net amount of Liability and Asset recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet ¥ (594,914) ¥ (695,863) $ (5,279,214) (iv) Employee Retirement Benefit Expenses and the breakdown Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Service Cost ¥ 36,841 ¥ 32,967 $ 326,926 Interest Cost 9,269 11,975 82,259 Expected Return on Plan Assets (39,260) (36,875) (348,393) Amortization of Unrecognized Actuarial Differences (3,347) 22,548 (29,705) Other 4,177 5,411 37,075 Net Retirement Benefit Expenses for DefinedBenefit Corporate Pension Plans ¥ 7,681 ¥ 36,026 $ 68,162 Notes: 1. The amount of employee contributions to Mizuho Pension Fund is deducted from Service Cost. 2. Retirement benefit expenses of some consolidated subsidiaries which adopt the simplified method for calculating retirement benefit obligations are included in Service Cost in full. (v) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Other Comprehensive Income Breakdown of Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Other Comprehensive Income (before deducting tax effect) was as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences ¥ 162,971 ¥ (272,213) $ 1,146,194 Total ¥ 162,971 ¥ (272,213) $ 1,146,194 180 (vi) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Breakdown of Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (before deducting tax effect) was as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences ¥ (66,853) ¥ (229,825) $ (593,252) Total ¥ (66,853) ¥ (229,825) $ (593,252) (vii) Plan Assets (a) Ratio of each category to the total amount of Plan Assets was as follows: As of March 31, 2016 2015 Japanese Stocks 57.09% 56.33% Japanese Bonds 18.37% 16.59% Foreign Stocks 11.71% 12.65% Foreign Bonds 4.85% 4.65% General account of life insurance companies 5.88% 5.73% Other 2.10% 4.05% Total 100.00% 100.00% Note: The total amount of Plan Assets includes 56.64% and 57.20% of Employee Retirement Benefit Trusts established for the Corporate Pension Fund Plans and the Termination Allowance Plans as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (b) Calculation of Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets In determining the Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets, current and expected allocation of Plan Assets and current and expected future long-term rate of return from various assets constituting Plan Assets have been considered. (viii) Basis of Actuarial Calculation Major Basis of Actuarial Calculation For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 Discount Rate mainly 0.01%0.80% mainly 0.07%1.62% Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets mainly 1.66%2.20% mainly 1.82%2.40% (3) DefinedContribution Pension Plans The required amount of contributions to DefinedContribution Pension Plans of MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries was ¥2,698 million ($ 23,946 thousand) and ¥2,498 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 181 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 26. Acceptances and Guarantees (1) All commitments and contingent liabilities of a material nature resulting from guarantees or otherwise are included in the contra-accounts Acceptances and Guarantees and Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees. The outstanding balances of the accounts were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Guarantees ¥ 4,611,650 ¥ 5,170,320 $ 40,923,332 Letters of Credit 137,280 163,196 1,218,210 Acceptances 49,228 71,327 436,845 Total ¥ 4,798,158 ¥ 5,404,843 $ 42,578,387 Note: Liabilities for guarantees on corporate bonds included in Securities, which were issued by private placement (Article 2, Paragraph 3 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (the Securities and Exchange Law as of March 31, 2007)) amounted to ¥1,039,783 million ($9,226,936 thousand) and ¥1,036,575 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (2) The principal amounts promised to be indemnified for money trusts which are entrusted to domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiaries, were ¥787,665 million ($6,989,670 thousand) and ¥701,373 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 182 27. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities (1) Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities consisted of the following: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Deferred Tax Assets: Tax Losses Carried Forward ¥ 73,028 ¥ 110,959 $ 648,048 Devaluation of Securities 156,082 148,106 1,385,059 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans 156,418 197,846 1,388,045 Securities Contributed to Employee Retirement Benefit Trust 184,132 197,383 1,633,976 Other 177,860 185,948 1,578,321 Deferred Tax Assets Subtotal: 747,523 840,243 6,633,449 Valuation Allowance (275,445) (294,907) (2,444,278) Total ¥ 472,077 ¥ 545,336 $ 4,189,171 Deferred Tax Liabilities: Net Defined Benefit Asset ¥ (197,203) ¥ (239,199) $ (1,749,963) Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities (507,553) (690,581) (4,503,979) Other (145,602) (102,939) (1,292,063) Total ¥ (850,359) ¥ (1,032,719) $ (7,546,005) Net Deferred Tax Assets ¥ (378,281) ¥ (487,383) $ (3,356,834) Notes: 1. In addition to the balances shown in the above table, there is an equivalent amount of deferred tax assets corresponding to tax losses carried forward of ¥268,543 million ($2,383,032 thousand) and ¥281,403 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Since the tax losses carried forward resulted from transactions among consolidated subsidiaries, the deferred tax assets in the above table and in the consolidated balance sheet exclude the equivalent amount of deferred tax assets. 2. MHFG and domestic subsidiaries are subject to a number of different income taxes. (2) For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, the reconciliation of the statutory tax rate of MHFG to the effective income tax rate was as follows: For the Fiscal Year ended March 31, 2016 2015 Statutory Tax Rate 33.06% 35.64% Adjustments Change in Valuation Allowance (4.47) (3.83) Permanent Differences (e.g., Cash Dividends Received) (1.29) (1.89) Tax Rate Differences between the Consolidated Subsidiaries (3.27) (5.07) Adjustment to reduce the amount of deferred tax assets at the end of period due to changes in tax rates 0.94 2.70 Other 3.05 3.24 Effective Income Tax Rate 28.02% 30.79% 183 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (3) The revision of the amount of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities due to the change in tax rate of the corporate tax, etc: “Act on Partial Amendment to the Income Tax Act, etc.” (Act No. 15, 2016) and “Act on Partial Amendment to the Local Tax Act, etc.” (Act No. 13, 2016) were enacted on March 29, 2016, and accordingly, the corporate tax rate and other rates have been lowered from the fiscal year beginning on or after April 1, 2016. Due to this change, the effective statutory tax rate used for the calculation of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities has been revised from the previous rate of 32.26%. The rate of 30.86% has been applied to the temporary differences, expected to be either deductible, taxable or expired from the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2016 through the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2017, while the rate of 30.62% has been applied to the temporary differences, expected to be either deductible, taxable, or expired in or after the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2018. In addition, due to the revision of the carry-forward system of the net operating losses, the amount of net operating losses that can be deducted has been limited to the equivalent of 60% of taxable income before such deductions in the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2016, while the amount of net operating losses that can be deducted has been limited to the equivalent of 55% of taxable income before such deductions in or after the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2017. As a result of the changes in tax rates and the carry-forward system of the losses, Deferred Tax Liabilities decreased by ¥21,868 million ($194,056 thousand), Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities increased by ¥26,866 million ($238,414 thousand), Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges increased by ¥3,409 million ($30,252 thousand), Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans increased by ¥1,090 million ($9,676 thousand), and Deferred Income Taxes increased by ¥9,501 million ($84,314 thousand). Deferred Tax Liabilities for Revaluation Reserve for Land decreased by ¥3,626 million ($32,181 thousand) and Revaluation Reserve for Land increased by the same amount. 28. Revaluation of Land In accordance with the Land Revaluation Law (Proclamation No.34 dated March 31, 1998), land used for business operations of domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries was revalued. The applicable income taxes on the entire excess of revaluation are included in Deferred Tax Liabilities for Revaluation Reserve for Land under Liabilities, and the remainder, net of applicable income taxes, is stated as Revaluation Reserve for Land included in Net Assets. Revaluation date: March 31, 1998 Revaluation method as stated in Article 3, Paragraph 3 of the above law: Land used for business operations was revalued by calculating the value on the basis of the valuation by road rating stipulated in Article 2, Paragraph 4 of the Enforcement Ordinance relating to the Land Revaluation Law (Government Ordinance No.119 promulgated on March 31, 1998) with reasonable adjustments to compensate for sites with long depth and other factors, and also on the basis of the appraisal valuation stipulated in Paragraph 5. The difference at the consolidated balance sheet date between the total fair value of land for business operation purposes, which has been revalued in accordance with Article 10 of the above-mentioned law, and the total book value of the land after such revaluation was ¥131,964 million ($1,171,037 thousand) and ¥147,005 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 184 29. Common Stock and Preferred Stock Common Stock and Preferred Stock at March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Number of shares Per share (Yen) Interim Year-end With As of March 31, 2016 Issued and cash cash Liquidation Convertible Redemption Class of stock Authorized outstanding dividend dividend value or not or not Common Stock 48,000,000,000 25,030,525,657 ¥ 3.75 ¥ 3.75 ¥ — No No Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752,000 914,752,000 10 10 1,000 Yes No Notes: 1.Treasury Stock and stocks held by subsidiaries and affiliates are not excluded. The numbers are as follows: Common Stock 6,939 thousand shares Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 815,828 thousand shares 2. Each total number of shares which are authorized to be issued is as follows: First Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 1,500,000,000 in total. 185 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Number of shares Per share (Yen) Interim Year-end With As of March 31, 2015 Issued and cash cash Liquidation Convertible Redemption Class of stock Authorized outstanding dividend dividend value or not or not Common Stock 48,000,000,000 24,621,897,967 ¥ 3.5 ¥ 4 ¥ — No No Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752,000 914,752,000 10 10 1,000 Yes No Notes: 1.Treasury Stock and stocks held by subsidiaries and affiliates are not excluded. The numbers are as follows: Common Stock 8,695 thousand shares Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 701,631 thousand shares 2. Each total number of shares which are authorized to be issued is as follows: First Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 1,500,000,000 in total. 186 30. Stock Options (1) Total amount of stock options expensed were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 General and administrative expenses ¥－ ¥ 1,795 $－ Total ¥－ ¥ 1,795 $－ (2) Outline of stock options and changes For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 (i) Outline of stock options First Series of Stock Second Series of Stock Third Series of Stock As of March 31, 2016 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors 4 Executive Executive Executive 4 4 4 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 12 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 71 71 71 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 5,409,000 Common stock 5,835,000 Common stock 6,808,000 options*1 Grant date February 16, 2009 September 25, 2009 August 26, 2010 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB. Required service July 1, 2008 April 1, 2009 April 1, 2010 period to March 31, 2009 to March 31, 2010 to March 31, 2011 Exercise period February 17, 2009 September 28, 2009 August 27, 2010 to February 16, 2029 to September 25, 2029 to August 26, 2030 187 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Fourth Series of Stock Fifth Series of Stock Sixth Series of Stock As of March 31, 2016 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 6 Directors 6 Directors 6 Executive Executive Executive 6 11 36 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 26 subsidiaries of 23 subsidiaries of 22 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 130 150 134 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 12,452,000 Common stock 11,776,000 Common stock 7,932,000 options*1 Grant date December 8, 2011 August 31, 2012 February 17, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which The grantee may exercise the have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director Stock Acquisition Rights which or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or have been allotted based on MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee his or her capacity as a loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, Director or an Executive Officer MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or MHSC. of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2011 April 1, 2012 April 1, 2013 period to March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Exercise period December 9, 2011 September 3, 2012 February 18, 2014 to December 8, 2031 to August 31, 2032 to February 17, 2034 Seventh Series of Stock As of March 31, 2016 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 2 Executive Officers as defined 12 in the Companies Act Executive Officers as defined 37 in our internal regulations Directors of subsidiaries of 32 MHFG Executive Officers of 113 subsidiaries of MHFG Number of stock Common stock 9,602,000 options*1 Grant date December 1, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 period Exercise period December 2, 2014 to December 1, 2034 *1: Shown in number of shares 188 (ii) Size of stock options and changes (a) Number of stock options (in shares) First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2016 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2015 164,000 448,000 805,000 2,842,000 4,840,000 Granted － － － － － Forfeited － － － － － Vested 40,000 123,000 237,000 1,046,000 1,354,000 Outstanding 124,000 325,000 568,000 1,796,000 3,486,000 Vested As of March 31, 2015 － － － － － Vested 40,000 123,000 237,000 1,046,000 1,354,000 Exercised 40,000 123,000 237,000 1,046,000 1,354,000 Forfeited － － － － － Outstanding － － － － － Sixth Series of Seventh Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2016 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2015 5,257,000 9,602,000 Granted － － Forfeited － － Vested 1,697,000 2,271,000 Outstanding 3,560,000 7,331,000 Vested As of March 31, 2015 － － Vested 1,697,000 2,271,000 Exercised 1,697,000 2,271,000 Forfeited － － Outstanding － － Note: The above table is shown in number of shares. (b) Price information First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2016 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share Average stock price ¥ 226.30 ¥ 226.30 ¥ 226.30 ¥ 235.08 ¥ 229.77 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥ 190.91 ¥ 168.69 ¥ 119.52 ¥ 91.84 ¥ 113.25 per share per share per share per share per share Sixth Series of Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2016 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share Average stock price ¥ 228.00 ¥ 226.91 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥ 192.61 ¥ 186.99 per share per share 189 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (iii) Estimated number of stock options to be vested Only the number of stock options actually forfeited is reflected because the number of stock options that will be forfeited in the future cannot be readily estimated. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 (i) Outline of stock options First Series of Stock Second Series of Stock Third Series of Stock As of March 31, 2015 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors 4 Executive Executive Executive 4 4 4 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 12 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 71 71 71 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 5,409,000 Common stock 5,835,000 Common stock 6,808,000 options*1 Grant date February 16, 2009 September 25, 2009 August 26, 2010 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB. Required service July 1, 2008 April 1, 2009 April 1, 2010 period to March 31, 2009 to March 31, 2010 to March 31, 2011 Exercise period February 17, 2009 September 28, 2009 August 27, 2010 to February 16, 2029 to September 25, 2029 to August 26, 2030 190 Fourth Series of Stock Fifth Series of Stock Sixth Series of Stock As of March 31, 2015 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 6 Directors 6 Directors 6 Executive Executive Executive 6 11 36 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 26 subsidiaries of 23 subsidiaries of 22 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 130 150 134 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 12,452,000 Common stock 11,776,000 Common stock 7,932,000 options*1 Grant date December 8, 2011 August 31, 2012 February 17, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which The grantee may exercise the have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director Stock Acquisition Rights which or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or have been allotted based on MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee his or her capacity as a loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, Director or an Executive Officer MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or MHSC. of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2011 April 1, 2012 April 1, 2013 period to March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Exercise period December 9, 2011 September 3, 2012 February 18, 2014 to December 8, 2031 to August 31, 2032 to February 17, 2034 Seventh Series of Stock As of March 31, 2015 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 2 Executive Officers as defined 12 in the Companies Act Executive Officers as defined 37 in our internal regulations Directors of subsidiaries of 32 MHFG Executive Officers of 113 subsidiaries of MHFG Number of stock Common stock 9,602,000 options*1 Grant date December 1, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 period Exercise period December 2, 2014 to December 1, 2034 *1: Shown in number of shares 191 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (ii) Size of stock options and changes (a) Number of stock options (in shares) First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2015 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2014 345,000 740,000 1,230,000 4,391,000 7,275,000 Granted － － － － － Forfeited － － － － － Vested 181,000 292,000 425,000 1,549,000 2,435,000 Outstanding 164,000 448,000 805,000 2,842,000 4,840,000 Vested As of March 31, 2014 82,000 179,000 227,000 82,000 60,000 Vested 181,000 292,000 425,000 1,549,000 2,435,000 Exercised 263,000 471,000 652,000 1,631,000 2,495,000 Forfeited － － － － － Outstanding － － － － － Sixth Series of Seventh Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2015 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2014 7,932,000 － Granted － 9,602,000 Forfeited － － Vested 2,675,000 － Outstanding 5,257,000 9,602,000 Vested As of March 31, 2014 － － Vested 2,675,000 － Exercised 2,675,000 － Forfeited － － Outstanding － － Note: The above table is shown in number of shares. (b) Price information First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2015 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share Average stock price ¥ 204.31 ¥ 204.38 ¥ 204.34 ¥ 204.08 ¥ 203.81 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥ 190.91 ¥ 168.69 ¥ 119.52 ¥ 91.84 ¥ 113.25 per share per share per share per share per share Sixth Series of Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2015 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥ 1 per share ¥ 1 per share Average stock price ¥ 203.94 － upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥ 192.61 ¥ 186.99 per share per share 192 (iii) Calculation for fair value of stock options The fair value of Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of MHFG granted in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 was calculated as follows: ● Calculation method: The Black-Scholes Model ● Assumptions used in calculation As of March 31, 2015 Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of MHFG Volatility of stock price*1 25.905% Estimated remaining outstanding period*2 2.46years Expected dividend*3 ¥ 7 per share Risk-free interest rate*4 0.011% *1: Historical volatility calculated from MHFG stock prices over the 128 weeks ending on the business day (November 28, 2014) prior to the grant date, an interval equivalent to the estimated remaining outstanding period of 2.46 years. *2: The average period of service of directors at MHFG. *3: The expected dividend on common stock for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. *4: Japanese government bond yield applicable to the estimated remaining outstanding period of the stock options. (iv) Estimated number of stock options to be vested Only the number of stock options actually forfeited is reflected because the number of stock options that will be forfeited in the future cannot be readily estimated. 193 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 31. Interest Income and Interest Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Interest Income: Loans and Bills Discounted ¥ 921,653 ¥ 931,883 $ 8,178,660 Securities 308,089 351,801 2,733,957 Call Loans and Bills Purchased 6,847 7,611 60,763 Due from Banks 67,248 50,093 596,755 Receivables under Resale Agreements 41,328 27,995 366,741 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 8,640 7,096 76,671 Other Interest Income 72,449 92,495 642,914 Total ¥ 1,426,256 ¥ 1,468,976 $ 12,656,461 Interest Expenses: Deposits ¥ 202,894 ¥ 153,654 $ 1,800,469 Call Money and Bills Sold 7,711 7,609 68,435 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 59,983 30,537 532,288 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 2,988 7,549 26,523 Commercial Paper 2,285 1,682 20,285 Borrowed Money 21,505 19,287 190,841 Other Interest Expenses 125,203 119,222 1,111,042 Total ¥ 422,574 ¥ 339,543 $ 3,749,883 Net ¥ 1,003,682 ¥ 1,129,433 $ 8,906,578 194 32. Trading Income and Trading Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Trading Income: Net Gains on Trading Securities ¥ 174,355 ¥ 149,251 $ 1,547,214 Net Gains on Derivatives for Trading Transactions 138,751 113,711 1,231,264 Total ¥ 313,106 ¥ 262,963 $ 2,778,478 Trading Expenses: Net Losses on Trading Securities 2,598 — 23,063 Total ¥ 2,598 ¥ — $ 23,063 Net ¥ 310,507 ¥ 262,963 $ 2,755,415 33. Other Operating Income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Gains on Foreign Exchange Transactions ¥ 37,137 ¥ 99,447 $ 329,559 Gains on Sales of Bonds 184,860 175,364 1,640,434 Gains on Derivatives other than for Trading or Hedging 8,410 — 74,630 Other 95,657 90,452 848,853 Total ¥ 326,065 ¥ 365,264 $ 2,893,476 34. Other Operating Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Losses on Sales of Bonds ¥ 43,192 ¥ 97,058 $ 383,284 Expenses on Derivatives other than for Trading or Hedging — 10,062 — Losses on Devaluation of Bonds 644 1,438 5,715 Other 35,814 47,365 317,811 Total ¥ 79,650 ¥ 155,924 $ 706,810 195 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 35. Other Income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Gains on Sales of Stock ¥ 271,115 ¥ 152,029 $ 2,405,848 Recovery on Written-off Loans 18,273 16,862 162,154 Indemnity receipt from the erroneous stock order in the securities subsidiary 12,822 — 113,783 Reversal of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans — 73,301 — Gains on Disposition of Fixed Assets 7,540 615 66,913 Other 55,286 58,843 490,604 Total ¥ 365,036 ¥ 301,652 $ 3,239,302 36. Other Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Write-offs of Loans ¥ 46,610 ¥ 84,504 $ 413,614 Losses on Sales of Stocks 45,728 8,326 405,792 System migration-related expenses 34,892 8,920 309,631 Provision for Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans 4,446 — 39,457 Losses on Disposition of Fixed Assets 4,811 9,156 42,694 Losses on Impairment of Fixed Assets 4,412 11,358 39,160 Other 87,905 84,880 780,065 Total ¥ 228,807 ¥ 207,147 $ 2,030,413 196 37. Comprehensive Income Reclassification adjustments and the related tax effects concerning Other Comprehensive Income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities: The amount arising during the period ¥ (291,966) ¥ 1,630,152 $ (2,590,885) Reclassification adjustments (332,063) (241,126) (2,946,698) Before adjustments to tax effects (624,030) 1,389,026 (5,537,583) The amount of tax effects 185,133 (384,178) 1,642,860 Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities (438,896) 1,004,848 (3,894,723) Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges: The amount arising during the period 230,945 80,563 2,049,386 Reclassification adjustments (28,215) (30,961) (250,377) Adjustment to acquisition cost of assets — — — Before adjustments to tax effects 202,730 49,602 1,799,009 The amount of tax effects (63,900) (16,349) (567,050) Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges 138,829 33,252 1,231,959 Revaluation Reserve for Land: The amount arising during the period — — — Reclassification adjustments — — — Before adjustments to tax effects — — — The amount of tax effects 3,630 7,531 32,217 Revaluation Reserve for Land 3,630 7,531 32,217 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments: The amount arising during the period (10,173) 13,108 (90,274) Reclassification Adjustments (413) 2,035 (3,665) Before adjustments to tax effects (10,586) 15,144 (93,939) The amount of tax effects (126) — (1,122) Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments (10,712) 15,144 (95,061) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans: The amount arising during the period (159,624) 249,665 (1,416,489) Reclassification Adjustments (3,347) 22,548 (29,705) Before adjustments to tax effects (162,971) 272,213 (1,446,194) The amount of tax effects 53,609 (89,104) 475,723 Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans (109,362) 183,108 (970,471) Share of Other Comprehensive Income of Associates Accounted for Using Equity Method: The amount arising during the period (4,597) 11,548 (40,794) The total amount of Other Comprehensive ¥ (421,108) ¥ 1,255,433 $ (3,736,873) Income 197 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 38. Changes in Net Assets For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 (i) Types and number of issued shares and of treasury stock are as follows: Thousands of Shares As of Increase during Decrease during As of April 1, 2015 the fiscal year the fiscal year March 31, 2016 Remarks Issued shares Common stock 24,621,897 408,627 — 25,030,525 *1 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752 — — 914,752 Total 25,536,649 408,627 — 25,945,277 Treasury stock Common stock 11,649 3,084 3,804 10,929 *2 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 701,631 114,197 — 815,828 *3 Total 713,280 117,281 3,804 826,757 *1 Increases are due to request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock (403,667 thousand shares) and exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock option) (4,960 thousand shares). *2 Increases are due to repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors. Decreases are due to exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock option) (1,808 thousand shares) and repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors (1,996 thousand shares). *3 Increases are due to request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock. (ii) Stock acquisition rights and treasury stock acquisition rights are as follows: Class of Number of shares to be issued or transferred shares to upon exercise of stock acquisition rights be issued (Shares) or transferred Balance as upon Balance as of of March Breakdown of exercise of Increase Decrease March 31, 31, 2016 stock stock As of during during As of 2016 (Thousands acquisition acquisition April 1, the fiscal the fiscal March (Millions of of Category rights rights 2015 year year 31, 2016 yen) U.S.dollars) Remarks MHFG Stock acquisition rights － － － － ¥ － $ － (Treasury － (－) (－) (－) (－) (－) (－) stock acquisition rights) Stock acquisition － 2,762 24,515 rights as stock option Consolidated － － subsidiaries (Treasury － (－) (－) stock acquisition rights) ¥ 2,762 $ 24,515 Total － (－) (－) 198 (iii) Cash dividends distributed by MHFG are as follows (non-consolidated basis): Cash dividends paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 Cash Cash Cash Cash Dividends Dividends Dividends Dividends (Millions of (Thousand of per Share per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) U.S. dollars) (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Date Date May 15, March 31, Common Stock ¥ 98,452 $ 873,661 ¥ 4 $ 0.04 2015 2015 June 4, ( ) The Board of Eleventh Series Class XI March 31, 2015 2,131 18,912 10 0.09 Directors Preferred Stock 2015 November 13, September 30, Common Stock ¥ 93,240 $ 827,403 ¥ 3.75 $ 0.03 2015 2015 December 4, ( The Board of Directors ) Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 1,440 12,785 10 0.09 September 30, 2015 2015 Total ¥ 195,264 $ 1,732,761 / / Cash dividends with record dates falling in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and effective dates coming after the end of the fiscal year Cash Cash Cash Cash Dividends Dividends Resource Dividends Dividends (Millions of (Thousand of of per Share per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) U.S. dollars) Dividends (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Date Date May 13 Retained 2016 Common Stock ¥ 93,838 $ 832,713 ¥ 3.75 $ 0.03 March 31, Earnings 2016 June 3 ( The Board of Directors ) Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 989 8,779 Retained Earnings 10 0.09 March 31, 2016 2016 Total ¥ 94,827 $ 841,492 / / 199 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 (i) Types and number of issued shares and of treasury stock are as follows: Thousands of Shares As of Increase during Decrease during As of April 1, 2014 the fiscal year the fiscal year March 31, 2015 Remarks Issued shares Common stock 24,263,885 358,012 — 24,621,897 *1 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 914,752 — — 914,752 Total 25,178,637 358,012 — 25,536,649 Treasury stock Common stock 13,817 1,235 3,404 11,649 *2 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 602,100 99,530 — 701,631 *3 Total 615,918 100,766 3,404 713,280 *1 Increases are due to request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock (351,822 thousand shares) and exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock option) (6,190 thousand shares). *2 Increases are due to repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors. Decreases are due to exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock option) (1,997 thousand shares) and repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors (1,407 thousand shares). *3 Increases are due to request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock. (ii) Stock acquisition rights and treasury stock acquisition rights are as follows: Class of Number of shares to be issued or transferred shares to upon exercise of stock acquisition rights be issued (Shares) or transferred upon Balance as of Breakdown of exercise of Increase Decrease March 31, stock stock As of during during As of 2015 acquisition acquisition April 1, the fiscal the fiscal March (Millions of Category rights rights 2014 year year 31, 2015 yen) Remarks MHFG Stock acquisition rights － － － － ¥ － (Treasury － (－) (－) (－) (－) (－) stock acquisition rights) Stock acquisition － 3,820 rights as stock option Consolidated － subsidiaries (Treasury － (－) stock acquisition rights) ¥ 3,820 Total － (－) 200 (iii) Cash dividends distributed by MHFG are as follows (non-consolidated basis): Cash dividends paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 June 24, March 31, Common Stock ¥ 84,886 ¥ 3.5 2014 2014 June 24, ( ) Ordinary Eleventh Series Class XI March 31, 2014 General 3,126 10 Meeting of Preferred Stock 2014 Shareholders November 14, September 30, Common Stock ¥ 85,344 ¥ 3.5 2014 2014 December 5, ( The Board of Directors ) Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 2,778 10 September 30, 2014 2014 Total ¥ 176,136 / Cash dividends with record dates falling in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and effective dates coming after the end of the fiscal year Cash Cash Dividends Resource Dividends (Millions of of per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) Dividends (Yen) Date Date May 15, Retained 2015 Common Stock ¥ 98,452 ¥ 4 March 31, Earnings 2015 June 4, ( The Board of Directors ) Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 2,131 Retained Earnings 10 March 31, 2015 2015 Total ¥ 100,584 / 201 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 39. Cash Flows Cash and Cash Equivalents on the consolidated statement of cash flows reconciles to Cash and Due from Banks on the consolidated balance sheet as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Cash and Due from Banks ¥ 36,315,471 ¥ 29,096,166 $ 322,259,927 Less: Due from Banks excluding due from Central Banks (1,226,348) (1,255,391) (10,882,495) Cash and Cash Equivalents ¥ 35,089,122 ¥ 27,840,775 $ 311,377,432 202 40. Lease Transactions Finance Leases (Lessees) Finance lease transactions that do not transfer ownership: (1) Lease Assets: • Tangible fixed assets: mainly equipment • Intangible fixed assets: software (2) The method for computing the amount of depreciation is described in “5 Standards of Accounting Method (8) Lease Assets.” Operating Leases The future lease payments subsequent to the end of the fiscal year for non-cancelable operating lease transactions are summarized as follows: Lessees: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Due in One Year or Less ¥ 53,116 ¥ 48,614 $ 471,354 Due after One Year 223,770 201,780 1,985,721 Total ¥ 276,887 ¥ 250,394 $ 2,457,075 Lessors: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Due in One Year or Less ¥ 692 ¥ 779 $ 6,141 Due after One Year 3,684 4,350 32,699 Total ¥ 4,376 ¥ 5,130 $ 38,840 203 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 41. Financial Instruments 1. Matters Relating to the Conditions of Financial Instruments (1) Policy on Financial Instruments Mizuho Financial Group (MHFG), which primarily engages in banking business, incurs financial liabilities such as customer deposits and market deposits on the funding side while holding financial assets such as customer loans, stocks and bonds on the investment side, and also engages in trading business for certain financial products. Some consolidated subsidiaries conduct securities business and other financial business. For above funding and investment business, MHFG appropriately manages risks of each financial instrument and carefully watches term-gaps and other risk factors. (2) Contents and Risk of Financial Products The main financial assets of the Mizuho group consist of loans to customers and securities such as Japanese stocks and government bonds. The Group holds these securities for the purpose of reserves for deposit payments reserves and as investments. These financial assets are subject to various types of risk that may cause the Group to incur losses due to a decline in, or total loss of, the value of assets, as a result of deterioration in a counterparty’s and/or an issuer’s financial position (“credit risk”), or due to a decline in the value of assets caused by fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates and so on (“market risk”). The main financing source of the Mizuho group is a stable source of deposits from its customers in addition to direct funding from the financial market. These financing sources are subject to the risk of losses (“liquidity risk”) arising from funding difficulties due to market disruption or a deterioration in our financial position that makes it difficult for us to raise the necessary funds or that forces us to raise funds at significantly higher interest rates than usual. In addition, the Mizuho group uses derivative financial products to control the interest rate risk related to the assets and liabilities of the Group, as part of our asset and liability management (“ALM”). The Group primarily utilizes the portfolio hedge by grouping numerous financial assets and liabilities such as loans and deposits into similar interest risk units in accordance with risk management policies. Some derivative products like interest rate swaps are used as hedging methods for cash-flow hedges or fair value hedges. The Group applies hedge accounting to the majority of these products, treating them as deferred hedges. The effectiveness of the hedges is assessed periodically by regression analysis and other methods to ensure whether the derivative financial products effectively work in order to offset the exposure to changes in fair value and variable cash flows from hedged items. It should be noted that the Mizuho group uses derivative financial products for trading purposes and so on as well. As financial services become more complex and diverse, the Mizuho group is exposed to various risks, including credit risk, liquidity risk and other risks. (3) Risk Management for Financial Products (a) Commitment to Risk Management We recognize the conducting of operations tailored to the risks and managing such risks as a key issue relating to overall management. In order to implement our business strategy while maintaining our financial stability, we maintain comprehensive risk management and control measures. We maintain basic policies for risk management established by our board of directors that are applicable to the entire Mizuho group. These policies clearly define the kinds of risks to be managed, set forth the organizational structure and provide for the human resources training necessary for appropriate levels of risk management. The policies also provide for audits to measure the effectiveness and suitability of the risk management structure. In line with these basic policies, we maintain various measures to strengthen and enhance the sophistication of our risk management system. (b) General Concept of Risk Management We classify our risk exposures according to the various kinds of risk, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and operational risk, and manage each type of risk according to its characteristics. In addition to managing each type of risk individually, we have established a risk management structure to identify and evaluate overall risk and, where necessary, to devise appropriate responses to keep risk within limits that are managerially acceptable in both qualitative and quantitative terms. More specifically, we allocate risk capital to our principal banking subsidiaries, including their respective subsidiaries, and other core group companies to control risk within the limits set for each company. We also control 204 risk within managerially acceptable limits by working to ensure that the overall risk we hold on a consolidated basis does not exceed shareholders’ equity and other measures of financial strength. To ensure the ongoing financial health of Mizuho Financial Group, our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies, we regularly monitor the manner in which risk capital is being used in order to obtain a proper grasp of the risk profile within this framework. Reports are also submitted to the board of directors and other committees of each company. (c) Credit Risk Management The board of directors of Mizuho Financial Group determines basic matters pertaining to credit risk management. In addition, we have established the Risk Management Committee as one of its business policy committees. This committee broadly discusses and coordinates basic policy in connection with credit risk management and matters in connection with overall credit portfolio management and credit risk monitoring for the Mizuho group. Under the control of the Chief Risk Officer of Mizuho Financial Group, the Risk Management Division and the Credit Risk Management Division jointly monitor, analyze and submit suggestions concerning credit risk and formulate and execute plans in connection with basic matters pertaining to credit risk management. We have adopted two different but mutually complementary approaches in credit risk management. The first approach is “credit management,” in which we manage the process for each individual transaction and individual obligor from execution until collection, based on our assessment of the credit quality of the customer. Through this process, we curb losses in the case of a credit event. The second is “credit portfolio management,” in which we utilize statistical methods to assess the potential for losses related to credit risk. Through this process, we identify credit risk and respond appropriately. We use statistical methods to manage the possibility of losses by measuring the expected average loss for a oneyear risk horizon (“expected loss”) and the maximum loss within a certain confidence interval (“credit VAR”). The difference between expected loss and credit VAR is measured as the credit risk amount (“unexpected loss”). We recognize two types of risk arising from allowing unexpected loss to become too large. One type is “credit concentration risk,” which stems from granting excessive credit to certain individual counterparties or corporate groups. The other type is “chain-reaction default risk,” which arises from granting excessive credit to certain areas, industrial sectors and other groupings. We manage these risks appropriately in line with our specific guidelines for each. The board of directors of each of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies determines key matters pertaining to credit risk in line with basic policies set forth by Mizuho Financial Group. Their respective business policy committees are responsible for discussing and coordinating overall management of their individual credit portfolios and transaction policies towards obligors. The Chief Risk Officer of each principal banking subsidiary and core group company is responsible for matters relating to planning and implementing credit risk management. The credit risk management division of each principal banking subsidiary is responsible for planning and administering credit risk management and conducting credit risk measuring and monitoring. Each credit division determines policies and approves/disapproves individual transactions regarding review and management of and collection from customers in accordance with the lines of authority set forth by each principal banking subsidiary. In addition, each of our principal banking subsidiaries has also established internal audit divisions that are independent of the business divisions in order to ensure appropriate credit risk management. (d) Market Risk Management The board of directors of Mizuho Financial Group determines basic matters pertaining to market risk management policies. In addition, we have established the Risk Management Committee as one of its business policy committees. The committee broadly discusses and coordinates matters relating to basic asset and liability management policies risk planning and market risk management and proposes responses to emergencies such as sudden market changes. The Chief Risk Officer of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for matters relating to market risk management planning and operations. The Risk Management Division of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for monitoring market risk, reports and analyses, proposals, setting limits and guidelines, and formulating and implementing plans relating to market risk management. In addition, the division assesses and manages the overall market risk of the Mizuho group as a whole and keeps track of the market risk situation of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies. The division also submits reports to the President & CEO on a daily basis and to our board of directors and the executive management committee of Mizuho Financial Group on a regular basis. To manage market risk, we set limits that correspond to risk capital allocations. The amount of risk capital allocated to market risk corresponds to VAR and additional costs that may arise in order to close relevant positions. 205 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For trading and banking activities, we set limits for VAR and for losses. For banking activities, we set position limits based on interest rate sensitivity as needed. Our principal banking subsidiaries and certain other core group companies have formulated their basic policies in line with the basic policies determined by Mizuho Financial Group. Their boards of directors determine important matters relating to market risk management while their Chief Executive Officers are responsible for controlling market risk. Based on a common Mizuho group risk capital allocation framework, the above-mentioned companies manage market risk by setting limits according to the risk capital allocated to market risk by Mizuho Financial Group. They have the same market risk management structure as the Mizuho Financial Group, such as their business policy committees being responsible for overall discussion and coordination of the market risk management. In addition, they have established middle offices specializing in risk management that are independent of their front offices, which engage in market transactions, and their back offices, which are responsible for book entries and settlements. This system enables them to achieve mutual checks and control over market operations. When VAR is not adequate to control risk, the middle offices manage risk using additional risk indices such as 10 BPV (Basis Point Value), carry out stress tests and set stop loss limits as needed. (e) Situation of Market Risk i. Banking Business The following table shows the VAR figures relating to our banking activities for the fiscal years indicated: Billions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 As of fiscal year end ¥ 321.5 ¥ 325.6 $ 2,853,512 Maximum 360.6 349.0 3,199,949 Minimum 190.0 265.0 1,686,193 Average 284.9 307.9 2,528,703 [Definition of Banking Business] The following transactions are categorized as banking business, with trading business and cross-shareholdings being categorized separately. (1) Deposits and loans as well as related funding activities, and hedge against interest rate risk. (2) Equity (excluding cross-shareholdings), bonds, investment trusts, etc. and hedges against related market risk. The core deposit of liquid deposits is to be specified and incorporated into the measurement of market risk. Banking business VAR used to calculate Market Risk Equivalent is based on the following: • variance co-variance model for linear risk and Monte-Carlo simulation for non-linear risk; • VAR : the total amount of linear risk and non-linear risk; • confidence interval: one-tailed 99%; • holding period of one month ; and • historical observation period of one year. 206 ii. Trading Business The following table shows VAR figures of our trading activities for the fiscal years indicated : Billions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 As of fiscal year end ¥ 2.0 ¥ 6.5 $ 18,326 Maximum 4.5 7.1 40,375 Minimum 1.8 3.1 16,463 Average 2.9 4.4 26,032 [Definition of Trading Business] (1) Transactions held for the purpose of short-term resale. (2) Transactions held for the purpose of making a profit from price fluctuations over a short period as well as fixing a profit from arbitrage activities. (3) Deals that have both aspects of (1) and (2) above. (4) Deals held for broking business or market making business. Trading business VAR used to calculate Market Risk Equivalent is based on the following: • variance co-variance model for linear risk and Monte-Carlo simulation for non-linear risk; • VAR: the total amount of linear risk and non-linear risk; • confidence interval: one-tailed 99%; • holding period of one trading day; and • historical observation period of one year. iii. Cross-shareholdings For cross-shareholdings, we take the same market risk management approach as that for Banking and Trading businesses with the use of VAR and risk indices. The risk index for the cross-shareholdings (sensitivity of the portfolio to a 1% change in the equity index of TOPIX) is ¥29.7 billion ($263,991 thousand) and ¥37.4 billion for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. iv. Risk management using VAR VAR is a commonly used market risk management technique with statistical assumptions to measure maximum possible loss in the market, which will be incurred to the holding portfolio in a certain period with some probability. It should be noted that in general VAR model has the following shortcomings: • VAR estimates could differ by assumptions of holding period, confidence interval level and approaches for the measurement. • VAR which is calculated based on historical data does not necessarily indicate an accurate future possible maximum loss. • VAR might underestimate the probability of extreme market movements when the market gets inactive as VAR assumes sales of holding portfolio and hedges in the market during the holding period for the calculation. • The use of a 99% confidence level neither takes account of, nor makes any statement about, any losses that might occur beyond this confidence level. The variance co-variance model used as the measurement technique of VAR assumes that change in a market movement follows a normal distribution. Therefore, the model might underestimate the risk under the circumstance that the market is likely to move extremely beyond the assumption. The model might also underestimate the risk when the normal correlation assumption between interest rate and share price collapses under the circumstances when a rise in the interest rate and a deterioration of share price happen simultaneously. We check the validity of the market risk measurement made by VAR approach periodically by the back-test which compares VAR with actual profit and loss. In addition to VAR, we make a wide variety of management and controls such as risk indices monitoring, implementation of stress tests, loss limit monitoring in order to make strict risk management by capturing carefully all risks, including what VAR approach is not able to cover. (f) Liquidity Risk Management Our liquidity risk management structure is generally the same as the market risk management structure described above (“Item (d) Market Risk Management”). However, the head of the Financial Control & Accounting Group of Mizuho Financial Group is additionally responsible for matters relating to planning and running cash flow management operations, while the Financial Planning Division is responsible for monitoring and adjusting the cash 207 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements flow management situation and for planning and implementing cash flow management. Reports on the cash flow situation are submitted to the Risk Management Committee, the executive management committee and the President & CEO. We measure liquidity risk using indices pertaining to cash flow, such as limits on funds raised in the market. Limits on liquidity risk are discussed and coordinated by the Risk Management Committee, discussed further by the executive management committee and determined by the President & CEO. We have established classifications for the cash flow conditions affecting the Group, ranging from “normal” to “anxious” and “crisis,” and have established procedures for dealing with cases which are deemed to fall into the “anxious” or “crisis” categories. In addition, we have constructed a system under which we will be able to respond smoothly in the event of emergency situations that affect our funding by establishing action plans. (4) Supplementary Explanation of Matters Relating to Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Others Fair values of financial instruments include the values based on market prices, and the values deemed as market prices obtained by the reasonable estimate when the financial instruments do not have market prices. Since certain assumptions and others are adopted for calculating such values, they may differ when adopting different assumptions and others. 208 2. Matters Relating to Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Others The following are the consolidated balance sheet amounts, fair values and differences between them as of March 31, 2016 and 2015. Unlisted stocks and others, the fair values of which are extremely difficult to determine, are excluded from the table below (see (Note 2)). Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2016 Sheet Amount Fair Value Difference (1) Cash and Due from Banks *1 ¥ 36,314,173 ¥ 36,314,173 ¥ — (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased *1 892,781 892,781 — (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements 7,805,798 7,805,798 — (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 3,407,390 3,407,390 — (5) Other Debt Purchased *1 2,979,413 2,979,419 6 (6) Trading Assets Trading Securities 5,467,948 5,467,948 — *1 (7) Money Held in Trust 175,135 175,135 — (8) Securities Bonds Held to Maturity 4,817,574 4,873,209 55,634 Other Securities 34,083,510 34,083,510 — (9) Loans and Bills Discounted 73,708,884 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans *1 (411,319) 73,297,564 74,465,870 1,168,305 Total Assets ¥ 169,241,291 ¥ 170,465,237 ¥ 1,223,946 (1) Deposits ¥ 105,629,071 ¥ 105,635,132 ¥ 6,061 (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 11,827,533 11,827,239 (293) (3) Call Money and Bills Sold 2,521,008 2,521,008 — (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements 16,833,346 16,833,346 — (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 2,608,971 2,608,971 — (6) Trading Liabilities Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased 2,630,040 2,630,040 — (7) Borrowed Money 7,503,543 7,510,534 6,990 (8) Bonds and Notes 6,120,928 6,222,223 101,295 (9) Due to Trust Accounts 5,067,490 5,067,490 — Total Liabilities ¥ 160,741,933 ¥ 160,855,987 ¥ 114,053 Derivative Transactions *2 Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting ¥ 19,666 Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting 481,660 *1 Reserves for Derivative Transactions (8,086) Total Derivative Transactions ¥ 493,240 ¥ 493,240 ¥ — *1 General and specific reserves for possible losses on loans relevant to Loans and Bills Discounted and reserves for derivative transactions are excluded. Reserves for Cash and Due from Banks, Call Loans and Bills Purchased, Other Debt Purchased, Money Held in Trust and others are directly written off against the consolidated balance sheet amount due to immateriality. *2 Derivative Transactions recorded in Trading Assets, Trading Liabilities, Derivatives other than for Trading Assets, Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities, and others are presented as a lump sum. Net claims and debts that arose from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis, and the item that is net debts in total is presented in brackets. 209 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2015 Sheet Amount Fair Value Difference (1) Cash and Due from Banks *1 ¥ 29,094,362 ¥ 29,094,362 ¥ — (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased *1 443,394 443,394 — (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements 8,582,239 8,582,239 — (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 4,059,340 4,059,340 — (5) Other Debt Purchased *1 3,239,582 3,239,662 79 (6) Trading Assets Trading Securities 5,042,005 5,042,005 — *1 (7) Money Held in Trust 157,225 157,225 — (8) Securities Bonds Held to Maturity 5,647,341 5,677,806 30,465 Other Securities 37,001,945 37,001,945 — (9) Loans and Bills Discounted 73,415,170 *1 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (461,940) 72,953,230 74,059,603 1,106,373 Total Assets ¥ 166,220,667 ¥ 167,357,586 ¥ 1,136,918 (1) Deposits ¥ 97,757,545 ¥ 97,725,179 ¥ (32,366) (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 15,694,906 15,694,463 (442) (3) Call Money and Bills Sold 5,091,198 5,091,198 — (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements 19,612,120 19,612,120 — (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 2,245,639 2,245,639 — (6) Trading Liabilities Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased 3,200,813 3,200,813 — (7) Borrowed Money 7,195,869 7,171,622 (24,247) (8) Bonds and Notes 6,013,731 6,151,033 137,301 (9) Due to Trust Accounts 1,780,768 1,780,768 — Total Liabilities ¥ 158,592,592 ¥ 158,672,838 ¥ 80,245 Derivative Transactions *2 Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting ¥ 313,667 Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting [23,904] *1 Reserves for Derivative Transactions (13,797) Total Derivative Transactions ¥ 275,965 ¥ 275,965 ¥ — *1 General and specific reserves for possible losses on loans relevant to Loans and Bills Discounted and reserves for derivative transactions are excluded. Reserves for Cash and Due from Banks, Call Loans and Bills Purchased, Other Debt Purchased, Money Held in Trust and others are directly written off against the consolidated balance sheet amount due to immateriality. *2 Derivative Transactions recorded in Trading Assets, Trading Liabilities, Derivatives other than for Trading Assets, Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities, and others are presented as a lump sum. Net claims and debts that arose from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis, and the item that is net debts in total is presented in brackets. 210 Thousands of U.S. dollars Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2016 Sheet Amount Fair Value Difference (1) Cash and Due from Banks *1 $ 322,248,412 $ 322,248,412 $ — *1 (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased 7,922,452 7,922,452 — (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements 69,267,888 69,267,888 — (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 30,236,851 30,236,851 — (5) Other Debt Purchased *1 26,439,020 26,439,080 60 (6) Trading Assets Trading Securities 48,522,034 48,522,034 — (7) Money Held in Trust *1 1,554,139 1,554,139 — (8) Securities Bonds Held to Maturity 42,750,686 43,244,381 493,695 Other Securities 302,453,727 302,453,727 — (9) Loans and Bills Discounted 654,085,410 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans *1 (3,650,012) 650,435,398 660,802,825 10,367,427 Total Assets $ 1,501,830,607 $ 1,512,691,789 $ 10,861,182 (1) Deposits $ 937,342,011 $ 937,395,796 $ 53,785 (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 104,956,369 104,953,763 (2,606) (3) Call Money and Bills Sold 22,371,182 22,371,182 — (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements 149,377,462 149,377,462 — (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 23,151,759 23,151,759 — (6) Trading Liabilities Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased 23,338,721 23,338,721 — (7) Borrowed Money 66,585,710 66,647,743 62,033 (8) Bonds and Notes 54,316,516 55,215,403 898,887 (9) Due to Trust Accounts 44,968,414 44,968,414 — Total Liabilities $ 1,426,408,144 $ 1,427,420,243 $ 1,012,099 Derivative Transactions *2 Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting $ 174,523 Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting 4,274,209 *1 Reserves for Derivative Transactions (71,760) Total Derivative Transactions $ 4,376,972 $ 4,376,972 $ — *1 General and specific reserves for possible losses on loans relevant to Loans and Bills Discounted and reserves for derivative transactions are excluded. Reserves for Cash and Due from Banks, Call Loans and Bills Purchased, Other Debt Purchased, Money Held in Trust and others are directly written off against the consolidated balance sheet amount due to immateriality. *2 Derivative Transactions recorded in Trading Assets, Trading Liabilities, Derivatives other than for Trading Assets, Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities, and others are presented as a lump sum. Net claims and debts that arose from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis, and the item that is net debts in total is presented in brackets. (Change in Presentation of Financial Instruments) Due to Trust Accounts has been noted from this consolidated fiscal year because of increased materiality. In order to reflect the change in presentation of financial statements, the amount as of the end of the previous consolidated fiscal year has been noted accordingly. 211 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 1) Calculation method of fair value of financial instruments Assets (1) Cash and Due from Banks For Due from Banks which have no maturity, since fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. For Due from Banks which have maturity, since contractual terms of these items are mainly short (i.e., within six months) and fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased, (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements and (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions Since contractual terms of these items are mainly short (i.e., within six months) and fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. (5) Other Debt Purchased Fair values of Other Debt Purchased are based on the values deemed as market prices obtained by the reasonable estimate such as those obtained from brokers and financial information vendors. (6)Trading Assets Fair values of securities held for trading, such as bonds held for trading, are based on the market prices and others. (7)Money Held in Trust As to securities managed as trust assets in a directed money trust for separate investment with the management of securities as its primary purpose, fair values of these items are calculated using the method stated in (8). For other Money Held in Trust, since fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. The notes to Money Held in Trust based on holding purpose are stated in “42.Fair Value of Securities and Money Held in Trust.” (8)Securities Fair values of stocks are based on the prices on securities exchanges, and those of bonds and others are based on the market prices, valuations obtained from brokers and information vendors and others. Fair values of investment trusts are based on the disclosed net asset value and others. Fair values of private placement bonds are calculated by discounting the total amount of principal and interest and others at interest rates based on the discount rate reflecting expected loss and various risk factors by categories according to the internal ratings and terms. Fair values of securitized products are based on valuations obtained from brokers and others, and reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management. In deriving reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management mentioned above, we used the discounted cash flow method. The price decision variables include default rates, recovery rates, pre-payment rates, and discount rates. Fair values of Floating-rate Japanese Government Bonds, according to our determination that current market prices may not reflect the fair value, are based on the reasonably calculated prices as book value. In deriving the reasonably calculated prices, we used the discount cash flow method as well as other methods. The price decision variables include the yield of 10-year Japanese Government Bonds and the volatilities of interest rate swap options for 10-year Japanese Government Bonds as underlying assets. The notes to Securities based on holding purpose are stated in “42.Fair Value of Securities and Money Held in Trust.” (9)Loans and Bills Discounted Fair values of Loans and Bills Discounted are calculated by the total amount of principal and interest and others at interest rates based on the discount rate reflecting expected loss and various risk factors by categories according to the types, internal ratings and terms of the Loans and Bills Discounted. In addition, as to claims against bankrupt obligors, substantially bankrupt obligors and intensive control obligors, since the estimated amount of bad debts is calculated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows or the estimated amounts that we would be able to collect from collateral and guarantees, fair values approximate the amount of Debentures and others minus the amount of 212 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans in the consolidated balance sheet as of the consolidated balance sheet date and we thus deem such amount to be fair values. Of the Loans and Bills Discounted, for those without a fixed maturity due to loan characteristics such as limiting loans to within the value of pledged assets, we deem book values to be fair values since fair values are expected to approximate book values based on the estimated loan periods, interest rates and other conditions. Liabilities (1)Deposits (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit For demand deposits, we deem the payment amounts required on the consolidated balance sheet date (i.e., book values) to be fair values. In addition, fair values of fixed deposits and negotiable certificates of deposits are calculated by classifying them based on their terms and by discounting the future cash flows. The discount rates used in such calculations are the interest rates. Since fair values of those whose deposit terms are short (i.e., within six months) approximate book values, we mainly deem the book values to be fair values. (3)Call Money and Bills Sold, (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements and (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions Since contractual terms of these financial instruments are mainly short (i.e., within six months) and fair values approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. (6)Trading Liabilities Fair values of Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased in Trading Liabilities are based on the market prices and others. (7)Borrowed Money Fair values of Borrowed Money are calculated mainly by discounting the total amount of the principal and interest of such Borrowed Money classified by certain period at the interest rates considered to be applicable to similar loans. (8)Bonds and Notes Fair values of Bonds and Notes issued by MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries are based on the market prices for Bonds and Notes which have market prices, and calculated by discounting the total amount of principal and interest by the interest rates considered to be applicable to similar Bonds and Notes for those which do not have market prices. (9)Due to Trust Accounts Due to Trust Accounts of consolidated trust banking subsidiaries is used for transactions in which consolidated trust banking subsidiaries manage fund entrusted to them in bank accounts of consolidated trust banking subsidiaries. As the purpose is considered to approximate demand deposit, we deem the book values to be fair values. Derivative Transactions Derivative transactions include interest rate-related transactions (futures, options, swaps and others), currency-related transactions (futures, options, swaps and others), bond-related transactions (futures, futures options and others), and are based on the prices on securities exchanges, discounted value of future cash flows, option pricing models and others. 213 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 2) Consolidated balance sheet amounts of financial instruments whose fair values are deemed to be extremely difficult to determine are indicated below, and are not included in “Assets (5) Other Debt Purchased”, “Assets (7) Money Held in Trust” and “Assets (8) Other Securities” in fair value information of financial instruments. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 As of March 31, Consolidated Balance Consolidated Balance Consolidated Balance Category Sheet Amount Sheet Amount Sheet Amount (i) Unlisted Stocks *1 ¥ 216,329 ¥ 163,219 $ 1,919,687 (ii) Investments in Partnerships and others *2 69,076 74,158 612,981 *3 (iii) Other 571 100,595 5,069 *4 Total ¥ 285,977 ¥ 337,974 $ 2,537,737 *1 We do not treat Unlisted Stocks as being subject to disclosure of fair values as there are no market prices and they are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values. *2 Of the Investments in Partnerships and others, we do not treat those whose assets consist of unlisted stocks and other financial instruments that are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values as being subject to disclosure of fair values. *3 We do not treat Preferred Securities and others included in Other as being subject to disclosure of fair values as there are no market prices and other factors and they are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values. *4 During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, the amounts of impairment (devaluation) were ¥1,696 million ($15,057 thousand) and ¥3,525 million, respectively, on a consolidated basis. (Note 3) Projected redemption amounts after the consolidated balance sheet date for financial assets and securities with maturities As of March 31, 2016 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Due from Banks ¥ 35,603,859 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Call Loans and Bills Purchased 893,545 — — — — — Other Debt Purchased 2,627,383 126,890 21,318 7,104 1,895 191,806 *1 Securities 6,300,043 13,500,981 4,946,401 1,948,469 3,174,295 3,298,130 Bonds Held to Maturity 700,000 1,940,000 640,000 100,000 380,000 989,351 Japanese Government Bonds 700,000 1,940,000 640,000 100,000 380,000 — Foreign Bonds — — — — — 989,351 Other Securities with Maturities 5,600,043 11,560,981 4,306,401 1,848,469 2,794,295 2,308,779 Japanese Government Bonds 2,430,501 9,498,300 2,169,900 60,000 1,454,430 — Japanese Local Government Bonds 20,013 73,217 22,057 44,120 73,799 684 Japanese Corporate Bonds 443,668 891,957 424,692 117,100 128,379 810,697 Foreign Bonds 2,651,489 1,032,778 1,617,235 1,605,551 1,124,338 1,460,874 Other 54,371 64,727 72,515 21,698 13,346 36,522 *2 Loans and Bills Discounted 26,611,343 16,554,621 12,185,896 5,201,721 4,585,717 7,452,739 Total ¥ 72,036,174 ¥ 30,182,493 ¥ 17,153,615 ¥ 7,157,296 ¥ 7,761,908 ¥10,942,676 214 As of March 31, 2015 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Due from Banks ¥ 28,079,235 ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Call Loans and Bills Purchased 444,115 — — — — — Other Debt Purchased 2,830,119 104,074 49,705 10,511 6,419 235,890 *1 Securities 7,140,210 11,439,072 9,166,962 1,705,388 2,859,863 3,501,455 Bonds Held to Maturity 600,000 1,800,000 1,480,000 — 480,000 1,195,442 Japanese Government Bonds 600,000 1,800,000 1,480,000 — 480,000 — Foreign Bonds — — — — — 1,195,442 Other Securities with Maturities 6,540,210 9,639,072 7,686,962 1,705,388 2,379,863 2,306,012 Japanese Government Bonds 3,619,984 7,753,929 4,552,600 422,500 996,630 — Japanese Local Government Bonds 36,161 60,928 43,536 15,203 77,738 732 Japanese Corporate Bonds 489,761 762,405 427,237 125,564 55,091 781,179 Foreign Bonds 2,377,181 924,204 2,595,350 1,088,601 1,238,094 1,518,367 Other 17,121 137,604 68,238 53,519 12,309 5,732 *2 Loans and Bills Discounted 28,131,562 15,736,232 11,785,704 5,302,236 4,078,615 7,294,016 Total ¥ 66,625,243 ¥ 27,279,379 ¥ 21,002,373 ¥ 7,018,136 ¥ 6,944,899 ¥ 11,031,361 As of March 31, 2016 Thousands of U.S. dollars Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Due from Banks $315,945,155 $ —$ —$ —$ —$ — Call Loans and Bills Purchased 7,929,232 — — — — — Other Debt Purchased 23,315,146 1,126,010 189,176 63,048 16,823 1,702,071 Securities *1 55,905,963 119,806,381 43,893,878 17,290,530 28,168,383 29,267,285 Bonds Held to Maturity 6,211,731 17,215,370 5,679,297 887,390 3,372,083 8,779,406 Japanese Government Bonds 6,211,731 17,215,370 5,679,297 887,390 3,372,083 — Foreign Bonds — — — — — 8,779,406 Other Securities with Maturities 49,694,232 102,591,011 38,214,581 16,403,140 24,796,300 20,487,879 Japanese Government Bonds 21,568,028 84,286,982 19,255,479 532,434 12,906,469 — Japanese Local Government Bonds 177,595 649,721 195,736 391,520 654,893 6,075 Japanese Corporate Bonds 3,937,068 7,915,142 3,768,683 1,039,134 1,139,231 7,194,046 Foreign Bonds 23,529,055 9,164,778 14,351,188 14,247,505 9,977,269 12,963,658 Other 482,486 574,388 643,495 192,547 118,438 324,100 *2 Loans and Bills Discounted 236,146,449 146,904,090 108,136,449 46,159,566 40,693,206 66,134,879 Total $639,241,945 $267,836,481 $152,219,503 $ 63,513,144 $ 68,878,412 $ 97,104,235 *1 Securities include those of which fair values are extremely difficult to determine. *2 Amounts do not include loans to bankrupt, substantially bankrupt, and intensive control obligors and other loans, of which redemption amounts cannot be projected, of ¥420,222 million ($3,729,017 thousand) and ¥434,565 million, and loans with no maturities of ¥696,621 million ($6,181,754 thousand) and ¥652,236 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 215 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 4) Projected repayment amounts after the consolidated balance sheet date for Bonds and Notes, Borrowed Money, and other interest-bearing liabilities As of March 31, 2016 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits *1 ¥ 101,245,149 ¥ 3,457,412 ¥ 778,440 ¥ 73,961 ¥ 74,107 ¥ — Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 11,691,885 76,083 60,368 — — — Call Money and Bills Sold 2,521,008 — — — — — Borrowed Money *2 1,381,168 4,279,030 934,762 206,074 309,491 329,016 Short-term Bonds 648,381 — — — — — Bonds and Notes *2 813,589 1,914,157 1,079,995 518,466 768,045 693,381 Due to Trust Accounts 5,067,490 — — — — — Total ¥ 123,368,674 ¥ 9,726,684 ¥ 2,853,566 ¥ 798,502 ¥ 1,151,643 ¥ 1,022,398 As of March 31, 2015 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years *1 Deposits ¥ 93,499,413 ¥ 3,298,473 ¥ 819,434 ¥ 78,103 ¥ 62,120 ¥ — Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 15,642,151 52,968 — — — — Call Money and Bills Sold 5,091,198 — — — — — Borrowed Money *2 965,869 1,104,853 4,305,972 124,314 363,692 238,115 Short-term Bonds 816,705 — — — — — Bonds and Notes *2 749,976 2,106,632 1,250,358 193,731 1,025,914 647,078 Due to Trust Accounts 1,780,768 — — — — — Total ¥ 118,546,081 ¥ 6,562,928 ¥ 6,375,766 ¥ 396,149 ¥ 1,451,727 ¥ 885,194 As of March 31, 2016 Thousands of U.S. dollars Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits *1 $ 898,439,518 $ 30,680,740 $ 6,907,807 $ 656,326 $ 657,620 $ — Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 103,752,646 675,158 535,700 — — — Call Money and Bills Sold 22,371,182 — — — — — Borrowed Money *2 12,256,356 37,971,694 8,294,990 1,828,685 2,746,393 2,919,662 Short-term Bonds 5,753,675 — — — — — Bonds and Notes *2 7,219,716 16,986,048 9,583,776 4,600,818 6,815,560 6,153,001 Due to Trust Accounts 44,968,414 — — — — — Total $ 1,094,761,507 $ 86,313,640 $25,322,273 $ 7,085,829 $ 10,219,573 $ 9,072,663 *1 Demand deposits are included in “Within 1 year.” *2 Amounts do not include Borrowed Money and Bonds and Notes with no maturities of ¥64,000 million ($567,930 thousand) and ¥334,000 million ($2,963,883 thousand), and ¥93,051 million and ¥40,900 million as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 216 42. Fair Value of Securities and Money Held in Trust The following tables contain information relating to “Securities,” Trading Securities, Short-term Bonds, certain other items in “Trading Assets,” Negotiable Certificates of Deposit in “Cash and Due from Banks,” certain items in “Other Debt Purchased,” certain items in “Other Assets,” and “Money Held in Trust.” Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2016 Sheet Amount Fair value Difference Bonds Held-to-Maturity (Total) ¥ 4,817,574 ¥ 4,873,209 ¥ 55,634 Bonds Whose Fair Values Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥ 4,402,821 ¥ 4,463,834 ¥ 61,012 Japanese Government Bonds 3,760,032 3,816,652 56,619 Foreign Bonds 642,788 647,182 4,393 Bonds Whose Fair Values Do Not Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥ 414,753 ¥ 409,375 ¥ (5,378) Japanese Government Bonds — — — Foreign Bonds 414,753 409,375 (5,378) Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2015 Sheet Amount Fair value Difference Bonds Held-to-Maturity (Total) ¥ 5,647,341 ¥ 5,677,806 ¥ 30,465 Bonds Whose Fair Values Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥ 5,191,248 ¥ 5,222,508 ¥ 31,260 Japanese Government Bonds 4,260,214 4,289,216 29,001 Foreign Bonds 931,033 933,292 2,259 Bonds Whose Fair Values Do Not Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥ 456,092 ¥ 455,298 ¥ (794) Japanese Government Bonds 99,911 99,738 (173) Foreign Bonds 356,181 355,560 (621) Thousands of U.S. dollars Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2016 Sheet Amount Fair value Difference Bonds Held-to-Maturity (Total) $ 42,750,686 $ 43,244,381 $ 493,695 Bonds Whose Fair Values Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: $ 39,070,207 $ 39,611,627 $ 541,420 Japanese Government Bonds 33,366,161 33,868,595 502,434 Foreign Bonds 5,704,046 5,743,032 38,986 Bonds Whose Fair Values Do Not Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: $ 3,680,479 $ 3,632,754 $ (47,725) Japanese Government Bonds — — — Foreign Bonds 3,680,479 3,632,754 (47,725) 217 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2016 Sheet Amount Acquisition Cost Difference Other Securities*1 (Total) ¥ 34,675,695 ¥ 32,793,827 ¥ 1,881,867*2 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Exceeds Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥ 28,764,163 ¥ 26,704,510 ¥ 2,059,653 Japanese Stocks 3,119,477 1,437,513 1,681,963 Japanese Bonds: 18,155,225 18,007,215 148,010 Japanese Government Bonds 15,649,388 15,553,141 96,247 Japanese Local Government Bonds 237,247 231,149 6,097 Short-term Bonds — — — Japanese Corporate Bonds 2,268,589 2,222,924 45,665 Other: 7,489,460 7,259,780 229,679 Foreign Bonds 6,775,953 6,708,016 67,936 Other Debt Purchased 143,593 139,690 3,903 Other 569,913 412,074 157,839 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Does Not Exceed Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥ 5,911,531 ¥ 6,089,317 ¥ (177,785) Japanese Stocks 338,149 409,668 (71,518) Japanese Bonds: 719,259 730,762 (11,502) Japanese Government Bonds 116,484 116,890 (406) Japanese Local Government Bonds 3,433 3,436 (3) Short-term Bonds 99 99 — Japanese Corporate Bonds 599,241 610,334 (11,093) Other: 4,854,122 4,948,886 (94,764) Foreign Bonds 2,943,644 2,970,512 (26,867) Other Debt Purchased 205,326 205,917 (591) Other 1,705,151 1,772,456 (67,305) Money Held in Trust Other Money Held in Trust ¥ 2,578 ¥ 2,578 ¥ — 218 Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2015 Sheet Amount Acquisition Cost Difference Other Securities*1 (Total) ¥ 37,704,504 ¥ 35,173,125 ¥ 2,531,378*2 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Exceeds Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥ 26,539,885 ¥ 23,916,691 ¥ 2,623,193 Japanese Stocks 3,838,387 1,651,030 2,187,357 Japanese Bonds: 14,292,166 14,236,356 55,809 Japanese Government Bonds 12,180,998 12,156,981 24,016 Japanese Local Government Bonds 223,065 218,882 4,183 Short-term Bonds — — — Japanese Corporate Bonds 1,888,103 1,860,492 27,610 Other: 8,409,331 8,029,303 380,027 Foreign Bonds 6,207,461 6,126,701 80,760 Other Debt Purchased 188,534 184,285 4,249 Other 2,013,335 1,718,317 295,018 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Does Not Exceed Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥ 11,164,618 ¥ 11,256,434 ¥ (91,815) Japanese Stocks 283,518 311,919 (28,401) Japanese Bonds: 6,036,256 6,047,965 (11,708) Japanese Government Bonds 5,234,793 5,236,173 (1,379) Japanese Local Government Bonds 15,522 15,538 (15) Short-term Bonds 99 99 — Japanese Corporate Bonds 785,840 796,153 (10,312) Other: 4,844,843 4,896,549 (51,705) Foreign Bonds 3,825,059 3,865,759 (40,699) Other Debt Purchased 299,661 301,081 (1,419) Other 720,122 729,708 (9,586) Money Held in Trust Other Money Held in Trust ¥ 3,415 ¥ 3,415 ¥ — 219 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2016 Sheet Amount Acquisition Cost Difference Other Securities*1 (Total) $ 307,708,717 $ 291,009,206 $ 16,699,511*2 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Exceeds Acquisition Cost Other Securities: $ 255,250,365 $ 236,973,201 $ 18,277,164 Japanese Stocks 27,681,937 12,756,357 14,925,580 Japanese Bonds: 161,107,689 159,794,261 1,313,428 Japanese Government Bonds 138,871,141 138,017,049 854,092 Japanese Local Government Bonds 2,105,307 2,051,200 54,107 Short-term Bonds — — — Japanese Corporate Bonds 20,131,241 19,726,012 405,229 Other: 66,460,739 64,422,583 2,038,156 Foreign Bonds 60,129,146 59,526,283 602,863 Other Debt Purchased 1,274,234 1,239,595 34,639 Other 5,057,359 3,656,705 1,400,654 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Does Not Exceed Acquisition Cost Other Securities: $ 52,458,352 $ 54,036,005 $ (1,577,653) Japanese Stocks 3,000,708 3,635,358 (634,650) Japanese Bonds: 6,382,638 6,484,713 (102,075) Japanese Government Bonds 1,033,669 1,037,273 (3,604) Japanese Local Government Bonds 30,470 30,500 (30) Short-term Bonds 887 887 — Japanese Corporate Bonds 5,317,612 5,416,053 (98,441) Other: 43,075,006 43,915,934 (840,928) Foreign Bonds 26,121,614 26,360,035 (238,421) Other Debt Purchased 1,822,043 1,827,292 (5,249) Other 15,131,349 15,728,607 (597,258) Money Held in Trust Other Money Held in Trust $ 22,880 $ 22,880 $ — *1 The fair value of Japanese stocks is determined based on the average quoted market price over the month preceding the consolidated balance sheet date. The fair value of securities other than Japanese stocks is determined at the quoted market price if available, or other reasonable value at the consolidated balance sheet date. *2 Unrealized Gains (Losses) or Difference include gains of ¥26,715 million ($237,069 thousand) and ¥52,059 million which were recognized in the statements of income for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, by applying the fair-value hedge method. Note: A summary of Trading Securities and Money Held in Trust for investment purposes and related unrealized gains and losses recognized in the statement of income are as follows: * Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized As of March 31, gains (losses) gains (losses) gains (losses) Trading Securities ¥ 640 ¥(5,103) $5,684 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized As of March 31, Fair value gains (losses) Fair value gains (losses) Fair value gains (losses) Money Held in Trust for Investment ¥173,060 ¥ 25 ¥154,312 ¥ 25 $1,535,723 $ 224 * Fair values of trading securities as of March 31, 2016 and 2015 are described in “41. Financial Instruments.” 220 Other Securities Sold during the Fiscal Year Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Total amount Total amount Total amount Total amount For the Fiscal Year ended March 31, Proceeds of gains of losses Proceeds of gains of losses 2016 from sales on sales on sales from sales on sales on sales Stocks ¥ 256,702 ¥ 140,410 ¥ 1,906 $ 2,277,950 $ 1,245,993 $ 16,914 Bonds 17,668,992 59,795 1,284 156,792,906 530,623 11,395 Japanese Government Bonds 17,053,780 55,269 1,088 151,333,576 490,458 9,656 Japanese Local Government Bonds 53,526 0 40 474,987 0 358 Japanese Corporate Bonds 561,685 4,526 155 4,984,343 40,165 1,381 Other 18,236,320 227,595 83,388 161,827,318 2,019,664 739,979 Total ¥ 36,162,015 ¥ 427,802 ¥ 86,578 $320,898,174 $ 3,796,280 $ 768,288 Millions of yen Total amount Total amount For the Fiscal Year ended March 31, Proceeds of gains of losses 2015 from sales on sales on sales Stocks ¥ 175,816 ¥ 81,295 ¥ 2,228 Bonds 57,275,999 63,014 4,322 Japanese Government Bonds 56,125,675 52,782 4,069 Japanese Local Government Bonds 67,442 53 47 Japanese Corporate Bonds 1,082,881 10,178 204 Other 19,379,289 208,921 102,348 Total ¥ 76,831,104 ¥ 353,231 ¥ 108,898 Note: The above table contains Other Securities that are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values. Unrealized Gains/Losses on Other Securities Unrealized Gains/Losses on Other Securities as of March 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Difference between Acquisition Cost and Fair Value*1 ¥ 1,855,281 ¥ 2,479,388 $16,463,586 *2 Other Securities 1,855,281 2,479,388 16,463,586 Deferred Tax Liabilities (508,389) (693,523) (4,511,396) Difference between Acquisition Cost and Fair Value, net of Taxes 1,346,892 1,785,865 11,952,190 Amount Corresponding to Minority Interests 56,046 55,379 497,348 Amount Corresponding to Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities Owned by Affiliated Companies, which is attributable to MHFG 5,193 6,863 46,088 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities ¥ 1,296,039 ¥ 1,737,348 $11,500,930 *1 The difference between acquisition cost and fair value excludes ¥(26,715) million ($(237,069) thousand) and ¥(52,059) million which were recognized in the statements of income for fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, by applying the fair-value hedge method. *2 Other Securities includes translation differences regarding securities which do not have readily determinable fair value. 221 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 43. Derivatives Information The fair value of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting as of March 31, 2016 and 2015 is shown in the tables below. In the following tables: (i) Contract value represents notional amounts for swap transactions and contract amounts for other transactions. Contract value amounts do not indicate the market risk related to derivative transactions. (ii) Fair values of listed contracts are based on the closing prices of the Osaka Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the New York Mercantile Exchange and others. Fair values of over-the-counter contracts and intercompany or internal transactions are based on the discounted value of future cash flows, option pricing models and others. (1) Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting Transactions are marked to market, and changes in unrealized gains (losses) are included in the consolidated statement of income. (a) Interest Rate-Related Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2016 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥ 15,846,181 ¥ 5,404,223 ¥ (101,255) ¥ (101,255) Bought 15,329,146 5,440,259 93,252 93,252 Options: Sold 266,618 35,363 (684) 221 Bought 659,242 140,726 636 (413) Over-the-Counter: FRAs: Sold 16,516,064 2,486,927 (7,427) (7,427) Bought 8,747,790 — 321 321 Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 450,204,501 348,348,352 10,989,099 10,989,099 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 445,186,117 338,980,895 (10,832,435) (10,832,435) Receive Float / Pay Float 77,852,071 57,764,275 40,572 40,572 Receive Fixed / Pay Fixed 769,835 740,715 22,623 22,623 Options: Sold 9,510,832 6,160,305 (157,337) (157,337) Bought 6,157,532 4,019,060 62,094 62,094 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 4,188,380 4,012,121 77,460 77,460 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 11,761,887 10,348,763 (209,539) (209,539) Receive Float / Pay Float — — — — Total / / ¥ (22,617) ¥ ( 22,760) 222 Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2015 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥ 20,114,158 ¥ 10,963,649 ¥ (72,633) ¥ (72,633) Bought 18,446,654 8,159,936 66,886 66,886 Options: Sold 1,400,403 171,604 (2,288) 1,258 Bought 2,237,975 216,340 2,977 (1,663) Over-the-Counter: FRAs: Sold 10,996,182 2,026,655 (7,643) (7,643) Bought 10,280,528 901,965 4,519 4,519 Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 469,271,002 367,963,727 9,081,978 9,081,978 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 465,176,624 361,554,098 (8,881,155) (8,881,155) Receive Float / Pay Float 77,934,862 54,389,480 24,135 24,135 Receive Fixed / Pay Fixed 759,547 702,891 15,692 15,692 Options: Sold 12,678,598 7,466,690 (175,701) (175,701) Bought 8,857,843 5,410,994 146,701 146,701 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 4,955,416 4,692,702 92,893 92,893 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 11,634,436 10,636,915 (140,360) (140,360) Receive Float / Pay Float 42,678 — (5) (5) Total / / ¥ 155,997 ¥ 154,904 223 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2016 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $ 140,617,462 $ 47,956,550 $ (898,530) $ (898,530) Bought 136,029,342 48,276,333 827,511 827,511 Options: Sold 2,365,947 313,811 (6,077) 1,967 Bought 5,850,051 1,248,795 5,648 (3,667) Over-the-Counter: FRAs: Sold 146,561,940 22,068,752 (65,907) (65,907) Bought 77,627,032 — 2,856 2,856 Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 3,995,070,557 3,091,209,094 97,516,186 97,516,186 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 3,950,537,911 3,008,083,195 (96,125,965) (96,125,965) Receive Float / Pay Float 690,851,638 512,594,510 360,035 360,035 Receive Fixed / Pay Fixed 6,831,442 6,573,037 200,763 200,763 Options: Sold 84,398,194 54,665,946 (1,396,196) (1,396,196) Bought 54,641,339 35,664,752 551,021 551,021 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 37,167,276 35,603,173 687,379 687,379 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 104,373,834 91,833,915 (1,859,429) (1,859,429) Receive Float / Pay Float — — — — Total / / $ (200,705) $ (201,976) 224 (b) Currency-Related Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2016 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥ 20,867 ¥ 120 ¥ (61) ¥ (61) Bought 73,227 36,677 41 41 Over-the-Counter: Swaps 42,725,365 27,770,539 81,081 67,031 Forwards: Sold 61,814,420 3,398,506 516,292 516,292 Bought 26,644,388 1,077,489 (360,548) (360,548) Options: Sold 3,159,248 1,138,887 (148,426) (47,789) Bought 2,857,596 938,677 100,894 (2,122) Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps 4,031,159 3,332,541 (183,406) (17,723) Forwards: Bought 149,337 — 869 869 Total / / ¥ 6,736 ¥ 155,987 Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2015 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥ 26,333 ¥ 2,329 ¥ — ¥ — Bought 44,356 21,625 — — Over-the-Counter: Swaps 39,935,672 25,590,121 (23,922) (68,615) Forwards: Sold 61,859,800 3,505,977 (729,229) (729,229) Bought 27,467,918 1,866,989 883,713 883,713 Options: Sold 4,079,543 1,354,653 (318,638) (184,339) Bought 3,666,208 1,159,267 145,563 18,054 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps 2,293,679 1,534,304 184,643 3,577 Forwards: Bought 158,892 — (2,766) (2,766) Total / / ¥ 139,364 ¥ (79,605) 225 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2016 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $ 185,173 $ 1,065 $ (549) $ (549) Bought 649,817 325,471 364 364 Over-the-Counter: Swaps 379,140,701 246,433,044 719,509 594,828 Forwards: Sold 548,535,097 30,158,016 4,581,532 4,581,532 Bought 236,439,691 9,561,537 (3,199,476) (3,199,476) Options: Sold 28,034,862 10,106,376 (1,317,120) (424,083) Bought 25,358,031 8,329,733 895,328 (18,835) Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps 35,772,115 29,572,646 (1,627,530) (157,281) Forwards: Bought 1,325,210 — 7,720 7,720 Total / / $ 59,778 $ 1,384,220 (c) Stock-Related Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2016 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Index Futures: Sold ¥ 339,684 ¥ 19,677 ¥ (133) ¥ (133) Bought 34,398 — (206) (206) Index Futures Options: Sold 796,933 238,770 (56,915) (6,219) Bought 743,949 153,025 44,429 6,289 Over-the-Counter: Equity Linked Swaps 157,043 128,828 28,065 28,065 Options: Sold 605,923 547,166 (76,011) (65,717) Bought 245,280 208,203 71,052 59,419 Other: Sold 2,061 — (87) (87) Bought 329,081 312,695 13,337 13,337 Total / / ¥ 23,530 ¥ 34,745 226 Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2015 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Index Futures: Sold ¥ 390,456 ¥ 18,332 ¥ (3,833) ¥ (3,833) Bought 27,315 1,430 196 196 Index Futures Options: Sold 663,199 172,682 (68,155) (36,499) Bought 645,806 145,100 58,483 28,089 Over-the-Counter: Equity Linked Swaps 181,297 173,993 3,473 3,473 Options: Sold 495,265 364,698 (124,602) (111,770) Bought 317,510 218,019 133,441 120,027 Other: Sold 12,127 — 220 220 Bought 143,454 132,512 11,050 11,050 Total / / ¥ 10,275 ¥ 10,955 Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2016 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Index Futures: Sold $ 3,014,331 $ 174,619 $ (1,185) $ (1,185) Bought 305,250 — (1,837) (1,837) Index Futures Options: Sold 7,071,907 2,118,821 (505,060) (55,192) Bought 6,601,730 1,357,929 394,264 55,808 Over-the-Counter: Equity Linked Swaps 1,393,588 1,143,213 249,048 249,048 Options: Sold 5,376,909 4,855,504 (674,517) (583,173) Bought 2,176,600 1,847,580 630,517 527,282 Other: Sold 18,297 — (774) (774) Bought 2,920,235 2,774,828 118,354 118,354 Total / / $ 208,810 $ 308,331 227 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (d) Bond-Related Transactions Millions of yen 2016 2015 Contract value Contract value Over Fair Unrealized Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total one year value gains (losses) Total one year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥ 559,493 ¥ — ¥ (2,364) ¥ (2,364) ¥ 651,757 ¥ — ¥ (3,524) ¥ (3,524) Bought 661,309 — 3,295 3,295 537,221 — 2,738 2,738 Futures Options: Sold 87,526 — (100) 9 908,250 — (155) (44) Bought 235,566 — 327 (130) 45,968 — 35 0 Over-the-Counter: Options: Sold 451,639 338,264 (23,808) (23,391) 831,084 165,564 (22,095) (19,935) Bought 451,639 338,264 23,737 23,314 843,332 165,564 21,287 19,923 Total / / ¥ 1,086 ¥ 732 / / ¥ (1,713) ¥ (840) Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Contract value Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total One year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $ 4,964,893 $ — $ (20,984) $ (20,984) Bought 5,868,398 — 29,242 29,242 Futures Options: Sold 776,699 — (891) 85 Bought 2,090,395 — 2,903 (1,155) Over-the-Counter: Options: Sold 4,007,805 3,001,722 (211,271) (207,574) Bought 4,007,805 3,001,722 210,647 206,888 Total / / $ 9,646 $ 6,502 228 (e) Commodity-Related Transactions Millions of yen 2016 2015 Contract value Contract value Over Fair Unrealized Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total one year value gains (losses) Total one year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥ 2,301 ¥ 714 ¥ (37) ¥ (37) ¥ 10,301 ¥ 170 ¥ 597 ¥ 597 Bought 3,890 1,544 18 18 10,330 365 (618) (618) Over-the-Counter: Swaps 230 — 0 0 197 — (37) (37) Options: Sold 162,916 96,045 30,467 30,467 163,398 93,254 9,049 9,049 Bought 157,433 83,472 (26,324) (26,324) 149,067 76,317 (4,657) (4,657) Total / / ¥ 4,124 ¥ 4,124 / / ¥ 4,332 ¥ 4,332 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Contract value Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total one year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $ 20,419 $ 6,344 $ (334) $ (334) Bought 34,529 13,708 161 161 Over-the-Counter: Swaps 2,043 — 7 7 Options: Sold 1,445,707 852,296 270,366 270,366 Bought 1,397,052 740,723 (233,598) (233,598) Total / / $ 36,602 $ 36,602 Note: Commodities include oil, copper, aluminum and others. 229 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (f) Credit Derivative Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2016 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Over-the-Counter: Credit Derivatives: Sold ¥ 2,366,223 ¥ 1,828,065 ¥ 15,125 ¥ 15,125 Bought 2,591,862 2,006,634 (8,319) (8,319) Total / / ¥ 6,805 ¥ 6,805 Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2015 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Over-the-Counter: Credit Derivatives: Sold ¥ 2,441,236 ¥ 2,098,088 ¥ 33,718 ¥ 33,718 Bought 2,625,807 2,290,170 (28,307) (28,307) Total / / ¥ 5,410 ¥ 5,410 Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2016 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Over-the-Counter: Credit Derivatives: Sold $ 20,997,637 $ 16,222,078 $ 134,219 $ 134,219 Bought 22,999,936 17,806,679 (73,827) (73,827) Total / / $ 60,392 $ 60,392 Note: “Sold” and “Bought” indicate assumption and cession of credit risk, respectively. 230 (2) Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting (a) Interest Rate-Related Transactions Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2016 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, bonds and Swaps: notes, borrowings and Receive Fixed / Pay Float others ¥ 27,546,603 ¥ 24,527,041 ¥ 477,925 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 8,262,649 7,771,614 (162,603) Receive Float / Pay Float — — — Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities and others Swaps: Receive Float / Pay Fixed 60,383 23,032 222 Receive Float / Pay Float 1,056 515 (143) Exceptional Accrual Method : Loans, borrowings and Swaps: others Note 2. Receive Fixed / Pay Float 10,000 — Receive Float / Pay Fixed 60,890 56,087 Total / / ¥ 315,400 Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2015 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, bonds and Swaps: notes, borrowings and Receive Fixed / Pay Float others ¥ 25,936,670 ¥ 23,540,848 ¥ 256,734 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 7,459,578 7,216,778 (120,535) Receive Float / Pay Float 42,678 — 5 Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities and others Swaps: Receive Float / Pay Fixed 291,094 239,313 (1,384) Receive Float / Pay Float 1,774 1,199 (190) Exceptional Accrual Method : Loans, borrowings and Swaps: others Note 2. Receive Fixed / Pay Float 30,000 10,000 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 60,945 48,652 Total / / ¥ 134,629 231 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2016 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, bonds and Swaps: notes, borrowings and Receive Fixed / Pay Float others $ 244,445,852 $ 217,650,555 $ 4,241,061 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 73,321,939 68,964,543 (1,442,925) Receive Float / Pay Float — — — Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities and others Swaps: Receive Float / Pay Fixed 535,838 204,390 1,973 Receive Float / Pay Float 9,377 4,574 (1,272) Exceptional Accrual Method : Loans, borrowings and Swaps: others Note 2. Receive Fixed / Pay Float 88,739 — Receive Float / Pay Fixed 540,335 497,711 Total / / $ 2,798,837 Notes: 1. Primarily the deferred method is applied under “Accounting and Auditing Treatment Relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Financial Instruments for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No. 24, February 13, 2002). 2. Since derivative transactions qualifying for the exceptional accrual method are treated as a unit of loans and borrowings, hedged items, those fair values are included in fair values of such loans and borrowings in “41. Financial Instruments.” 232 (b) Currency-Related Transactions Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2016 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, borrowings, Swaps parent company’s interest of ¥ 8,181,167 ¥ 3,746,111 ¥ 144,898 Forwards: subsidiaries’ net assets and others Sold 270,432 — 3,189 Allocation Method : Short-term bonds Note 2. Forwards: Sold 2,046 — Total / / ¥ 148,088 Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2015 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, borrowings, Swaps parent company’s interest of ¥ 7,560,770 ¥ 2,045,971 ¥ (136,735) Forwards: subsidiaries’ net assets and others Sold 281,490 — (33) Allocation Method : Short-term bonds Note 2. Forwards: Sold 2,729 — Total / / ¥ (136,769) Thousands of U.S. dollars Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2016 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, borrowings, Swaps parent company’s interest of $ 72,598,874 $ 33,242,622 $ 1,285,820 Forwards: subsidiaries’ net assets and others Sold 2,399,793 — 28,305 Allocation Method : Short-term bonds Note 2. Forwards: Sold 18,156 — Total / / $ 1,314,125 Notes: 1. Primarily the deferred method is applied under “Accounting and Auditing Treatment Relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Foreign Currency Transactions for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No. 25, July 29, 2002). 2. Forward Exchange Contracts qualifying for the allocation method are treated as a unit of short-term bonds, hedged items. 233 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (c) Stock-Related Transactions Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2016 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities Forward Stock Agreements: Sold ¥ 181,617 ¥ 132,309 ¥ 18,172 Index Futures: Sold 117 — 0 Bought 179 — (1) Total / / ¥ 18,170 Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2015 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities Forward Stock Agreements: Sold ¥ 113,707 ¥ — ¥ (21,765) Index Futures: Sold 131 — (3) Bought 277 — 3 Total / / ¥ (21,764) Thousands of U.S. dollars Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2016 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities Forward Stock Agreements: Sold $ 1,611,657 $ 1,174,103 $ 161,262 Index Futures: Sold 1,042 — 1 Bought 1,596 — (15) Total / / $ 161,248 234 44. Segment Information Segment Information by Management Approach 1. Summary of Reportable Segment We engage in banking, trust banking, securities and other businesses through consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates. As these subsidiaries and affiliates are in different industries and regulatory environments, we disclose business segment information based on the relevant principal consolidated subsidiaries such as MHBK, MHTB and MHSC for investors to measure the present and future cash flows properly. Operating segments of MHBK are aggregated based on the type of customer characteristics and are aggregated into the following seven reportable segments: Personal Banking; Retail Banking; Corporate Banking (Large Corporations); Corporate Banking; Financial Institutions & Public Sector Business; International Banking; and Trading and others. 2. Calculating Method of Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts), Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans), and the Amount of Assets by Reportable Segment The following information of reportable segment is based on internal management reporting. Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) is the total amount of Interest income, Fiduciary income, Fee and commission income, Trading income, and Other operating income. Net business profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) is the amount of which General administrative expenses (excluding non-recurring expenses) and Others (Equity in income from investments in affiliates and certain other consolidation adjustments) are deducted from Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts). Asset information by segment is not prepared on the grounds that management does not use asset information of each segment for the purpose of asset allocation or performance evaluation. Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) relating to transactions between segments is based on the current market price. 235 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 3. Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) and Net Business Profits or Losses (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) by Reportable Segment Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking Corporate Institutions national and For the Fiscal Year (Large banking & Public others ended March 31, corposector 2016 rations) business Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income ¥ 214,800 ¥ 75,700 ¥ 173,000 ¥ 97,500 ¥ 32,500 ¥ 175,500 ¥ 61,051 ¥ 830,051 ¥ 129,362 ¥ 959,413 Net Noninterest Income 45,000 53,100 143,700 77,500 31,800 185,100 97,569 633,769 41,552 675,321 Total ¥ 259,800 ¥128,800 ¥ 316,700 ¥ 175,000 ¥ 64,300 ¥ 360,600 ¥158,620 ¥1,463,820 ¥ 170,914 ¥1,634,734 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 234,400 118,600 91,900 75,200 29,800 122,100 161,310 833,310 69,956 903,266 Others — — — — — — — — (22,116) (22,116) Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 25,400 ¥ 10,200 ¥ 224,800 ¥ 99,800 ¥ 34,500 ¥ 238,500 ¥ (2,690) ¥ 630,509 ¥ 78,842 ¥ 709,352 236 MHFG MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income ¥ 36,052 ¥ 5,426 ¥ 2,789 ¥ 1,003,682 Net Noninterest Income 130,702 343,765 68,143 1,217,933 Total ¥ 166,755 ¥ 349,192 ¥ 70,932 ¥ 2,221,615 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 99,101 279,351 63,240 1,344,960 Others (4,184) 44 2,455 (23,800) Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 63,468 ¥ 69,885 ¥ 10,147 ¥ 852,854 237 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking Corporate Institutions national and For the Fiscal Year (Large banking & Public others ended March 31, corposector 2015 rations) business Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income ¥ 213,400 ¥ 77,600 ¥ 179,500 ¥ 99,600 ¥ 33,300 ¥ 147,100 ¥ 184,396 ¥ 934,896 ¥ 152,401 ¥ 1,087,298 Net Noninterest Income 48,700 53,700 128,000 79,800 27,400 164,900 58,074 560,574 37,845 598,420 Total ¥ 262,100 ¥131,300 ¥ 307,500 ¥ 179,400 ¥ 60,700 ¥ 312,000 ¥ 242,471 ¥ 1,495,471 ¥ 190,247 ¥ 1,685,718 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 233,500 118,400 94,400 76,500 30,300 92,600 188,037 833,737 70,963 904,700 Others — — — — — — — — (43,198) (43,198) Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 28,600 ¥ 12,900 ¥ 213,100 ¥ 102,900 ¥ 30,400 ¥ 219,400 ¥ 54,433 ¥ 661,733 ¥ 76,085 ¥ 737,819 238 MHFG MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income ¥ 39,484 ¥ 1,753 ¥ 897 ¥ 1,129,433 Net Noninterest Income 122,565 335,799 61,520 1,118,305 Total ¥ 162,049 ¥ 337,552 ¥ 62,418 ¥ 2,247,738 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 94,527 267,970 54,025 1,321,224 Others (3,697) 32 (2,689) (49,552) Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 63,824 ¥ 69,614 ¥ 5,703 ¥ 876,961 239 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading For the banking banking banking banking Institutions national and Fiscal Year (Large & Public others ended corposector March 31, rations) business 2016 Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income $1,906,114 $ 671,754 $1,535,185 $ 865,205 $288,402 $1,557,370 $ 541,762 $ 7,365,792 $1,147,947 $ 8,513,739 Net Noninterest Income 399,326 471,204 1,275,180 687,727 282,190 1,642,559 865,820 5,624,006 368,732 5,992,738 Total $2,305,440 $1,142,958 $2,810,365 $1,552,932 $570,592 $3,199,929 $1,407,582 $12,989,798 $1,516,679 $14,506,477 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 2,080,043 1,052,444 815,512 667,317 264,442 1,083,504 1,431,453 7,394,715 620,784 8,015,499 Others — — — — — — — — (196,257) (196,257) Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) $ 225,397 $ 90,514 $1,994,853 $ 885,615 $306,150 $2,116,425 $ (23,871) $ 5,595,083 $ 699,638 $ 6,294,721 240 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) Net Interest Income $ 319,931 $ 48,157 $ 24,751 $ 8,906,578 Net Noninterest Income 1,159,840 3,050,544 604,698 10,807,820 Total $ 1,479,771 $ 3,098,701 $ 629,449 $ 19,714,398 General and Administrative Expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 879,419 2,478,936 561,192 11,935,046 Others (37,135) 393 21,792 (211,207) Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) $ 563,217 $ 620,158 $ 90,049 $ 7,568,145 Notes: 1.Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) is reported instead of sales reported by general corporations. 2. “Others” includes elimination of transactions between each subsidiary. 3. Following the change in the allocation method between customer segments made in April, 2015, reclassification was made on the above table for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 to reflect the relevant change. 241 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4. The Difference between the Total Amounts of Reportable Segments and the Recorded Amounts in Consolidated Statement of Income, and the Contents of the Difference (Matters relating to adjustment to difference) The above amount of Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) and that of Net business profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) derived from internal management reporting by reportable segment are different from the amounts recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income. The contents of the difference for the period are as follows: (a) The Total of Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) of Segment Information and Ordinary Profits Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts): Total Amount of the Above Segment Information ¥ 2,221,615 ¥ 2,247,738 $ 19,714,398 Other Ordinary Income 344,674 301,037 3,058,606 General and Administrative Expenses (1,349,593) (1,351,611) (11,976,156) Other Ordinary Expenses (219,166) (186,296) (1,944,866) Ordinary Profits ¥ 997,529 ¥ 1,010,867 $ 8,851,982 Note: Ordinary profits represents Total Income excluding certain special income less Total Expenses excluding certain special expenses. (b) The Total of Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) of Segment Information and Income before Income Taxes Recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans): Total Amount of the Above Segment Information ¥ 852,854 ¥ 876,961 $ 7,568,145 Credit Costs for Trust Accounts — — — General and Administrative Expenses (non-recurring losses) (4,632) (30,386) (41,110) Expenses Related to Portfolio Problems (including reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) (47,745) (87,051) (423,686) Gains on Reversal of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans, and other 17,297 82,351 153,500 Net Gains (Losses) Related to Stocks 205,678 131,910 1,825,172 Net Extraordinary Gains (Losses) 10,722 (20,235) 95,149 Other (25,923) 37,082 (230,039) Income before Income Taxes Recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income ¥ 1,008,252 ¥ 990,632 $ 8,947,131 242 5. Related Information (a) Information about Geographic Areas (i) Ordinary income Millions of yen Asia/Oceania 2016 Japan Americas Europe excluding Japan Total Ordinary Income ¥ 2,406,320 ¥ 322,385 ¥ 149,234 ¥ 337,332 ¥ 3,215,274 Millions of yen Asia/Oceania 2015 Japan Americas Europe excluding Japan Total Ordinary Income ¥ 2,375,535 ¥ 284,770 ¥ 184,355 ¥ 335,564 ¥ 3,180,225 Thousands of U.S. dollars Asia/Oceania 2016 Japan Americas Europe excluding Japan Total Ordinary Income $ 21,353,452 $ 2,860,820 $ 1,324,296 $ 2,993,458 $ 28,532,026 Notes: 1. Geographic analyses are presented based on geographic contiguity, similarities in economic activities, and relation of business operations. The above table shows Ordinary Income instead of sales of non-financial companies. 2.Japan includes Ordinary Income of MHFG and domestic consolidated subsidiaries excluding overseas branches, Americas includes Ordinary Income of consolidated subsidiaries and branches in Canada, the United States of America and others, Europe includes Ordinary Income of consolidated subsidiaries and branches in the United Kingdom and others and Asia/Oceania includes Ordinary Income of consolidated subsidiaries and branches in Hong Kong, the Republic of Singapore and others. (ii) Tangible fixed assets Information on tangible fixed assets by geographical areas as of March 31, 2016 and 2015 is not disclosed since tangible fixed assets in Japan accounted for more than 90% of tangible fixed assets. (b) Information about Major Customers Information about major customers is not disclosed since there are no outside customers accounted for more than 10% of Ordinary Income of the Company. 243 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 6. Information about Impairment Loss on Tangible Fixed Assets by Reportable Segment Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and (Large & Public others For the Fiscal Year corposector ended March 31, 2016 rations) business Impairment Loss ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 3,568 ¥ 3,568 ¥ 0 ¥ 3,569 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Impairment Loss ¥ — ¥ 843 ¥ — ¥ 4,412 Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and (Large & Public others For the Fiscal Year corposector ended March 31, 2015 rations) business Impairment Loss ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥10,387 ¥ 10,387 ¥ 0 ¥ 10,387 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Impairment Loss ¥ 59 ¥ 859 ¥ 52 ¥ 11,358 244 Thousands of U.S. dollars MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and For the Fiscal (Large & Public others Year ended corposector March 31, 2016 rations) business Impairment Loss $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 31,664 $ 31,664 $ 8 $ 31,672 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Impairment Loss $ — $ 7,488 $ — $ 39,160 7. Information about Amortization and Unamortized Balance of Goodwill by Reportable Segment Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and (Large & Public others For the Fiscal Year ended corposector March 31, 2016 rations) business Amortization of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 624 ¥ 624 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 7,176 ¥ 7,176 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Amortization of Goodwill ¥ 205 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 830 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill ¥ 16,264 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 23,440 245 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and (Large & Public others For the Fiscal Year ended corposector March 31, 2015 rations) business Amortization of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 785 ¥ 785 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥10,553 ¥10,553 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Amortization of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 2,912 ¥ 3,698 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 48,063 ¥ 58,617 Thousands of U.S. dollars MHBK (Consolidated) MHBK (Unconsolidated) Others Personal Retail Corporate Corporate Financial InterTrading banking banking banking banking Institutions national and (Large & Public others For the Fiscal Year ended corposector March 31, 2016 rations) business Amortization of Goodwill $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 5,541 $ 5,541 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 63,682 $ 63,682 MHFG (Consolidated) MHTB MHSC Others (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Amortization of Goodwill $ 1,827 $ — $ — $ 7,368 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill $ 144,330 $ — $ — $ 208,012 246 8. Information about Gain on Negative Goodwill Incurred by Reportable Segment For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 ・There is no applicable information. 45. Related Party For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 ・There are no material additions to the current scope subject to disclosure. 247 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 46. Per Share Information Per share information as of or for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 are calculated based on the following information: Yen U.S. dollars As of or for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Net Assets per Share of Common Stock ¥ 322.46 ¥ 322.86 $ 2.86 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock 26.94 24.91 0.24 Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock 26.42 24.10 0.23 Notes: 1. Total Net Assets per Share of Common Stock is based on the following information. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Total Net Assets ¥ 9,353,244 ¥ 9,800,538 $ 82,999,773 Deductions from Total Net Assets 1,285,343 1,854,668 11,406,013 Paid-in Amount of Preferred Stock 98,923 213,120 877,838 Cash Dividends on Preferred Stock 989 2,131 8,779 Stock Acquisition Rights 2,762 3,820 24,515 Non-Controlling Interests 1,182,668 1,635,595 10,494,881 Net Assets (year-end) related to Common Stock 8,067,900 7,945,869 71,593,760 Year-end Outstanding Shares of Common Stock, based on which Total Net Assets per Share of Common Stock was calculated 25,019,596 Thousand shares 24,610,248 Thousand shares / 2. Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock is based on the following information. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ¥ 670,943 ¥ 611,935 $ 5,953,885 Amount not attributable to Common Stock 2,429 4,910 21,563 Cash Dividends on Preferred Stock 2,429 4,910 21,563 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent related to Common Stock 668,513 607,025 5,932,322 Average Outstanding Shares of Common Stock (during the period) 24,806,160 Thousand shares 24,368,115 Thousand shares / 3. Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock is based on the following information. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Adjustment to Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ¥ 2,429 ¥ 4,910 $ 21,563 Cash Dividends on Preferred Stock 2,429 4,910 21,563 Increased Number of Shares of Common Stock 580,872 Thousand shares 1,012,931 Thousand shares / Preferred Stock 563,044 Thousand shares 994,744 Thousand shares / Stock Acquisition Rights 17,828 Thousand shares 18,186 Thousand shares / Description of Dilutive Securities which were not included in the Calculation of Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of — — / Parent per Share of Common Stock as they have no dilutive effects 248 4. As indicated in “6. Change in Accounting Policies” , Mizuho Financial Group has applied the Business Combinations Accounting Standard and others and the Accounting Standards have been applied in accordance with the transitional treatment set forth in Article 58-2 (3) of the Business Combinations Accounting Standard, Article 44-5 (3) of the Consolidation Accounting Standard, and Article 57-4 (3) of the Business Divestitures Accounting Standard. As a result of this, the impact on Net Assets per Share of Common Stock, Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock, and Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 is immaterial. 47. Subsequent Events Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. decided to redeem in full preferred securities issued by its group’s overseas special purpose subsidiaries on May 13, 2016, as set forth below. (1) Issuers a. Mizuho Capital Investment (USD) 1 Limited b. Mizuho Capital Investment (JPY) 1 Limited (2) Type of securities Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities (3) Total redemption amount a. US$ 600 million b. ¥400,000 million (4) Scheduled redemption date June 30, 2016 (5) Major reasons for the redemption Arrival of optional redemption date 249 250 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries [Under Japanese GAAP] Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 252 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 253 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 254 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 256 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. 257 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 259 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. 260 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 262 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income 251 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Assets Current Assets ¥ 90,816 ¥ 90,636 $ 805,897 Cash and Due from Banks 16,442 12,729 145,907 Other Current Assets 74,374 77,907 659,990 Fixed Assets 6,973,394 6,512,468 61,881,222 Tangible Fixed Assets 165,803 166,381 1,471,324 Intangible Fixed Assets 8,451 4,269 74,999 Investments in Subsidiaries and Affiliates 6,022,661 6,023,428 53,444,505 Other Investments 776,478 318,389 6,890,394 Total Assets ¥ 7,064,211 ¥ 6,603,104 $ 62,687,119 Liabilities and Net Assets Liabilities Current Liabilities ¥ 1,197,207 ¥ 1,208,717 $ 10,623,906 Short-term Borrowings 686,345 700,135 6,090,558 Short-term Bonds 500,000 500,000 4,436,951 Other Current Liabilities 10,862 8,582 96,397 Non-Current Liabilities 669,794 298,181 5,943,694 Total Liabilities 1,867,002 1,506,898 16,567,600 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity 5,151,857 5,041,680 45,717,079 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 2,255,790 2,255,404 20,017,666 Capital Surplus 1,195,830 1,195,363 10,611,685 Capital Reserve 1,195,682 1,195,296 10,610,372 Other Capital Surplus 147 66 1,313 Retained Earnings 1,703,049 1,593,924 15,112,696 Appropriated Reserve 4,350 4,350 38,602 Other Retained Earnings 1,698,699 1,589,574 15,074,094 Retained Earnings Brought Forward 1,698,699 1,589,574 15,074,094 Treasury Stock (2,813) (3,011) (24,968) Valuation and Translation Adjustments 42,588 50,704 377,925 Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities, net of Taxes 42,588 50,704 377,925 Stock Acquisition Rights 2,762 3,820 24,515 Total Net Assets 5,197,208 5,096,205 46,119,519 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 7,064,211 ¥ 6,603,104 $ 62,687,119 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.69=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2016, has been used for translation. 252 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Operating Income ¥ 333,500 ¥ 377,777 $ 2,959,450 Cash Dividends Received from Subsidiaries and Affiliates 292,883 344,668 2,599,024 Fee and Commission Income Received from Subsidiaries and Affiliates 40,616 33,109 360,426 Operating Expenses 31,063 26,854 275,655 General and Administrative Expenses 31,063 26,854 275,655 Operating Profits 302,436 350,922 2,683,795 Non-Operating Income 23,587 10,150 209,310 Non-Operating Expenses 21,117 11,630 187,393 Income before Income Taxes 304,906 349,442 2,705,712 Income Taxes: Current 334 325 2,965 Deferred 182 116 1,620 Net Income ¥ 304,389 ¥ 349,001 $ 2,701,127 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.69=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2016, has been used for translation. 253 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥ 30,156,145 ¥ 25,803,781 $ 267,602,677 Call Loans 266,249 396,839 2,362,675 Receivables under Resale Agreements 368,351 525,653 3,268,713 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions ― 133,336 ― Other Debt Purchased 729,842 543,683 6,476,555 Trading Assets 6,421,352 5,761,693 56,982,448 Money Held in Trust 3,197 3,249 28,371 Securities 37,903,140 41,235,710 336,348,747 Loans and Bills Discounted 70,374,392 70,873,844 624,495,455 Foreign Exchange Assets 1,343,546 1,559,516 11,922,503 Other Assets 6,696,402 6,798,521 59,423,215 Tangible Fixed Assets 836,484 828,583 7,422,884 Buildings 306,867 304,662 2,723,113 Land 417,687 423,722 3,706,522 Lease Assets 23,356 16,711 207,263 Construction in Progress 19,346 13,582 171,676 Other Tangible Fixed Assets 69,226 69,904 614,310 Intangible Fixed Assets 636,583 469,546 5,648,978 Software 245,168 245,869 2,175,602 Lease Assets 10,643 7,305 94,454 Other Intangible Fixed Assets 380,770 216,371 3,378,922 Prepaid Pension Cost 469,034 415,694 4,162,170 Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees 5,297,202 6,193,731 47,006,859 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (379,190) (434,828) (3,364,903) Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments ― (1) ― Total Assets ¥ 161,122,736 ¥ 161,108,555 $ 1,429,787,347 254 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheetー(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity Liabilities Deposits ¥ 111,374,133 ¥ 108,358,400 $ 988,323,128 Call Money 1,127,524 3,469,055 10,005,543 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 7,588,922 10,131,327 67,343,352 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 786,431 513,983 6,978,714 Commercial Paper 777,601 ― 6,900,364 Trading Liabilities 5,198,295 4,397,160 46,129,162 Borrowed Money 8,697,522 8,315,873 77,180,965 Foreign Exchange Liabilities 682,188 625,566 6,053,673 Short-term Bonds ― 25,000 ― Bonds and Notes 4,376,773 4,624,117 38,839,058 Other Liabilities 7,422,691 6,647,270 65,868,232 Reserve for Bonus Payments 20,437 19,933 181,359 Reserve for Variable Compensation 1,300 ― 11,542 Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans 267 13 2,370 Reserve for Contingencies 800 1,544 7,106 Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 15,041 14,772 133,479 Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures 39,245 48,878 348,258 Deferred Tax Liabilities 302,072 337,508 2,680,558 Deferred Tax Liabilities on Revaluation Reserve for Land 67,991 72,392 603,347 Acceptances and Guarantees 5,297,202 6,193,731 47,006,859 Total Liabilities 153,776,443 153,796,531 1,364,597,069 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity 5,922,330 5,673,213 52,554,184 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 1,404,065 1,404,065 12,459,535 Capital Surplus 2,286,795 2,286,795 20,292,803 Capital Reserve 655,324 655,324 5,815,287 Other Capital Surplus 1,631,471 1,631,471 14,477,516 Retained Earnings 2,231,469 1,982,352 19,801,846 Appropriated Reserve 169,829 121,296 1,507,047 Other Retained Earnings 2,061,640 1,861,055 18,294,799 Retained Earnings Brought Forward 2,061,640 1,861,055 18,294,799 Valuation and Translation Adjustments 1,423,961 1,638,811 12,636,094 Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities, net of Taxes 1,106,333 1,497,419 9,817,498 Net Deferred Hedge Gains(Losses), net of Taxes 169,143 (5,028) 1,500,965 Revaluation Reserve for Land, net of Taxes 148,483 146,419 1,317,631 Total Net Assets 7,346,292 7,312,024 65,190,278 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 161,122,736 ¥ 161,108,555 $ 1,429,787,347 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.69=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2016, has been used for translation. 255 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Income Interest Income ¥ 1,207,062 ¥ 1,258,141 $ 10,711,352 Loans and Bills Discounted 801,996 807,368 7,116,839 Securities 284,113 327,025 2,521,197 Fee and Commission Income 477,788 471,563 4,239,852 Trading Income 96,734 48,535 858,410 Other Operating Income 197,715 248,620 1,754,508 Other Income 278,912 211,888 2,475,038 Total Income 2,258,212 2,238,748 20,039,160 Expenses Interest Expenses 377,013 323,247 3,345,582 Deposits 168,237 119,269 1,492,926 Fee and Commission Expenses 91,475 88,033 811,745 Trading Expenses 2,282 ― 20,251 Other Operating Expenses 44,711 120,110 396,767 General and Administrative Expenses 832,319 855,795 7,385,921 Other Expenses 207,496 183,516 1,841,305 Total Expenses 1,555,299 1,570,704 13,801,571 Income before Income Taxes 702,913 668,044 6,237,589 Income Taxes: Current 161,424 209,116 1,432,464 Deferred 51,276 35,740 455,025 Net Income ¥ 490,212 ¥ 423,188 $ 4,350,100 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.69=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2016, has been used for translation. 256 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥ 1,665,011 ¥ 1,457,944 $ 14,775,147 Call Loans 5,520 6,852 48,991 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 215,970 ― 1,916,498 Other Debt Purchased 13,358 48,713 118,545 Trading Assets 127,305 67,185 1,129,694 Money Held in Trust 2,578 3,415 22,880 Securities 1,492,120 1,887,153 13,240,928 Loans and Bills Discounted 3,496,313 3,068,451 31,025,946 Foreign Exchange Assets 3,675 7,088 32,619 Other Assets 80,648 79,017 715,670 Tangible Fixed Assets 24,632 26,561 218,590 Buildings 10,390 10,541 92,202 Land 11,246 11,246 99,796 Construction in Progress 100 ― 887 Other Tangible Fixed Assets 2,896 4,773 25,705 Intangible Fixed Assets 24,022 17,624 213,172 Software 14,750 14,535 130,894 Other Intangible Fixed Assets 9,271 3,089 82,278 Prepaid Pension Cost 49,795 45,785 441,878 Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees 43,749 41,828 388,232 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (5,636) (6,811) (50,017) Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments ― (1) ― Total Assets ¥ 7,239,067 ¥ 6,750,811 $ 64,238,773 257 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheetー(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity Liabilities Deposits ¥ 3,409,338 ¥ 3,216,851 $ 30,254,133 Call Money 1,162,877 1,072,860 10,319,259 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 67,602 12,022 599,894 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 420,713 436,750 3,733,370 Trading Liabilities 121,483 63,242 1,078,035 Borrowed Money 366,955 221,967 3,256,326 Foreign Exchange Liabilities 0 ― 0 Bonds and Notes 10,000 42,200 88,739 Due to Trust Accounts 1,019,554 1,008,363 9,047,427 Other Liabilities 60,074 43,236 533,092 Reserve for Bonus Payments 1,953 1,909 17,332 Reserve for Variable Compensation 401 ― 3,563 Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 1,113 1,079 9,877 Deferred Tax Liabilities 12,043 22,342 106,873 Acceptances and Guarantees 43,749 41,828 388,232 Total Liabilities 6,697,859 6,184,654 59,436,152 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity 442,965 431,810 3,930,836 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 247,369 247,369 2,195,135 Capital Surplus 15,505 15,505 137,591 Capital Reserve 15,505 15,505 137,591 Retained Earnings 180,091 168,935 1,598,110 Appropriated Reserve 23,327 17,471 207,010 Other Retained Earnings 156,763 151,464 1,391,100 Retained Earnings Brought Forward 156,763 151,464 1,391,100 Valuation and Translation Adjustments 98,241 134,345 871,785 Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities, net of Taxes 97,740 136,022 867,337 Net Deferred Hedge Gains (Losses), net of Taxes 501 (1,676) 4,448 Total Net Assets 541,207 566,156 4,802,621 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 7,239,067 ¥ 6,750,811 $ 64,238,773 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.69=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2016, has been used for translation. 258 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Income Fiduciary Income ¥ 53,324 ¥ 51,947 $ 473,197 Interest Income 47,043 49,683 417,458 Loans and Bills Discounted 28,497 30,524 252,888 Securities 16,683 17,075 148,052 Fee and Commission Income 53,927 54,678 478,544 Trading Income 1,347 2,494 11,959 Other Operating Income 25,290 18,016 224,428 Other Income 14,352 15,902 127,366 Total Income 195,286 192,723 1,732,952 Expenses Interest Expenses 11,284 10,392 100,141 Deposits 2,694 2,596 23,913 Fee and Commission Expenses 25,936 25,538 230,154 Other Operating Expenses 8,137 6,625 72,215 General and Administrative Expenses 79,954 78,460 709,510 Other Expenses 10,370 3,791 92,029 Total Expenses 135,684 124,808 1,204,049 Income before Income Taxes 59,602 67,914 528,903 Income Taxes: Current 15,945 5,643 141,503 Deferred 3,215 5,027 28,537 Net Income ¥ 40,440 ¥ 57,243 $ 358,863 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.69=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2016, has been used for translation. 259 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Assets Current Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥ 283,049 ¥ 320,613 $ 2,511,757 Cash Segregated as Deposits for Customers and Others 170,684 151,401 1,514,635 Trading Assets 5,990,021 4,184,018 53,154,862 Trading Securities and Others 3,115,313 2,494,775 27,644,986 Derivatives 2,874,707 1,689,243 25,509,876 Receivables unsettled Trades 27,923 580,287 247,795 Operating Investment Securities 19,010 17,516 168,696 Operating Loans Receivable 3,100 3,240 27,509 Receivables Related to Margin Transactions 98,958 74,794 878,146 Loans Receivable under Margin Transactions 54,181 50,849 480,805 Cash Collateral for Borrowed Securities under Margin Transactions 44,776 23,945 397,341 Collateralized Short-term Financing Agreements-receivable 3,949,642 4,109,246 35,048,740 Deposits Paid for Securities Borrowed 3,718,958 4,060,231 33,001,671 Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell 230,684 49,014 2,047,069 Advances Paid 107 189 954 Short-term Guarantee Deposits 370,794 208,013 3,290,396 Securities: Fail to Deliver 11,937 25,582 105,931 Variation Margin Paid 1,020 4,826 9,060 Short-term Loans Receivable 50,711 46,084 450,013 Advance Payments 1,075 600 9,541 Prepaid Expenses 2,647 2,926 23,492 Accounts Receivable-other 2,520 4,527 22,369 Accrued income 23,143 24,167 205,378 Deferred Tax Assets 8,735 21,160 77,516 Other Current Assets 3,112 6,091 27,616 Less: Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (16) (12) (143) Total Current Assets 11,018,181 9,785,276 97,774,263 Noncurrent Assets Tangible Fixed Assets 14,540 15,678 129,035 Intangible Fixed Assets 42,370 34,344 375,994 Investments and Other Assets 308,153 297,869 2,734,524 Investment Securities 241,992 241,190 2,147,422 Long-term Guarantee Deposits 12,216 12,670 108,411 Prepaid Pension Cost 15,020 12,746 133,289 Deferred Tax Assets 1,394 8,297 12,377 Other 41,163 28,018 365,281 Less: Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (3,634) (5,055) (32,256) Total Noncurrent Assets 365,065 347,891 3,239,553 Total Assets ¥ 11,383,246 ¥ 10,133,168 $ 101,013,816 260 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheetー(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Liabilities Current Liabilities Trading Liabilities ¥ 4,445,062 ¥ 3,909,239 $ 39,445,044 Trading Securities and Others 1,642,885 2,294,228 14,578,804 Derivatives 2,802,176 1,615,010 24,866,240 Payables Related to Margin Transactions 42,278 33,922 375,175 Borrowings on Margin Transactions 10,835 8,383 96,149 Cash Collateral for Loaned Securities under Margin Transactions 31,443 25,539 279,026 Collateralized Short-term Financing Agreements-payable 3,861,722 3,052,857 34,268,544 Deposits Received for Securities Loaned 1,909,797 1,417,601 16,947,353 Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase 1,951,925 1,635,255 17,321,191 Deposits Received 136,356 160,613 1,210,016 Guarantee Deposits Received 154,013 110,135 1,366,700 Securities: Fail to Receive 4,271 8,685 37,904 Short-term Borrowings 479,403 626,792 4,254,182 Commercial Paper 513,700 456,500 4,558,523 Bonds and Notes Due within One year 55,602 67,220 493,408 Lease Obligations 377 414 3,352 Advances Received 1,144 1,363 10,154 Accounts Payable-other 717 3,221 6,368 Accrued Expenses 26,266 24,301 233,089 Income Taxes Payable 4,400 2,549 39,045 Reserve for Bonus Payments 13,217 14,757 117,287 Provision for variable compensation 790 ― 7,015 Provision for Bonus point Redemption 623 783 5,530 Other Current Liabilities 3,293 1,524 29,228 Total Current Liabilities 9,743,240 8,474,880 86,460,564 Noncurrent Liabilities Bonds and Notes 548,766 496,002 4,869,700 Long-term Borrowings 409,400 524,000 3,632,975 Lease Obligations 857 1,351 7,613 Provision for Retirement Benefits 18,034 16,952 160,037 Other Noncurrent Liabilities 1,885 2,431 16,730 Total Noncurrent Liabilities 978,944 1,040,738 8,687,055 Statutory Reserves Reserve for Financial Instrument Transaction Liabilities 2,005 1,589 17,798 Total Statutory Reserves 2,005 1,589 17,798 Total Liabilities ¥ 10,724,190 ¥ 9,517,208 $ 95,165,417 261 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheetー(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity Common Stock ¥ 125,167 ¥ 125,167 $ 1,110,722 Capital Surplus Additional Paid in Capital 285,831 285,831 2,536,440 Other Capital Surplus 95,817 95,817 850,279 Total Capital Surpluses 381,649 381,649 3,386,719 Retained Earnings Other Retained Earnings Retained Earnings Brought Forward 149,594 112,125 1,327,489 Total Retained Earnings 149,594 112,125 1,327,489 Total Shareholders’ Equity 656,411 618,941 5,824,930 Valuation and Translation Adjustments Net Unrealized Gains on (Operating) Investment Securities, net of Tax 21,626 24,524 191,915 Net Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges, net of Tax (18,982) (27,505) (168,446) Total Valuation and Translation Adjustments 2,644 (2,981) 23,469 Total Net Assets 659,056 615,960 5,848,399 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 11,383,246 ¥ 10,133,168 $ 101,013,816 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.69=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2016, has been used for translation. 262 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 Operating Revenues Commissions ¥ 155,617 ¥ 146,782 $ 1,380,934 Brokerage Commissions 30,728 33,795 272,678 Underwriting and Selling Fees, and Commissions from Solicitation to Qualifying Investors 27,693 28,626 245,748 Offering, Selling, and Other Commissions and Fees, and Commissions from Solicitation to Qualifying Investors 31,397 34,228 278,616 Other commissions and Fees 65,798 50,131 583,892 Net Gain on Trading 130,230 117,865 1,155,654 Net Gain (loss) on Operating Investment Securities 4,604 2,680 40,863 Interest and Dividend Income 29,402 34,249 260,916 Total Operating Revenues 319,855 301,578 2,838,367 Interest Expenses 27,552 26,850 244,494 Net Operating Revenues 292,303 274,727 2,593,873 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 231,895 217,631 2,057,819 Transaction-related Expenses 51,176 45,154 454,138 Personnel Expenses 85,135 85,944 755,480 Real Estate Expenses 26,042 25,634 231,096 Administrative Expenses 47,955 38,685 425,554 Depreciation and Amortization 14,929 15,065 132,485 Taxes and Dues 3,386 3,106 30,055 Provision of Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (426) 431 (3,787) Other 3,695 3,608 32,798 Operating Income 60,407 57,096 536,054 Non-operating Income 8,055 4,720 71,482 Non-operating Expenses 1,357 581 12,051 Ordinary Income 67,105 61,235 595,485 Extraordinary gain 13,436 588 119,237 Gain on Sales of Noncurrent Assets 48 89 433 Gain on Sale of Investment Securities 565 499 5,021 Indemnity receipt from the erroneous stock order 12,822 ― 113,783 Extraordinary loss 2,464 2,530 21,868 Loss on Sales of Noncurrent Assets 8 ― 73 Loss on Disposal of Noncurrent Assets 254 386 2,260 Loss on Sale of Investment Securities 26 69 232 Loss on Impairment of Investment Securities 0 ― 1 Loss on Impairment of Investments in Subsidiaries and Affiliates 146 ― 1,297 Loss on Impairment of Golf Club Membership 0 0 1 Impairment Losses 843 858 7,481 Head office transfer cost 577 881 5,125 Cost incurred in opening of joint branches 192 ― 1,705 Provision of Reserve for Financial Instruments Transaction Liabilities 416 334 3,693 Income before Income Taxes 78,077 59,293 692,854 Income Taxes – current 6,915 4,485 61,370 Income Taxes – deferred 16,563 10,734 146,986 Total Income Taxes 23,479 15,219 208,356 Net Income ¥ 54,598 ¥ 44,073 $ 484,498 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥112.69=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2016, has been used for translation. 263 264 Status of Capital Adequacy 266 Capital Adequacy Ratio Highlights 268 Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy 268 Scope of consolidation 270 Composition of capital 286 Risk-based capital 289 Credit risk 306 Methods for credit risk mitigation 308 Counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions 310 Securitization exposure 332 Market risk 332 Operational risk 332 Equity exposure in banking book 335 Composition of Leverage Ratio 336 Indicators for assessing Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) 338 Liquidity Coverage Ratio 340 Compensation of directors, corporate auditors and employees 265 Status of Capital Adequacy Capital Adequacy Ratio Highlights The Basel Framework, based on the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: A Revised Framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, requires the disclosure of capital adequacy information to ensure the enhanced effectiveness of market discipline. Our disclosure is made under the Matters Separately Prescribed by the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency Regarding Capital Adequacy Conditions, etc. pursuant to Article 19-2, Paragraph 1, Item 5, Subitem (d), etc. of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Banking Law (Ministry of Finance Ordinance No. 10 of 1982) (the FSA Notice No. 7 of 2014, etc.). With respect to the calculation of capital adequacy ratio, we have applied the international standard and adopted (a) the advanced internal ratings-based approach as a method to calculate the amount of credit risk weighted assets and (b) the advanced measurement approach as a method to calculate the amount equivalent to the operational risk. ■ Capital adequacy ratio highlights Mizuho Financial Group (Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Total capital ratio 15.41% 14.58% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 12.64% 11.50% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 10.50% 9.43% Total capital ¥9,638.6 ¥9,508.4 Tier 1 capital 7,905.0 7,500.3 Common equity Tier 1 capital 6,566.4 6,153.1 Risk weighted assets ¥62,531.1 ¥65,191.9 Mizuho Bank (Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Total capital ratio 15.46% 15.30% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 12.75% 12.13% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 10.81% 10.42% Total capital ¥8,780.2 ¥8,753.5 Tier 1 capital 7,243.6 6,943.1 Common equity Tier 1 capital 6,142.2 5,965.7 Risk weighted assets ¥56,771.0 ¥57,201.8 Mizuho Bank (Non-Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Total capital ratio 15.50% 15.35% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 12.66% 12.01% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 10.65% 10.33% Total capital ¥8,576.3 ¥8,597.5 Tier 1 capital 7,004.0 6,727.5 Common equity Tier 1 capital 5,892.2 5,787.3 Risk weighted assets ¥55,306.1 ¥55,981.4 Mizuho Trust & Banking (Consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Total capital ratio 19.52% 19.21% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 18.21% 16.68% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 18.21% 16.67% Total capital ¥472.1 ¥511.6 Tier 1 capital 440.4 444.4 Common equity Tier 1 capital 440.4 444.1 Risk weighted assets ¥2,418.1 ¥2,663.4 266 Mizuho Trust & Banking (Non-consolidated) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Total capital ratio 19.80% 19.33% (International standard) Tier 1 capital ratio 18.52% 16.79% Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 18.52% 16.79% Total capital ¥479.5 ¥502.8 Tier 1 capital 448.4 436.7 Common equity Tier 1 capital 448.4 436.7 Risk weighted assets ¥2,421.0 ¥2,600.9 267 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Scope of consolidation (1) Scope of consolidation for calculating consolidated capital adequacy ratio (a) Difference from the companies included in the scope of consolidation based on consolidation rules for preparation of consolidated financial statements (the scope of accounting consolidation ) None as of March 31, 2016 and 2015. (b) Number of consolidated subsidiaries As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Consolidated subsidiaries 143 150 Our major consolidated subsidiaries are Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. The following table sets forth information with respect to our principal consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2016: Proportion of Proportion of Country of ownership voting Name organization Main business interest (%) interest (%) Domestic Mizuho Bank, Ltd. ...........................................Japan Banking 100.0% 100.0% Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. ...................Japan Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. .............................Japan Securities 95.8 95.8 Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. .............. Japan Trust and banking 54.0 54.0 Mizuho Asset Management Co., Ltd. ..............Japan Investment 98.7 100.0 management Mizuho Research Institute Ltd. .......................Japan Research and 98.6 98.6 consulting Mizuho Information & Research Institute Inc. . Japan Information technology 91.5 91.5 Mizuho Private Wealth Management Co., Ltd. Japan Consulting 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Credit Guarantee Co., Ltd. .................Japan Credit guarantee 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Factors, Limited ..................................Japan Factoring 100.0 100.0 Shinko Asset Management Co., Ltd. ..............Japan Investment 99.6 99.6 management Mizuho Realty Co., Ltd. ...................................Japan Real estate agency 86.7 76.9 Defined Contribution Plan Services Co., Ltd. ..Japan Pension plan-related 60.0 60.0 business Mizuho-DL Financial Technology Co., Ltd. .....Japan Application and 60.0 60.0 Sophistication of Financial Technology UC Card Co., Ltd. ...........................................Japan Credit card 51.0 51.0 Mizuho Capital Co., Ltd. ..................................Japan Venture capital 50.0 50.0 268 Proportion of Proportion of Country of ownership voting Name organization Main business interest (%) interest (%) Overseas Mizuho International plc ..................................U.K. Securities and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. .............................. China Banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Securities Asia Limited .......................China Securities 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Securities USA Inc. ............................ U.S.A. Securities 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank Nederland N.V. ..........................Netherlands Banking and securities 100.0 100.0 Banco Mizuho do Brasil S.A. .......................... Brazil Banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Trust & Banking (Luxembourg) S.A. ...Luxembourg Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank (USA) ........................................U.S.A. Banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank (Switzerland) Ltd ....................... Switzerland Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. (USA) ................ U.S.A. Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Capital Markets Corporation ...............U.S.A. Derivatives 100.0 100.0 PT. Bank Mizuho Indonesia ............................Indonesia Banking 99.0 99.0 (c) Corporations providing financial services for which Article 9 of the FSA Notice No. 20 is applicable None as of March 31, 2016 and 2015. (d) Companies that are in the bank holding company’s corporate group but not included in the scope of accounting consolidation and companies that are not in the bank holding company’s corporate group but included in the scope of accounting consolidation None as of March 31, 2016 and 2015. (e) Restrictions on transfer of funds or capital within the bank holding company’s corporate group None as of March 31, 2016 and 2015. (f) Names of any other financial institutions, etc., classified as subsidiaries or other members of the bank holding company that are deficient in regulatory capital None as of March 31, 2016 and 2015. 269 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Composition of capital (2) Composition of capital, etc. (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Common equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves (1) Directly issued qualifying common share 1a+2-1c-26 capital plus related stock surplus and retained ¥6,365,502 ¥/ ¥5,816,601 ¥/ earnings 1a of which: capital and stock surplus 3,267,031 / 3,152,290 / 2 of which: retained earnings 3,196,908 / 2,768,510 / 1c of which: treasury stock (-) 3,609 / 3,616 / of which: national specific regulatory 26 94,827 / 100,584 / adjustments (earnings to be distributed) (-) of which: other than above / / 1b Subscription rights to common shares 2,762 / 3,820 / Accumulated other comprehensive income and 3 964,710 643,140 811,982 1,217,973 other disclosed reserves Common share capital issued by subsidiaries 5 and held by third parties (amount allowed in 14,749 / 12,106 / group CET1) Total of items included in common equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves subject to 32,465 / 49,114 / phase-out arrangements of which: amount allowed in group CET1 capital subject to phase-out arrangements 32,465 / 49,114 / on common share capital issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties Common equity Tier 1 capital: 6 (A) 7,380,191 / 6,693,624 / instruments and reserves Common equity Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments (2) Total intangible assets (net of related tax 8+9 liability, excluding those relating to mortgage 361,571 241,047 205,759 308,639 servicing rights) of which: goodwill (net of related tax liability, 8 35,452 23,635 42,919 64,378 including those equivalent) of which: other intangibles other than 9 goodwill and mortgage servicing rights (net 326,118 217,412 162,840 244,261 of related tax liability) Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from 10 6,614 4,409 4,559 6,839 temporary differences (net of related tax liability) Deferred gains or losses on derivatives under 11 ¥99,158 ¥66,105 ¥10,654 ¥15,981 hedge accounting 270 (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Shortfall of eligible provisions to expected 12 ¥18,041 ¥12,000 ¥16,617 ¥24,806 losses 13 Securitization gain on sale 52 35 154 231 Gains and losses due to changes in own credit 14 1,419 946 456 685 risk on fair valued liabilities 15 Net defined benefit asset 269,400 179,600 201,673 302,509 Investments in own shares (excluding those 16 1,338 892 1,948 2,923 reported in the net assets section) 17 Reciprocal cross-holdings in common equity Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of 18 56,105 37,403 98,658 147,987 eligible short positions, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued share capital (amount above the 10% threshold) Amount exceeding the 10% threshold on 19+20+21 specified items of which: significant investments in the 19 common stock of financials 20 of which: mortgage servicing rights of which: deferred tax assets arising from 21 temporary differences (net of related tax liability) Amount exceeding the 15% threshold on 22 specified items of which: significant investments in the 23 common stock of financials 24 of which: mortgage servicing rights of which: deferred tax assets arising from 25 temporary differences (net of related tax liability) Regulatory adjustments applied to common 27 equity Tier 1 due to insufficient additional Tier / / 1 and Tier 2 to cover deductions Common equity Tier 1 capital: 28 (B) 813,702 / 540,483 / regulatory adjustments Common equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) Common equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) 29 (C) ¥6,566,488 ¥/ ¥6,153,141 ¥/ ((A)-(B)) 271 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Additional Tier 1 capital: instruments (3) Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock surplus of 30 31a ¥¥/ ¥¥/ which: classified as equity under applicable accounting standards and the breakdown Subscription rights to additional Tier 1 30 31b / / instruments Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock surplus of 30 32 300,000 / / which: classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus 30 related stock surplus issued by special / / purpose vehicles and other equivalent entities Additional Tier 1 instruments issued by 34-35 subsidiaries and held by third parties (amount 30,843 / 29,598 / allowed in group AT1) Eligible Tier 1 capital instruments subject to 33+35 phase-out arrangements included in additional 1,144,037 / 1,458,197 / Tier 1 capital: instruments of which: directly issued capital instruments 33 1,144,037 / 1,458,197 / subject to phase out from additional Tier 1 of which: instruments issued by subsidiaries 35 / / subject to phase out Total of items included in additional Tier 1 capital: instruments subject to phase-out (21,475) / (24,272) / arrangements of which: foreign currency translation (21,475) / (24,272) / adjustments 36 Additional Tier 1 capital: instruments (D) 1,453,405 / 1,463,523 / Additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments Investments in own additional Tier 1 37 instruments Reciprocal cross-holdings in additional Tier 1 38 ¥¥¥¥instruments 272 (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of 39 eligible short positions, where the bank does ¥17 ¥11 ¥377 ¥566 not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity (amount above 10% threshold) Significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that 40 88,606 59,071 50,301 75,451 are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation (net of eligible short positions) Total of items included in additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments subject to 26,176 / 65,636 / phase-out arrangements of which: goodwill equivalent 9,376 / 35,170 / of which: intangible fixed assets recognized 10,750 / 17,771 / as a result of a merger of which: capital increase due to 35 / 231 / securitization transactions of which: 50% of excess of expected losses relative to eligible reserves by banks 6,013 / 12,462 / adopting internal ratings-based approach Regulatory adjustments applied to additional 42 Tier 1 due to insufficient Tier 2 to cover / / deductions Additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory 43 (E) 114,800 / 116,315 / adjustments Additional Tier 1 capital (AT1) 44 Additional Tier 1 capital ((D)-(E)) (F) 1,338,605 / 1,347,208 / Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) 45 (G) 7,905,093 / 7,500,349 / ((C)+(F)) Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions (4) Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus of which: classified 46 / / as equity under applicable accounting standards and the breakdown 46 Subscription rights to Tier 2 instruments ¥¥/ ¥¥/ 273 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus of which: classified 46 ¥324,517 ¥/ ¥150,000 ¥/ as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus 46 issued by special purpose vehicles and other 169,035 / 180,405 / equivalent entities Tier 2 instruments issued by subsidiaries and 48-49 held by third parties (amount allowed in group 10,269 / 9,250 / Tier 2) Eligible Tier 2 capital instruments subject to 47+49 phase-out arrangements included in Tier 2: 962,928 / 1,108,804 / instruments and provisions of which: directly issued capital instruments 47 169,035 / 180,405 / subject to phase out from Tier 2 of which: instruments issued by subsidiaries 49 793,893 / 928,399 / subject to phase out Total of general allowance for loan losses and 50 6,031 / 4,621 / eligible provisions included in Tier 2 50a of which: general allowance for loan losses 6,031 / 4,621 / 50b of which: eligible provisions / / Total of items included in Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions subject to phase374,012 / 730,789 / out arrangements of which: 45% of unrealized gains on other 335,046 / 671,710 / securities of which: 45% of revaluation reserve for land 38,965 / 59,079 / Tier 2 capital: instruments and 51 (H) 1,846,795 / 2,183,870 / provisions Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments 52 Investments in own Tier 2 instruments 1,680 2,520 53 Reciprocal cross-holdings in Tier 2 instruments Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of 54 eligible short positions, where the bank does ¥33,374 ¥22,249 ¥54,114 ¥81,171 not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity (amount above the 10% threshold) 274 (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Significant investments in the capital banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside 55 ¥¥¥¥the scope of regulatory consolidation (net of eligible short positions) Total of items included in Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments subject to phase-out 79,873 / 119,954 / arrangements of which: investments in the capital 73,859 / 107,491 / banking, financial and insurance entities of which: 50% of excess of expected losses relative to eligible reserves by banks 6,013 / 12,462 / adopting internal ratings-based approach 57 Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments (I) 113,248 / 175,748 / Tier 2 capital (T2) 58 Tier 2 capital (T2) ((H)-(I)) (J) 1,733,547 / 2,008,122 / Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) 59 Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) ((G)+(J)) (K) 9,638,641 / 9,508,471 / Risk weighted assets (5) Total of items included in risk weighted assets 480,460 / 858,200 / subject to phase-out arrangements of which: intangible assets (net of related tax liability, excluding those relating to 206,661 / 226,489 / mortgage servicing rights) of which: deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising 4,409 / 6,839 / from temporary differences (net of related tax liability) of which: net defined benefit asset 179,600 / 302,509 / of which: investments in the capital 89,788 / 322,361 / banking, financial and insurance entities 60 Risk weighted assets (L) ¥62,531,174 ¥/ ¥65,191,951 ¥/ Capital ratio (consolidated) Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 61 10.50% / 9.43% / (consolidated) ((C)/(L)) 275 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (a) Composition of capital disclosure (International standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements 62 Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) ((G)/(L)) 12.64% / 11.50% / 63 Total capital ratio (consolidated) ((K)/(L)) 15.41% / 14.58% / Regulatory adjustments (6) Non-significant investments in the capital of 72 other financials that are below the thresholds ¥672,811 ¥/ ¥675,780 ¥/ for deduction (before risk weighting) Significant investments in the common stock of 73 financials that are below the thresholds for 112,376 / 150,800 / deduction (before risk weighting) Mortgage servicing rights that are below the 74 / / thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) Deferred tax assets arising from temporary 75 differences that are below the thresholds for 75,828 / 75,937 / deduction (before risk weighting) Provisions included in Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions (7) 76 Provisions (general allowance for loan losses) 6,031 / 4,621 / Cap on inclusion of provisions (general 77 47,342 / 45,586 / allowance for loan losses) Provisions eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 in respect of exposures subject to internal ratings78 / / based approach (prior to application of cap) (if the amount is negative, report as nil ) Cap for inclusion of provisions in Tier 2 under 79 304,580 / 310,879 / internal ratings-based approach Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements (8) Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to 82 1,249,883 / 1,458,197 / phase-out arrangements Amount excluded from AT1 due to cap (excess 83 over cap after redemptions and maturities) (if / 257,085 / the amount is negative, report as nil ) Current cap on T2 instruments subject to 84 1,012,236 / 1,180,942 / phase-out arrangements Amount excluded from T2 due to cap (excess 85 over cap after redemptions and maturities) (if ¥¥/ ¥¥/ the amount is negative, report as nil ) 276 Notes: 1. The above figures are calculated based on International standard applied on a consolidated basis under the FSA Notice No. 20. 2. In calculating the consolidated capital adequacy ratio, we underwent an examination following the procedures agreed with Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC, on the basis of Treatment in implementing examination by agreed-upon procedures for calculating capital adequacy ratio (Industry Committee Practical Guideline No. 30 of the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants). Note that this is not a part of the accounting audit performed on our consolidated financial statements. This consists of an examination under agreed-upon procedures performed by Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC on a portion of the internal control structure concerning the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio and a report of the results to us. As such, they do not represent an opinion regarding the capital adequacy ratio itself nor the internal controls related to the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio. 277 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (b) Explanation of (a) Composition of capital disclosure Reconciliation between Consolidated balance sheet and items of consolidated balance sheet and Composition of capital disclosure (Millions of yen) Reference # of Consolidated balance sheet as in published Cross-reference Basel III template financial statements Items to Appended under the template Composition of As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 capital disclosure (Assets) Cash and due from banks ¥36,315,471 ¥29,096,166 Call loans and bills purchased 893,545 444,115 Receivables under resale 7,805,798 8,582,239 agreements Guarantee deposits paid under 3,407,390 4,059,340 securities borrowing transactions Other debt purchased 2,979,797 3,239,831 Trading assets 13,004,522 10,781,735 6-a Money held in trust 175,638 157,728 Securities 39,505,971 43,278,733 2-b, 6-b Loans and bills discounted 73,708,884 73,415,170 6-c Foreign exchange assets 1,447,743 1,623,736 Derivatives other than for trading 3,157,752 3,544,243 6-d assets Other assets 4,144,131 4,066,424 6-e Tangible fixed assets 1,085,791 1,078,051 Intangible fixed assets 804,567 657,556 2-a Net defined benefit asset 646,428 743,382 3 Deferred tax assets 36,517 36,938 4-a Customers' liabilities for acceptances 4,798,158 5,404,843 and guarantees Reserves for possible losses on (459,531) (525,486) loans Reserve for possible losses on (2) investments Total assets ¥193,458,580 ¥189,684,749 (Liabilities) Deposits ¥105,629,071 ¥97,757,545 Negotiable certificates of deposit 11,827,533 15,694,906 Call money and bills sold 2,521,008 5,091,198 Payables under repurchase 16,833,346 19,612,120 agreements Guarantee deposits received under 2,608,971 2,245,639 securities lending transactions Commercial paper 1,010,139 538,511 Trading liabilities 10,276,133 8,743,196 6-f Borrowed money 7,503,543 7,195,869 8-a Foreign exchange liabilities 492,473 473,060 Short-term bonds 648,381 816,705 Bonds and notes 6,120,928 6,013,731 8-b 278 (b) Explanation of (a) Composition of capital disclosure-(Continued) (Millions of yen) Reference # of Consolidated balance sheet as in published Cross-reference Basel III template financial statements Items to Appended under the template Composition of As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 capital disclosure Due to trust accounts 5,067,490 1,780,768 Derivatives other than for trading 2,571,597 3,474,332 6-g liabilities Other liabilities 5,532,596 4,261,955 Reserve for bonus payments 62,171 59,869 Reserve for variable compensation 2,836 Net defined benefit liability 51,514 47,518 Reserve for director and corporate 1,685 1,527 auditor retirement benefits Reserve for possible losses on sales 267 13 of loans Reserve for contingencies 5,271 7,845 Reserve for reimbursement of 16,154 15,851 deposits Reserve for reimbursement of 39,245 48,878 debentures Reserves under special laws 2,024 1,607 Deferred tax liabilities 414,799 524,321 4-b Deferred tax liabilities for revaluation 67,991 72,392 4-c reserve for land Acceptances and guarantees 4,798,158 5,404,843 Total liabilities ¥184,105,335 ¥179,884,211 (Net assets) Common stock and preferred stock 2,255,790 2,255,404 1-a Capital surplus 1,110,164 1,110,006 1-b Retained earnings 3,197,616 2,769,371 1-c Treasury stock (3,609) (3,616) 1-d Total shareholders' equity ¥6,559,962 ¥6,131,166 Net unrealized gains (losses) on 1,296,039 1,737,348 other securities Deferred gains or losses on hedges 165,264 26,635 5 Revaluation reserve for land 148,483 146,419 Foreign currency translation (53,689) (40,454) adjustments Remeasurements of defined benefit 51,752 160,005 plans Total accumulated other ¥1,607,851 ¥2,029,955 3 comprehensive income Stock acquisition rights 2,762 3,820 1b Non-Controlling interests 1,182,668 1,635,595 7 Total net assets ¥9,353,244 ¥9,800,538 Total liabilities and net assets ¥193,458,580 ¥189,684,749 Note: The regulatory scope of consolidation is the same as the accounting scope of consolidation. 279 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Appended template 1. Shareholders' equity (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2016 31, 2015 Including eligible Tier 1 capital 1-a Common stock and preferred stock ¥2,255,790 ¥2,255,404 instruments subject to phaseout arrangements Including eligible Tier 1 capital 1-b Capital surplus 1,110,164 1,110,006 instruments subject to phaseout arrangements 1-c Retained earnings 3,197,616 2,769,371 1-d Treasury stock (3,609) (3,616) Total shareholders' equity ¥6,559,962 ¥6,131,166 (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2016 31, 2015 Shareholders' equity Directly issued qualifying common attributable to common shares share capital plus related stock ¥6,460,330 ¥5,917,185 (before adjusting national surplus and retained earnings specific regulatory adjustments (earnings to be distributed)) 1a of which: capital and stock surplus 3,267,031 3,152,290 2 of which: retained earnings 3,196,908 2,768,510 1c of which: treasury stock (-) 3,609 3,616 of which: other than above Directly issued qualifying additional Shareholders' equity Tier 1 instruments plus related stock attributable to preferred shares 31a surplus of which: classified as equity with a loss absorbency clause under applicable accounting standards upon entering into effectively and the breakdown bankruptcy 280 2. Intangible fixed assets (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2016 31, 2015 2-a Intangible fixed assets ¥804,567 ¥657,556 2-b Securities 39,505,971 43,278,733 of which: share of goodwill of Share of goodwill of companies companies accounted for using the 35,646 48,680 accounted for using the equity equity method method Income taxes related to above ¥(237,595) ¥(191,837) (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2016 31, 2015 Goodwill (net of related tax liability, 8 ¥59,087 ¥107,297 including those equivalent) Other intangibles other than goodwill 9 and mortgage servicing rights (net of 543,531 407,101 Software and other related tax liability) Mortgage servicing rights (net of related tax liability) Amount exceeding the 10% 20 threshold on specified items Amount exceeding the 15% 24 threshold on specified items Mortgage servicing rights that are 74 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) 3. Net defined benefit asset (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2016 31, 2015 3 Net defined benefit asset ¥646,428 ¥743,382 Income taxes related to above ¥(197,428) ¥(239,199) (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2016 31, 2015 15 Net defined benefit asset ¥449,000 ¥504,183 281 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy 4. Deferred tax assets (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2016 31, 2015 4-a Deferred tax assets ¥36,517 ¥36,938 4-b Deferred tax liabilities 414,799 524,321 Deferred tax liabilities for revaluation 4-c 67,991 72,392 reserve for land Tax effects on intangible fixed assets ¥237,595 ¥191,837 Tax effects on net defined benefit asset 197,428 239,199 (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2016 31, 2015 This item does not agree with Deferred tax assets that rely on future the amount reported on the profitability excluding those arising 10 ¥11,024 ¥11,399 consolidated balance sheet from temporary differences (net of due to offsetting of assets and related tax liability) liabilities. This item does not agree with Deferred tax assets that rely on future the amount reported on the profitability arising from temporary 75,828 75,937 consolidated balance sheet differences (net of related tax liability) due to offsetting of assets and liabilities. Amount exceeding the 10% 21 threshold on specified items Amount exceeding the 15% 25 threshold on specified items Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that are 75 75,828 75,937 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) 282 5. Deferred gains or losses on derivatives under hedge accounting (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2016 31, 2015 5 Deferred gains or losses on hedges ¥165,264 ¥26,635 (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2016 31, 2015 Deferred gains or losses on 11 ¥165,264 ¥26,635 derivatives under hedge accounting 6. Items associated with investments in the capital of financial institutions (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2016 31, 2015 Including trading account 6-a Trading assets ¥13,004,522 ¥10,781,735 securities and derivatives for trading assets 6-b Securities 39,505,971 43,278,733 6-c Loans and bills discounted 73,708,884 73,415,170 Including subordinated loans Derivatives other than for trading 6-d 3,157,752 3,544,243 assets 6-e Other assets 4,144,131 4,066,424 Including money invested Including trading account 6-f Trading liabilities 10,276,133 8,743,196 securities sold Derivatives other than for trading 6-g 2,571,597 3,474,332 liabilities 283 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2016 31, 2015 Investments in own capital instruments ¥2,231 ¥9,072 16 Common equity Tier 1 capital 2,231 4,872 37 Additional Tier 1 capital 52 Tier 2 capital 4,200 Reciprocal cross-holdings in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities 17 Common equity Tier 1 capital 38 Additional Tier 1 capital 53 Tier 2 capital Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of eligible short 821,973 1,058,656 positions, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued share capital (amount above 10% threshold) 18 Common equity Tier 1 capital 93,508 246,646 39 Additional Tier 1 capital 28 943 54 Tier 2 capital 55,624 135,285 Non-significant investments in the capital of other financials that are 72 672,811 675,780 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) Significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of 260,053 276,553 regulatory consolidation, net of eligible short positions Amount exceeding the 10% 19 threshold on specified items Amount exceeding the 15% 23 threshold on specified items 40 Additional Tier 1 capital 147,677 125,753 55 Tier 2 capital Significant investments in the common stock of financials that are 73 112,376 150,800 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) 284 7. Non-Controlling interests (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2016 31, 2015 7 Non-Controlling interests ¥1,182,668 ¥1,635,595 (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2016 31, 2015 Common share capital issued by After reflecting amounts eligible 5 subsidiaries and held by third parties ¥14,749 ¥12,106 for inclusion (non-controlling (amount allowed in group CET1) interest after adjustments) Qualifying additional Tier 1 After reflecting amounts eligible instruments plus related stock surplus 30-31ab-32 for inclusion (non-controlling issued by special purpose vehicles interest after adjustments) and other equivalent entities Additional Tier 1 instruments issued by After reflecting amounts eligible 34-35 subsidiaries and held by third parties 30,843 29,598 for inclusion (non-controlling (amount allowed in group AT1) interest after adjustments) Tier 2 instruments plus related stock After reflecting amounts eligible 46 surplus issued by special purpose 169,035 180,405 for inclusion (non-controlling vehicles and other equivalent entities interest after adjustments) Tier 2 instruments issued by After reflecting amounts eligible 48-49 subsidiaries and held by third parties 10,269 9,250 for inclusion (non-controlling (amount allowed in group Tier 2) interest after adjustments) 8. Other capital instruments (1) Consolidated balance sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2016 31, 2015 8-a Borrowed money ¥7,503,543 ¥7,195,869 8-b Bonds and notes 6,120,928 6,013,731 Total ¥13,624,471 ¥13,209,601 285 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (2) Composition of capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2016 31, 2015 Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock 32 surplus of which: classified as ¥300,000 ¥liabilities under applicable accounting standards Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus 46 324,517 150,000 of which: classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Note: Amounts in the Composition of capital disclosure are based on those before considering amounts under transitional arrangements and include Amounts excluded under transitional arrangements disclosed in (A) Composition of capital disclosure as well as amounts included as regulatory capital. In addition, items for regulatory purposes under transitional arrangements are excluded from this table. ■ Risk-based capital (3) Summary of approach to assessing capital adequacy In order to ensure that risk-based capital is sufficiently maintained in light of the risk held by us, we regularly conduct the following assessment of capital adequacy in addition to adopting a suitable and effective capital adequacy monitoring structure. Maintaining a sufficient BIS capital ratio We confirm our maintenance of a high level of financial soundness by conducting regular evaluations to examine whether our risk-based capital is adequate in qualitative as well as quantitative terms, in light of our business plans and strategic targets to match the increase in risk-weighted assets acquired for growth, in addition to maintaining our capital above the minimum requirements of common equity Tier 1 capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio, total capital ratio and capital buffer ratio. Balancing risk and capital On the basis of the framework for allocating risk capital, after obtaining the clearest possible grasp of the group’s overall risk exposure, we endeavor to control risk so as to keep it within the range of our business capacity by means of allocating capital that corresponds to the amount of risk to the principal banking subsidiaries, etc., within the bounds of our capital, and we conduct regular assessments to ensure that a sufficient level of capital is maintained for our risk profile. When making these assessments, we calculate the potential losses arising from assumed stress events and risk volumes, which we assess whether they balance with the group’s capital. Stress events are based on risk scenarios that are formulated based on the current economic condition and the economic outlook, etc. and from scenarios such as the occurrence of historical stress events. In addition, we examine whether an appropriate return on risk is maintained in the assessments. 286 (4) Required capital by portfolio classification (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 EAD Required capital EAD Required capital Credit risk ¥200,940.9 ¥5,234.5 ¥196,575.9 ¥5,456.6 Internal ratings-based approach 190,100.2 4,701.2 189,380.7 4,926.2 Corporate (except specialized 70,940.2 2,502.9 68,175.7 2,434.9 lending) Corporate (specialized lending) 3,818.1 270.3 3,574.5 323.9 Sovereign 79,624.1 102.0 77,687.8 92.8 Bank 6,893.6 150.2 7,827.4 155.8 Retail 12,942.5 514.4 13,346.9 546.0 Residential mortgage 9,855.1 324.7 10,173.4 344.5 Qualifying revolving loan 562.9 42.6 499.0 38.1 Other retail 2,524.5 147.0 2,674.4 163.3 Equities 4,460.7 587.7 5,628.1 695.3 PD/LGD approach 3,901.2 441.9 4,831.4 489.4 Market-based approach (simple 559.4 145.7 796.7 205.9 risk weight method) Market-based approach (internal models approach) Regarded-method exposure 1,750.8 311.6 2,073.3 382.1 Purchase receivables 3,669.1 116.7 5,111.1 140.1 Securitizations 3,803.3 23.2 3,340.6 24.0 Others 2,197.4 121.6 2,614.8 130.9 Standardized approach 10,840.7 290.2 7,195.2 279.0 Sovereign 5,748.0 8.3 2,881.6 7.8 Bank 2,035.8 37.1 1,274.6 25.0 Corporate 2,392.7 181.8 2,447.9 183.7 Residential mortgage Securitizations 20.7 5.3 21.9 9.5 Others 643.2 57.5 569.0 52.8 CVA risk 225.8 220.4 Central counterparty-related 17.1 31.0 Market risk 135.6 277.9 Standardized approach 70.6 78.8 Interest rate risk 37.6 42.3 Equities risk 23.9 22.9 Foreign exchange risk 4.8 10.3 Commodities risk 4.1 3.1 Option transactions Internal models approach 65.0 199.0 Operational risk 259.7 249.2 Advanced measurement approach 221.0 210.4 Basic indicator approach 38.6 38.8 Total required capital (consolidated) ¥¥5,002.4 ¥¥5,215.3 Notes: 1. EAD: Exposure at default. 2. PD: Probability of default. 3. LGD: Loss given default. 4. Required capital: For credit risk, the sum of (i) 8% of credit risk-weighted assets and (ii) expected losses. For market risk, the market risk equivalent amount. For operational risk, the operational risk equivalent amount. 5. Total required capital (consolidated): 8% of the denominator of the capital adequacy ratio. 6. The major exposures included in each portfolio classification of internal ratings-based approach are as follows: 287 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Corporate (excluding Credits to corporations and sole proprietors (excluding credits to retail customers) specialized lending) Corporate (specialized Credits which limit interest and principal repayment sources to cash flow derived from specific real estate, chattel, businesses, etc, lending) including real estate non-recourse loan, ship finance and project finance, etc. Sovereign Credits to central governments, central banks and local governmental entities Bank Credits to banks and securities companies, etc. Retail Housing loans (residential mortgage), credit card loans (qualifying revolving retail loan) and other individual consumer loans and loans to business enterprises with total credit amount of less than ¥100 million, etc. (other retail). Equities Capital stock, preferred securities, perpetual subordinated debt, etc. (excluding trading assets) The transitional measure (Article 13 of supplementary provision of the FSA Notice No. 20) applies to those held from September 30, 2004 or earlier in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. Either the PD/LGD approach or the market-based approach applies in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 as the transitional period ended. Regarded-method exposure Investment trusts and funds, etc. Purchase receivables Receivables purchased from third parties excluding securities (excluding securitizations) Securitizations Transactions in the form of “non-recourse” and having a “senior/subordinated structure,” etc. (excluding specialized lending). 7. EAD calculated using the standardized approach for credit risk represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs. 8. From the fiscal year ended March 31. 2016, we have been calculating EAD using the internal ratings-based approach for credit risk by taking into account the amount of collateral for derivatives transactions. EAD as of March 31, 2015 represents the amount adjusted to retroactively reflect this method. 288 ■ Credit risk (5) Credit risk management ○ Summary of credit risk management See pages 118 to 121 for a summary of our credit risk management policies and procedures. We apply the advanced internal ratings-based approach to calculate credit risk-weighted assets under Basel Framework. With regard to some business units or asset classes that are deemed to be immaterial for purposes of calculating credit risk-weighted assets, we apply the standardized approach. We use our estimates of PD (probability of default) and LGD (loss given default) in calculating credit riskweighted assets. In accordance with regulations, we estimate PD by using long-term averages of actual defaults, to which conservative adjustments are made, based on internal data, and make adjustments to LGD taking into account recessionary periods. We regularly perform verifications of PD and LGD through back testing and other methods. We also utilize these estimates for measuring credit risks for internal use, allocating risk capital and other purposes. ○ Status of portfolios to which the standardized approach is applied Eligible external credit assessment institutions used for determining the risk weight for portfolios to which the standardized approach is applied are Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) in Japan and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P) overseas. We apply a risk weight of 100% for all of our corporate exposure. ○ Summary of our internal rating system See pages 118 to 120 for a summary of our internal rating system and rating assignment procedures. The following table sets forth information with respect to the definition of obligor ratings. 289 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (6) Credit risk exposure, etc. We exclude regarded-method exposure and securitization exposure from the amount of credit risk exposure. The outstanding balance is based on exposure at default. No significant difference exists between period-end credit risk position and the average credit risk position during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016. ○ Status of credit risk exposure (a) Breakdown by geographical area (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥68,500.9 ¥25,391.7 ¥1,489.6 ¥30,971.8 ¥126,354.1 Overseas 38,737.2 10,892.1 2,678.3 5,884.1 58,191.9 Asia 9,269.4 2,145.6 409.9 1,464.4 13,289.4 Central and 3,107.3 56.7 126.7 470.8 3,761.6 South America North America 15,529.0 6,470.6 711.6 3,190.3 25,901.7 Eastern Europe 374.0 0.2 3.1 377.5 Western Europe 6,792.6 1,826.5 1,199.2 497.4 10,315.9 Other areas 3,664.6 392.5 230.4 257.8 4,545.5 Total ¥107,238.1 ¥36,283.9 ¥4,167.9 ¥36,856.0 ¥184,546.0 Exempt portion 10,820.0 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥69,662.6 ¥28,131.5 ¥1,309.9 ¥25,941.1 ¥125,045.3 Overseas 37,120.2 11,831.1 2,959.8 7,010.2 58,921.5 Asia 9,175.5 2,076.8 338.3 1,764.3 13,355.1 Central and 3,157.2 162.9 141.2 578.4 4,039.9 South America North America 15,445.9 7,256.7 827.4 3,967.6 27,497.7 Eastern Europe 394.9 3.0 15.3 413.3 Western Europe 5,620.9 1,825.4 1,381.5 464.3 9,292.2 Other areas 3,325.5 509.1 268.2 220.0 4,323.1 Total ¥106,782.8 ¥39,962.7 ¥4,269.8 ¥32,951.3 ¥183,966.8 Exempt portion 7,173.2 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. Exposure to non-Japanese residents is included in Overseas. 3. Others include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 290 (b) Breakdown by industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥19,955.7 ¥2,212.9 ¥569.1 ¥638.8 ¥23,376.7 Construction 1,498.5 201.1 12.5 47.4 1,759.7 Real estate 8,579.8 548.1 94.8 17.5 9,240.3 Service industries 5,018.6 381.3 85.4 65.8 5,551.2 Wholesale and retail 8,821.9 724.6 147.9 900.4 10,594.9 Finance and insurance 11,709.8 2,970.5 2,093.1 1,777.6 18,551.2 Individuals 11,634.5 0.6 10.1 11,645.3 Other industries 26,988.4 9,748.7 1,120.2 6,565.9 44,423.4 Japanese Government; 13,030.5 19,496.4 43.8 26,832.1 59,402.9 Bank of Japan Total ¥107,238.1 ¥36,283.9 ¥4,167.9 ¥36,856.0 ¥184,546.0 Exempt portion 10,820.0 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥19,834.1 ¥2,653.2 ¥511.1 ¥672.0 ¥23,670.5 Construction 1,470.3 194.8 14.2 61.6 1,741.0 Real estate 7,799.4 592.5 63.0 14.9 8,469.9 Service industries 4,625.9 459.4 78.9 46.6 5,210.8 Wholesale and retail 9,008.8 745.4 113.9 1,089.7 10,958.1 Finance and insurance 13,070.3 3,578.9 2,595.0 2,042.5 21,286.8 Individuals 11,949.5 0.2 10.6 11,960.3 Other industries 25,245.1 10,133.2 888.8 8,035.2 44,302.5 Japanese Government; 13,779.1 21,605.0 4.3 20,977.8 56,366.4 Bank of Japan Total ¥106,782.8 ¥39,962.7 ¥4,269.8 ¥32,951.3 ¥183,966.8 Exempt portion 7,173.2 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. Others include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 291 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (c) Breakdown by residual contractual maturity (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Less than one year ¥27,076.9 ¥5,849.6 ¥775.3 ¥4,940.8 ¥38,642.8 From one year to less 20,332.0 13,249.2 1,666.4 599.1 35,846.9 than three years From three years to 18,855.2 4,964.2 667.4 16.0 24,502.9 less than five years Five years or more 28,091.6 7,803.3 1,043.8 11.8 36,950.7 Other than above 12,882.2 4,417.4 14.7 31,288.0 48,602.5 Total ¥107,238.1 ¥36,283.9 ¥4,167.9 ¥36,856.0 ¥184,546.0 Exempt portion 10,820.0 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Less than one year ¥30,032.6 ¥6,663.3 ¥834.8 ¥5,310.1 ¥42,840.9 From one year to less 18,221.8 10,934.4 2,073.4 604.0 31,833.7 than three years From three years to 19,111.8 9,387.3 520.2 21.9 29,041.3 less than five years Five years or more 26,942.5 7,529.5 839.6 5.8 35,317.5 Other than above 12,474.0 5,448.0 1.6 27,009.4 44,933.1 Total ¥106,782.8 ¥39,962.7 ¥4,269.8 ¥32,951.3 ¥183,966.8 Exempt portion 7,173.2 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. Others include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 292 ○ Status of exposure past due three months or more or in default (d) Breakdown by geographical area (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balancesheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥931.3 ¥79.7 ¥4.2 ¥17.1 ¥1,032.4 Overseas 224.1 3.1 7.0 4.9 239.2 Asia 49.6 0.0 0.5 0.7 50.9 Central and South 55.3 0.0 3.3 0.0 58.6 America North America 29.5 3.0 1.6 34.2 Eastern Europe 1.9 0.0 2.0 Western Europe 64.6 0.0 3.1 2.3 70.2 Other areas 22.9 0.1 23.0 Total ¥1,155.4 ¥82.9 ¥11.3 ¥22.0 ¥1,271.7 Exempt portion 3.8 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥1,124.1 ¥24.2 ¥4.9 ¥24.6 ¥1,178.0 Overseas 349.1 1.9 23.6 6.9 381.6 Asia 44.8 0.0 0.6 1.2 46.7 Central and South 83.9 0.0 10.6 0.0 94.6 America North America 16.2 1.9 0.9 2.0 21.1 Eastern Europe 6.0 0.1 6.1 Western Europe 72.1 0.0 11.4 3.5 87.0 Other areas 125.9 0.0 125.9 Total ¥1,473.3 ¥26.2 ¥28.5 ¥31.5 ¥1,559.6 Exempt portion 4.4 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. Exposure to non-Japanese residents is included in “Overseas.” 3. “Others” include deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 293 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (e) Breakdown by industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥420.3 ¥73.2 ¥2.7 ¥4.5 ¥500.7 Construction 17.9 0.0 0.5 18.5 Real estate 76.3 0.6 0.1 0.2 77.3 Service industries 84.4 0.8 0.7 1.2 87.3 Wholesale and retail 195.1 1.5 0.6 9.5 206.9 Finance and insurance 11.3 5.5 0.0 2.1 19.0 Individuals 108.3 1.1 109.5 Other industries 241.5 0.9 7.0 2.6 252.2 Total ¥1,155.4 ¥82.9 ¥11.3 ¥22.0 ¥1,271.7 Exempt portion 3.8 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Loans, commitments and other nonderivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥516.7 ¥15.9 ¥3.5 ¥6.2 ¥542.3 Construction 27.1 0.2 0.6 28.0 Real estate 105.6 3.5 0.0 0.5 109.8 Service industries 99.7 0.7 8.0 3.1 111.7 Wholesale and retail 212.9 3.4 0.7 13.0 230.0 Finance and insurance 73.4 1.5 0.0 3.8 78.8 Individuals 126.1 1.2 127.3 Other industries 311.5 0.7 16.2 2.8 331.4 Total ¥1,473.3 ¥26.2 ¥28.5 ¥31.5 ¥1,559.6 Exempt portion 4.4 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. “Others” include deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 294 ○ Status of reserves for possible losses on loans The amounts associated with regarded-method exposure and securitization exposure are excluded. (f) Fiscal year-end balances of reserves for possible losses on loans and changes during the fiscal year (after partial direct write-offs) (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March ended March 31, 2016 31, 2015 General reserve for possible Beginning balance ¥344.4 ¥398.7 losses on loans Increase during the fiscal year 304.8 344.4 Decrease during the fiscal year 344.4 398.7 Ending balance 304.8 344.4 Specific reserve for possible Beginning balance 180.3 216.7 losses on loans Increase during the fiscal year 154.6 180.3 Decrease during the fiscal year 180.3 216.7 Ending balance 154.6 180.3 Reserve for possible losses Beginning balance 0.6 0.7 on loans to restructuring Increase during the fiscal year 0.0 0.6 countries Decrease during the fiscal year 0.6 0.7 Ending balance 0.0 0.6 Total Beginning balance ¥525.4 ¥616.3 Increase during the fiscal 459.5 525.4 year Decrease during the fiscal 525.4 616.3 year Ending balance 459.5 525.4 Note: General reserve for possible losses on loans in the above table represents the amount recorded in our consolidated balance sheet, and the amounts associated with regardedmethod exposure and securitization exposure are not excluded. 295 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (g) Specific reserve for possible losses on loans by geographical area and industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 As of March 31, 2014 Change Domestic ¥120.0 ¥138.4 ¥(18.3) Manufacturing 29.5 30.7 (1.2) Construction 5.5 7.5 (2.0) Real estate 5.0 11.7 (6.7) Service industries 11.4 12.0 (0.6) Wholesale and retail 35.0 32.1 2.9 Finance and insurance 0.8 0.0 0.7 Individuals 25.6 35.9 (10.2) Other industries 6.9 8.1 (1.2) Overseas 49.9 71.1 (21.2) Exempt portion 10.4 7.1 3.2 Total ¥180.3 ¥216.7 ¥(36.4) (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Change Domestic ¥96.2 ¥120.0 ¥(23.8) Manufacturing 27.2 29.5 (2.3) Construction 3.1 5.5 (2.3) Real estate 2.3 5.0 (2.6) Service industries 11.5 11.4 0.0 Wholesale and retail 28.8 35.0 (6.2) Finance and insurance 0.6 0.8 (0.1) Individuals 17.3 25.6 (8.3) Other industries 5.0 6.9 (1.8) Overseas 49.1 49.9 (0.8) Exempt portion 9.3 10.4 (1.0) Total ¥154.6 ¥180.3 ¥(25.6) Note: Exempt portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for purposes of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 296 (h) Write-offs of loans by industry (Billions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 31, 2015 Manufacturing ¥1.1 ¥3.6 Construction 0.2 0.3 Real estate 0.8 1.2 Service industries 1.4 1.3 Wholesale and retail 7.9 8.9 Finance and insurance 0.1 0.0 Individuals 5.3 6.2 Other industries 29.4 62.4 Exempt portion 0.0 0.2 Total ¥46.6 ¥84.5 Notes: 1. The above table represents the breakdown of losses on write-offs of loans recorded in our consolidated statement of income after excluding the amounts associated with regarded-method exposure and securitization exposure. 2. Exempt portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for purposes of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 3. Other industries include overseas and non-Japanese resident portions. 297 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ○ Status of exposure to which the standardized approach is applied (i) Exposure by risk weight category after applying credit risk mitigation (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 With external On-balance sheet Off-balance sheet Total rating 0% ¥4,659.9 ¥695.5 ¥5,355.4 ¥63.2 10% 225.4 225.4 20% 1,117.2 859.9 1,977.2 81.3 35% 50% 46.3 41.5 87.9 51.8 100% 2,044.3 1,076.2 3,120.5 57.3 Risk weight 150% 0.0 0.0 0.0 250% 53.3 53.3 350% 625% 0.0 0.0 937.5% 0.0 0.0 1,250% Total ¥8,146.6 ¥2,673.3 ¥10,820.0 ¥253.6 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 With external On-balance sheet Off-balance sheet Total rating 0% ¥2,013.6 ¥583.3 ¥2,597.0 ¥76.5 10% 149.2 149.2 20% 468.6 723.0 1,191.7 26.9 35% 50% 85.0 13.1 98.1 45.3 100% 1,974.4 1,098.8 3,073.2 63.3 Risk weight 150% 0.1 0.1 250% 63.6 63.6 350% 625% 0.0 0.0 937.5% 0.0 0.0 1,250% Total ¥4,754.7 ¥2,418.5 ¥7,173.2 ¥212.1 Notes: 1. The amounts in the above table are before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs. 2. Off-balance-sheet exposure shows credit equivalent amount. 298 (j) Amount of exposure to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Amount of exposure to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied ¥0.8 ¥6.1 ○ Status of exposure to which the internal ratings-based approach is applied (k) Specialized lending exposure under supervisory slotting criteria by risk weight category (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 50% ¥0.5 ¥0.6 70% 41.6 37.7 90% 1.1 7.1 95% 44.6 94.3 Risk weight 115% 5.0 30.5 120% 15.4 140% 7.5 250% 39.6 24.3 Default 19.5 28.3 Total ¥175.2 ¥223.2 (l) Equity exposure under simple risk weight method of market-based approach by risk weight category (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Risk weight 300% ¥488.3 ¥729.5 400% 71.1 67.2 Total ¥559.4 ¥796.7 Note: Of the equity exposure under the simple risk weight method, a risk weight of 300% is applied for listed equities and 400% for unlisted equities. 299 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (m) Portfolio by asset class and ratings segment (Corporate, etc.) (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2016 Risk Weighted PD LGD EL default weight average of (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD Amount of credit weighted weighted weighted weighted EAD undrawn conversion average) average) average) average) (Billions On-balance Off-balance commitfactor (%) (%) (%) (%) of yen) sheet sheet ments (%) Corporate 1.72 36.43 37.92 ¥77,953.6 ¥56,053.9 ¥21,899.7 ¥22,666.8 74.99 Investment grade 0.10 38.05 27.27 54,868.1 36,687.2 18,180.9 19,298.2 74.99 zone Noninvestment 1.49 32.28 64.49 22,127.0 18,442.6 3,684.4 3,360.5 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 39.19 36.60 34.30 958.4 924.0 34.4 8.0 75.00 Sovereign 0.01 38.29 1.60 79,893.0 65,570.6 14,322.4 854.0 75.00 Investment grade 0.00 38.29 1.49 79,739.7 65,426.9 14,312.7 845.5 75.00 zone Noninvestment 0.72 38.13 61.26 153.2 143.5 9.7 8.4 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 56.88 52.15 62.73 0.0 0.0 Bank 0.18 35.19 26.25 6,923.3 4,151.3 2,772.0 555.6 75.00 Investment grade 0.09 35.00 22.09 6,198.3 3,557.9 2,640.4 451.8 75.00 zone Noninvestment 0.69 36.65 61.91 723.0 591.4 131.5 103.8 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 97.07 94.79 30.21 1.9 1.9 Equity exposure under 2.04 90.00 141.61 3,901.2 3,858.0 43.1 PD/LGD approach Investment grade 0.07 90.00 112.47 3,558.7 3,515.5 43.1 zone Noninvestment 1.03 90.00 236.83 268.0 268.0 grade zone Default 100.00 90.00 1,191.88 74.4 74.4 Total 0.85 38.50 22.64 ¥168,671.3 ¥129,633.9 ¥39,037.4 ¥24,076.5 74.99 Investment grade 0.05 39.33 14.90 144,364.9 109,187.6 35,177.2 20,595.6 74.99 zone Noninvestment 1.45 33.11 66.37 23,271.5 19,445.7 3,825.7 3,472.8 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 42.95 36.72 117.56 1,034.9 1,000.5 34.4 8.0 75.00 300 (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2015 Risk Weighted PD LGD EL default weight average of (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD Amount of credit weighted weighted weighted weighted EAD undrawn conversion average) average) average) average) (Billions On-balance Off-balance commitfactor (%) (%) (%) (%) of yen) sheet sheet ments (%) Corporate 2.04 36.34 36.84 ¥76,322.9 ¥54,372.9 ¥21,950.0 ¥21,339.9 74.99 Investment grade 0.09 37.76 25.67 53,727.3 35,036.9 18,690.4 18,600.1 74.99 zone Noninvestment 1.45 32.41 64.92 21,403.3 18,186.8 3,216.5 2,735.3 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 42.93 40.22 35.88 1,192.2 1,149.1 43.1 4.3 75.00 Sovereign 0.01 38.60 1.50 77,974.1 64,807.8 13,166.2 953.3 75.00 Investment grade 0.00 38.61 1.42 77,855.7 64,704.3 13,151.4 941.0 75.00 zone Noninvestment 0.85 37.17 58.31 118.2 103.4 14.8 12.2 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 57.51 52.76 62.89 0.0 0.0 Bank 0.20 33.54 23.69 7,856.4 4,406.6 3,449.8 462.4 75.00 Investment grade 0.09 33.48 20.46 7,153.0 3,968.7 3,184.3 375.6 75.00 zone Noninvestment 0.79 33.73 56.69 699.8 434.2 265.5 86.7 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 97.29 95.04 29.81 3.6 3.6 Equity exposure under 0.47 90.00 126.62 4,831.4 4,691.1 140.2 PD/LGD approach Investment grade 0.06 90.00 115.13 4,502.9 4,362.7 140.2 zone Noninvestment 1.06 90.00 235.79 311.8 311.8 grade zone Default 100.00 90.00 1,192.50 16.6 16.6 Total 0.97 38.82 22.32 ¥166,984.9 ¥128,278.5 ¥38,706.4 ¥22,755.6 74.99 Investment grade 0.05 39.65 15.04 143,239.1 108,072.6 35,166.4 19,916.9 74.99 zone Noninvestment 1.45 33.27 67.00 22,533.2 19,036.3 3,496.8 2,834.3 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 43.74 40.38 51.73 1,212.5 1,169.4 43.1 4.3 75.00 Notes: 1. Investment grade zone includes obligor ratings A1 through B2, non-investment grade zone includes C1 through E2 (excluding E2R), and default includes E2R through H1. 2. Corporate does not include specialized lending exposure under supervisory slotting criteria. 3. Each asset class includes purchased receivables. 4. The commitments that can be terminated at any time without condition or terminated automatically are not included in the amount of undrawn commitments and weighted average of credit conversion factor. 5. Regarding equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach, we recognize the risk-weighted assets by multiplying 1,250% by the expected loss ( EL ). 301 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (n) Portfolio by asset class and ratings segment (Retail) (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2016 Risk PD LGD EL default weight Weighted (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD Amount of average of weighted weighted weighted weighted EAD Offundrawn credit average) average) average) average) (Billions On-balance balance commitconversion (%) (%) (%) (%) of yen) sheet sheet ments factor (%) Residential 1.68 41.05 32.11 ¥9,855.1 ¥9,698.6 ¥156.4 ¥10.0 75.00 mortgage Non0.76 40.99 32.10 9,763.1 9,608.6 154.5 10.0 75.00 default Default 100.00 47.31 44.79 33.37 91.9 90.0 1.9 Qualifying revolving 3.18 76.66 64.45 562.9 373.7 189.1 1,610.0 11.75 loan (retail) Non3.03 76.67 64.46 562.0 373.1 188.9 1,608.5 11.75 default Default 100.00 71.97 67.80 55.26 0.8 0.6 0.2 1.5 14.39 Other retail 4.38 51.67 49.11 2,524.5 2,508.6 15.8 18.1 65.01 Non1.65 51.87 49.45 2,454.3 2,442.0 12.2 14.3 57.51 default Default 100.00 44.83 42.02 37.24 70.1 66.5 3.6 3.8 92.69 Total 2.28 44.67 36.83 ¥12,942.5 ¥12,581.0 ¥361.4 ¥1,638.2 12.73 Non1.03 44.65 36.85 12,779.4 12,423.7 355.6 1,632.8 12.53 default Default 100.00 46.37 43.72 35.15 163.0 157.2 5.7 5.4 70.15 (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2015 Risk PD LGD EL default weight Weighted (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD Amount of average of weighted weighted weighted weighted EAD Offundrawn credit average) average) average) average) (Billions On-balance balance commitconversion (%) (%) (%) (%) of yen) sheet sheet ments factor (%) Residential 1.81 41.44 32.44 ¥10,173.4 ¥9,990.1 ¥183.3 ¥8.9 75.25 mortgage Non0.77 41.37 32.45 10,066.3 9,885.7 180.6 8.9 75.25 default Default 100.00 47.74 45.33 31.87 107.0 104.3 2.6 Qualifying revolving 3.22 77.26 64.63 499.0 333.5 165.4 1,562.1 10.59 loan (retail) Non3.03 77.27 64.65 498.0 332.7 165.2 1,560.4 10.59 default Default 100.00 73.17 69.25 51.70 0.9 0.7 0.2 1.6 12.81 Other retail 4.60 53.30 50.93 2,674.4 2,659.3 15.0 17.5 66.35 Non1.64 53.54 51.43 2,594.0 2,582.7 11.3 13.7 58.32 default Default 100.00 45.38 42.73 35.03 80.3 76.6 3.7 3.8 95.01 Total 2.42 45.15 37.35 ¥13,346.9 ¥12,983.0 ¥363.8 ¥1,588.7 11.57 Non1.03 45.13 37.41 13,158.4 12,801.2 357.2 1,583.1 11.37 default Default 100.00 46.86 44.35 33.32 188.4 181.8 6.5 5.5 70.16 Notes: 1. Each asset class includes purchased receivables. 2. The commitments that can be terminated at any time without condition or terminated automatically are not included in the amount of undrawn commitments and weighted average of credit conversion factor. 302 (o) Actual losses by asset class (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2015 For the period from April 1, 2014 through March 31, 2016 through March 31, 2015 Actual losses Actual losses Corporate ¥24.8 ¥128.1 Sovereign 0 0 Bank (0.5) (1.2) Residential mortgage (6.0) (0.7) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 0.4 2.2 Other retail (1.2) 5.1 Total ¥17.4 ¥133.6 Note: Actual losses are the sum of the net increase (decrease) in the amount of partial direct write-offs, specific reserve for possible losses on loans and general reserve for possible losses on loans (for claims against special attention obligors or below), etc., as well as tax-qualified direct write-offs, losses from sales of non-performing loans, losses from debt forgiveness and losses from debt-equity swaps during the relevant period. Equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach is not included in the amount of actual losses. <Analysis> The total amount of actual losses was decreased by ¥116.2 billion from the previous period to ¥17.4 billion due to significant decerase of losses from corporate exposure. (p) Comparison of estimated and actual losses by asset class (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2015 through March For the period from April 1, 2014 through March 31, 2016 31, 2015 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2015) losses as of March 31, 2014) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥607.1 ¥128.9 ¥24.8 ¥596.0 ¥195.5 ¥128.1 Sovereign 1.6 1.5 0 1.5 1.5 0.0 Bank 7.3 3.9 (0.5) 10.3 5.6 (1.2) Residential mortgage 80.4 31.2 (6.0) 104.8 46.1 (0.7) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 12.3 2.4 0.4 11.5 3.8 2.2 Other retail 54.3 15.1 (1.2) 61.9 23.8 5.1 Total ¥763.2 ¥183.3 ¥17.4 ¥786.3 ¥276.6 ¥133.6 (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2013 through March For the period from April 1, 2012 through March 31, 2014 31, 2013 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2013) losses as of March 31, 2012) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥785.1 ¥246.9 ¥(41.2) ¥828.0 ¥272.6 ¥75.6 Sovereign 1.7 (11.9) (13.5) 3.1 (10.2) 0.2 Bank 12.5 6.4 (1.2) 18.4 6.3 (5.0) Residential mortgage 123.7 50.5 (3.2) 134.8 41.6 (9.2) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 11.2 3.9 0.4 10.8 3.7 0.3 Other retail 69.1 26.2 1.4 73.5 24.2 0.2 Total ¥1,003.5 ¥322.3 ¥(57.4) ¥1,068.8 ¥338.4 ¥62.1 303 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2011 through March For the period from April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2012 31, 2011 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2011) losses as of March 31, 2010) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥989.6 ¥373.2 ¥29.2 ¥1,296.9 ¥454.0 ¥22.9 Sovereign 1.3 (11.7) 0.2 1.5 (11.4) 0.2 Bank 31.9 4.1 (1.4) 38.4 8.3 (0.4) Residential mortgage 150.4 43.2 (2.9) 122.6 31.1 31.5 Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 12.2 4.2 (0.7) 10.2 3.5 1.4 Other retail 74.7 24.1 5.2 51.2 15.0 23.1 Total ¥1,260.3 ¥437.2 ¥29.5 ¥1,521.1 ¥500.6 ¥78.7 (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2009 through March For the period from April 1, 2008 through March 31, 2010 31, 2009 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2009) losses as of March 31, 2008) After After deduction of deduction of reserves reserves Corporate ¥1,313.1 ¥473.3 ¥166.5 ¥1,121.0 ¥350.0 ¥345.3 Sovereign 1.7 (10.8) 0.3 1.3 (11.1) 0.0 Bank 35.5 6.5 1.0 2.9 2.5 28.6 Residential mortgage 95.8 24.8 33.2 86.6 22.7 17.2 Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 10.3 3.8 0.2 7.9 3.2 2.1 Other retail 51.3 15.6 4.3 51.9 16.4 3.8 Total ¥1,508.0 ¥513.3 ¥205.8 ¥1,271.8 ¥383.9 ¥397.3 304 (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2007 through March 31, 2008 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2007) After deduction of reserves Corporate ¥1,086.0 ¥217.0 ¥74.6 Sovereign 5.4 (7.0) 0.0 Bank 6.4 2.6 (2.6) Residential mortgage 78.2 6.8 5.1 Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 7.2 2.3 (0.1) Other retail 52.9 8.8 (2.8) Total ¥1,236.5 ¥230.5 ¥74.1 Notes: 1. Estimated losses after deduction of reserve are the amount after deductions of partial direct write-offs, specific reserves for possible losses on loans and general reserves for possible losses on loans (for claims against special attention obligors or below), etc., as of the beginning of each period. Equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach is not included in the amount of estimated losses. 2. Actual losses are the sum of the net increase (decrease) in the amount of partial direct write-offs, specific reserves for possible losses on loans and general reserves for possible losses on loans (for claims against special attention obligors or below), etc., as well as tax-qualified direct write-offs, losses from sales of non-performing loans, losses from debt forgiveness and losses from debt-equity swaps during the relevant period. Equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach is not included in the amount of actual losses. 305 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Methods for credit risk mitigation (7) Risk management regarding credit risk mitigation We obtain collateral and guarantees as a means of securing credit. In obtaining the collateral and guarantees, we evaluate the value of the collateral, guarantee performance capability of guarantor and legal enforceability, and we also conduct periodical subsequent re-evaluations. Furthermore, we monitor the state of concentration of collateral type and concentration of credit risks in individual companies, including indirect credit exposure such as guarantees. When calculating the credit risk weighted assets for capital adequacy ratio regulations, the effect of credit risk mitigation through financial collateral (mainly deposits and securities), other collateral (mainly real estate) and guarantees by sovereign, banks or corporations above a certain credit rating is reflected. For derivatives transactions and repurchase transactions, in cases in which a bilateral netting contract is valid in light of the legal system of the relevant jurisdiction, we take its effect into consideration. (8) Credit risk mitigation by portfolio classification The amounts of exposure to which the method of credit risk mitigation through collateral and guarantees is applied are as follows: (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Financial collateral Other collateral Guarantees Credit derivatives Total Internal ratings-based ¥1,075.7 ¥5,455.6 ¥7,740.6 ¥50.4 ¥14,322.5 approach Corporate 642.1 5,003.9 6,529.5 50.4 12,226.0 Sovereign 13.2 10.5 504.7 528.5 Bank 394.8 193.9 58.8 647.6 Retail 25.6 247.2 647.4 920.3 Residential 151.0 151.0 mortgage Qualifying revolving 0.2 0.2 loan Other retail 25.6 247.2 496.2 769.1 Others Standardized approach 200.3 196.8 397.1 Sovereign 160.0 196.8 356.8 Bank 26.5 26.5 Corporate 13.7 13.7 Residential mortgage Securitizations Others Total ¥1,276.0 ¥5,455.6 ¥7,937.4 ¥50.4 ¥14,719.6 306 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Financial collateral Other collateral Guarantees Credit derivatives Total Internal ratings-based ¥2,697.5 ¥5,157.4 ¥8,183.5 ¥43.7 ¥16,082.3 approach Corporate 1,715.0 4,769.8 6,763.0 43.7 13,291.7 Sovereign 8.4 13.0 672.0 693.5 Bank 946.5 157.2 47.7 1,151.6 Retail 27.4 217.3 700.6 945.4 Residential 154.7 154.7 mortgage Qualifying 0.2 0.2 revolving loan Other retail 27.4 217.3 545.6 790.4 Others Standardized 195.3 104.6 300.0 approach Sovereign 180.0 104.6 284.6 Bank 4.6 4.6 Corporate 10.7 10.7 Residential mortgage Securitizations Others Total ¥2,892.9 ¥5,157.4 ¥8,288.2 ¥43.7 ¥16,382.3 307 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions (9) Management of counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions In managing the risk pertaining to counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions, we generally allocate risk capital together with loans, etc. As to derivatives transactions with financial institutions, etc., we periodically, where necessary, deliver and receive collateral to and from the counterparty based on the replacement cost to mitigate credit risk (collateralized derivatives transactions). In conducting such transactions, there is a risk in which we may be required to provide additional collateral in cases where our credit profile deteriorates. We calculate reserves for derivatives transactions by multiplying the same reserve ratio that we use for loans, etc., against the replacement cost. (10) Status of counterparty risk in derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions (a) Status of derivatives transactions and long-settlement transactions Derivative transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Gross Gross Credit Gross Gross Credit replacement add-on equivalent replacement add-on equivalent Current exposure method cost amount cost amount Foreign exchange¥2,637.9 ¥2,903.1 ¥5,541.1 ¥2,867.1 ¥2,812.2 ¥5,679.3 related transactions Interest rate-related 3,827.2 1,031.2 4,858.5 4,018.4 1,408.4 5,426.9 transactions Gold-related transactions Equity-related 107.8 182.5 290.3 102.6 78.8 181.5 transactions Transactions related to precious metals 48.8 101.8 150.7 59.8 162.7 222.6 (other than gold) Other commodity671.5 896.4 1,568.0 1,001.3 1,313.3 2,314.7 related transactions Credit derivatives 33.1 213.2 246.3 38.0 224.9 262.9 transactions Subtotal (A) 7,326.5 5,328.5 12,655.1 8,087.5 6,000.5 14,088.0 Netting benefits by (B) 7,250.9 8,533.5 close-out netting settlement contracts Subtotal (C)=(A)+(B) 5,404.1 5,554.4 Effect of credit risk (D) 490.6 508.2 mitigation by collateral Total (C)+(D) ¥¥¥4,913.5 ¥¥¥5,046.2 Credit Credit equivalent equivalent Standardized method amount amount Total ¥333.6 ¥311.6 Note: The current exposure method and standardized method are used as the method to calculate credit equivalent amounts. 308 Long-settlement transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Gross Gross Credit Gross Gross Credit replacement add-on equivalent replacement add-on equivalent cost amount cost amount Long-settlement transactions ¥52.9 ¥9.4 ¥62.3 ¥0.9 ¥2.9 ¥3.8 Notes: 1. The current exposure method is used as the method to calculate credit equivalent amounts. 2. Neither the netting benefits by close-out netting settlement contracts nor the effect of credit risk mitigation by collateral applies to long-settlement transactions. (b) Amounts of credit risk mitigation by type (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Financial collateral ¥386.1 ¥602.2 Other collateral 39.9 26.3 Guarantees, others 17.6 23.6 Total ¥443.7 ¥652.3 (c) Notional amount of credit derivatives subject to credit equivalent amount calculations (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Notional amount Notional amount Credit derivatives type: Credit default swap Protection bought ¥1,885.4 ¥1,957.9 Protection sold 1,912.9 1,983.9 Total return swap Protection bought Protection sold Total Protection ¥1,885.4 ¥1,957.9 bought Protection sold 1,912.9 1,983.9 Note:Credit derivatives used for credit risk mitigation are as follows: (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Credit derivatives used for credit risk mitigation ¥57.7 ¥60.9 309 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Securitization exposure We classify transactions as securitization exposure based on two characteristics, non-recourse and senior/subordinated structure, pursuant to the definitions set forth in the FSA Notice No. 20, etc.; provided that the transactions do not include those which fall within specialized lending exposure. (11) Summary of securitization exposure and its risk management We are associated with securitization transactions from various purposes and positions through our banking book and trading book. Quantitative information related to (a) to (c) below is disclosed in (13) Quantitative disclosure items for securitization exposure, in accordance with the definitions set forth in the FSA Notice No. 20. Securitization exposures are separately disclosed for calculation of credit risk-weighted assets and market risk equivalent amounts. ○The role of our securitization transactions (a) Securitization of our assets ( Securitization as originator ) For the purposes of mitigating credit risk and credit concentration risk, controlling economic capital and responding to the needs of our investors, etc., we engage in securitization transactions the underlying assets of which include mortgage loans and loans to our corporate customers. When conducting a securitization as an originator, we consider such transaction from various aspects, including the effects of reduction of economic capital and improvement of return on risk as well as the practical effects of risk transfers, and make a comprehensive judgment on structure and appropriateness of transaction. (b) Securitization program (ABCP/ABL) sponsor As a means of supporting our customers in their securitization of their account receivables and notes receivables, etc., we retain securitization exposure by providing asset-backed loans (ABLs, which are on-balance-sheet transactions), and providing asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) backup lines (off-balance-sheet transactions), as sponsor to special purpose companies (in the form of Cayman Islands Corporations, etc.). In such cases, in addition to gaining firm understanding of the actual risk profile through due diligence from the viewpoint of investors, we assign internal ratings and make evaluations by assessing such transactions and carefully managing the exposure together with other direct loan assets. (c) Investment in alternative credit risk assets ( Securitization transactions as investor ) We hold securitization products, such as ABS, CMBS, RMBS, and CDO, and resecuritization products, the underlying assets of which are mainly RMBS and CDO, etc., for the purpose of investing in alternative credit risk assets that are different from conventional credit risk assets in order to diversify our investment portfolio. The Risk Management Committee, etc. set limits on the amount of investment for securitization transactions as investor, and we maintain a stringent structure for management of such transactions. In addition, we implement stress tests based on scenarios under the market liquidity depletion and sharp price declines. In addition, we undertake various securitization program arrangements such as ABL, ABCP and trust schemes, etc., as a means of financing for our customers. We endeavor to understand the actual risk profile, including the underlying assets, and to disclose appropriately the risks and terms of the program to the customers who invest in the product. Furthermore, we actively act as servicer for securitization transactions, offer settlement account facilities (servicer cash advance) and provide interest rate swaps to securitization conduits. None of our affiliated entities hold securitization products in which we are involved as originators or sponsors. ○ Overview of risk characteristics in securitization and monitoring system In addition to price fluctuation and market liquidity risks, securitization and resecuritization products are exposed to risks related to default, recovery and granularity of underlying asset portfolio. 310 The structure of these products also contains risks related to the originators, the administrators, trustees and managers of the underlying assets. To address these risks, we also analyze the structure in terms of the underlying assets and credit events. We monitor the ability, quality and operating performance of originators and managers in charge of controlling the underlying assets as well as covenant information and credit status of the parties related to the program. In addition, for resecuritization products, we pay attention to the underlying assets of the underlying securitization products. We also assign internal ratings to all products and review the rating at least once a year. If there is a change in the credit situations, we will review the internal rating as appropriate. As mentioned above, we have established a system to comprehensively understand the risk characteristics of securitization exposures and manage these exposures. We conduct credit risk measurements on all credit transactions, including securitization transactions. Furthermore, we carry out periodic monitoring on investment amount and performance on securitization transactions and report the situations to our Risk Management Committee, etc. ○Status of response to Basel Framework In calculating credit risk-weighted assets of securitization exposure under the internal ratings-based approach, we apply the ratings-based approach ( RBA ) if the asset has a rating obtained from eligible external credit assessment institutions and apply the supervisory formula approach ( SF ) in other cases pursuant to the FSA Notice No. 20. We apply a risk weight of 1,250% under Basel III when neither RBA nor SF can be applied. In addition, in calculating credit risk-weighted assets of securitization exposure under the standardized approach, we calculate based on risk weight according to ratings by eligible external credit assessment institutions and weighted average risk weight of underlying assets. In terms of securitization exposure in our trading book that is subject to market risk regulations, we adopt the standardized measurement method and calculate market risk equivalent amounts in connection with the specific risks of securitization products based on risk weights according to ratings assigned by eligible external credit assessment institutions pursuant to the FSA Notice No. 20. As for the eligible external credit assessment institutions, we refer to Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I), Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR), Moody's Investors Service Inc. (Moody's), Standard & Poor's (S&P) and Fitch Ratings, Ltd. in determining securitization exposure risk weight (We do not separately designate eligible external credit assessment institutions for each type of securitization exposure). (12) Accounting policies for securitization transactions The point at which financial assets and liabilities relating to securitization transactions begin or cease to be recognized, their evaluation and accounting treatment are pursuant to Accounting Standards Relating to Financial Products (Business Accounting Standards No. 10), etc., and we applied (a) valuations obtained from brokers and others or (b) reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management as fair value, unless it is deemed to be extremely difficult to determine the fair value. In deriving reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management, we used the discounted cash flow method, and the price decision variables include default rates, recovery rates, pre-payment rates and discount rates. Furthermore, we apply appropriate accounting treatment on compound financial products based on Report on Auditing Securitized Instruments , announced by the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants on March 26, 2008. 311 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (13) Quantitative disclosure items for securitization exposure ○ Securitization exposure as originator (for calculation of credit risk-weighted assets) (a) Information by type of underlying assets (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2016 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Traditional securitizations Amount of underlying assets ¥¥58.8 ¥¥¥¥¥¥58.8 (a) Default exposure 0.3 0.3 Losses during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Securitization subject to early amortization treatment Synthetic securitizations Amount of underlying assets 70.6 70.6 (b) Default exposure Losses during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Total amount of underlying ¥¥58.8 ¥¥¥70.6 ¥¥¥129.5 assets (a)+(b) 312 (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Traditional securitizations Amount of underlying assets ¥¥98.3 ¥¥¥¥¥¥98.3 (a) Default exposure 1.1 1.1 Losses during the fiscal year 0.1 0.1 Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Securitization subject to early amortization treatment Synthetic securitizations Amount of underlying assets 173.5 173.5 (b) Default exposure Losses during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Total amount of underlying ¥¥98.3 ¥¥¥173.5 ¥¥¥271.8 assets (a)+(b) Notes: 1. Items that refer to during the fiscal year show amounts accumulated during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and 2016. 2. Amount of underlying assets and Losses during the fiscal year include those related to, in addition to exposure originated by us, exposure to assets originated by other financial institutions if they are contained in the same securitization program. 3. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 4. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 5. The effects of risk mitigation, in the context of calculating capital adequacy ratio, of transfers (hedges) of risk through synthetic securitization transactions are reflected in Required capital of (B) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased. 313 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ─Exposure intended to be securitized─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Exposure intended to be ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥securitized (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Exposure intended to be ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥securitized (b) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total On-balance sheet ¥¥¥¥¥70.6 ¥¥¥70.6 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥¥¥¥70.6 ¥¥¥70.6 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying 64.5 64.5 assets are overseas assets (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total On-balance sheet ¥¥32.6 ¥¥¥168.7 ¥¥¥201.4 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 4.8 4.8 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥32.6 ¥¥¥173.5 ¥¥¥206.2 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying 121.5 121.5 assets are overseas assets Notes: 1. Classification based on type of underlying asset is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 2. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 3. Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets is classified based on the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 4. Exposure on resecuritizations as of both March 31, 2015 and 2016 are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). 314 ─Exposure by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 OnOffbalance Exposure on balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥62.7 ¥¥¥¥62.7 ¥Up to 50% Up to 100% Risk Up to 250% 1.7 1.7 weight Up to 650% 6.1 6.1 Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥70.6 ¥¥¥¥70.6 ¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 OnOffbalance Exposure on balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥145.3 ¥¥4.5 ¥¥149.9 ¥Up to 50% 41.4 41.4 Up to 100% Risk Up to 250% 4.0 4.0 weight Up to 650% 3.2 3.2 Less than 7.3 0.2 7.6 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥201.4 ¥¥4.8 ¥¥206.2 ¥─Amount of required capital by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 OnOffbalance Exposure on balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥0.3 ¥¥¥¥0.3 ¥Up to 50% Up to 100% Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 0.5 0.5 Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥0.9 ¥¥¥¥0.9 ¥315 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 OnOffbalance Exposure on balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥1.0 ¥¥0.0 ¥¥1.0 ¥Up to 50% 1.3 1.3 Up to 100% Risk Up to 250% 0.3 0.3 weight Up to 650% Less than 0.7 0.0 0.7 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥3.4 ¥¥0.0 ¥¥3.5 ¥─Credit risk mitigation against exposure on resecuritizations─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Up to 20% ¥¥Up to 50% Risk Up to 100% weight Up to 250% Up to 650% Over 650% Total ¥¥Note: The above table shows the exposure on resecuritizations based on the risk weight after taking into consideration the effect of method to mitigate credit risk. ─Capital increase due to securitization transactions─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total Capital increase due to securitization ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total Capital increase due to securitization ¥¥0.2 ¥¥¥¥¥¥0.2 transactions 316 ○ Securitization exposure as sponsor of securitization programs (ABCP/ABL) (for calculation of credit riskweighted assets) (c) Information by type of underlying assets (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2016 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total Amount of underlying ¥60.8 ¥¥103.2 ¥161.5 ¥400.2 ¥¥61.2 ¥787.1 assets Default exposure 3.3 3.3 Estimated loss amount related to underlying 1.5 0.8 3.6 5.0 2.2 13.3 assets during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the ¥1,263.5 ¥¥862.3 ¥648.8 ¥3,077.6 ¥¥828.7 ¥6,681.0 fiscal year (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2015 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total Amount of underlying ¥139.0 ¥¥21.9 ¥50.2 ¥477.0 ¥¥102.6 ¥790.9 assets Default exposure 6.2 6.2 Estimated loss amount related to underlying 2.4 0.8 0.1 8.1 1.3 12.9 assets during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the ¥1,085.7 ¥¥210.8 ¥526.0 ¥2,640.1 ¥¥634.2 ¥5,097.0 fiscal year Notes: 1. Items that refer to during the fiscal year show amounts accumulated during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and 2016. 2. Securitization exposure that is acquired in securitization of customer’s claims other than as sponsor (in the form of asset-backed securities, trust beneficiary rights and other transferable instruments) is categorized as securitization exposure as investor. 3. The amount of default exposure is the amount of the underlying assets recognized as default in the calculation of capital adequacy ratio. 4. Estimated loss amount related to underlying assets is based on the amount of the underlying assets as of the relevant date and the following parameters that are used in the calculation of capital adequacy ratio: ･ parameters used in the calculation of required capital for an underlying asset when applying the supervisory formula (e.g., PD); and ･ with respect to underlying assets classified as securitization exposure, the conservative application of risk weights used in the ratings-based approach. 5. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under Others. 6. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 317 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (d) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥32.3 ¥¥95.9 ¥78.0 ¥388.6 ¥¥61.0 ¥656.1 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 137.3 48.6 0.0 64.9 251.0 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥169.7 ¥¥144.5 ¥78.1 ¥453.6 ¥¥61.0 ¥907.1 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 111.5 90.2 53.5 200.4 31.8 487.6 are overseas assets (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥81.9 ¥¥20.7 ¥50.2 ¥542.3 ¥¥106.9 ¥802.1 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 108.5 42.8 145.9 36.6 333.9 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥190.4 ¥¥63.5 ¥50.2 ¥688.2 ¥¥143.6 ¥1,136.0 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 135.3 63.1 8.1 379.7 110.9 697.3 are overseas assets Notes: 1. Securitization exposure retained or purchased includes unused portions of securitization programs that are subject to allocation of required capital. 2. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under Others. 3. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 4. The classification of transactions of which the underlying assets are overseas assets is conducted according to the principal underlying assets of each transaction. 5. Exposure on resecuritizations as of both March 31, 2015 and 2016 are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). 318 ─Exposure by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥650.4 ¥¥251.0 ¥¥901.5 ¥Up to 50% 2.1 2.1 Up to 100% 3.4 3.4 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥656.1 ¥¥251.0 ¥¥907.1 ¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥782.9 ¥¥333.9 ¥¥1,116.8 ¥Up to 50% 14.9 14.9 Up to 100% 2.5 2.5 Risk Up to 250% 1.7 1.7 weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥802.1 ¥¥333.9 ¥¥1,136.0 ¥─Amount of required capital by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥3.8 ¥¥1.5 ¥¥5.4 ¥Up to 50% 0.0 0.0 Up to 100% 0.1 0.1 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥4.1 ¥¥1.5 ¥¥5.7 ¥319 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Onbalance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥4.5 ¥¥1.9 ¥¥6.4 ¥Up to 50% 0.4 0.4 Up to 100% 0.1 0.1 Risk Up to 250% 0.1 0.1 weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥5.2 ¥¥1.9 ¥¥7.1 ¥─Credit risk mitigation against exposure on resecuritizations─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Up to 20% ¥¥Up to 50% Risk Up to 100% weight Up to 250% Up to 650% Over 650% Total ¥¥Note: The above table shows the exposure on resecuritizations based on the risk weight after taking into consideration the effect of method to mitigate credit risk. ○ Securitization exposure as investor(for calculation of credit risk-weighted assets) (e) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥44.0 ¥949.6 ¥469.5 ¥107.8 ¥427.4 ¥12.4 ¥311.3 ¥2,322.2 Exposure on 4.6 5.8 10.4 resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 107.0 191.0 53.5 169.4 0.1 2.6 523.9 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥151.0 ¥949.6 ¥660.6 ¥161.3 ¥596.8 ¥12.5 ¥314.0 ¥2,846.2 Exposure on 4.6 5.8 10.4 resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to 0.0 0.8 0.8 which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 151.0 0.0 627.7 157.3 596.8 0.3 269.5 1,802.9 are overseas assets 320 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥41.3 ¥948.0 ¥236.8 ¥9.2 ¥241.3 ¥31.2 ¥255.8 ¥1,763.7 Exposure on 9.7 11.9 21.7 resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 120.2 89.0 32.9 0.1 14.8 257.2 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥161.5 ¥948.0 ¥325.9 ¥9.2 ¥274.2 ¥31.3 ¥270.6 ¥2,021.0 Exposure on 9.7 11.9 21.7 resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to 0.0 6.9 6.9 which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets 156.5 0.0 288.2 274.2 0.5 216.4 936.1 are overseas assets Notes: 1. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under Others. 2. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 3. The classification of transactions of which the underlying assets are overseas assets is conducted according to the principal underlying assets of each transaction. 4. Exposure on resecuritizations as of both March 31, 2015 and 2016 are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). ─Exposure by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥2,270.9 ¥4.6 ¥521.1 ¥¥2,792.0 ¥4.6 Up to 50% 34.3 5.8 34.3 5.8 Up to 100% 3.9 3.9 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 12.3 2.6 14.9 Less than 1,250% 1,250% 0.6 0.1 0.8 Total ¥2,322.2 ¥10.4 ¥523.9 ¥¥2,846.2 ¥10.4 321 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥1,700.6 ¥9.7 ¥254.0 ¥¥1,954.7 ¥9.7 Up to 50% 39.4 11.9 39.4 11.9 Up to 100% 8.8 8.8 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 8.0 3.0 11.0 Less than 1,250% 1,250% 6.7 0.1 6.9 Total ¥1,763.7 ¥21.7 ¥257.2 ¥¥2,021.0 ¥21.7 ─Amount of required capital by risk weight category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥12.7 ¥0.0 ¥3.2 ¥¥15.9 ¥0.0 Up to 50% 0.7 0.1 0.7 0.1 Up to 100% 0.3 0.3 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 3.4 0.7 4.1 Less than 1,250% 1,250% 0.6 0.1 0.8 Total ¥17.8 ¥0.2 ¥4.1 ¥¥21.9 ¥0.2 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥10.1 ¥0.1 ¥1.7 ¥¥11.9 ¥0.1 Up to 50% 1.0 0.3 1.0 0.3 Up to 100% 0.7 0.7 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 2.2 0.8 3.0 Less than 1,250% 1,250% 6.7 0.1 6.9 Total ¥20.8 ¥0.4 ¥2.7 ¥¥23.6 ¥0.4 ─Credit risk mitigation against exposure on resecuritizations─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Up to 20% ¥¥Up to 50% 2.5 Risk Up to 100% weight Up to 250% Up to 650% Over 650% Total ¥2.5 ¥Note: The above table shows the exposure on resecuritizations based on the risk weight after taking into consideration the effect of method to mitigate credit risk. 322 ○ Securitization exposure as originator (for calculation of market risk equivalent amounts) (f) Information by type of underlying assets (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2016 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Corpor Real zation cards loans loans receivables -ate estate products Total Traditional securitizations Amount of underlying assets ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥(a) Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Securitization subject to early amortization treatment Synthetic securitizations Amount of underlying assets (b) Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Total amount of underlying assets ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥(a)+(b) (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Corpor Real zation cards loans loans receivables -ate estate products Total Traditional securitizations Amount of underlying assets ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥(a) Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Securitization subject to early amortization treatment Synthetic securitizations Amount of underlying assets (b) Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Total amount of underlying assets ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥(a)+(b) Note: Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 323 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ─Exposure intended to be securitized─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease SecuritiExposure intended to be Credit mortgage Auto payment Corpor Real zation securitized cards loans loans receivables -ate estate products Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiExposure intended to be Credit mortgage Auto payment Corpor Real zation securitized cards loans loans receivables -ate estate products Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥(g) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total On-balance sheet ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total On-balance sheet ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets Notes: 1. Classification based on type of underlying asset is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 2. Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets is classified based on the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 324 ─Exposure by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Up to 8% Risk Up to 20% capital Up to 52% charge Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Up to 8% Risk Up to 20% capital Up to 52% charge Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥─Amount of required capital by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Up to 8% Risk Up to 20% capital Up to 52% charge Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥325 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Up to 8% Risk Up to 20% capital Up to 52% charge Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥─Subject to Comprehensive Risk Measure─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Securitizations Resecuritizations Total amount of securitization exposure ¥¥Total amount of required capital ¥¥─Subject to Comprehensive Risk Measure─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Securitizations Resecuritizations Total amount of securitization exposure ¥¥Total amount of required capital ¥¥─Capital increase due to securitization transactions─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total Capital increase due to securitization transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total Capital increase due to securitization transactions 326 ○ Securitization exposure as sponsor of securitization programs (ABCP/ABL) (for calculation of market risk equivalent amounts) (h) Information by type of underlying assets (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2016 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total Amount of underlying ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥assets Estimated loss amount related to underlying assets during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥fiscal year (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2015 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total Amount of underlying ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥assets Estimated loss amount related to underlying assets during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥fiscal year (i) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets 327 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets ─Exposure by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥328 ─Amount of required capital by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥¥¥¥¥¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% Total ¥¥¥¥¥¥329 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ○ Securitization exposure as investor (for calculation of market risk equivalent amounts) (j) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased ─Exposure by type of underlying asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real Cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥¥1.0 ¥0.0 ¥¥0.0 ¥4.0 ¥1.4 ¥6.5 Exposure on 0.3 0.3 resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥1.0 ¥0.0 ¥¥0.0 ¥4.0 ¥1.4 ¥6.5 Exposure on 0.3 0.3 resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to 1.0 0.0 0.3 0.3 1.7 which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are 0.9 0.0 0.0 2.0 1.1 4.0 overseas assets (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real Cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥0.2 ¥2.5 ¥12.2 ¥¥1.0 ¥3.8 ¥9.3 ¥29.2 Exposure on 2.7 2.7 resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥0.2 ¥2.5 ¥12.2 ¥¥1.0 ¥3.8 ¥9.3 ¥29.2 Exposure on 2.7 2.7 resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to 2.3 0.0 0.2 0.1 2.6 which a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are 0.2 2.2 12.2 1.0 2.0 9.2 27.1 overseas assets Notes: 1. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under Others. 2. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 3. The classification of transactions of which the underlying assets are overseas assets is conducted according to the principal underlying assets of each transaction. 4. Exposure on resecuritizations are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). 330 ─Exposure by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥0.4 ¥¥¥¥0.4 ¥Up to 4% 2.3 2.3 Risk Up to 8% 1.9 0.2 1.9 0.2 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% 1.7 0.1 1.7 0.1 Total ¥6.5 ¥0.3 ¥¥¥6.5 ¥0.3 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥19.6 ¥¥¥¥19.6 ¥Up to 4% 1.7 0.9 1.7 0.9 Risk Up to 8% 3.7 0.5 3.7 0.5 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% 1.4 1.0 1.4 1.0 Less than 100% 100% 2.6 0.1 2.6 0.1 Total ¥29.2 ¥2.7 ¥¥¥29.2 ¥2.7 ─Amount of required capital by risk capital charge category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥0.0 ¥¥¥¥0.0 ¥Up to 4% 0.0 0.0 Risk Up to 8% 0.1 0.0 1.0 0.0 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% Less than 100% 100% 1.7 0.1 1.7 0.1 Total ¥2.0 ¥0.1 ¥¥¥2.0 ¥0.1 331 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥0.3 ¥¥¥¥0.3 ¥Up to 4% 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Risk Up to 8% 0.3 0.0 0.3 0.0 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% 0.6 0.5 0.6 0.5 Less than 100% 100% 2.6 0.1 2.6 0.1 Total ¥4.0 ¥0.7 ¥¥¥4.0 ¥0.7 ─Subject to Comprehensive Risk Measure─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 Securitization Resecuritiation Total amount of securitization exposure ¥¥Total amount of required capital ¥¥(Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2015 Securitization Resecuritiation Total amount of securitization exposure ¥¥Total amount of required capital ¥¥■ Market risk See pages 122 to 126 for information regarding market risk. ■ Operational risk See pages 127 to 131 for information regarding operational risk. ■ Equity exposure in banking book (14) Risk management related to equity exposure in banking book With regard to equities in our banking book, we manage default risk through our credit risk management structure and price fluctuation risk through our market risk management structure. With regard to subsidiaries and related companies in which we invest, we manage their risks on a consolidated basis, and manage them appropriately in accordance with their management classification. In addition, securities, a part of equity exposure, are valued as follows: Japanese stocks with quoted market prices are valued based on the average quoted market price over the month preceding the consolidated balance sheet date; other securities which have readily determinable fair values are valued at the quoted market price if available, or otherwise based on their reasonable value at the consolidated balance sheet date (cost of securities sold is calculated primarily by the moving average method); and other securities the fair values of which are extremely difficult to determine are stated at acquisition cost or amortized cost and determined by the moving average method. 332 (15) Status of equity exposure in banking book (a) Amounts stated in consolidated balance sheet (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Consolidated Consolidated balance sheet balance sheet amount Fair value amount Fair value Exposure of listed stock, etc. ¥3,785.6 ¥3,964.7 ¥4,579.9 ¥4,711.1 Other equity exposure 441.8 / 306.1 / Total ¥4,227.5 ¥/ ¥4,886.1 ¥/ Note: The above figures include only Japanese and foreign stocks. (b) Gains and losses on sales related to equity exposure (Billions of yen) For the Fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 For the Fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 Gains and Gains and losses on Gains on Losses on losses on Gains on Losses on sales sales sales sales sales sales Sale of equity ¥225.3 ¥271.1 ¥45.7 ¥143.7 ¥152.0 ¥8.3 exposure Note: The above figures represent gains and losses on sales of stocks in our consolidated statement of income. (c) Gains and losses from write-offs related to equity exposure (Billions of yen) For the Fiscal year ended For the Fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 Gains and losses from writeGains and losses from writeoffs offs Write-offs of equity exposure ¥(10.3) ¥(5.3) Note: The above figures represent gains and losses on devaluation of stocks in our consolidated statement of income. (d) Unrealized gains and losses recognized in the consolidated balance sheet and not recognized in the consolidated statement of income (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Net unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Net unrealized Unrealized Unrealized gains gains losses gains gains losses Equity exposure ¥1,751.2 ¥1,824.2 ¥73.0 ¥2,331.7 ¥2,360.4 ¥28.6 Note: The above figures include only Japanese and foreign stocks. 333 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (e) Unrealized gains and losses not recognized in the consolidated balance sheet or in the consolidated statement of income (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Net gains losses Net gains losses Equity exposure ¥179.1 ¥188.7 ¥9.6 ¥131.1 ¥139.1 ¥8.0 Note: The above figures include only Japanese and foreign stocks. (f) Equities exposure by portfolio classification (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2015 PD/LGD approach ¥3,901 ¥4,831.4 Market-based approach (simple risk weight 559 796.7 method) Market-based approach (internal models approach) Total ¥4,461 ¥5,628.1 334 ■Composition of Leverage Ratio (Millions of yen) Correspon Correspon ding line # ding line # on Basel on Basel As of March 31, As of March 31, III III Item 2016 2015 disclosure disclosure template template (Table 2) (Table 1) On-balance sheet exposures (1) On-balance sheet exposures before deducting adjustment 1 ¥165,817,309 ¥161,631,157 items 1a 1 Total assets reported in the consolidated balance sheet 193,458,580 189,684,749 The amount of assets of subsidiaries that are not included in 1b 2 the scope of the leverage ratio on a consolidated basis (-) The amount of assets of subsidiaries that are included in the scope of the leverage ratio on a consolidated basis (except 1c 7 those included in the total assets reported in the consolidated balance sheet) The amount of assets that are deducted from the total assets 1d 3 reported in the consolidated balance sheet (except 27,641,270 28,053,591 adjustment items) (-) 2 7 The amount of adjustment items pertaining to Tier1 capital (-) 827,836 645,302 3 Total on-balance sheet exposures (a) ¥164,989,473 ¥160,985,855 Exposures related to derivative transactions (2) Replacement cost associated with derivatives transactions, 4 2,981,601 2,942,592 etc. 5 Add-on amount associated with derivatives transactions, etc. 5,442,321 5,912,591 The amount of receivables arising from providing cash margin 935,595 723,193 in relation to derivatives transactions, etc. The amount of receivables arising from providing cash 6 margin, provided where deducted from the consolidated 137,668 144,073 balance sheet pursuant to the operative accounting framework The amount of deductions of receivables (out of those arising 7 from providing cash variation margin) (-) The amount of client-cleared trade exposures for which a 8 bank holding company acting as a clearing member is not / / obliged to make any indemnification (-) 9 Adjusted effective notional amount of written credit derivatives 2,382,713 2,446,530 The amount of deductions from effective notional amount of 10 2,149,991 2,163,910 written credit derivatives (-) 11 4 Total exposures related to derivative transactions (b) ¥9,729,907 ¥10,005,070 Exposures related to repo transactions (3) 12 The amount of assets related to repo transactions, etc 11,213,188 12,641,579 13 The amount of deductions from the assets above (line 12) (-) 4,973,078 5,486,696 The exposures for counterparty credit risk for repo 14 300,864 328,632 transactions, etc 15 The exposures for agent repo transactions / / 16 5 Total exposures related to repo transactions, etc. (c) ¥6,540,975 ¥7,483,516 Exposures related to off-balance sheet transactions (4) 17 Notional amount of off-balance sheet transactions 48,317,452 46,576,954 The amount of adjustments for conversion in relation to off18 31,095,649 29,687,744 balance sheet transactions (-) 19 6 Total exposures related to off-balance sheet transactions (d) ¥17,221,802 ¥16,889,209 Leverage ratio on a consolidated basis (5) 20 The amount of capital (Tier1 capital) (e) 7,905,093 7,500,349 21 8 Total exposures ((a)+(b)+(c)+(d)) (f) ¥198,482,158 ¥195,363,652 22 Leverage ratio on a consolidated basis ((e)/(f)) 3.98% 3.83% 335 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■Indicators for assessing Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) (Billions of yen) Item As of March 31, Description No. 2016 1 Total exposures (= a + b + c + d): ¥199,309.9 a. On-balance sheet assets (other than assets specifically identified below b., c. and contraaccount of guarantees) b. Sum of counterparty exposure of derivatives contracts, capped notional amount of written credit derivatives and potential future exposure of derivatives contracts c. Adjusted gross value of securities financing transactions (SFTs) and counterparty exposure of SFTs d. Gross notional amount of off-balance sheet items (other than derivatives contracts and SFTs ) 2 Intra-financial system assets (= a + b + c + d): 9,874.8 a. Funds deposited with or lent to other financial institutions and undrawn committed lines extended to other financial institutions b. Holdings of securities issued by other financial institutions (Note 1) c. Net positive current exposure of SFTs with other financial institutions d. Over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives with other financial institutions that have a net positive fair value 3 Intra-financial system liabilities (=a + b + c): 16,767.5 a. Deposits due to, and loans and undrawn committed lines obtained from, other financial institutions b. Net negative current exposure of SFTs with other financial institutions c. OTC derivatives with other financial institutions that have a net negative fair value 4 Securities outstanding(Note 1) 23,812.7 5 Assets under custody 137,050.5 6 Notional amount of OTC derivatives 1,043,267.0 7 Held-for-trading(HFT) securities and available-for-sale(AFS) securities , excluding HFT and 9,292.7 AFS securities that meet the definition of Level 1 assets and Level 2 assets with haircuts (Note 2) 8 Level 3 assets (Note 3) 1,543.7 9 Cross-jurisdictional claims 42,449.2 10 Cross-jurisdictional liabilities 31,615.7 For the fiscal Item Description year ended No. March 31, 2016 11 Payments (settled through the BOJ-NET, the Japanese Banks' Payment Clearing Network ¥6,789,919.1 and other similar settlement systems, excluding intragroup payments) 12 Underwritten transactions in debt and equity markets (Note 4) 10,155.1 Notes: 1. Securities refer to secured debt securities, senior unsecured debt securities, subordinated debt securities, commercial paper, certificate of deposits, and common equities. 2. Level 1 and Level 2 assets with haircuts are defined in the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). 3. The amount is calculated in accordance with the U.S.GAAP. 4. This refers to underwriting of securities defined in article 2 paragraph 8 item 6 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. 336 (Billions of yen) Item As of March 31, Description No. 2015 1 Total exposures (= a + b + c + d): ¥215,213.7 a. Counterparty exposure of derivatives contracts b. Gross value of securities financing transactions (SFTs) and counterparty exposure of SFTs c. Other assets (other than assets specifically identified above and regulatory adjustments to Tier 1 and CET1 capital under the fully phased-in Basel III framework) d. Notional amount of off-balance sheet items (other than derivatives contracts and SFTs ) 2 Intra-financial system assets (= a + b + c + d): 10,080.9 a. Funds deposited with or lent to other financial institutions and undrawn committed lines extended to other financial institutions b. Holdings of securities issued by other financial institutions (Note 1) c. Net positive current exposure of SFTs with other financial institutions d. Over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives with other financial institutions that have a net positive fair value 3 Intra-financial system liabilities (=a + b + c): 21,344.4 a. Deposits due to, and undrawn committed lines obtained from, other financial institutions b. Net negative current exposure of SFTs with other financial institutions c. OTC derivatives with other financial institutions that have a net negative fair value 4 Securities outstanding(Note 1) 28,259.0 5 Assets under custody 138,937.1 6 Notional amount of OTC derivatives 1,115,373.0 7 Held-for-trading(HFT) securities and available-for-sale(AFS) securities , excluding HFT and 10,234.5 AFS securities that meet the definition of Level 1 assets and Level 2 assets with haircuts (Note 2) 8 Level 3 assets (Note 3) 1,416.7 9 Cross-jurisdictional claims 44,114.4 10 Cross-jurisdictional liabilities 31,864.2 For the fiscal Item Description year ended No. March 31, 2015 11 Payments (settled through the BOJ-NET, the Japanese Banks' Payment Clearing Network ¥6,782,567.1 and other similar settlement systems, excluding intragroup payments) 12 Underwritten transactions in debt and equity markets (Note 4) 9,226.0 Notes: 1. Securities refer to secured debt securities, senior unsecured debt securities, subordinated debt securities, commercial paper, certificate of deposits, and common equities. 2. Level 1 and Level 2 assets with haircuts are defined in the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). 3. The amount is calculated in accordance with the U.S.GAAP. 4. This refers to underwriting of securities defined in article 2 paragraph 8 item 6 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. 337 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■Liquidity Coverage Ratio Liquidity standards agreed upon by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision require our liquidity coverage ratio to surpass the minimum standard starting March 31, 2015. We calculate our consolidated liquidity coverage ratio (the Consolidated LCR ) in accordance with the regulation The Evaluation Criterion on the Sound Management of Liquidity Risk Defined, Based on Banking Law Article 52-25, as One of Criteria for Bank Holding Companies to Evaluate the Soundness of Their Management and the Ones of Their Subsidiaries and Others, which is also One of Evaluation Criteria on the Soundness of the Banks' Management (the FSA Notice No. 62 of 2015 (the Notice No. 62 )). The infomation disclosed herein is in accordance with Matters Separately Prescribed by the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency Regarding Status of Sound Management of Liquidity Risk , etc. pursuant to Article 19-2, Paragraph 1, Item 5, Sub-item (e), etc. of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Banking Law (Ministry of Finance Ordinance No. 7 of 2015) (the FSA Notice No. 7 of 2015). The status of our sound management of liquidity risk is as follows: (In million yen, the number of data) Item For the three months ended March 31, 2016 For the three months ended December 31, 2015 High-Quality Liquid Assets (1) / / 1 Total high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) 54,269,331 55,206,490 TOTAL TOTAL WEIGHTED TOTAL TOTAL WEIGHTED Cash Outflows (2) UNWEIGHTED VALUE UNWEIGHTED VALUE 2 Cash outflows related to unsecured retail funding 43,814,768 3,526,754 43,687,360 3,520,818 3 of which, Stable deposits 12,247,595 367,427 12,147,447 364,423 4 of which, Less stable deposits 31,567,172 3,159,326 31,539,913 3,156,394 Cash outflows related to unsecured wholesale 5 61,096,693 38,221,245 58,756,360 36,657,038 funding 6 of which, Qualifying operational deposits 0 0 0 0 of which, Cash outflows related to unsecured 7 wholesale funding other than qualifying 52,611,115 29,735,667 49,271,511 27,172,189 operational deposits and debt securities 8 of which, Debt securities 8,485,578 8,485,578 9,484,848 9,484,848 9 Cash outflows related to secured funding, etc / 1,007,649 / 1,340,293 Cash outflows related to derivative transactions, 10 24,736,058 6,600,312 25,576,120 6,366,157 etc. funding programs, credit and liquidity facilities of which, Cash outflows related to derivatives 11 2,080,660 2,080,660 1,873,334 1,873,334 transactions, etc of which, Cash outflows related to funding 12 214,307 214,307 258,990 258,990 programs of which, Cash outflows related to credit and 13 22,441,090 4,305,344 23,443,795 4,233,832 liquidity facilities Cash outflows, etc. related to contractual funding 14 6,558,085 1,693,256 5,144,352 1,831,821 obligations 15 Cash outflows related to contingencies 68,314,160 650,749 68,659,447 630,584 16 Total cash outflows / 51,699,968 / 50,346,713 TOTAL TOTAL WEIGHTED TOTAL TOTAL WEIGHTED Cash Inflows (3) UNWEIGHTED VALUE UNWEIGHTED VALUE Cash inflows related to secured lending and 17 9,797,730 653,420 9,942,416 687,617 investments, etc. 18 Cash inflows related to collections of loans, etc 9,647,511 6,681,798 9,566,566 6,281,643 19 Other cash inflows 6,359,369 2,026,801 6,101,912 1,952,187 20 Total cash inflows 25,804,610 9,362,021 25,610,894 8,921,449 Consolidated liquidity coverage ratio (4) / / Total HQLA allowed to be included in the 21 / 54,269,331 / 55,206,490 calculation 22 Net cash outflows / 42,337,947 / 41,425,264 23 Consolidated liquidity coverage ratio / 128.2% / 133.4% The number of data used to calculate the average 24 3 3 value 338 Notes: 1. Item from 1 to 23 are quarterly average using data points as shown in item 24. 2. We do not apply the exception regarding qualifying operational deposits in Article 28 of the Notice No. 62 with respect to item 6. 3. The numbers in item 11 include the amount of additional collateral required due to market valuation changes on derivative transactions estimated by the historical lookback approach instead of scenario approach in Article 37 of the Notice No. 62. 4. There are no material components that necessitate detailed explanation of cash outflows from other contracts in Article 59 of the Notice No. 62 within item 14, cash outflows from other contingent funding obligations in Article 52 of the Notice No. 62 within item 15, cash inflows from other contracts in Article 72 of the Notice No. 62 within item 19. Jan-Mar Oct-Dec Jul-Sep Apr-Jun 2016 2015 2015 2015 Consolidated LCR (Average) 128.2% 133.4% 128.4% 124.6% Our Consolidated LCR does not lead to any issues since it surpasses not only the minimum standard required under the liquidity regulation, but also the final regulatory standard (100%), with no significant change. LCR disclosed herein does not differ much from the level we expected beforehand, and we do not expect our Consolidated LCR in the future to deviate significantly from the current level. There are no significant changes in the composition, such as currency composition or type composition, and geographic distribution of the HQLA allowed to be included in the calculation. In addition, there is no significant currency mismatch which might affect our funding conditions between total amount of the HQLA allowed to be included in the calculation and net cash outflow regarding significant currencies. 339 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Compensation of directors, corporate auditors and employees (16) Qualitative disclosure (a) State of the organizational system relating to compensation of Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees of Mizuho group 1. Scope of Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees Subject directors, etc. and Subject employees, etc. subject to disclosure as provided for in the FSA Notice (collectively, Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees ) are as follows: (1) Scope of Subject directors, etc. Subject directors, etc. are directors and executive officers as defined in the Companies Act of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. ( MHFG ). Outside directors auditors are excluded. (2) Scope of Subject employees, etc. Subject employees, etc. who are subject to disclosure are executive officers as defined in our internal regulations and employees of MHFG and directors, corporate auditors and employees of its major consolidated subsidiaries, who are persons who receive large amounts of compensation and materially affect the operation of business or the state of assets of Mizuho group or its major consolidated subsidiaries. (a) Scope of Major consolidated subsidiaries A Major consolidated subsidiary is a consolidated subsidiary, etc., (i) whose total assets as a percentage of consolidated total assets exceeds 2% of a bank holding company or bank and (ii) who materially affects the management of our group. Specifically, those are Mizuho Bank, Ltd. ( MHBK ), Mizuho Bank (USA) and other subsidiaries who conduct banking business similar to a branch of MHBK, Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. ( MHTB ), Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. ( MHSC ), Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Securities USA Inc. and Mizuho International Plc. (b) Scope of Persons who receive large amounts of compensation A Person who receives large amounts of compensation refers to a person who receives compensation that exceeds the base amount from MHFG or its major consolidated subsidiaries. The base amount at MHFG has been set at ¥45 million. Such base amount has been set based on the average amounts of the compensation of directors, executive officers as defined in the Companies Act and corporate auditors of MHFG, MHBK and MHTB for the last three fiscal years (excluding persons who resigned or retired during each of such fiscal years), taking into account fluctuations in amounts of compensation over past fiscal years. The preceding base amount has been adopted as the common base in order to unify the selection criteria of persons who receive large amounts of compensation at each of the companies in this paragraph. (c) Scope of Persons who materially affect the operation of business or the state of assets of Mizuho group A Person who materially affects the operation of business or the state of assets of Mizuho group means a person who exerts significant influence on the operation of the business of MHFG or a major consolidated subsidiary through his or her work in conducting transactions or management, or who materially affects the state of assets by incurring losses on transactions. Specifically, it includes executive officers of MHFG and directors, corporate auditors, executive officers as defined in our internal regulations and market department employees of major consolidated subsidiaries. 2. Decisions on compensation of Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees (1) Decisions on compensation of subject directors, etc. MHFG is a Company with Three Committees, and has established the Compensation Committee as a statutory committee. The chairman of the statutory Compensation Committee shall be an outside director, and in principle its members shall be appointed from among the outside directors (or at least non-executive directors) in order to ensure objectivity and transparency in director and executive officer compensation. As of March 2016, all four members of the Compensation Committee, including the chairman, were outside directors. The Compensation Committee shall determine the basic policy and compensation system for directors and executive officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC, determine the compensation for each individual director and executive officer as defined in the Companies Act of MHFG, and exercise approval rights in MHFG for compensation for each individual director of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. In addition, the president of each of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC determines the amount of compensation for each executive officer of its own. 340 (2) Decisions on compensation of Subject employees, etc. Matters relating to executive officers as defined in the internal regulations of MHFG and directors and executive officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC are as set out in (1) Decisions on compensation of subject directors and corporate auditors. With regard to the compensation of corporate auditors of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC, it is determined pursuant to consultation among corporate auditors, including outside corporate auditors, and set within the scope of the total amount of compensation of corporate auditors resolved at ordinary general meetings of a shareholder. The compensation of subject employees, etc., is decided and paid in accordance with the salary and bonus system established by MHFG and the major consolidated subsidiaries. Such system is designed and put into writing by the human resources departments of MHFG and the major consolidated subsidiaries which are independent of departments furthering business. In terms of the compensation of overseas employees, each overseas office or operation determines its own compensation policy based on local laws and regulations as well as employment relationships. 3. Decisions on compensation of employees in risk management departments, compliance departments and internal audit departments The compensation of employees in risk management departments, compliance departments and internal audit departments is decided in accordance with the salary and bonus system, and specific payment amounts are conclusively determined in accordance with employee performance evaluations made by the relevant department and the human resources department, independent from departments furthering business. Each employee of the risk management departments, the compliance departments and the internal audit departments sets their own items for evaluation in the employee performance evaluations, subject to the approval of their superiors. The degree to which the items are fulfilled is evaluated taking into account the degree of the employee's contribution to risk-management, compliance and internal audit. 4. Total amount of compensation paid to members of the compensation committee and number of meetings held by the Compensation Committee Number of meetings held (April 2015 – March 2016) Compensation Committee 8 (MHFG) Note: The total amount of compensation is not set out above as it is not possible to separately calculate the amounts that are paid as consideration for the execution of duties by the compensation committee. (b) Evaluating the appropriateness of the design and operation of the system relating to compensation of subject directors, corporate auditors, and employees of Mizuho group 1. Policies relating to compensation (1) Policies relating to compensation of subject directors, executive officers and corporate auditors The Mizuho Financial Group Compensation Policy sets out the policy concerning the determination of compensation for each individual director, executive officer as defined in the Companies Act, executive officer as defined in our internal regulations and specialist officer ( Directors, etc. ) of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. a. Purpose of the Policy Executive compensation for MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC pursuant to such policy aims to function as incentive and compensation for each officer to exercise the designated function to the fullest with respect to striving to realize management with consideration to value creation for various stakeholders and improve corporate value through continuous and stable corporate growth based on our basic management policies under our Corporate Identity. b. Basic Policy The basic policy with respect to the determination concerning the individual compensation of Directors, etc., of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC is set forth below: (i) The executive compensation shall be based on the function and responsibility assigned to and the performance of each of the Directors, etc. (ii) The executive compensation shall give consideration to improving corporate value and creating value for various stakeholders over the medium to long term. 341 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (iii) The executive compensation shall reflect the management environment and business performance of our group. (iv) The executive compensation shall enable compensation for securing expert personnel such as professionals with a competitive edge in the market. (v) The compensation system and standards shall be reevaluated based on such factors as the economic and social conditions and survey data with respect to management compensation provided by external specialized organizations. (vi) Regulations and guidelines, etc., concerning executive compensation, both in Japan and overseas, shall be complied with. c. Compensation System I. The compensation system for executive officers as defined in the Companies Act (including executive officers who are directors), executive officers as defined in our internal regulations and specialist officers of MHFG and directors, executive officers and specialist officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC responsible for business execution ( Officers Responsible for Business Execution ) shall be separate from that for the non-executive directors of MHFG and the directors of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC responsible for management supervision ( Non-Executive Officers Responsible for Management Supervision ). II. The basic compensation system for Officers Responsible for Business Execution shall consist of basic salaries in the form of fixed compensation as well as variable compensation consisting of performance payments and performance-based stock compensation. The ratio of fixed compensation to variable compensation, the range of variable compensation based on business performance and the payment method shall be designated in light of sound incentivization for sustainable growth and restraint on excessive risk taking, while taking into account regulations and guidelines as well as research data, etc., both in Japan and overseas, concerning executive compensation. In principle, the ratio of fixed to variable compensation shall be 6 to 4 and the ratio of performance payments to performance-based stock compensation shall be 1 to 1, based on which the standard amount shall be calculated for each position. The variable compensation shall reflect each officer’s performance within the range of 0% to 150% of the standard amount for each position. The basic salaries, the performance payments and the performance-based stock compensation as well as the payment methods, etc., are in principle as set forth below: (i) The basic salaries shall factor in each officer’s function and responsibility in addition to the standard amount for each position. (ii) The performance payments shall be monetary made as officers’ incentive to achieve the annual budget and as compensation for their achievement. The payment thereof shall reflect each officer’s performance in addition to the standard amount for each position. A system shall be adopted which enables a certain amount of deferred payments of the performance payments over three years, as well as a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount depending on performance of the company and such officer. (iii) The performance-based stock compensation shall be paid in the form of shares of common stock of MHFG acquired from the stock market through a trust with an aim to align officers’ interests with those of the shareholders and increase the incentive to enhance corporate value. The payment thereof shall reflect each officer’s performance in addition to the standard amount for each position. A system shall be adopted which enables the entire amount of deferred payments of the performance-based stock compensation over three years, as well as a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount depending on performance, etc., of the company and such officer. (iv) The variable compensation intended for professional personnel, etc., appointed from outside the group shall be individually designed based on the duties and characteristics of business responsibilities and market values, etc., of each officer, a system which enables certain amount or a portion of deferred payments and non-monetary payments such as stock, as well as a decrease or forfeiture (clawback) of the deferred amount depending on the performance, etc., of the company and such personnel. III. The compensation for Non-Executive Officers Responsible for Management Supervision, in principle, shall be in the form of fixed compensation from the perspective of ensuring the effectiveness of the supervisory function and shall consist of basic salaries and stock compensations. (i) The basic salaries shall factor in each officer’s function and responsibilities in addition to the standard amount for each of the full-time and part-time non-executive officers. (ii) The stock compensation shall be paid to full-time internal directors excluding outside directors in accordance with the standard amount based on each position. However, the payment standards shall not fluctuate depending on each director’s level of performance. A system shall be adopted which enables the entire amount of deferred payments of the stock compensation over three years, as well as a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount depending on performance, etc., of the company. 342 d. Compensation Determination Process I. The Compensation Committee shall determine the determination policy of executive compensation for MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. In addition, the Compensation Committee shall determine the compensation for each individual director and executive officer of MHFG and approve at MHFG the compensation of each individual director of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. II. The President & Executive Officer, pursuant to this policy and regulations and detailed rules, etc., shall determine the compensation for each executive officer as defined in our internal regulations and specialist officer of MHFG and approve at MHFG the compensation of each individual executive officer and specialist officer of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. III. All members of the Compensation Committee shall be appointed from among outside directors (or at least nonexecutive directors) and the chairman thereof shall be an outside director. IV. The Compensation Committee, where necessary, may have officers who are not members of the committee (including officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC) such as the President & Executive Officer and external experts, etc., attend its meetings and request their opinion. (2) Policies relating to compensation of subject employees, etc. The policies relating to compensation for executive officers as defined in our internal regulations and specialist officers of MHFG and directors, executive officers and specialist officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC are also the same as the policies described in (1) Policies relating to compensation of subject directors and corporate auditors above. The compensation of corporate auditors is determined pursuant to consultation among corporate auditors, including outside corporate auditors, and set within the scope of the total amount of compensation of corporate auditors resolved at ordinary general meetings of a shareholder. Compensation for other employees, etc., is determined in accordance with their duties and responsibilities. Some bonuses that are linked to performance are determined after comprehensively evaluating the employee’s contribution to business, including any qualitative contributions to the organization, in a manner that does not place an excessive emphasis on results. 2. The effect of the overall level of compensation, etc., on equity capital The Compensation Committee of MHFG receives reports on the amount of compensation paid to directors, and executive officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC in the previous fiscal year and confirms that there is no material effect on the Mizuho group’s performance or the adequacy of equity capital. (c) Compatibility between system for compensation of subject directors, corporate auditors and employees of Mizuho group and risk management and matters relating to linking compensation with performance The performance payments and performance-based stock compensation for Officers Responsible for Business Execution are made or paid based on the standard amount set for each position, with which each officer’s performance shall be reflected, and determined in accord with a performance evaluation, etc., against the annual business plan. A certain amount of the performance payments and the entire amount of the performance-based stock compensation shall be made or paid in deferred payments over three years, and a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount may be made depending on the performance, etc., of the company and such officer. It should be noted that certain subject directors, corporate auditors and employees have entered into compensation-related contracts. Stock compensation for Non-Executive Officers Responsible for Management Supervision shall be made in according with the standard amount set for each position, and the payment level shall not change based on the performance of each officer. The entire amount of the stock compensation shall be paid in deferred payments over three years, and a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount may be made depending on the performance, etc., of the company. 343 Status of Capital Adequacy Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (17) Quantitative disclosure items (a) Matters relating to types and total amounts of, and payment method for, compensation of subject directors, corporate auditors, and employees of Mizuho group ─Total amount of the compensation, etc., of subject directors, corporate auditors and employees─ (Millions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 Stock Total amount of compensationNumber of Total amount of fixed Base type stock persons compensation compensation compensation options Others Subject directors and corporate auditors (excluding outside 21 ¥862 ¥862 ¥861 ¥¥1 directors and outside corporate auditors) Subject employees, etc. 374 31,517 14,277 12,551 1,726 Overseas 345 29,532 13,298 11,572 1,725 employees, etc. (Millions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 Total amount of variable Base compensation compensation Bonus Others Retirement benefits Others Subject directors and corporate auditors (excluding outside ¥¥¥¥¥¥directors and outside corporate auditors) Subject employees, etc. 16,549 16,548 0 30 659 Overseas employees, 15,730 15,729 0 30 473 etc. Notes: 1. Amounts of compensation of subject directors and corporate auditors include amounts of compensation received for duties performed as a director or corporate auditor of a major consolidated subsidiary. 2. The amount of fixed compensation deferred prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 was ¥141 million (subject directors and corporate auditors: ¥110 million; subject employees, etc. : ¥31 million) and the outstanding amount of deferred fixed compensation as of March 31, 2015 was ¥1,008 million (subject directors and corporate auditors: ¥646 million; subject employees, etc. : ¥361 million). 3. Total amount of variable compensation includes ¥4,181 million of deferred compensation that arose during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, all of which was for Subject Employees, etc., and could in the future be taken back in the event of poor business results or other detrimental factors. The amount of variable compensation deferred prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 was ¥1,804 million (subject employees, etc. : ¥1,804 million) and the outstanding amount of deferred variable compensation as of March 31, 2015 was ¥6,863 million (subject employees, etc. : ¥6,863 million). 4. Total amount of compensation for subject employees, etc., includes ¥140 million of allowance for termination and resignation (number of subject persons: 9), multi-year guarantees of bonus of ¥233 million (number of subject persons: 1), signing bonus of ¥249 million (number of subject persons: 10) and allowance for absence from work of ¥106 million (number of subject persons: 5) . 5. Because the amounts of the variable compensation of the directors and executive officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 have not been determined at this time, they are not included in the above compensation, etc. However, we have recorded the required reserves for accounting purposes. 6. The exercise periods of the stock compensation-type stock options (stock acquisition rights) are as set out below. Under the stock option agreements, exercise of the options is postponed, even during the exercise period, until the time of retirement of the director or employee. Exercise Period First Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from February 17, 2009 to February 16, 2029 Second Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from September 28, 2009 to September 25, 2029 Third Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from August 27, 2010 to August 26, 2030 Fourth Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from December 9, 2011 to December 8, 2031 Fifth Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from September 3, 2012 to August 31, 2032 Sixth Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from February 18, 2014 to February 17, 2034 Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Rights of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. from December 2, 2014 to December 1, 2034 (b) Other relevant matters relating to our system of compensation for subject directors, corporate auditors and employees of Mizuho group Not applicable, other than those covered in the above. 344 Websites Information useful to our customers can be found on our websites including company information and introductions of business operations at group companies. Moreover, information on IR, finance, exchange rates and branch guidance, various financial products and services, as well as industrial and economic reports are available. Some of the banking transactions and inquiries can also be made. Mizuho Financial Group http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/index.html About Mizuho Investor Relations • Financial Information • IR Information • Stock Information CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) • CSR Report Careers News Release News Release E-mail Distribution Service Mizuho Bank http://www.mizuhobank.com/index.html About Mizuho Bank • Corporate Information • A Message from the Management Products & Services Markets & Reports • Foreign Exchange Report • Industry and Economic Report • Economic Report News Release Overseas Offices Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho Securities http://www.mizuho-tb.co.jp/english/index.html http://www.mizuho-sc.com/english/index.html 345 Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8176, Japan Tel: +81-(0)3-5224-1111 http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/index.html
