UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2016 INTRODUCTION STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Beirholm activate the full potential of the entire value creation network to develop and deliver the most profitable textile solutions on the market to rental laundries, rental I am pleased to confirm that Beirholms Væverier A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations laundry customers, and the consumers. Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Beirholm was founded in 1870 and is a In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the family-owned business with a strong heritage Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share and culture. It is an integrated aspect of our this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. culture to work and behave responsibly in our dealings with our customers and Kind regards producers – and produce products that live up to our high standards – products we can Peter Beirholm be proud of, aligned to ethical, social and Chief Executive Officer environmental considerations. We acknowledge that there are sustainability issues in our industry, and to recognize and address these issues up front, is the only way to move forward for us. There are no quick fixes in this area and we do our best to ensure progress and uphold responsibility and sustainability among our upstream business partners – the producers of our textiles and their subcontractors, going all the way back to the cotton field. We continue to develop our work with sustainable textile solutions, which our implementation of DS 49001 (the Danish equivalent of the international ISO 26001 standard on CSR) exemplifies. This certification dedicates the principles, subjects and processes our company works under and will assist our continued advances in this area and supplement our other management standards. PRINCIPLE 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Business should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 Aim Beirholm adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. Our overall approach to working with business partners is based on our core values: openness, dialogue, commitment, honesty and being pro-active. This underlines the company’s dedication to the Human Rights principles. Progress Beirholm continues to review and update policies and procedures to ensure full compliance with national and international laws. Our CSR strategy, implementing of our Code of Conduct and our membership of BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) includes a set of rules that ensure compliance with, and protection of, internationally proclaimed human rights. Results Beirholm has made inspections at all key producers and does not source from production sites that have not been visited. Our Code of Conduct and BSCI is implemented by us in cooperation with our key producers. Almost 90% of our turnover results from producers who have been in close relationship with Beirholm for more than 10 years. We have a preference for producers who are certified according to international standards as SA8000 and/or Sedex. In 2015, more than half of our turnover was produced at SA8000 certified producers. PRINCIPLE 3 LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Aim It is important to Beirholm that our products are produced ethically, under safe working and environmental PRINCIPLE 4 conditions. We base our work on our CSR strategy as well as on our Code of Conduct and BSCI, which our producers Businesses should uphold the eliminacommit to follow. tion of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Progress In the implementation phase of BSCI, Beirholm made sure that all producers were aware and committed to the code of conduct, which abide to national legislation and labour laws. PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the effective We continue to make visits to all key producers to encourage improvement of health and safety procedures. abolition of child labour. Beirholm has an integrated management system that is certificated in accordance with OHSAS 18001 and DS 49001 PRINCIPLE 6 (equivalent to ISO 26001) which assures continuous advancements in the area of human rights and health and safety. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Results employment and occupation. All producers are committed, by contract, to our code of conduct and BSCI, which ensure promotion of continuous improvements within the areas of health and safety. PRINCIPLE 7 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Aim PRINCIPLE 8 Beirholm is focused on bettering the environment in and around its company as well as in the supply network. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmenWe have taken into consideration both the product’s total environmental impact during its life cycle and at the tal responsibility. same time focused on the elimination of harmful substances from our products to the end users and our customers. Furthermore, it has been important to secure the best possible environmental conditions at the factories. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the deProgress velopment and diffusion of environWe have chosen to produce as many of our products as possible under the EU Ecolabel criteria and with cotton mentally friendly technologies. produced according to BCI (Better Cotton Initiative) principles. We are experiencing a continued increase in products produced with BCI. Our mission is to raise the demand for sustainable textile solutions. We expect that by continuously promoting sustainable solutions by focusing on the entire supply chain from cotton field to laundry to end-user, we can minimise our environmental impact. We are active with our mission, we participate with presentations at seminars and workshops, which are facilitated by European and Global industry related organisations. We have joined CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) whose purpose is to decrease carbon emissions. Results More than 95% of all Beirholm’s textiles are currently Oekotex® 100 labelled. At present, we have obtained the EU Ecolabel certification on a range of our most important products and continue to work with the objective that the majority of our products, over time, will live up to these conditions. In 2015, 46% of our turnover was from products produced with EU Ecolabel certificate, and 19% was produced with BCI cotton. We are seeing an increased demand for these products and we are following the development closely. To reduce the impact on the environment associated with electricity consumption, Beirholm has replaced luminaires with LED and installed solar power, which is expected to produce approximately 150,000 kWh annually. In 2015 the solar production was 161.728 kWh. PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Aim Our values are the guiding elements intended to regulate our conduct at all times. We maintain high standards of integrity, honesty and openness. We do not tolerate any form of bribery or other forms of corruption. Implementation It is clearly stated in the Beirholm Code of Conduct and BSCI that no employees or producers will make use of corruption or bribery, whether direct or indirect. Result The values incorporated in Beirholm’s business approach mean that we have not experienced any cases of corruption in recent years. To ensure that no corruption should take place in any form, the company has ensured a steadfast zero-tolerance policy on bribery. SPECIFICALLY BUILDING SAFETY Aim It is important to Beirholm that all producers, which have production in multi-storey buildings should be able to present and document relevant approvals from local authorities with respect to construction, use and monitoring building safety. Progress This is an implementation phase for many of the producers and we still have to define the rules regarding building safety, then monitor the producers and document if the buildings are secure and safe. Results This is a new point we have added to Beirholms Code of Conduct. All of our strategic producers are committed and have signed this point. RELEVANT DOCUMENTS Following documents can be downloaded by following links: Beirholm Code of Conduct http://www.beirholm.dk/en/code-of-conduct Beirholm CSR Strategy http://www.beirholm.dk/en/beirholm-csr-strategy Beirholm & Sustainability http://www.beirholm.dk/en/beirholm-sustainability Quality, Environmental, Work environmental and Corporate Social Responsibility Policies http://www.beirholm.dk/en/ds-49001-social-responsibility To learn more about CDP https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/HomePage.aspx
