CSR REPORT 2015 CSR POLICY INNOVATION AND ACCELERATION – these are the drivers of our industry. PASSION FOR TECHNOLOGY – this is the foundation of our company. TRANSPARENCY, FLEXIBILITY AND ATTENTION TO DETAIL – this is how we engineer precision components for the world’s leading innovators. The culture that drives our innovation is the very same culture that defines our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). To us, social responsibility isn’t a separate pillar in our organisation, but an ambition integrated into our everyday decision-making. At Kendrion, CSR is not just about being responsible; it is about taking responsibility. TAKING RESPONSIBILITY Taking responsibility is embedded into our culture of innovation. It is what happens when smart, enthusiastic engineers come together in a high-technology environment open to dynamic new ideas. Sourcing smart materials, adopting energy-efficient machinery, conducting business fairly and creating growth opportunities for our employees. These aren’t just CSR issues; they are engineering challenges that are accelerating our business into the future. To many, being responsible is simply an obligation, a tactic to avoid falling behind. To us, taking responsibility is a strategy to stay ahead. After all, in an industry of innovation taking responsibility isn’t just a smart move. It’s also smart business. CSR REPORT 2015 1 STAKEHOLDERS DIALOGUE 3 Preface PAGE 14 4 Short & simple 6 Our Profile / Our Organisation 7 Integrated Thinking, Integrated Reporting SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS 8 CSR Strategy PAGE 16 10 Case: Conquering the Chinese wind turbine market Case: ‘Engineered in Germany’ makes 11 Indian transport trucks more fuel-efficient SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PAGE 20 12 CSR Organisation 13 CSR Reporting framework 23 Sharing and learning SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS 27 Speaking the universal ISO lingo PAGE 24 31 A solid base for personal and professional development 37 Global guidelines, local actions ENERGY & CO2 REDUCTION 45 Offering chances for the future PAGE 28 46 Kendrion Taking Responsibility Award 2015 Case: Sound actuators bring acoustic 47 emotion into the electric vehicle industry FAIR LABOUR STANDARDS 48 About this Report PAGE 32 49 Assurance report 50 GRI Index 52 Colophon HEALTH & SAFETY PAGE 38 BUSINESS ETHICS PROGRAMME PAGE 40 TRANSPARENCY BENCHMARK Kendrion participates in the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation’s Transparency Benchmark, which monitors the Netherlands’ 500 largest COMMUNITY INVESTMENT companies. Kendrion improved its ranking in each of the PAGE 42 last 5 years. Kendrion was ranked number 37 in 2015. 2 CSR REPORT 2015 PREFACE We are pleased to present Kendrion’s 2015 CSR Report to you. This CSR Report has been compiled in accordance with the In publishing this fifth CSR Report we aim to demonstrate to our guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 ‘core level’. stakeholders that our commitment to sustainability and Corporate A number of KPIs have been reviewed by an external auditor. Social Responsibility (CSR) is of strategic importance to us. We are keenly aware that it will take time and effort to make our We want to contribute, within the scope of our possibilities, to a internal processes and the supply chain more sustainable. sustainable society. This means we must focus continually on our Wherever possible, Kendrion wants to work with its stakeholders use of materials, our products that we develop for our customers and partners in the chain to achieve this. We hold regular meetings (for instance in terms of emissions, energy savings and safety) with our customers, suppliers, investors and staff with the intention and the way in which we treat our employees. Global trends such of getting the best out of each other. We take our responsibility as climate change, scarcity of resources, renewable energy seriously. and population growth also present Kendrion with opportunities and can create value for our stakeholders. We have observed that many of our customers are also working on sustainability developments and are formulating ambitious targets, We are pleased to report that the majority of our 2015 targets were in particular for reductions of emissions, energy conservation and achieved. The highlights of the past year, the first year of the new safety. We are of the opinion that we are in an excellent position CSR strategy 2015 2017 ‘Taking Responsibility’, were: to supply our customers the high-grade products and services zz Development and sale of sustainable products; they need to achieve their targets. zz Substantial investments that should lead to further reductions in CO2 emissions; I hope that the readers of this report will appreciate the efforts zz Initiatives we took jointly with our supply chain partners; we are making to fulfil our corporate social responsibility. zz Efforts to maintain a healthy and safe working environment for our employees. Joep van Beurden, CEO Kendrion N.V. Thanks to the efforts of many employees across our business units, including the members of our CSR Board, we are continuing our efforts to achieve new, challenging but realistic targets for the coming years. This Report is intended to provide you with a balanced update both on these efforts, targets and results and the challenges and dilemmas we are facing. CSR REPORT 2015 3 2015: SHORT & SIMPLE PEOPLE Total number of employees Total number of employees by gender Training costs (at 31 December) (in %) (as a % of wage costs) 51% 2,808 2,730 2.8% 0.8% 0.8% (2014) 49% 2015 2014 PLANET Absolute energy consumption Relative energy consumption Absolute CO2 emission* Relative CO2 emission* (in million kWh) (in tons kWh / million added value) (in tons kWh) (in tons kWh / million added value) 25.5 160.3 157.7 24.9 5,254 33.1 2.5% 1.7% 14.1% 13.2% * All plants in compared compared to 2014 to 2014 Germany, Eibiswald (Austria) and Prostejov (Czech Republic). 2015 2014 2015 2014 PROFIT Revenue EBITDA Net profit (EUR million) (EUR million) (EUR million) 442.1 49.3 20.2 45.2 3% 428.9 8% 17% 16.8 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 4 CSR REPORT 2015 Average number of years’ services Accidents Average and Lost rate Time Injuries of absenteeism Illness rate (in years) (LTI(in in %) days) (in %) 2.5% 10.8 10.4 2.3% 0.4 0.2 pts 2.5% 41 863 2.3% (2014) 50 (2014) 506 (2014) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Consumption of materials Acceptance of Number of supplier CSR audits (in tons, best estimate) Supplier Code of Conduct (in total) Copper 368 214 (2014) 1,893 1,568 (2014) 36 23 (2014) Solvency Working capital Investments (total equity/balance sheet total) (in % of revenue) (EUR million) 49.8% 46.0% 10.5% 22.3 3.8% 0.7% 9.8% 8% 20.6 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 CSR REPORT 2015 5 OUR PROFILE KENDRION develops, manufactures and markets high-quality Committed to the engineering challenges of tomorrow, taking electromagnetic and mechatronic systems and components responsibility for how we source, manufacture and conduct for industrial and automotive applications. business is embedded into our culture of innovation. For over a century we have been engineering precision parts for the Rooted in Germany, headquartered in the Netherlands and listed world’s leading innovators in passenger cars, commercial vehicles on the Amsterdam stock exchange, our expertise extends across and industrial applications. As a leading technology pioneer, Europe to the Americas and Asia. Created with passion and Kendrion invents, designs and manufactures complex components engineered with precision. Kendrion – we magnetise the world. and customised systems as well as local solutions on demand. OUR ORGANISATION KENDRION’S KEY INFORMATION zz Development, production and marketing of high-quality electromagnetic and mechatronic systems and components. zz 2,700 employees (including about 80 temps) in 15 countries. zz Revenue: approximately EUR 442 million. zz Listed company on Euronext’s Amsterdam Market. KENDRION’S SPEARHEADS zz Niche market leadership in selected businesszz Balanced spread of the operations. to-business markets. zz Targeted add-on acquisitions. zz Organic growth in its current operations. zz Enhancement of its innovative capacity. zz Utilisation of synergy in and between the business units zz Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainability. (locally and internationally). 6 CSR REPORT 2015 INTEGRATED THINKING, INTEGRATED REPORTING Kendrion approaches the strategic targets, both financial and to receive transparent information on social and environmental non-financial, on an integrated basis whenever possible. aspects as well. Legislation is also gradually being adapted in line The environmental, social and other sustainability targets are with this. Kendrion will initiate a project in 2016 to further assess treated as part of the ordinary business processes as much how Kendrion can best respond to this, to ensure that Kendrion as possible. Reporting on all of these aspects of value creation is ready for the future. by Kendrion has likewise become increasingly interlaced in the past few years. Kendrion already applies integrated reporting to a In our integrated value creation model, we illustrate how and by significant extent in its Annual Report, Annual Magazine and CSR what means we create value for our stakeholders, including our Report. Kendrion is seeing a growing interest among stakeholders impact to society. INTEGRATED VALUE CREATION MODEL Input How we create value An integrated approach Financial Materials Know-how Employees Energy resources Research & Design & Sourcing Development engineering parts & materials Manufacturing & Sales & assembly distribution Added Value We magnetise We take the world Business Innovation CSR responsibility Output Efficient electromagnetic & Profit & income mechatronic products Know-how Engaged & Low emissions healthy employees & waste Outcome Society Increased safety, Wealth & Higher Welfare Cleaner environment mobility, comfort, income technological connectivity & health standards CSR REPORT 2015 7 CSR STRATEGY ‘TAKING RESPONSIBILITY’ For Kendrion, Corporate Social Responsibility means: to the growth of Kendrion’s business and therefore need to be The responsibility of an organisation for the impact of its addressed in a timely manner. These trends, however, also offer decisions and activities on society and the environment, opportunities for Kendrion. Utilising such opportunities and using through transparent and ethical behaviour. scarce energy and other natural resources in a responsible way will, in the long run, make an essential contribution to the creation of It is Kendrion’s MISSION that Corporate Social Responsibility value for all Kendrion’s stakeholders. Therefore, Kendrion has (CSR) and sustainability are intrinsic, integral elements of Kendrion’s included sustainability and CSR as spearheads in the company’s operations. Kendrion wants to conduct business with consideration general strategic policy described on page 6 of this Report and for climate effects and energy sources, with a feeling for people and referred to in more detail in the 2015 Annual Report on pages 6-7. the environment, and on the basis of a responsibility for the chain in which the company operates. This form of entrepreneurship pivots PROGRESS WITH THE CSR CYCLE on the creation of multiple value – and consequently not just Profit, There is a desire to make further progress with the CSR cycle but also People and Planet. (see outline on the next pages) and move towards an even more strategic or proactive position. TAKING RESPONSIBILITY – A STRATEGIC SPEARHEAD CSR STRATEGY PERIOD 2015-2017 Some of the relevant megatrends in the world are: Kendrion adopted a CSR programme entitled ‘Taking Responsibility’ zz A rapid growth of the world population, especially in emerging for the period 2015-2017. The programme not only aims to anchor markets; further CSR and sustainability in the company’s business processes zz Urbanisation; but also to increase the commitment to sustainable products and zz Increased mobility and connectivity needs of people and goods; services in line with the way customers respond to megatrends. This zz An increasing scarcity of natural resources; will require time. Plans include each business unit drawing up its zz The transition to more sustainable energy due also to climate own CSR programme as part of its mid-term plan and agreed change. budget. You can find more information about the Taking Responsibility programme in the various chapters of this Report. Some of these megatrends, such as the scarcity of natural resources and the reduced availability or substantially increased prices of energy sources, could in the longer term become a threat 8 CSR REPORT 2015 KENDRION’S POSITION IN THE CSR CYCLE The four CSR stages companies pass through 1 INACTIVE 2 REACTIVE 3 ACTIVE 4 PROACTIVE companies that companies that companies that companies that only look at CSR include reputation start stressing take the social from a ‘bookkeeping’ in their CSR the market perspective business case as point of view ­considerations their starting point Classic Defensive Strategic Social KENDRION MATERIALITY ANALYSIS OUTCOME OF THE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS This CSR Report focuses as much as possible on the issues which The outcome of the materiality analysis has been summarised into are most important to Kendrion, its employees and stakeholders; the following key issues. the key issues. More information of the (selection of) stakeholders zz Sustainable products; can be found on pages 14 and 15 of this Report. zz Responsible use of resources in the supply chain; The selection of these key issues is based on a materiality analysis. zz Sustainable operations; zz Environmental protection; The materiality analysis is carried out with due regard for: zz Fair labour standards; zz The nature of Kendrion’s activities and business processes; zz Health & safety; zz The demands made on Kendrion and its products by its zz Fair business conduct; customers in connection with sustainability in the short and long zz Strong communities. term (the urgency); zz Kendrion’s potential impact and influence in the chain in the short Next, specific targets and KPIs and relevant GRI indicators were and long term; formulated for those key issues. The key issues, KPIs and targets zz The potential benefit for Kendrion; are evaluated annually on the basis of the results achieved and zz The effort it takes to implement measures in our business are adjusted where necessary. These evaluations also make use of processes and activities, with a view to the other strategic the feedback Kendrion receives from its stakeholders. The specific spearheads; targets and KPIs can be found in the various chapters of this zz The relevance to stakeholders and the possible effect Report. The material aspects mentioned in the GRI G4 guidelines on them. can be found in the Index section at the end of this Report. The materiality analysis has not (only) been carried out on the basis First of all, the CSR Board members were asked to classify issues of the material GRI aspects and associated indicators. Accordingly, which might be relevant using the criteria mentioned before. GRI indicators have not (yet) been selected for all material issues. The results and the key issues identified were discussed and Going forward it will be possible to introduce, step by step, a clearer endorsed by the Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board linkage in reporting, partly on the basis of stakeholder dialogue. of Kendrion N.V. The result was finally also discussed with a number of different stakeholders including investors, suppliers, staff The outcome of the materiality analysis led to the selection of the and customers in individual meetings. Their feedback was also following GRI G4 material aspects and indicators: processed. The materiality analysis will be repeated and evaluated zz Environmental – Energy (G4-EN3 and G4-EN4) and Emissions annually on the basis of the results obtained and will be adjusted (G4-EN15 and G4-EN16); where necessary. zz Social, Labor Practices and Decent Work Occupational Health & Safety (G4-LA6); zz Social, Human Rights – Non-Discrimination (G4-HR3). CSR REPORT 2015 9 SMALL REVOLUTIONS – THEY ARE ALL AROUND US. THEY ARE HIDDEN INSIDE THE INTELLIGENT TECHNOLOGIES THAT DRIVE OUR EVERYDAY LIVES. THEY ARE THE COMPONENTS THAT POWER THE WORLD’S MOST ADVANCED SYSTEMS. THEY COMPRISE THE THOUSANDS OF SMART SOLUTIONS THAT HELP US DRIVE FASTER, FLY HIGHER AND PERFORM BETTER. SMALL REVOLUTIONS ARE ALL THE PRECISE LITTLE DETAILS THAT POSITIVELY AFFECT OUR LIVES. CONQUERING THE CHINESE WIND TURBINE MARKET When it comes to wind energy, China is the unrivalled global conditions, between –40°C and +70°C. In fact, with our leader. And with the Chinese government’s ambitious nonpatented technology we are the only company that can fossil fuel targets for 2020, Chinese wind energy capacity is deliver on such a broad temperature range. For 5 MW estimated to triple in the coming decade. This growth will be wind turbines, a high-precision electromagnetic brake is fuelled by enormous new onshore and offshore wind farms, essential. Our permanent-magnet brakes are safer, more but also through upgrading of the country’s current lowand reliable, more powerful, more compact and require less medium-capacity wind turbines to higher capacity models maintenance than the lower-capacity and industry standard upwards of 5 Megawatts (MW). And it’s precisely the highspring-applied brakes.’ torch 5MW-plus wind turbine market where Kendrion excels. As the exclusive supplier of permanent-magnet brakes to Turnover in permanent-magnet the world’s leading wind turbine makers, Kendrion Industrial brakes has almost quadrupled Drive Systems is very much in the mix of China’s wind energy revolution. One Kendrion product in particular, the Cold in China since 2013. Climate Version (CCV) of its permanent-magnet brake, offers a solution to the increasingly complex challenges Not surprisingly, Kendrion’s turnover in permanent-magnet facing this market. Uwe Gnauert, Director Global Research & brakes has almost quadrupled in China since 2013. And Development in Villingen, Germany: ‘With its ability to reliably Gnauert expects it to double again in the next five years, with secure the angle and pitch of a turbine’s rotor blades in any growth fuelled both by China as well as the increased focus weather condition, Kendrion helps maximise the turbine’s on wind energy in emerging markets such as India. overall efficiency. Our permanent-magnet brakes are engineered to perform in the most extreme weather 10 CSR REPORT 2015 ‘ENGINEERED IN GERMANY’ MAKES INDIAN TRANSPORT TRUCKS MORE FUEL-EFFICIENT In Europe and the USA, commercial vehicles can reach EXPENSIVE FUEL upwards of 90 tonnes and travel long distances on well-paved ‘Fuel in India is expensive – often even more expensive than roads. In India, however, transport trucks are much smaller the drivers themselves,’ says Sameer Deshmukh, Managing but overloaded and have the time-consuming task of Director of Kendrion (Pune) Private Limited. ‘Reducing fuel having to navigate poor roads. The result is enormous fuel consumption is a very interesting argument for Indian vehicle inefficiency across the market. To help Indian OEMs tackle manufacturers to adopt our clutch over the existing bimetal this problem, Kendrion introduced its electromagnetic fan solution.’ clutch to the Indian market, cutting transport fuel consumption by 4% a year. NEGOTIATIONS WITH ALMOST ALL OF INDIA’S MAJOR OEMs Kendrion expects The electromagnetic clutch was designed at Kendrion’s headquarters in Germany, and was introduced to India in to double its clutch 2011 through Kendrion’s first customer Ashok Leyland, India’s sales in India by 2018. second-largest maker of commercial vehicles. Part of the deal was to produce the fan clutch locally for the Indian market in order to save costs. Today, roughly 70% of the The electromagnetic fan clutch is the latest example clutch components are produced in India, and Ashok Leyland of how Kendrion is using German-engineered components uses the fan clutch in approximately 65% of its vehicles. to help Indian OEMs tackle their enormous transportation Kendrion is currently in negotiation with almost all of India’s challenges. The electromagnetic fan clutch is a smart major OEMs concerning its engine-cooling portfolio. Backed alternative to the standard bimetal clutch. It controls by this growth, Kendrion expects to double its sales in India engine temperatures very precisely, reacts immediately by 2018. to temperature changes and automatically turns on and off as needed but at the same time it is still easy to control. This ‘on-demand’ activation makes it possible to regulate truck engines more efficiently and, as a result, saves fuel. CSR REPORT 2015 11 CSR ORGANISATION COMMITMENT TOP MANAGEMENT activities locally. The objective of the CSR Board and the The CSR strategy, key issues and objectives are adopted by the ambassadors is to coordinate, communicate, enthuse and Executive Committee. The CSR programme, Taking Responsibility, accelerate. The Board also perceives its duties as including the is also discussed during the annual Top Management Meeting provision of transparent information about the stipulated CSR (top 50). Each of our business units is requested to prepare an targets to the employees and external stakeholders and to annual CSR plan, closely related to their own business and communicate the progress in the achievement of the targets. processes. CSR and sustainability objectives are included in the performance criteria governing the variable remuneration awarded CODE OF CONDUCT to top management, including the Executive Committee. Kendrion has implemented a Code of Conduct in its organisation. The principles and best practices established in this Code reflect the The Supervisory Board recognises the importance of Kendrion’s main values that need to guide Kendrion’s staff in the performance CSR programme and advocates a strong focus on the company’s of their duties. The core themes include corporate social social and environmental standards governing its processes, and responsibility, the obligation for due care regarding safety and the relationship between the overall strategy and sustainability. health, the environment, and social interests. Kendrion attaches The Supervisory Board reviewed the achievements and endorsed great importance to the organisation’s compliance with the Code the CSR Board’s plans. of Conduct. Employees who observe a (suspected) irregularity are encouraged to enter into discussions with those directly involved CSR BOARD AND AMBASSADORS or with their supervisor. When this is not feasible or fails to achieve A CSR Board gives further shape to Kendrion’s CSR activities. results, then they have the opportunity to report irregularities or The Board’s members are representatives of the business units and suspicions of irregularities to the management without jeopardising departments and come from Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany their (legal) position according to the Kendrion whistleblowers policy. and the Netherlands. The CSR Board had 11 members in 2015. Board members do their CSR work in addition to their regular Many requirements linked to the key CSR issues and the objectives Kendrion duties. Each member has their area of interest and is are guaranteed by procedures in various areas. These include e.g. responsible for the fulfilment of plans in this field and for assisting ISO norms, safety training and procedures, environmental plans the business units. In addition to the CSR Board, there are and agreements on working pay and conditions. ‘ambassadors’ in all operating companies who support CSR 12 CSR REPORT 2015 CSR REPORTING FRAMEWORK Kendrion focusses and reports on the following CSR issues and material themes: Stakeholders dialogue Community investment Sustainable products Business ethics Supply chain programme management Health & safety Sustainable operations Fair labour standards Energy & CO2 reduction CSR BOARD Front row: Wencke Volkmann, Controlling (PC); Sören Rosenbaum, Managing Director Kendrion Mechatronics Center; Heinz Jankowski, Facility Manager (KGS) and Sven Weber, IT Manager (KGS). Middle row: Rasmus Pichler, CSR Student; Martina Svobodová, Human Resources Manager (PC); Wijgert Gooijer, General Counsel and CSR Coordinator (Kendrion N.V.) and Stefan Teudt, Quality Manager (IDS). Back row: Bertram Heimgartner, Project Manager (CV); Wilma Stuiver, Executive Assistant (Kendrion N.V.) and Josef Porta, Production Manager (PC). Missing: Kathrin Grahl, Human Resources (ICS). CSR REPORT 2015 13 STAKEHOLDERS DIALOGUE GENERAL CUSTOMERS The selection of relevant stakeholders is partly based on questions A substantial number of Kendrion’s customers are major Tier 1 such as who might be positively or negatively affected by the suppliers and OEMs in the automotive sector or other large organisation’s decisions or activities, who can help the organisation industrial companies. Some of these customers have implemented address specific impacts, who can affect the organisation’s ability CSR and sustainability requirements for suppliers. Kendrion to meet its responsibilities and who in the value chain is affected? complies with their requirements, including their quality and environmental requirements, by an ample margin. Kendrion Kendrion‘s relevant stakeholders are its customers, employees, provides more insight into the company’s CSR efforts to its suppliers, other business partners and the communities in which customers. Accordingly, Kendrion highlighted its CSR policy Kendrion is active. Kendrion attaches great importance to good in a wide range of material published in the course of 2015. relationships with its stakeholders. Various business units engaged in constructive dialogue with important customers. Kendrion engages in transparent communications in a manner in which the company carries out CSR activities. Exchanges SUPPLIERS of ideas, the involvement of business relations and utilisation Kendrion successfully introduced a Supplier Code of Conduct. of the experience and networks of others will further Kendrion’s A large number of main suppliers signed this Code of Conduct in CSR activities. the past years. Kendrion also integrates this Supplier Code of Conduct in supplier selection. Also a substantial number of CSR 14 CSR REPORT 2015 Mark Hoekstra, coverage banker of BNP Paribas: ‘Kendrion was the first of the corporate clients in my portfolio to actively approach me to engage in stakeholder dialogue on its sustainability programme. I was surprised by the transparent and pro-active way in which Kendrion works. In our view Kendrion is addressing the right themes. BNP Paribas has developed a unique CSR screening tool for an ESG check of all its corporate clients. Kendrion passed this assessment well.’ audits were performed. The aim is to continue Kendrion’s dialogue issues and objectives, and also discussed the investors’ CSR and with suppliers on their performance in this area, with a view to jointly compliance policies within the context of their investments. These pursuing improvements if necessary. parties welcomed the sustainability and CSR efforts within Kendrion and emphasised, within the overall strategy, the need for a focus on MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES adding value to the business, also via the sustainable product Kendrion regards its employees as the company’s greatest asset. portfolio. In various roadshows, management also showed the The support of Kendrion’s CSR policy by the company’s employees relevance of sustainability for Kendrion to potential investors. is of essential importance. Kendrion devotes continual attention to CSR issues in the Magnetised international staff magazine and will LOCAL COMMUNITIES continue to do so in 2016. Poster campaigns and idea boxes are Kendrion is active in a number of countries in which, in a general also used to increase awareness and commitment. In the course sense, the standard of living, working conditions and human rights of 2015, a special Taking Responsibility edition of the personnel exhibit room for improvement. Kendrion endeavours to make magazine Magnetised was published. a modest contribution to these improvements by including (mostly small scale) local community investment programmes. Kendrion INVESTORS appreciates the importance of good contacts with the local Sustainability is also becoming an increasingly important issue for authorities. Kendrion’s investors. Kendrion held discussions with a number of its major shareholders and banks. Kendrion presented its strategy, key CSR REPORT 2015 15 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Target 2015 Result Ambition 2016 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility At least 2 more products At least 2 more Industrial Well developed and recognised with greensigned label 0% 100% products with greensigned label sustainable product portfolio Continuation of study by Kendrion Define criteria to measure Continuous optimisation of product Mechatronic Center and R&D sustainability of products portfolio to meet the (CSR) megatrends departments regarding 75% sustainability in the supply chain 0% 100% MARKET TRENDS AND KENDRION PRODUCTS of the population are leading to increased mobility needs for both Sustainability is at the core of many of the company’s products and people, energy and goods. Areas in which many people congregate innovations. Kendrion exploits the specific expertise and experience are governed by increasingly stringent, building and transport available within the company as a means of increasing safety and system safety and environmental requirements. Population growth substantially reducing emissions and fuel consumption. Kendrion – and in some regions the ageing population – are accompanied by is inspired by the desire to secure a sustainable and ‘green’ increasing healthcare requirements. These are accompanied by environment for generations to come. the trend towards continually smaller, lighter and faster products. The product portfolios of Kendrion’s business units are tailored Kendrion currently estimates, on the basis of an internal product to these current trends. classification, that at least 20% of the Industrial products and at least 40% of the Automotive products contribute to energy savings At present, Kendrion is not (yet) applying group-wide criteria or lower emissions for our customers or end users. or targets in assessing whether products can be qualified as ‘sustainable’. A start was made in 2015 on an analysis of whether The megatrends referred to on page 8 can be interpreted in terms such criteria or targets would be useful, for instance on the basis of of a number of subtrends. The scarcity of natural resources and Life Cycle Assessments. This analysis has not yet been completed. climate change, for example, are resulting in the transition to more sustainable energy sources. Urbanisation and the rapid growth 16 CSR REPORT 2015 PASSENGER CARS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES For the passenger car markets, Kendrion Automotive is concentrating on fuel systems (diesel common rail, gasoline direct injection), active damping (chassis suspension), engine management (fuel efficiency, thermal management), sound systems (interior and exterior) and human machine interface solutions (comfort seats, active gas pedal). The Commercial Vehicles business unit focuses on three product categories: Thermal Management (engine cooling, fan drives, thermal modules, angle gear boxes and compressor clutches for air-conditioning); Powertrain/Chassis (vibration In 2013, Kendrion introduced a greensigned logo for products for absorbers, clutches for auxiliary devices, angle gear boxes the Industrial business units. Two more products were granted the and valves for powertrain vapplications) and Mobile & standard greensigned logo in 2014, followed by two more in 2015 as well; hydraulics (solenoids for hydraulic applications and valves). see also page 19 for more information. Major customers in the Automotive markets are Volkswagen, Daimler, Continental, Delphi Europe, WABCO, Stanadyne, AUTOMOTIVE MARKETS: FOCUS ON ThyssenKrupp, Chrysler, Automotive Lighting, COMFORT, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT ZF Friedrichshafen, EvoBus, Yutong, Hyundai KIA, Navistar, Ashok Leyland and Eaton. ELECTRIC MOTORS AND COMBUSTION ENGINES The rise of hybrid and fully electric cars is impressive and unstoppable. But there are still some major drawbacks. The battery CONNECTIVITY: WEALTH OF DATA is still very expensive, the distance covered on one charged battery And there is more. Connectivity or ‘the Internet of the car’ is another is limited and the battery-charging infrastructure is not yet fully in major trend in automotive. A single car can generate a wealth of place. This, added to the present decline in fuel prices, explains why data which can be intelligently used for all kinds of purposes. Think the ‘good old’ internal combustion engine is still being developed traffic jams, the search for parking spots, speed, the relationship at the same time and why new technologies are being introduced, to other road users in the event of accidents, traffic violations and for instance gasoline engines with variable valve lift technology more. Using the benefits of car data generation and evaluation and reductions in weight and CO2 emissions. is only in its infancy. SMALL AND COMPACT IN A HYBRID SOLUTION DRIVER ASSIST SYSTEMS Throughout the automotive sector there is a drive for small, compact Self-driving cars or autonomous driving is a serious development. cars. Preferably in combination with a hybrid solution (i.e. equipped Driver assist systems, such as lane departure, rear-view, distance, with electrification of the powertrain and a high-voltage vehicle (emergency) braking and speed, are all steps towards this final goal. electrical system, including brake energy recuperation) and totally All these systems offer safety as well as comfort functionality. geared to complying with the Euro 6 emission standard. Fuel cell The car communicates with the driver through visual cues, sound technology, based on the use of hydrogen, may well play a part in or haptic signals. This development is a precursor to autonomous this trend towards electrification. It is hard to predict at this stage driving and will provide a strong impetus for Kendrion’s business which powertrain technology will eventually come out tops. in the near future. CSR REPORT 2015 17 LOCAL AND GLOBAL Business intelligence assists Kendrion to understand the market and manage customer expectations. It also helps it to secure FOCUS ON INNOVATION its position as global technology and innovation leader in the In this turbulent automotive sector, Kendrion focuses constantly on electromagnetic and mechatronic field with a balanced niche innovative solutions in electromagnetics and mechatronics. In close product and customer portfolio. Being very close to our customers cooperation with customers, Kendrion’s Automotive business units and markets is key for us. At the same time, and based on work meticulously on components and (sub-)systems that contribute this local-to-local approach, it’s essential to have an international to the customer’s performance and success in the market. Kendrion footprint. This facilitates knowledge transfer. In the Kendrion offers a proven, global, state-of-the-art development and production Mechatronics Center we have built a dedicated platform to share network in which, for example, it integrates its advanced MagHyst ® and further develop our fundamental technologies on a worldwide measuring technology for the validation of quality and performance. scale. INDUSTRY MARKETS: CLEAR CHOICES to mass prevention. And, on the downside, all these developments IN A RAPIDLY CHANGING ENVIRONMENT will inevitably result in higher costs for health care. In order to meet all the needs and demands these developments call for and in POPULATION GROWTH view of the drive for cost reduction and efficiency, the industry is The growth of the world population, and therefore the demand for all changing rapidly. Production systems are becoming increasingly kinds of products, is an unstoppable development. Mass migration intelligent, e.g. by interconnecting all their elements. ‘The Internet and the emergence of megacities are important trends resulting of Things’ is certainly having an effect on industrial production. from this development. In 1800 2% of the world population lived in cities. Two centuries on, this figure is 50% and the total number MARKET SEGMENTS of people living in cities will increase to 70% of the world population Kendrion has a vital role to play in this development, which is known as by 2050. We can only begin to imagine the scale of the industrial Industry 4.0 or Smart Industry. Robotisation is an almost fundamental smart solutions for transport, lighting, energy, infrastructure, comfort prerequisite for success in the intelligent factory. Kendrion produces and safety that will be needed. the innovative brakes that robots are equipped with. Kendrion’s Industrial Division has chosen to actively serve ten market ENERGY EFFICIENCY segments. Industrial Magnetic Systems (IMS) concentrates on Growing inequality of income/capital, globalisation of crime and energy (generation and distribution), locking & safety (access worldwide terrorism – the awareness of sharply increased risks control and fire protection) and process automation (logistics and stimulates the call for stricter safety requirements and the demand manufacturing). Industrial Control Systems (ICS) serves customers for products and systems which address this need. The effects and in aerospace engineering, industrial appliances (kitchen and consequences of a growing world population, however, are even laundry), medical/analytical engineering and electrical automation greater. Consider the aging of this expanding population and climatic (e.g. food and packaging). And Industrial Drive Systems (IDS) changes due to increasing CO2 emissions and resource depletion. focuses on asynchronous motors, elevators and servomotors. These developments call for energy efficiency at the highest level and for more sustainable products and production methods. INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERS Large customers of the Industrial markets include Siemens, FROM HEALTH CURE TO MASS PREVENTION Schindler, B/E Aerospace, Stoll, Euchner, Oerlikon, Fresenius, In health care, new treatments will improve the average life Dräger and Perkin Elmer. expectancy. Diagnostics will shift the health care focus from cure 18 CSR REPORT 2015 THE LOCKING SOLENOID PLUG AND PLAY Flexible, compact and reliable THE NEW ROTARY SOLENOID The new locking solenoid excels due Optimise your system – Rotation to its compact design and high Instead of Linear Movement reliability. Kendrion developed the new electromagnetic locking solenoid The Compact Rotary Solenoid CDR especially for applications used at combines high compactness and alternating locations and therefore short switching times with intelligent as self-sufficient as possible. solenoid design. Due to its compact The complete locking unit is based design the CDR is the ideal solution on a bistable electromagnet which for a variety of applications. A highly can be operated by both a power reliable transmission of the rotary supply and a battery. The locking bolt movement to the shaft is guaranteed is kept in an open position by the in particular by the sensors force of a permanent magnet. When responsible for the functional control. a current is applied, the magnet is The rotary solenoid excels thanks triggered and locks by extending the THE BREAKTHROUGH to a potential switching time of 10 to bolt. The bolt can withstand lateral Intelligent electronic solutions 30 milliseconds and a rotation angle forces of 1500 N so it guarantees provide energy savings of up to 90°. The size, functions safe locking. Moreover, sensors for and technical parameters can end position detection can further The Industrial Drive Systems be customised to individual increase the safety. Depending on business unit is particularly proud of requirements. the application, the bistable design the developments surrounding springof the solenoid allows for energy applied brakes. Now there is also a Moreover, the bistable design of the savings of up to 80% as no energy is version for servomotors which will be solenoid allows users to achieve used in the open and closed position. launched in 2016. Together with energy savings of up to 80%. Due As a result, this product deserves the Kendrion’s energy-saving module to its particularly environmentally greensigned logo. (ESM), the brakes can save up to 75% friendly design, the solenoid has power consumption and CO2. Thanks been added to the Kendrion to its extremely compact design, the greensigned series. energy-saving module can be installed in very restricted spaces. Industrial Drive Systems is observing growing interest in the market as this Certification Pass Certification Pass add-on solution can also be adapted Compact rotary solenoid CDR Mobile locking solenoid LLB to existing systems. up to 80% power savings up to 80% power savings, 80.000 due to bistable design switching cycles until battery change compact size, less copper less copper Design for Recycling widely recyclable less waste due to very CSR REPORT 2015 long lifecycle less waste due to very long lifecycle 19 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Target 2015 Result Ambition 2016 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility 100% of main material suppliers 70% 100% of main material suppliers sign All material suppliers sign Supplier Code of sign Supplier Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct Conduct 0% 100% At least 5 CSR supplier audits ■A  t least 3 CSR supplier audits per CSR audits fully integrated part of supplier per business unit plant with more than 80 employees audits ■A  t least 1 CSR supplier audit per each other plant 0% 100% Integrate supplier CSR score CSR fully integrated in supplier in supplier requirements selection process of each plant 0% 100% First results study permanent First application of results of study magnet reduction permanent magnet reduction 0% 100% GENERAL; THE SUPPLY CHAIN of influence is limited. In order to achieve the best results possible, The chains in which Kendrion is active have an impact on people, it is of great importance that Kendrion continues the dialogue with the environment and society that cannot be specified in unequivocal its suppliers and, in the selection and assessment of suppliers, that terms. Kendrion’s production processes are not polluting, in the it continues to consider their performance as regards sustainability. sense that they do not result in large quantities of residual products with a great impact on the environment and which cannot be Kendrion applies a local sourcing strategy whenever possible. recycled. Nor do they result in large emissions of substances with The most frequently-used materials are steel, aluminium, copper an environmental impact. Many of Kendrion’s products enable the and plastics. In many cases, semi-finished products are purchased company’s customers to reduce the environmental impact of their on the basis of specifications of Kendrion or its customers, and only products, for example in terms of emissions and energy the final assembly takes place in Kendrion’s plants. consumption. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT Kendrion wishes to play a significant role in the chain in which Major customers in the industrial sector or automotive industry the company is active. However, in many instances Kendrion regularly request Kendrion to sign their Supplier Code of Conduct. is a relatively minor link between. As a result, Kendrion’s sphere The customers introduce these Codes with the objective of giving 20 CSR REPORT 2015 by a meeting to prepare a plan and review means of achieving rapid improvements. Failure to follow up the improvement plan or follow more shape to the chain’s responsibility for CSR. Nevertheless, up the plan to an adequate extent can result in the termination Kendrion has decided to develop an own Supplier Code of Conduct in of the relationship with the relevant supplier. All the circumstances 2012. Kendrion attaches great importance to responsible and honest in the specific case are taken into account when reaching any such operations throughout the supply chain. Consequently, this Code decision, including the strategic importance of the supplier and requires suppliers to assume their responsibility for issues including the country in which the supplier is based. the environment, human rights, working conditions and fair trade. The suppliers are also requested to introduce rules of this nature Supplier audits 2015 2014 further in the chain whenever possible. A copy of the Kendrion’s Total number of supplier audits 36 23 Supplier Code of Conduct is available on Kendrion’s website. Kendrion has set a target stipulating that the Supplier Code of For 2015, the aim was to conduct at least five CSR supplier audits Conduct shall be accepted by all main material suppliers in all per business unit. The number of audits increased substantially business units. All new material suppliers will be requested to in 2015 to 36, which means that the target has been achieved. conform with the Code, also by means of including the incorporation The first audits outside Europe were also conducted, in the USA of the Supplier Code of Conduct in Kendrion’s standard procurement and India. The results of supplier CSR audits have in general been terms and conditions. The term material suppliers refers to all positive. Further stress will be laid on the willingness of suppliers suppliers who provided materials for production processes. The term to take CSR initiatives in relation to their own suppliers and human main material suppliers refers to the largest suppliers with regard rights issues, or to join the UN Global Compact. Furthermore, to procurement. This a floating list, which therefore needs to be the aim was to fully integrate the CSR audits in the regular supplierreviewed every year to establish whether the main suppliers have audit process with regard to at least the main suppliers, and to fully signed. include CSR in the regular-supplier selection process. This target has been achieved. Signed Supplier Code of Conduct 2015 2014 For 2016, the target is to have at least three audits per plant with Total 368 214 more than 80 employees and at least one audit for all other plants Material suppliers top 20 14 15 that have their own suppliers. There are no known cases of suppliers deliberately not wishing to LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT PILOT PROJECT sign the Code of Conduct, and no abuses have come to light as a A Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) pilot project was launched at the result of the request to comply with it. operating company Kendrion (Aerzen) GmbH in Germany during 2014. The objective of the project was to calculate the environmental SUPPLIER SELECTION AND AUDITS footprint of the company’s various products and processes. The The extent to which a potential supplier addresses environmental and project has been finalised and the outcome has been analysed in social issues and business ethics plays a role, in addition to standard 2015. Kendrion will not use the method at other plants, as the tool criteria such as product quality, in the ultimate selection of suppliers. was too laborious. Kendrion will review in 2016 whether a different In 2013, Kendrion began to conduct CSR supplier audits to review LCA method will be used for the most important products. whether the suppliers continue to comply with the required standards. Audits that result in unsatisfactory assessments and that reveal that the relevant supplier does not meet the minimum requirements for compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct are followed CSR REPORT 2015 21 CONFLICT MINERALS the mining and refining by-products that cause environmental Under the Dodd-Frank Act the US Securities and Exchange pollution. A paradox lies in the fact that, for reasons including climate Commission (SEC) requires US listed companies to disclose their change and the need for alternative sources of energy, for example use of conflict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold and their the use of wind turbines and electric cars is being encouraged whilst derivatives) sourced in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) these products actually exacerbate the shortage of rare earth and countries adjacent to the DRC. metals and the environmental pollution caused by their extraction. The recycling of rare earth metals is still in its infancy. Another This rule has been implemented due to the concern that the paradox is that the use of permanent magnets in products increases exploitation and trade in conflict minerals by armed groups is their functionality, for example the torque. As a result, less material helping to finance conflicts in the DRC region. While it is not is required and the product is lighter – which in turn reduces energy prohibited to use conflict minerals from the DRC, the idea is consumption and emissions. to encourage markets to create substitutes for materials or even a market for conflict-free minerals. Conflict minerals can be found The majority of the permanent magnets are used by two business in many common consumer products such as mobile phones units, Industrial Drive Systems and Commercial Vehicles. The and computers but also in industrial products. volumes are comparatively limited, but Kendrion cannot avoid the use of permanent magnets. Kendrion is not listed in the USA and is thus not under an obligation to issue a conflict mineral report. But, as (indirect) supplier of various Unfortunately, Kendrion’s relatively small position in this market listed US companies Kendrion has also been asked to provide does not enable the company to exert a great influence on the information on the extent to which its products contain conflict processes. However, when possible Kendrion does endeavour minerals. Kendrion has decided to adopt a group-wide approach to limit the company’s dependency on these metals by seeking as much as possible to collect the relevant information from its alternative techniques or products and to look for industry initiatives suppliers. This is a burdensome process but Kendrion aims in this respect. to serve its customers efficiently in this manner. The Kendrion Mechatronics Center initiated further research into Kendrion does not add any conflict minerals from the DRC to replacing or optimising the use of rare-earth permanent magnets in its products during its own production process. In the event that 2014. The work was carried out jointly with the Commercial Vehicles it were reported that suppliers or sub-suppliers of Kendrion use business unit and the Technical University of Ilmenau in Germany. such conflict minerals, Kendrion would undertake commercially The first results became available in mid-2015 and revealed reasonable efforts to gradually replace them in the supply chain moderate possibilities. These will be further analysed and and would ask its suppliers to do the same. translated into concrete proposals during 2016. RARE EARTH METALS OTHER MATERIALS In some of Kendrion’s products, permanent magnets are used. Few critical materials are used other than those referred to in this The category of permanent magnets with the highest energy density chapter. A number of further ideas were developed at a strategic contain a number of what are referred to as rare earth metals. level on the feasibility of reducing the use of certain potentially These metals are not referred to as ‘rare’ because they are so critical or expensive materials, or materials with a relatively high scarce – they are more abundant than copper – but because environmental or health impact, or replacing them with other of the small quantities of economically extractable resources. materials. This is a continual process. This also led to the decision to dismantle a ‘plating area’ at one of Kendrion’s operating Kendrion is primarily exposed to Neodymium, Praseodymium and companies in 2015. Dysprosium, metals which are also used in products such as mobile telephones, electric cars (rechargeable batteries) and wind turbines. Kendrion used the following raw materials in the manufacture of the China is currently still the biggest producer of the world’s rare earth company’s products: metals. Western companies are (re)opening mines and starting Consumption of materials production. However, the dependency on China will remain for (in tons, best estimate) 2015 several years. Copper (incl. copper contained in coils) 1,893 Mining and refining rare earth metals are both difficult and highly Permanent magnets (rare earth + alloyings) 36 energy-intensive. Moreover, they are often further complicated by 22 CSR REPORT 2015 TOOLKIT SUPPORTS CSR ACTIVITIES SHARINGAND LEARNING INTERVIEW WITH RASMUS PICHLER AND BERTRAM HEIMGARTNER Kendrion’s CSR Board focuses on a number of key issues, which Kendrion locations can download shared CSR documents such as supply chain management, CO2 reduction and for their own use. Take the supplier CSR supplier audit health & safety. One of the Board’s objectives is continuous questionnaire, for example, which Rasmus also developed for us optimisation. The new CSR toolkit, developed by Rasmus and on which he wrote his Bachelor thesis. This questionnaire, Pichler and Bertram Heimgartner, supports the organisation together with supporting documents such as a manual, is available in sharing information and learning from each other. to all locations.’ One complication of managing Corporate Social Responsibility Rasmus enjoyed his time with Kendrion and the content of the across the whole group of Kendrion companies is making sure that project: ‘It gave me the opportunity to gain an in-depth look into all business units have the same information and are working an industrial company that is very diverse in products and locations. towards the same goals. For this reason, the CSR Board decided I learnt a lot, especially about defining the audit process and to develop a company-wide toolkit which could serve as a reference structuring it for practical use in the business.’ Bertram Heimgartner: and a database of ideas, and at the same time as a source of ‘Great teamwork. And we learnt as much from Rasmus as he learnt inspiration. The Board also decided that some help from a student from us!’ specialising in CSR topics would be most welcome. It advertised the project on the job offer platform of Zeppelin University in Friedrichshafen. ‘I was looking for an internship for some months,’ says Bachelor student Rasmus Pichler. ‘A friend of mine pointed the project out to me, and it appealed to me straight away. I read sociology, economics and politics and am particularly interested in CSR topics.’ STRUCTURING INFORMATION Under the supervision of Bertram Heimgartner, Rasmus started making an inventory of what is happening within the different ‘WE MADE A COMPLETE INVENTORY Kendrion operational companies with regard to CSR. Bertram Heimgartner: ‘Kendrion is a decentralised company and up to OF WHAT IS HAPPENING WITH REGARD a point all locations have their own entrepreneurial autonomy TO CSR.’ in deciding on their focus and approach. So basically, reviewing Rasmus Pichler, CSR student all CSR activities around the globe was obviously the best way to start the project.’ Rasmus Pichler: ‘After that I talked to CSR board members and visited several plants and locations. In a second phase, I analysed and structured all the information based on Kendrion’s nine CSR issues. We also mapped out what is standard in the industry and what other companies do in this field. By adding benchmark information and ideas from outside the company, we hope to inspire people.’ ‘WE ARE READY TO ROLL OUT IN-DEPTH LOOK THE CSR TOOLKIT TO ALL Bertram Heimgartner: ‘Now that the basic work is done, we are BUSINESS UNITS AND LOCATIONS.’ ready to roll out this toolkit to all business units and locations. In a Bertram Heimgartner, CSR Board member on behalf of Commercial Vehicles very practical way, we would like this to be a resource centre from CSR REPORT 2015 23 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Target 2015 Result Ambition 2016 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility Waste data plan and number of Define and roll-out sub targets Waste data plan and subtargets implemented subtargets for all European plants applicable for biggest plants in all plants and US plants 0% 100% ISO 14001 for 2 locations of ISO 14001 for at least 2 more ISO 14001 at all locations except for smaller Industrial Magnetic System locations (sales) offices business unit 0% 100% ISO 50001 at Kendrion (Villingen) ISO 50001 for at least 3 ISO 50001 at least at 5 plants GmbH, Germany and preparations additional plants for Kendrion Kuhnke (Malente, Germany) 0% 100% ISO/TS 16949 at Kendrion (Markdorf) GmbH, Germany 0% 100% Start preparation of annual CSR Annual CSR plans at business Annual CSR plans at business unit level; plan on business unit level unit level; integration in major integration sustainability requirements in 80% business processes all major business processes 0% 100% Start circular economy pilot project At least 1 concrete circular in both divisions 25% economy pilot project or cooperation 0% 100% 24 CSR REPORT 2015 Kendrion is however convinced that circular business models represent a meaningful contribution to creating value and to reducing the production of waste and the exhaustion of natural A CIRCULAR ECONOMY resources. In this context, Kendrion considers it best to focus Most current business models are based on a linear economy initiative on the end product. Kendrion is ready to join its partners (take-make-dispose). Raw materials are extracted from natural in fleshing out this idea and intended to launch suitable pilot projects resources, products are created for consumption and then thrown in this area. In 2015, various contacts were established with parties away. Business growth in this scenario is coupled with negative and stakeholders (including MVO Nederland) and Kendrion is ecological impact. Models involving a circular economy build and aiming to increase awareness internally and externally. This has not retain value because they involve for example refurbishment yet led to projects that are suitable for Kendrion. Further efforts will or remanufacturing. be undertaken in 2016 to assess the role Kendrion might play in this regard. These processes will however take time. There are a couple of instances of circular economy within Kendrion’s business at the moment. One good example is WASTE & RECYCLING the way the Commercial Vehicles business unit collects used Kendrion aims to minimise waste, with a view to its environmental angle gearboxes from customers. The angle gear boxes are and cost impact. All Kendrion companies which have been awarded remanufactured at the plant and after being tested, they are sold ISO 14001 certification keep records of their production and again under warranty. The large solenoids that are sold by the processing of waste, such as oil, cleaning agents and packaging Industrial Magnetic Systems business unit for the oil & gas industry materials. Internal instructions at these companies are issued for are also collected and where possible remanufactured by Kendrion. the safe use of materials and the separated collection and disposal of waste. The companies work solely with certificated waste The regulations governing the automotive industry mean a large processers. As part of the certification process, each year new amount of recycling of cars and parts already takes place in the waste reduction measures must be implemented, and measures sector. Kendrion has little or no influence on this as the company that reduce the use of dangerous goods are externally audited. is a relatively small player in the supply chain. Its products only Those measures can differ from plant to plant. account for a small part of a complete vehicle and the products themselves are made up of a number of materials. The logistical Kendrion worked hard on the streamlining of the data and database consequences and costs of retrieving parts, should parties further of waste and hazardous substances in recent years. This process along the chain be open to the idea, are outweighed by the potential takes time. As a result, the data for the largest European plants advantages. The same applies to a certain extent to products are processed and reported on a uniform basis. The objective was manufactured by the Industrial Division’s business units. It is to gradually roll out this system across the group, also in the USA, therefore not opportune at present to set targets independently in 2015. This has been achieved. Several sub targets have been in this area, not for Kendrion itself nor for the suppliers. developed and these will be futher tested in 2016. CSR REPORT 2015 25 Kendrion has reviewed how the company can optimise the use Kendrion (Eibiswald) GmbH in Austria received, as the first Kendrion and recycling of materials and reduce waste and waste costs even location, the ISO 50001 certificate in 2014. This ISO standard is further. Kendrion’s products are often integrated in larger systems focused on the reduction of organisations’ energy consumption by Tier 1 suppliers or OEMs. Partly for this reason, it is not possible on the basis of a detailed insight into their energy consumption and for Kendrion to determine what proportion of the materials used is use of energy. ISO 50001 also imposes requirements on the results recycled. If recycling is at all possible for such systems, it does not from the organisation’s management system, which must focus relate to the parts supplied by Kendrion. Nor is Kendrion able to on continual improvements in its energy performance, the provision influence this in any way. However, Kendrion supports broader of the information and resources required to achieve the targets, consultation in the chain on the possibility of developing new and the provision of assurances for compliance with the relevant recycling options. statutory requirements. Kendrion’s plant in Villingen, Germany, gained this certificate in 2015. Kendrion intends to roll out the ISO CERTIFICATION certification process to other companies during the following years; Within Kendrion, the quality, environmental and safety systems at least three other plants plan to gain the certificate in 2016. are usually combined in one system that forms the basis for the implementation of many projects. Virtually all of Kendrion’s operating BUSINESS PROCESSES companies comply with the most stringent quality and safety A number of measures related to this will be introduced from 2015. requirements. Parts of the measures related to the ISO 50001 certification process, independent of the certification process itself, has been ISO certification overview 2015 implemented in various companies. This involved such things as requirements in the areas of sustainability, safety and ergonomics Number of being laid down in relation to machines and production equipment production ISO ISO/TS ISO ISO ordered by Kendrion. Furthermore, each business unit started on plants 9001 16949 14001 50001 drawing up its own annual CSR plan which will be integrated as 20* 20 11 15 2 much as possible with the regular budget and midterm business plan. The parts of the variable remuneration of top managers which * Of which 12 Automotive. relate to CSR objectives will eventually be able to be connected with the business units’ individual CSR plans. Two German plants, Industrial Magnetic Systems in Donaueschingen and in Engelswies, completed the certification process for the TOOLKIT environmental management system ISO 14001 in 2015. At least two In the course of 2015, a Taking Responsibility toolkit has been more plants will follow in 2015. prepared designed to offer business units and plant managers as much support as possible in this whole process. The toolkit includes ISO 9001 lays down general requirements for the company’s quality as many potential measures and best practices as possible. In this management system, while ISO/TS 16949 has been developed way, Kendrion creates the right preconditions for the business units specifically for the automotive industry and imposes the most to become even more (pro)active in this area. stringent requirements on suppliers. The plant in Markdorf, Germany, has been successfully audited in 2015 and received its ISO/TS 16949 certificate. 26 CSR REPORT 2015 STANDARDS IN QUALITY, ENERGY AND THE ENVIRONMENT SPEAKING THE UNIVERSAL ISO LINGO INTERVIEW WITH RALF WIELAND AND HEINZ JANKOWSKI Kendrion has a number of good reasons for implementing efficient heating systems and LED lighting pays for itself and applying ISO standards, the most important, of course, in a relatively short time.’ being the desired position in our specialised niche markets. There is no question about the relevance of complying with TARGETS the standards, says Heinz Jankowski, responsible for facility Kendrion has many locations that are all at different maturity levels management, environmental audit and energy management, in applying CSR. Some of them are well-developed and have built and Ralf Wieland, now Business Unit Manager of Industrial up a wealth of knowledge. Others still have a lot to learn. Ralf Drive Systems and previously in charge of quality management Wieland: ‘By building our internal network and spreading and and operations within the Automotive Division. sharing information on how we can improve our systems, we are becoming better all the time. This also enables us to make Ralf Wieland explains: ‘In order to be accepted as a supplier, you maximum use of the synergies within our network.’ need to comply with the standards in the business. Our customers in the automotive sector require us to implement these in our At the same time, targets, as formulated in the CSR report, products, processes and production. Within the Kendrion create a practical guideline for direct actions. Heinz Jankowski: Automotive world, a quality standard such as ISO/TS 16949 helps ‘Just as an example: we are aiming at reductions in relative energy us develop a common language. As a decentralised company, each consumption and CO2 emissions of 25% by 2017, focusing Kendrion location has its own specialty. At the same time we have particularly on our plant in Shelby, NC, USA, which uses about half to work with Key Performance Indicators that are valid throughout of all the energy within Kendrion. We are very optimistic about the the world. These help us communicate within our company and outcome.’ are understood in the same way at all locations. In this respect, the standards are a great guideline and a common basis for communication.’ All Kendrion Automotive plants but one – Mexico will be certified in 2016 – have been certified according to ISO/TS 16949 which is the automotive-specific quality standard based on ISO 9001. This means that from a quality perspective Kendrion has also achieved and continues to show the highest levels. ‘WE ARE BECOMING MOTIVATIONS BETTER ALL THE TIME.’ Just as with quality, environmental and energy standards are the Ralf Wieland, Business Unit Manager Industrial Drive Systems same and binding globally. ‘But,’ says Heinz Jankowski, ‘each and every country has its own specialisms and interpretation of the standards. But in general, it’s customer requirements that drive rational and commercial considerations to adhere to international standards. Government laws and rules have the same effect, especially where the environment and the use of energy are concerned. But there are also other motivations. Of course, being the international company that we are, we also have a strong social responsibility to use resources as intelligently and economically as we can and to reduce CO2 emissions. And one final reason to adopt ‘STANDARDS FOR QUALITY, the standards in our processes is simply because we can earn ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY.’ money by doing this. Investing in low-energy ventilation, fuelHeinz Jankowski, Facility Manager CSR REPORT 2015 27 ENERGY & CO2 REDUCTION Target 2015 Result Ambition 2016 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility 10% reduction of relative CO2 10% reduction of relative CO2 25% reduction of relative CO2 emission and emission and energy consumption emission and energy energy consumption compared to 2014 for biggest compared to 2014 for biggest consumption compared to 2014 plants plants for biggest plants 0% 100% Preparation for new energy Start of installation of new energy Full operation of new energy systems at Malente systems in Malente, Germany, and 75% systems at Malente, Germany, and Shelby Shelby, NC, USA and Shelby, NC, USA 0% 100% Preparations for heating & power Full operation of heating & power unit in Engelswies, Germany unit in Engelswies 0% 100% LED project roll-out to biggest 75% LED project roll-out to biggest LED project roll-out to all operational plants plants in Europe plants in Europe, USA and China 0% 100% OUR APPROACH More specifically, work is underway on the following themes Kendrion bears and wishes to assume its responsibility for to achieve the targeted reductions: environmental issues. Kendrion endeavours to make efficient and zz Investments in energy-efficient systems, such as heating & power less use of energy. This can represent a meaningful contribution systems and production lines; to combating climate change and the exhaustion of fossil fuels. zz Energy management systems; It can also lead to direct financial savings for the business. zz ISO 50001 (energy management) and ISO 14001 (environmental management) certification; Energy & CO2 reduction therefore play an important part in zz LED lighting projects; Kendrion’s sustainability programme. Targets have been formulated zz Contracts for supply of CO2-neutral types of energy; that apply throughout Kendrion as a whole. The management of zz Awareness campaigns for employees help them to be alert the local businesses is responsible for contributing, insofar as they to potential energy savings at work; are able, to the attainment of these targets. Sometimes significant zz Gradual introduction of renewable energy resources. investments will be required that need to be approved by the Executive Board. The CSR Board provides (technical) support The energy & CO2 reduction targets are also part of the long-term with a view to identifying potential savings and implementing variable remuneration of the Executive Board members. improvement programmes. The Taking Responsibility Toolkit Every year, the performance achieved per plant is measured on also includes a range of measures that can be adopted. the basis of detailed energy consumption figures and possible new or other measures are prepared for the next year. 28 CSR REPORT 2015 ENERGY CONSUMPTION The energy consumption reduction programme in 2013 and 2014 focused on the company’s five plants in Germany, the plant in Austria (Eibiswald) and the plant in the Czech Republic (Prostějov) PRODUCTION PROCESS representing approximately 80% of the group turnover. Kendrion The environmental risks associated with Kendrion’s production gradually includes the energy data of other plants over the coming processes are generally relatively low. The processes require the years, starting with the plants in the USA, China and Romania. use of relatively few substances with a potential environmental In this chapter, the energy consumption of all entities within the new impact. Emissions of various substances are also limited. scope is presented separately. The consumption of power, fuel oil No or only very little water is required for the production process. and natural gas in the last years can be presented as follows: 2015, incl. Mishawaka, Shelby, Δ% Energy consumption Suzhou, Sibiu 2015 2014 (2015/2014) Power kWh 27,277,217 13,700,985 14,875,859 (8) Fuel oil kWh* 888,687 888,687 1,422,904 (38) Natural gas kWh 11,802,728 10,865,696 8,551,909 27 Total kWh 39,968,632 25,455,368 24,850,672 2.5 * Conversion: 1 kWh = 0.099 ltr. Energy consumption per EUR million 2015, incl. Mishawaka, Shelby, Δ% added value Suzhou, Sibiu 2015 2014 (2015/2014) Power kWh 137,039 86,263 94,386 (8.6) Fuel oil kWh 4,465 5,595 9,028 (38.0) Natural gas kWh 59,296 68,412 54,261 26.1 Total kWh 200,800 160,270 157,675 1.7 This table shows that consumption of power and fuel oil has decreased In 2015, Kendrion once again devoted a great deal of effort to in the past few years, while consumption of natural gas has risen. the reduction of production-line energy consumption in and around The reason is that the new combined heating and power systems the workplace, for example by a more efficient use of equipment commissioned in recent years use relatively more gas than electricity. and of air-conditioning systems. LED lighting projects were also launched at a number of plants and will be expanded to several INVESTMENTS AND SAVINGS more plants in the course of 2016. A new poster campaign was Kendrion invested more than EUR 2 million (best estimate) in started to raise further awareness among office employees and energy-efficient systems for the largest European plants during last on the shop floor. years, with short payback periods. These investments include the installation of two new combined heating and power systems in The investments in energy-efficient systems lead to substantial Villingen, Germany, compressors and LED light projects. Several financial savings. For example the savings of the plant in Villingen, further projects in various plants are executed or still in progress. Germany amounted to at least EUR 1.1 million for the years In combination, these projects will result in relatively substantial 2012-2015. In the next years the estimited savings are at least energy and CO2 savings. An example is the implementation EUR 0.5 million annually. The possibility to create direct and shortof energy and air pressure metering systems per production line term financial benefits is an additional reason why this issue is in at least two new plants as part of the ISO 50001 certification. material to Kendrion. CSR REPORT 2015 29 REDUCTION TARGETS FOR EMISSIONS * The calculation of the CO2 emissions is based on the following The CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2 of the Greenhouse Gas conversion factors: Protocol) from the company’s plants in Germany, the plant in Austria – Electricity generated from renewable sources 0.017 kg/kWh and the plant in the Czech Republic, as well as the plants in – Electricity generated from non-renewable sources (average) Suzhou (China), Sibiu (Romania), Shelby and Mishawaka (USA) 0.514 kg/kWh can be presented as follows: – Fuel oil and natural gas (average) 0.200 kg/kWh 2015, incl. Mishawaka, Shelby, Δ% CO2 emissions* Suzhou, Sibiu 2015 2014 (2015/2014) Absolute emissions, tons 12,321 5,254 4,605 14.1 Relative emissions, tons / million EUR added value 61.9 33.1 29.2 13.2 The results from energy scans and other reviews of potential TRANSPORT energy projects carried out at Kendrion plants contributed to the It is opportune to reduce travel and transport movements wherever specification of more comprehensive targets for the reduction of the possible. In most cases, the customers are responsible on the basis plants’ energy consumption and CO2 emissions in the past years. of agreed Incoterms for the transport of Kendrion’s products. The target prescribed a 15% reduction of the total CO2 emissions, In that sense Kendrion has no direct influence on this. However, in both absolute and relative terms, of the largest European plants in Germany Kendrion does intend to gradually switch to an even and Kuhnke’s German plant by the end of 2014 (as compared to more ‘green’ car fleet (of a moderate size), although the pace will be 2012). This was an extremely ambitious target. The target has been tempered by a number of current contracts. The lease car scheme achieved, also because of the investments described before. applicable in Germany has been reviewed to assess options. In line with the Taking Responsibility programme, the decision has This has resulted in the decision to offer German lease drivers the been made to work with a new three-year objective. The objective option of switching to lease cars with a smaller engine capacity and, is to achieve a 25% reduction in both relative energy use and CO2 consequently, lower emissions, whereby they will then be offered emissions compared to the end of 2014. The decision has been the opportunity of allocating a portion of the resultant difference made to base the relative objective on the added value and no in the purchase price to the purchase of extra features. longer on the revenue. This will allow for a clearer picture. The use of CO2 rose in both absolute and relative terms in 2015 Kendrion has decided to focus in its Taking Responsibility compared with 2014. This was almost fully attributable to higher programme on Scope 1 and Scope 2 of the Greenhouse Gas emissions in the two largest German plants, in Malente and Protocol relating to the direct production process. On the basis Villingen, caused mainly by higher natural gas consumption due of current estimates, this comprises the great majority of the CO2 to the new combined heating and power systems. In 2016, a new emissions. In preparation for a new programme containing targets contract will be entered into with a gas supplier that is aimed at for 2018 and beyond, Kendrion will seek to identify and assess ensuring supplies of CO2-neutral gas. emissions connected with travel and transports. Plans for further sometimes high investments have been made in Kendrion complies with applicable regulations, like the EU Directive the area of energy efficiency, especially at the Shelby plant in the on Energy Efficiency (EED). USA and Malente in Germany. In addition, the roll-out of ISO 50001 certification and the LED project to various other large plants over the next years should result in further improvements. On that basis, Kendrion expects to achieve the three-year target referred to above by the end of 2017. ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SOURCES Have you been a saver today? In Austria, our plant in Eibiswald uses a district heating system Top tips for optimum energy use Give yourself and your screens a break: turn Report compressed air leaks to the based on biomass and/or solar heat. In some of our German plants off monitors during the lunch break, in the evening and before you go on holiday; use standby mode and not screensavers. maintenance department for repair. Turn the thermostat to a lower setting. Lowering the temperature in your workplace Keep entrance doors closed. Heating and by just one degree means a 5 to 10% saving it is hard to install renewable energy sources in an efficient way but cooling systems work much more efficiently on heating. when entrance doors are shut. Keep a clear head – even without constant Adjust the lighting. Use LED lamps whenever ventilation. Rather than keeping the window possible. Put time switches on exterior open for hours, ventilate once every two Kendrion will again look for further opportunities in 2016. lighting. to three hours. Just a few minutes with the windows wide open is enough to achieve a complete exchange of air. 201506_csr_plakat_energy_a2_en.indd 1 30.09.15 15:44 30 CSR REPORT 2015 CSR AT KENDRION SUZHOU A SOLID BASE FOR PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT INTERVIEW WITH JÜRGEN WEISSHAAR Corporate Social Responsibility within Kendrion is a companyCONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT wide topic. Its constituent parts are implemented at all locations Other important topics in CSR are health and safety, working across the globe but always wrapped up in a local cloak. One conditions, and training and education. Jürgen Weisshaar sums of these locations is Suzhou in China which is a good example up what Kendrion Suzhou organises in each of these fields: of how CSR can be fully integrated in day-to-day business ‘We offer annual medical check-ups for every individual employee and processes. and membership of the local gym. We sometimes invite a professional coach to come in for ‘office aerobics workouts’. In 2015, Kendrion Suzhou was awarded so-called ‘AAAA’ status We continuously work on the safety environment in production and by China’s State Labour Bureau to identify the company’s labour provide frequent safety awareness training courses and campaigns. protection level. The highest grade applied is ‘5A’ and each We make sure the working conditions are up-to-date. And last qualification requires many years of strictly following and obeying but not least, all our employees can apply for annual training the labour law in all aspects, including compliance with rules, opportunities for continuous knowledge improvement.’ reliable records, absence of disputes and work satisfaction. Managing Director Jürgen Weisshaar: ‘In 2015, we were awarded INSIDE AND OUTSIDE the ‘4A’ certificate. It confirms that we are on the right track. Jürgen Weisshaar was recently made a Chinese Economy The company is now aiming for the highest ‘5A’ recognition. Innovation Leader. This award is presented to leaders in all kinds This is very useful for raising our reputation when hiring and of industries in China who contribute to continuous improvement attracting the best employees to join the company, and at the same both economically and in many other ways. The criteria include time for improving our company’s competitiveness in the market.’ creating an ever-improving work environment and an increasingly competitive business environment, improving working conditions KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS and promoting new green technology. Jürgen Weisshaar was ‘Energy saving, fuel efficiency and CO2 reduction are among the specially selected and nominated for this award by China’s most important Key Performance Indicators of our Suzhou plant. Economic Bureau in recognition of Kendrion’s contribution to China: We support the ‘Go green, go with public transport’ campaign ‘CSR is important in our company but we also try to be of influence to promote awareness. After discussing environmental protection in the outside world. That is why CSR is part of the agenda in our with our shuttle bus supplier, they agreed to change the shuttle audit plans with the suppliers. We implement CSR during buses from ‘gasoline’ to ‘full electric’. And in 2015, we increased the audit and share our knowledge with suppliers to help them production capacity but managed to reduce electricity consumption.’ understand the principles and improve processes and conditions.’ According to Jürgen Weisshaar, sustainability is key in positive business development and continuous improvement of the company’s performance. He says: ‘Basically, we create a friendly and open working environment for our employees. And we provide attractive career opportunities within the company. So, our first consideration for open positions is to promote people internally. Key employees, for example, can benefit from a professional development plan which includes training at our headquarters or support for an MBA programme. Our long-term employees receive an annual service award from their third year of employment ‘WE ARE NOW AIMING FOR onwards.’ HIGHEST ‘5A’ RECOGNITION.’ Jürgen Weisshaar, Managing Director (on the right) and Cissy Hu, HR Manager CSR REPORT 2015 31 FAIR LABOUR STANDARDS Target 2015 Result Ambition 2016 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility Staff satisfaction survey for 2 ■ Staff satisfaction survey in at ■ Staff satisfaction survey introduced in all plants business units (in total covering least 3 more major plants (except for small locations) at least 1/3 of all employees ■ At least 70% score of survey for ■ At least 75% score of survey for each plant in the group) each plant 0% 100% CSR activities in bonus schedule Measurement effectiveness of of other key management CSR criteria in bonus schedules 0% 100% Review need for separate Human Review diversity policy Effective diversity policy in the group Rights policy 0% 100% OUR APPROACH HR policy within the specified guidelines. A number of duties are Healthy and motivated employees are essential to ensure future coordinated at a central level by the international HR department success. That is why Kendrion focuses on good opportunities for in Villingen, Germany. These duties primarily relate to the training and development, good pay, staff satisfaction and a social (development of) senior management, the improvement of policy to match. Non-discrimination and diversity are key priorities opportunities for recruitment and CSR topics. The HR department that define Kendrion’s approach to its employees. also focused on closer cooperation between the operating companies to improve exchanges and enable colleagues to benefit Kendrion is a decentralised organisation. Responsibilities are from each other’s knowledge and skills. assigned as low as possible within the organisation, and local entrepreneurship is encouraged. Moreover, this enables Kendrion The progress of the CSR targets is monitored by the (HR to promote creativity, innovation and offer all business units representatives in the) CSR Board together with the international and their employees an opportunity to develop their full potential. HR department. Also Kendrion’s Human Resources (HR) policy is decentralised, and local management bears the responsibility for the local 32 CSR REPORT 2015 DILEMMA FAMILY AND CAREER The uncertainty concerning the future economic situation and Kendrion continually strives to improve the compatibility of its the volatility in the markets mean Kendrion is forced to be flexible, employees’ work and family commitments. The company has, for also when it comes to labour costs. For this reason, Kendrion has example, introduced flexible working hours for employees who need attempted to maintain a core of temporary employees, and to build to care for family members. Kendrion offers individualised work flexibility into contracts, so that changing circumstances can be schedule solutions to certain employees with young children who responded to quickly. There is a tendency among the German need day care. Kendrion is endeavouring to ensure that employees government, trade unions and employees towards more certainty do not need to choose between ‘children or Kendrion’, but can focus for employees. Kendrion is aiming for the optimum solution, taking on ‘children and Kendrion’. due regard of all interests. REMUNERATION BOND WITH THE EMPLOYEES Kendrion offers its employees attractive remuneration packages Kendrion’s Executive Committee devotes a great deal of attention that are in line with the local market and based on job-specific to internal communication of its strategy, corresponding plans requirements, without applying any differentiation between men of action, and progress towards strategic goals. Many operating and women. companies have implemented career development and training programmes designed to improve their staff’s knowledge and skills. Non-financial individual performance targets for the improvement Kendrion’s corporate magazine ‘Magnetised’ is published for all of Kendrion’s CSR have been set for both the CEO and CFO. staff three times a year. Social events are organised regularly The Supervisory Board of Kendrion decided that, for both the shortto strengthen the bond between employees. term and the long-term bonus of the CEO and CFO, a considerable proportion of the non-financial performance criteria will consist EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION of CSR and sustainability targets. The fact that such targets now Works councils or employee representatives that have been form an important component of the bonus scheme reflects the installed at Kendrion’s largest operating companies in Germany, importance that the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board Romania and Austria are, in accordance with the local labour attach to this. More information on the remuneration of the members legislation, involved in a wide range of employment, health & safety of the Executive Board is available in the Supervisory Board’s and social issues. About 60% of all Kendrion employees are Remuneration Report 2015 that has been published on Kendrion’s represented by these works councils and employee representatives. website. CSR and sustainability targets are also included in the Approximately 1,400 of the contracts of employment in Germany bonus scheme for the members of the Executive Committee. and Austria are governed by or follow the collective bargaining As from 2014, Kendrion included CSR performance criteria in the agreements for the metal industry in the respective countries. bonus schemes for other key management members as well. In general, Kendrion has a good relationship with the works councils and the trade unions. CSR REPORT 2015 33 TRAINING AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT SOCIAL POLICY – DILEMMA Good management, expertise and motivation are of essential Kendrion is and wishes to remain a conscientious and reputable importance for the future, and for this reason Kendrion assigns high company. The need to say farewell to permanent or temporary priority to management development. The corporate management employees, for example due to the economic situation or the loss development programme is supported by the Kendrion Executive of projects, can have a great impact for the people involved and their Programme, a customised, international modular programme in families. Kendrion acts in accordance with the prevailing local which the company collaborates with the Rotterdam School of conditions and circumstances and with respect for the individual Management. Two three-day modules are organised each year. concerned. This has, unfortunately, been necessary at a few of the operating companies in 2015. Fair agreements were reached and It is also important for Kendrion to develop talented employees for employees were given help in finding other jobs wherever possible. future management roles. This is why the company implemented the ‘Kendrion High Potential Programme’ in 2012. This is a modular In 2014, Kendrion started the project ‘promoting voluntary training programme covering a period of three years. The first group engagement of Kendrion employees’ in Villingen, Germany. of fifteen selected high-potential employees graduated in 2015 and Volunteering and social engagement are accorded very high priority a new group of high potentials has started. Taking Responsibility for Kendrion and the programme was adopted at some of Kendrion’s is part of the programme. sites in 2015. Managers participate in an individual development assessment. Kendrion has started to implement a web-based tool that will support top management succession planning and will become operational in the first half of 2016. In addition, the various business units have implemented training programmes at all levels in the organisation. Lukas Bremer, trainee at Kendrion Helena Molčíková, Kuhnke, Malente, at Kendrion Prostějov, Germany Czech Republic PEOPLE ARE THE SINGLE MOST IMPORTANT ASSETS OF KENDRION 34 CSR REPORT 2015 KENDRION STAFF WORLDWIDE 678 235 Rest of Europe Total 447 932 Germany The Europe 1,125 1,167 Americas 148 145 2,292 Asia 70 75 293 145 STAFF SATISFACTION HR AWARDS As Kendrion’s employees are the company’s most valuable asset, Awards AAAA Award CHINA Kendrion has implemented a variety of staff loyalty measures at all The Chinese Suzhou labour security bureau awarded Kendrion its plants all over the world. These measures range from individual (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. in 2014 the AAA level credible employer support to specific programmes and opportunities to the benefit of certification in 2014. Only a few companies in Suzhou (which has all Kendrion employees. more than 10 million inhabitants) have received this certification. In 2015, the Suzhou plant was able to further improve and was In order to measure the company’s staff satisfaction properly, awarded one more ‘A’, receiving the AAAA status. The company Kendrion expects to launch a group-wide employee satisfaction received this standard for being a harmonious and social company survey within the next few years. This forms part of Kendrion’s without employee complaints, no labour issues and positive long-term CSR Programme, ‘Taking Responsibility’. In 2015, at least employee survey results. 60% of the total workforce already participated in staff satisfaction surveys. The aim for 2016 is a further increase in the number of FamilyNET Award 2015 participating group companies and to reach at least a 70% groupThe compatibility of work and family (work-life balance) has long wide satisfaction score. The three-year Taking Responsibility plan been on the agenda of Kendrion’s operating companies. They are aims at involving all operating companies in the process and this will supported by both the Ministry of Finance and Economy and also create good benchmark opportunities. the employers’ associations, Südwestmetall and Chemistry Baden-Württemberg, as part of the nationwide familyNET project. Kendrion’s South German companies were honoured to be awarded the familyNET award for outstanding family-friendly projects for a third time in 2015. CSR REPORT 2015 35 DIVERSITY AND DISCRIMINATION 51% of all Kendrion’s employees are women. The percentage of Kendrion’s Code of Conduct expressly states that the company women in key management positions of the company’s operating does not tolerate discrimination by gender, race, religious companies increased to 8.5% but is still relatively low. Kendrion denomination, remuneration or any other means when hiring new advocates the appointment of more women to company staff or in dealings with staff in positions of equal importance. management positions as the company is convinced that this will Kendrion promotes the formation of a workforce and lower and ultimately lead to more balanced considerations and improved middle management that reflects the composition of the local processes and results. When recruiting staff for management population as closely as possible. The company’s home market, positions, Kendrion expressly endeavours to search for women by Germany, and also the USA, have, in particular, implemented means which include intensive contacts with universities. However, detailed and stringent anti-discrimination legislation. the number of women who are following or have followed a technical Anti-discrimination officers have been appointed where necessary. education and are available for management positions in the Kendrion strives to create a corporate culture that does not tolerate company is low. This is a problem confronting many high-tech discrimination. companies, in particular in Germany, which cannot readily be addressed by Kendrion in autonomy. Kendrion intends to review No reports of incidents of discrimination were made in 2015. the diversity policy in 2016 to see where further improvements can be made. Kendrion attaches importance to the achievement of diversity in nationalities and cultures. This diversity promotes intercultural experience that is highly compatible with the current internationalisation trend. In 2015, Kendrion had employees of at least 40 nationalities. Personnel: key figures 2015 2014 Total number of employees at 31 December 2,730 2,808 Number of women in permanent employment 1,192 1,233 Number of men in permanent employment 1,239 1,215 Number of employees with a fixed-term contract 299 360 Number of permanent and temporary employees at 31 December (FTE) 2,658 2,713 Number of direct employees (FTE) 1,360 1,443 Number of indirect employees (FTE) 1,212 1,192 Number of temporary employees (FTE) 85 78 Average age of all employees 41.8 41.1 Average number of years’ service 10.8 10.4 Influx percentage (%) 12% 13% Departure percentage (%) 15% 15% Average rate of absenteeism per employee (%) 2.5% 2.3% Wage costs per FTE (EUR) 47,440 43,817 Training costs (as a % of wage costs) 0.8% 0.8% 36 CSR REPORT 2015 HEALTH & SAFETY, TRAINING & EDUCATION, WORKING CONDITIONS GLOBAL GUIDELINES, LOCAL ACTIONS INTERVIEW WITH THOMAS FRITZ People are Kendrion’s most important asset. Our Corporate circumstances, laws and cultures. In China, for instance, the Social Responsibility policy therefore includes a number company provides health checks and healthy food. In a country like of HR-related topics. Thomas Fritz, HR Manager, reports on how Germany, this is the individual’s own responsibility, partly covered by Kendrion manages to combine the best global guidelines and health insurance companies. In Germany, we support breast cancer local actions. checks and stop-smoking courses. In Austria, the Czech Republic and Romania, we have Sports and Health Days. In the USA, EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION we offer similar programmes. The overall objective is sustainable The effects of Kendrion’s efforts aimed at sustainable employability employability; the actual action programmes are set against the are monitored by means of an employee satisfaction survey which local background and are adapted to the local situation. Actions is an important resource for remedial actions. Following its launch and allocated budgets are local but maximising returns, of course, at the bigger locations in Markdorf, Villingen and Malente is a Kendrion-wide goal.’ (all Germany), in time it will eventually be rolled out to all locations. Several locations implemented their own survey years ago but in the future will probably tie in with the overall survey. This makes internal benchmarking possible and helps us to realise HR sustainability goals. TRAINING AND EDUCATION Training and education is a spearhead of our HR policy. At the management level, Kendrion organises the Kendrion Executive Programme. For high-potential talents, it runs the HIPO programme. And in 2015, the company started its own Trainee Programme. Thomas Fritz: ‘On the one hand, we offer technology-oriented programmes providing selected employees with an overview of Kendrion’s expertise, position and performance in this field. On the other hand, we have business-oriented programmes which provide a deep insight for the right people into the products, processes and value propositions of our business units. Finally, personal development and training is open to every Kendrion employee. The company welcomes anyone with plans or ideas for a personal course or training programme. Our goal is to make sure that our people are the best: sustainable, committed and happy.’ CORPORATE VERSUS LOCAL Kendrion is a decentralised organisation. Applying the overall global Kendrion CSR framework as a guideline, most plants use adjusted tools and have a cultural focus on realising corporate goals at local level. Thomas Fritz says: ‘This makes sense, simply because ‘OUR GOAL IS TO MAKE a topic such as health & safety requires different approaches in different countries. Safety at work, including optimising workplaces, SURE THAT OUR PEOPLE ARE distributing information and implementing the 5S working method, THE BEST: SUSTAINABLE, s based on a corporate approach that we can organise internally. COMMITTED AND HAPPY.’ Prevention and sick leave, however, are strongly related to local Thomas Fritz, HR Manager CSR REPORT 2015 37 HEALTH & SAFETY Target 2015 Result Ambition 2016 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility Less accidents than in 2014 Less accidents than in 2015 0 accidents compared to 2014 0% 100% Absenteeism rate on comparable Absenteeism rate on comparable Absenteeism rate on comparable level level and not above 4% in each level and not above 4% in each and not above 4% in each plant plant plant 0% 100% Increase efficient health activities; international HR workshop 0% 100% 5S system for clean working 5S system fully implemented 5S system fully implemented in all operational space fully implemented in 2 more plants plants in 2 more plants 0% 100% OUR APPROACH ACCIDENTS / LOST-TIME-INJURIES Kendrion regards a healthy and safe working environment as one Kendrion’s continual attention to the safety of the production of the rights of its employees. Virtually all of Kendrion’s operating processes has enabled the company to keep the number of companies comply with the most stringent quality and safety accidents relatively limited in the past years. The total number requirements. The requirements include the appointment of safety of accidents and Lost-Time-Injuries (LTI) at Kendrion in the last officers and the periodic training of employees in health & safety years is shown in the tabel on page 39. issues. The total number of accidents was 41, which is a substantial Owing to the decentralised organisation, all of the companies are decrease compared to the number in 2014. No fatal accidents largely themselves responsible for the organisation concerning occurred in the years 2011 – 2015 at work. Kendrion however does health & safety, except for a few centrally-coordinated procedures. not consider this number of accidents to be satisfactory and In addition, best practices are shared, for instance through reducing this figure must consequently be given increased attention workshops. Two HR members of staff serve on the CSR Board who because safety is a priority. Further analyses of the nature of these provide support for the companies. accidents and their circumstances did reveal that there were no indications of shortcomings in the safety or working conditions Accidents and absenteeism are monitored on a local level and of the employees. Kendrion’s objective is to further reduce the total centrally on a monthly basis. number of accidents at its plants, ultimately bringing it down to zero. 38 CSR REPORT 2015 Accidents and LTI (days) 2015 2014 Δ % (2015/2014) Number of accidents 41 50 (9) LTI (days) 863 506 357 Accidents by type 2015 2014 Δ % (2015/2014) Number of accidents at work 29 42 (13) Number of accidents on way to work 12 8 4 Total 41 50 (9) The achievement of this objective is measured on a monthly basis An international HR workshop has been organised in 2015 during and furthered by an evaluation of the cause of every accident which specific attention has been paid to work-life balance and to review the feasibility of implementing improvements in safety stress factors. procedures, working methods and production lines. The work included the implementation in 2015 of the 5S philosophy whose HEALTH PROGRAMMES objective is clean and safely organised workplaces in substantially Many Kendrion companies have implemented programmes to all plants, except for some smaller sales entities. promote their employees’ health. Examples are free weekly basket of fresh fruit and mineral water and free stop smoking courses. The LTI rate was unfortunately up on 2014 as a result of a few cases Kendrion promotes the roll-out to other plants in the coming years. concerning employees who were absent for extended periods This is also the case with an initiative in which employees are following accidents. offered an opportunity to receive an influenza vaccination during working hours. ABSENTEEISM Kendrion’s overall absenteeism rate was 2.5% in 2015, which is low In 2015, employees at various plants were able to participate in for the company’s type of industrial operations and geographical an annual health day that offered them a general health check spread, and comparable to last year. The objective is to retain the (blood pressure, diabetes, etc.). Other examples of measures rate at approximately the same level in future years, whereby the include training courses designed to avoid back complaints, rate should not be above 4% for each individual plant. This target ergonomic advice and grants to attend a gym at various locations. was achieved in 2015 in almost all plants. A low absenteeism rate In addition to the aforementioned initiatives, Kendrion also frequently is indicative of healthier employees and an agreeable working organises social events such as sport activities designed to environment. A lower rate also results in less stress for the strengthen the relationships with and between its employees. colleagues of employees on sick leave and lower costs for the These programmes will be continued and extended where needed company. in 2016. Absenteeism rate 2015 2014 2013 2.5% 2.3% 2.8% Kendrion shall also endeavour to achieve this objective by adopting an individual approach. When the absenteeism rate of specific departments or employees is relatively high Kendrion conducts Are you fit? Health tips for the workplace individual discussions with those directly involved and implement Eat a healthy diet (plenty of fruit & vegetables, not salt or sugar-laden snacks!) Sitting correctly is a basic requirement for working comfortably and ergonomically. It combats fatigue: the angle between thigh measures designed to ensure that the employees recover as quickly Don’t take the lift; climb the stairs whenever you have the choice. and lower leg should be 90° and the same applies to your upper arms and forearms. Oxygen revitalises and mobilises the body‘s Regular exercise is good for body and soul. as possible and return to work. defences. Go out in the fresh air every day – even in winter. The minimum for preventing illness is half an hour of gentle exercise 5-7 times a week. Drink plenty of water rather than soft drinks, Ensure you also get plenty of sleep! juices or coffee – this boosts physical and mental performance. 201506_csr_plakat_health_a2_en.indd 1 30.09.15 15:43 CSR REPORT 2015 39 BUSINESS ETHICS PROGRAMME Target 2015 Result Ambition 2016 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility 100% acceptance of revised 100% acceptance of Code 100% acceptance of Code of Conduct Code of Conduct of Conduct 0% 100% Roll-out competition regulation Full and efficient functioning Full and efficient functioning of compliance training of compliance programme programme 0% 100% 50% Introduce third party risk Implementation third party risk Third party risk assessment tool fully implemented assessment tool assessment tool at all plants 0% 100% Introduce external whistleblower External whistleblower hotline fully implemented hotline at all plants OUR APPROACH Kendrion’s staff in the performance of their duties. The core themes Kendrion believes it is very important that all activities at the company include market position, authorities, corporate social responsibility, are conducted with integrity and aims to foster and promote a culture accountability in general, and the obligation for due care regarding in which this is a given. Besides the ‘tone at the top’, Kendrion has a safety and health, the environment, and social interests. Kendrion set of internal policies and procedures in place which contribute to promotes compliance with the Code of Conduct by continually ensuring this ethical culture – these are detailed below. bringing the Code to the attention of (new) managers and staff in their own language. In several countries, the Code has been part The necessary actions in this area, as well as the targets and of the employment contract, and / or the employees sign for results, form part of the discussions with the Compliance Officer acceptance and compliance. In 2015, a new Code was designed and the Executive Board, as well as the Audit Committee of the to place even more emphasis on anti-bribery and corruption. Supervisory Board of Kendrion N.V. The revised Code was implemented group-wide in 2015. GOVERNANCE – INTERNAL CODES Anti-Bribery & Corruption policy (AB&C) and Competition AND PROCEDURES compliance policy Kendrion is committed to combating corruption in all forms, including Code of Conduct extortion and bribery. Kendrion’s Code of Conduct devotes specific Kendrion has implemented a Code of Conduct in its organisation attention to this issue. Corruption obstructs or impedes economic that applies to all Kendrion staff. The principles and best practices development and results in an unequal distribution of wealth. established in this Code reflect the main values that need to guide In addition, involvement in corruption can result in damage to and the 40 CSR REPORT 2015 AUDIT AND ADVICE The increasing complexity of the business and the regulations governing it has led to the decision to introduce in 2015 a new legal & compliance plan that will describe the legal & compliance checks necessary in various situations. The plan includes the possibility of obtaining internal and external (legal) advice, as well as the introduction of a new guideline on the implementation of third-party loss of the reputation of Kendrion, the management and employees. due diligence. An online tool for third-party due diligence screening They are not allowed to request or suggest, seek or offer, accept or has been selected and will be rolled out in 2016. pay any form of bribe in either monetary or any other form. A legal & compliance audit plan has also been drawn up which will In view of the importance of combating corruption and the form the basis for audits of all operating companies to be carried increasing attention to its prevention, the company has decided out every three years. to adopt a proactive approach to bringing the employees’ attention to this issue. An AB&C policy was implemented. This policy has However, these and all other measures do not provide any resulted in measures including the performance of further risk guarantee that no cases of corruption will arise. If there is any analyses and due diligence of business ethics when entering into case of fraud, or any suspicion of fraud, then Kendrion will respond new business relations. appropriately via the investigation protocol the company has developed for this purpose. Kendrion also introduced a competition compliance policy in 2015. It is aimed at making employees aware of restrictions with a view REPORTING MECHANISMS to competition when dealing with suppliers, competitors and customers. Infringement of competition regulations is detrimental Whistleblower’s Charter to the operation of the market and can lead to damage or losses Employees who observe a (suspected) irregularity are encouraged for Kendrion and its employees. A training course dealing with to enter into discussions with those directly involved or with their competition issues was developed in 2015. supervisor. When this is not feasible or fails to achieve results, then they may make use of the procedure laid down in the An online compliance training course was developed in 2014. Whistleblower’s Charter. The Whistleblower’s Charter offers It deals with Kendrion’s policy and guidelines regarding gifts and Kendrion’s employees an opportunity to report irregularities or hospitality, political and charitable donations and bribery and suspicions of irregularities to the management without jeopardising corruption. Several hundred employees followed the course in their (legal) position. Any such report gives cause to an internal 2015. From time to time, Kendrion organises workshops for investigation. Within this context, Kendrion has also appointed management to discuss developments or dilemmas. Confidential Counsellors whom employees can contact to make confidential reports of (suspicions of) irregularities. Other internal regulations Kendrion has implemented internal regulations to prevent insider One irregularity was reported in 2015 by an external person trading. In addition, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board involving the sale of materials by an employee for his own personal are governed by restrictions on trading in other listed companies. benefit. This was further investigated by external forensic experts. Kendrion’s Compliance Officer is entrusted with the supervision The issue had no material financial impact and no operational of compliance with the regulations. Kendrion has implemented a impact. Adequate measures have been taken against the employee structured risk management framework. Comprehensive information involved and additional internal control measures have been is available in the 2015 Annual Report. In 2016, Kendrion will review introduced in order to prevent such incidents in the future. whether a group-wide privacy policy is required in the light of new regulations in various jurisdictions. An external hotline for whistleblowers’ reports will be introduced in 2016. This will give employees an additional means of submitting such reports in their own language or via a computer. CSR REPORT 2015 41 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Target 2015 Result Ambition 2016 Ambition 2017 Taking Responsibility Keep at least 6 students Keep at least 6 students First students graduated and offered employment in India project; continuation India project; continuation contract of apprenticeships of apprenticeships 0% 100% OUR APPROACH why the subject is covered in the Supplier Code of Conduct and in the Kendrion intends to engage in community investment efforts as a CSR audits of Kendrion’s suppliers. The need for a separate human means of promoting development and benefiting local stakeholders. rights policy was reviewed in 2015. It was decided to not develop such An appropriate approach to community investments can help in a separate policy and to maintain an integrated approach. establishing mutually beneficial relationships between Kendrion and its local stakeholders and in contributing toward long-term SPONSORING AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS improvements in the quality of life of local communities in a manner Kendrion introduced a sponsor and donation policy for all local that is both sustainable and supports the company’s business operating companies that can assist managers in reaching objectives. At present, the local management bears the appropriate decisions on these investments. The objective is responsibility for determining and evaluating the degree to which to arrive at more strategic choices with an impact and to link Kendrion companies are involved in community investment projects, to strategic issues relating to the business, such as education. as they are in the best position to determine the optimum means An increasing participation of the employees, many of whom of providing local communities any necessary support. originate from the local communities, will then be of importance. Kendrion was responsible for more than 30 sponsoring activities HUMAN RIGHTS and donations to charitable funds in 2015, including local Red Cross Kendrion holds it to be important that human rights and the related organisations, support for a number of scientific activities and international regulations are respected throughout the chain. This is education for children. 42 CSR REPORT 2015 plant in Pune. The intention is to offer some of them a job after graduation. Kendrion was able to increase the number of INTERACTION AND VOLUNTEERS scholarships to eight in 2015. Kendrion promotes interaction with the company’s environment by means of including initiatives such as ‘Girls days’ and open days DILEMMA for schoolchildren and family days in various plants. Kendrion also Sometimes, because of commercial conditions or market organises regular meetings for its retired employees. In 2014, developments, the decision has to be taken to make some Kendrion’s site in Villingen, Germany started an initiative to employees who work in a local operating company redundant. highlight and raise awareness of employee volunteer work: In a small number of cases, the closure or relocation of production volunteers@kendrion. Volunteering and social engagement facilities may be necessary. The employment opportunities in the are accorded very high priority for Kendrion and the programme communities concerned can then be reduced, with all the inevitable was adopted at some of Kendrion’s sites worldwide in 2015. impact of this. The individual employee’s interest in permanent employment needs to be weighed against the company’s interest CORPORATE COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PROJECT in its continuity. Kendrion therefore does not take such decisions IN INDIA lightly, and always takes them with due regard for the applicable Kendrion is active in a number of countries which are developing local social regulations and circumstances. rapidly but still exhibit substantial inequalities in the inhabitants’ standards of living and opportunities. Kendrion does not neglect TAX POLICY these issues. One example is India, where Kendrion began a Kendrion strongly believes that pursuing a transparent and honest greenfield operation in Pune in 2011. Kendrion is convinced that tax policy is a part of doing business. This is in line with the especially economic activity can contribute greatly to further growth. group’s Code of Conduct. In addition, the interests of all relevant stakeholders – a.o. customers, local communities, governmental Kendrion started in 2012 a project to enable deprived young people institutions, shareholders – need to be balanced with this. It received in India to follow a technical education together with the College of the no. 1 ranking in the Dutch Tax Transparency benchmark for Engineering in Pune. The college is an autonomous institute of the small cap companies and ranked no. 6 among all listed companies. government of Maharashtra, the province where Pune is located. Tax payments can contribute to local development. In this respect, Since then, scholarships have been awarded to poor students of the Kendrion does not only pay a substantial amount of corporate Electrical, Electronics or Mechanical Engineering faculty who have income tax in the countries where it does business, but is subject good study results and an interest in electromagnetism. At least half to several other taxes such as VAT, pay-as-you-earn tax deductions of the selected students is female, as girls and women are at an (withholding tax), payroll taxes and property taxes. Kendrion even bigger structural disadvantage. The selected students have believes it has an obligation to pay the amount of tax legally due the opportunity to do summer apprenticeships at the Kendrion in any territory. CSR REPORT 2015 43 At the same time, it is in the interest of the company’s continuity Transactions conducted between group companies located in and its financial results to optimise its tax position. This too is part different countries are conducted in line with the OECD Guidelines of sound business operations. Kendrion also has a responsibility for Multinational Enterprises and other local transfer-pricing in this respect to its shareholders to enhance shareholder value. regulations. The company uses the Master File concept for transferThe commercial needs of Kendrion however remain paramount and pricing purposes to ensure that coherent and up-to-date principles all tax planning is undertaken in this context. All transactions must are applied. have a business purpose and/or commercial rationale: ‘tax follows business’. In addition, consideration is also given to the reputation Kendrion is aware of the ongoing OECD BEPS developments of Kendrion and to its corporate and social responsibilities. in areas including treaty abuse, transfer pricing and country-bycountry reporting. Given that Kendrion’s tax position corresponds Another important aspect of Kendrion’s tax policy is to effectively to the geographical spread of the operations and that no aggressive manage risk and to comply with all applicable tax laws, rules, tax structures are employed involving the movement of funds regulations and disclosure requirements. The aim is to comply with through secrecy jurisdictions (tax havens), the company believes the letter as well as the spirit of the law. Kendrion makes use of the that the impact of these developments is limited. Furthermore, services of accredited tax advisers at both local and group levels even though Kendrion understands the tendency to use countryand has included tax compliance in its internal audit programme. by-country reporting to gain more insight into local tax contributions, It goes without saying that in cases where (the interpretation of) the it has been decided, from the viewpoint of overall competitiveness, tax law is unclear, the optimal and most legally defensible position is not to introduce this particular kind of reporting at this stage. taken. If necessary and feasible, tax authorities will be consulted in advance for additional certainty. Kendrion’s aim in this is to be open Kendrion endorses the OECD Guidelines for Multinational and transparent towards all authorities and to act with total integrity. Enterprises. Compliance with all anti-bribery legislation is safeguarded. UN GLOBAL COMPACT Kendrion joined the UN Global Compact in September 2009. The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest network initiative that unites companies, UN organisations and civil society in support of ten principles encompassing human rights, labour, the environment and sound business practices. 44 CSR REPORT 2015 KENDRION COMMUNITY PROGRAMME OFFERING CHANCES FOR THE FUTURE INTERVIEW WITH SAMEER DESHMUKH AND STUDENT MRUNALI MANE The Kendrion Community Programme in India is in its fourth SUPPORT year. So far eight students have been given the opportunity Mrunali Mane is 20 years old and a third-year mechanical to participate and prepare for their working life with the support engineering student. She is very pleased that Kendrion is helping of Kendrion. One of them is third-year mechanical engineering her to progress in life: ‘My family – my parents and a younger student Mrunali Mane. brother and sister – comes from a village about 300 kilometres from Pune. My father is a farmer and cannot really afford a proper college Kendrion India’s Managing Director Sameer Deshmukh is education for his children. In my first year, Kendrion interviewed enthusiastic as regards the progress of the programme: students who were eligible for participation in the Kendrion ‘The students we started with are now graduating. Apart from Community Programme. I was very happy to be selected. The financially supporting our students, we want them to get involved company supports me in my studies and I go there for internships in Kendrion. By working on projects in our plant here in Pune twice twice a year, two weeks in summer and two weeks in winter. I have a year, they get an idea of what the industry and working life are one more year to go and so far I have done well with a 93-94% about. And they acquire basic knowledge on aspects of the performance rate, also thanks to the support of Kendrion.’ electromagnetic technology, such as tribology and measuring. Job prospects for our participants are very good. It’s not easy to gain access to the state college we work with. It makes tough demands on the motivation and drive of the candidates; we’re talking high quality education. Our third-year students – Mrunali is one of them – are excellent and have the right work attitude. We would definitely like to take them on after their graduation.’ ‘KENDRION SUPPORTS ME IN MY STUDY AND I GO THERE FOR INTERNSHIPS.’ Mrunali Mane, student in Pune, India CSR REPORT 2015 45 KENDRION TAKING RESPONSIBILITY AWARD 2015 Kendrion presented its third Taking Responsibility Award at the Representatives of the four nominees all reported on their efforts Top Management Meeting held in Olomouc, Czech Republic, and activities. The majority vote of the business units and the in September. The Executive Board established the Award to stress Executive Committee went to Kendrion Prostějov for its holistic the importance of putting CSR and sustainability into practice in approach to CSR topics such as the environment, working Kendrion’s operating companies. conditions, supply chain management, health management and safety, work/life balance, involvement of disabled employees and After a preselection round, four nominees were in the running community investment. Second place went to Kendrion (Automotive) for the Taking Responsibility Award 2015: Sibiu in Romania for its overall CSR approach adapted to its level zz Industrial Drive Systems for its energy saving module (ESM) of development and socio-economic context. which is an intelligent electronic solution to reducing the power consumption of electromagnetic brakes; Václav Dostal, Managing Director of Kendrion Prostějov, proudly zz Kendrion Prostĕjov, Czech Republic, for its overall approach; accepted the Kendrion Taking Responsibility Award 2015 on zz The Commercial Vehicles Systems business unit for its bundle behalf of his dedicated team. Kendrion hopes that this Taking of CSR activities at the locations in Pune, India, Nanjing in China, Responsibility Award and the presentations illustrating the type of Louveira in Brazil, Toluca in Mexico, Shelby in the USA and activities and results that can be achieved will boost all CSR-related Markdorf in Germany; efforts within the whole Group. zz Kendrion (Automotive) Sibiu for its overall CSR approach. From left to right: Martina Svobodová, Michal Dubrava, Václav Dostal, Adéla Smékalová, Antonín Hamala, Tomáš Soldán, Martin Kopecký, Lenka Vybíralová, Roman Pliska, and Ivana Pospíšilová. 46 CSR REPORT 2015 SOUND ACTUATORS BRING ACOUSTIC EMOTION INTO THE ELECTRIC VEHICLE INDUSTRY For all their advantages, hybrid cars and electric vehicles are able to precisely replicate basically any engine sound, have one serious safety disadvantage: silence. Between as well as produce a large array of original, customised 0 and 30 km/h, electric cars and hybrids make literally no and brand-specific sounds. Our automotive partners noise. This poses a problem for pedestrians, cyclists and understand the potential of sound in creating a harmonised even animals, which can’t hear the cars approaching. brand experience. Our actuator is a superior alternative But it is also an issue for the drivers, whose driving behavior to loudspeakers,’ says Michael Richter, Kendrion Sound is influenced by engine noises. For drivers, the revving of an Engineer. ‘A loudspeaker is moved by a piston-like membrane, engine is both a navigation device and offers a sense control. or a cone. With our system the membrane uses a seismic suspension voice-coil drive to bend soundwaves. It is an Sound design is a powerful entirely new system that can be completely integrated into the vehicle’s surface. In other words, there is no cone tool for brand emotion in or loudspeaker opening. In fact, you can’t actually see the automotive industry. Kendrion’s sound actuator. The sound simply emanates from underneath the dashboard (interior) or the bumper (exterior). In terms of sound quality, Kendrion’s sound actuator EUROPEAN LEGISLATION distributes sound more widely than a typical loudspeaker, To address this problem, in 2014, the European Parliament which means it offers a more evenly distributed sound field. approved legislation that will make acoustic alerting systems Moreover, as a closed system, it is dust-tight and waterproof, mandatory in all new electric and hybrid vehicles by 2019. making it virtually maintenance-free for commercial With its electrodynamic structure-borne sound actuator, operators.’ Kendrion is already providing original automotive makers (OEMs) with a highly precise and highly sophisticated EXPLORING NEW MARKETS acoustic solution. Kendrion’s sound system not only offers a Kendrion is now exploring new markets where high-quality, wide range of customised engine sounds, but it also produces low-cost and compact sound actuators are prevalent. an array of signals. Campers, buses, airplanes and trains, for example, all vehicles that require reliable and durable sound actuators POWERFUL TOOL FOR BRAND EMOTION are for public announcements. ‘While safety is driving the industry, sound design is also a powerful tool for brand emotion,’ says Uwe Dettmann, Head of Kendrion’s sound design technology. ‘Our sound engineers CSR REPORT 2015 47 ABOUT THIS REPORT This CSR Report 2015 is the fifth CSR Report published by Furthermore Kendrion reports the absence resulting from work Kendrion. It covers the period of 1 January 2015 – 31 December related accidents of own employees. The LTI is time (‘scheduled 2015. This CSR Report, in combination with the 2015 Annual Report work days’) that could not be worked (and is thus ‘lost’) as a and the corporate website, has been compiled in accordance with consequence of a worker being unable to perform the usual work the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 ‘core level’. because of an occupational accident (‘at work accident’ as well The GRI-index can be found pages 50-51 of this Report and on as ‘way-to-work accident) or disease. There is no difference, Kendrion’s corporate website. if the salaries resp. wages were paid by Kendrion or by an external institution during that time. A return to limited duty or alternative work The KPIs on energy, carbon emissions, number of accidents, LTI for the same organisation does not count as ‘lost days. The count rate, number of supplier audits and number of signed Supplier Code of ‘lost days’ begins with the first scheduled work day of full absence of Conduct have been reviewed by an external auditor. (e.g. the day after the accident). A lost day counts as one full day regardless if the employee has a part-time or a full-time contract. This CSR Report encompasses all the Kendrion group companies Kendrion does not specify LTI data per region, worker type or in 2015 as listed on pages 142-143 of Kendrion’s 2015 Annual gender as Kendrion considers this information not relevant for its Report. In a number of instances the information provided in this current operations. Kendrion is evaluating the definition of the LTI Report relates solely to part of the operations. When this is the case, rate to enable better benchmarking. it is stated explicitly. This is due either to the operations not being carried out or the reliability of the data does not yet match with For reporting on the number of signed Supplier Code of Conduct Kendrion’s requirements. and number of supplier audits, Kendrion makes use of GRI indicator G4-SO9 in connection to number of suppliers that signed the For the quantitative information on energy consumption, absolute Supplier Code of Conduct and underwent a supplier audit. and relative CO2 emissions, accidents and lost time injuries, The supplier audits are internal audits by Kendrion employees acceptance of Supplier Code of Conduct and number of supplier based on interview questionnaires. For more information on the audits, Kendrion used the GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures scope of the Code of Conduct and related audits Kendrion refers G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-LA6 and G4-SO9. to its website (Code of Conduct). The ‘percentage of main suppliers that signed the Supplier Code of Conduct’ is based on the The information on accidents, lost time injuries and information 20 biggest suppliers in terms of procurement value (in euros). on suppliers includes all group entities. The information on energy (G4-EN3 and G4-EN5) is based on the consumption of Kendrion’s During 2015, the internal management information system for CSR production facilities (electricity, gas, oil) in Germany, the Czech reporting was further improved. It is designed to provide for the Republic, Austria and as of 2015, also in the USA, Suzhou (China) collection and consolidation of relevant CSR information from all and Romania. For Greenhouse Gas emissions (G4-EN15 and Kendrion’s operating facilities. This is required for the preparation G4-EN16) Kendrion applies the same reporting scope as for energy. of reliable periodic internal and external Reports about the KPIs. Internal and external transport under control of Kendrion Kendrion realises that the figures and data presented in this Report is very limited, therefore transport emissions are not included. are not always fully comparable with those of other companies. There are two reasons for this. Companies do not always select The relative energy consumption and CO2 emission are based on the same KPIs or apply the same definitions for them. Secondly the added value of the relevant locations. The added value is the the nature and spread of Kendrion’s activities mean that one-on-one revenue plus other income, minus the changes in inventory and comparisons with other industrial companies are not easy to make. work in progress and minus the raw materials. Kendrion reports the But where possible Kendrion stated the own prior-year figures and total number of work related accidents during working time or on the data, to make internal progress visible. Other information used way to or from work for own employees and for external employees in this Report was collected from the existing management and over which Kendrion has oversight. Only the accidents that have financial reporting systems. Any estimates or forecasts included been reported to an external institution are reported. in the Report are explicitly referred to as such. 48 CSR REPORT 2015 ASSURANCE REPORT ASSURANCE REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT A review is focused on obtaining limited assurance. The procedures AUDITOR WITH RESPECT TO THE CSR REPORT performed in obtaining limited assurance are aimed at the 2015 OF KENDRION N.V. plausibility of information which does not require the same exhaustive gathering of evidence as in engagements focused on To: The stakeholders of Kendrion N.V. reasonable assurance. The procedures performed consisted primarily of making inquiries of management and others within the We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the Key Company, as appropriate, applying analytical procedures and Performance Indicators Energy consumption, Absoluteand evaluating the evidence obtained. Consequently, a review Relative CO2-emissions, Accidents and Lost Time Injuries, engagement provides less assurance than an audit. Acceptance of Supplier Code of Conduct and Number of Supplier audits, as listed in the section “Short & Simple” of the CSR Report We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 2015 of Kendrion N.V. (hereafter: “the KPIs”). appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. In addition we have reviewed whether the CSR Report 2015 PROCEDURES PERFORMED (‘Report’) has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Our main procedures included the following: Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4 Core option) with the objective to issue an assurance report that zz Performing an external analysis and obtaining an understanding provides limited assurance. of the sector, relevant sustainability issues, relevant laws and regulations and the characteristics of the organisation; LIMITATIONS IN OUR SCOPE zz Evaluating the design and implementation of the systems and The Report contains prospective information, such as ambitions, processes for data gathering, and processing of information as strategy, targets, expectations and projections. Inherent to this presented in the KPIs; information is that actual future results may be different from the zz Reviewing internal and external documentation to determine prospective information and therefore may be uncertain. We do not whether the information as included in the KPIs , including the provide any assurance on the assumptions and feasibility of this presentation and assertions made in the report, is substantiated prospective information. adequately; zz Performing analytical review procedures; MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY zz Interviewing management and relevant staff responsible for the Management of Kendrion N.V. is responsible for the preparation of KPIs at group level; the Report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting zz Assessing whether the Report has been prepared in accordance Guidelines GRI G4 Core option, including the identification of the with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines GRI G4 Core option stakeholders and the determination of material subjects. The of the Global Reporting Initiative. disclosures made by management with respect to the scope of the Report are included in the paragraph ‘About this Report’. CONCLUSION Based on our procedures performed, nothing has come to our Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal control as attention that causes us to conclude that the Report and the it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the Report assurance KPIs have not been prepared in all material respects in that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G4 Core option) of the Global Reporting Initiative. AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Report based Amsterdam, 31 March 2016 on our review. We conducted our review in accordance with Deloitte Accountants B.V. Standard 3810N “Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports . This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and B.E. Savert that we plan and perform our work to obtain limited assurance about whether the Report is free from material misstatement. CSR REPORT 2015 49 GRI INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Disclosures Page Number (or Link) STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 3 CSR ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 6 CSR G4-4 6 CSR G4-5 6, 52 CSR G4-6 6 CSR, 142-145 Annual Report G4-7 6 CSR, 9 Annual Report G4-8 6 CSR, 17-18 CSR, 49-53 Annual Report G4-9 4-6 CSR, 41 and 47 Annual Report, 62 Annual Report G4-10 35-36 CSR G4-11 33 CSR G4-12 20-22 CSR G4-13 9 Annual Report, 41-43 Annual Report. No significant changes in 2015. G4-14 26, 28-29, 40-41 CSR; 32, 34, 39, Annual Report G4-15 44 CSR, UN Global Compact, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises G4-16 n.a. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 48 CSR, 142-143 Annual Report G4-18 9 CSR G4-19 9 CSR G4-20 48 CSR, the material aspects are material to all group companies, although for Energy and Emissions the plants described on page 29 CSR are most relevant. G4-21 48 CSR (no selected GRI Aspects that are material outside the organisation) G4-22 29, 48 CSR. Restatements are not applicable. G4-23 29, 48 CSR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 14-15 CSR G4-25 14 CSR G4-26 9, 14-15 CSR G4-27 9, 14-15 CSR REPORT PROFILE G4-28 48 CSR G4-29 8 April 2015 G4-30 Annual; 3, 48 CSR G4-31 52 CSR G4-32 48-49 CSR G4-33 3, 48-49 CSR GOVERNANCE G4-34 16, 54-56 Annual Report; 3, 9 CSR ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 33-35 Annual Report; 40-41 CSR 50 CSR REPORT 2015 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page Number Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Indicators (or Link) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) External Assurance CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA 28 CSR G4-EN3 28-30 CSR Data regarding The information The underlying data yes, 49 CSR renewable is currently are currently not sources and unavailable. available. It will be sold energy. considered if and when to report these in the future. G4-EN5 28-30, 48 CSR, energy used yes, 49 CSR inside organisation MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA 28 CSR G4-EN15 28-30 CSR GWP data The information The underlying data yes, 49 CSR is currently are currently not unavailable. available. It will be considered if and when to report these in the future. G4-EN16 28-30 CSR GWP data The information The underlying data yes, 49 CSR is currently are currently not unavailable. available. It will be considered if and when to report these in the future. CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA 38-39 CSR G4-LA6 38-39 CSR Info per regio The information The data per regio yes, 49 CSR and gender. is currently and gender is in the unavailable. view of Kendrion currently not relevant. SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA 36 CSR G4-HR3 36 CSR CSR REPORT 2015 51 COLOPHON Contact information Any questions or comments about this report or Kendrion’s CSR activities can be raised with: Mr Wijgert Gooijer CSR Coordinator Utrechtseweg 33 3704 HA Zeist, the Netherlands P.O. Box 931 3700 HA Zeist, the Netherlands Telephone: + 31 (0) 30 699 72 50 Email: wijgert.gooijer@kendrion.com The Executive Board wishes to thank everyone who has contributed to this CSR Report. Copy Wim Dieleman, teamtva! reclamebureau. Pieter Koenders, C&F Report Photography and images Dieter Marx Artphotographs, C&F Report, Kendrion. Organisation Wilma Stuiver and Wijgert Gooijer. Concept and realisation C&F Report. This CSR Report is printed on environmental friendly paper. The publication date of this Report is 31 March 2016. www.kendrion.com More information about Kendrion and the company’s strategy, results and products is available from Kendrion’s website. Kendrion’s 2015 Annual Report and 2015 Annual Magazine have also been published on the website. 52 CSR REPORT 2015 THE NEXT BIG THING: THE HYDROGEN CAR? The combustion engine is facing growing competition, forcing OEMs to invest heavily in its continued development. Hybrid and fully electric cars are ready to play their part and claim their share of the market. All car producers have successfully launched new e-drive models. Hydrogen cars are a relatively new phenomenon; car manufacturers inside and outside Europe are working meticulously on their development and market introduction. Hydrogen could turn out to be a very interesting alternative: filling up in five minutes, a travelling distance of more than 500 kilometres on one full tank, Kendrion N.V. zero emissions. The only emission is water in the form of vapour. Electricity is generated as a result Utrechtseweg 33 of the chemical reaction between hydrogen and oxygen from ambient air. The absence of an 3704 HA Zeist adequate distribution network of hydrogen filling stations is a problem but many countries are already P.O. Box 931 working on this. Hyundai and Toyota are the trendsetters but all the major European brands are 3700 AX Zeist investing in the development of hydrogen cars. The Netherlands Kendrion is involved in the development of the hydrogen technology for two big car OEMs. Telephone +31 (0)30 699 72 50 This opens up opportunities for combining high-end technology development and engineering with Fax +31 (0)30 695 11 65 a wide product range and a number of very interesting application possibilities, such as pneumatic valves, hydraulic valves and more. The integration of mechatronics and variable valve lifting, Info@kendrion.com engine and thermal management will offer new growth options in the future. www.kendrion.com
