2016 Communication on Progress Report TVR Corporation Lot E3, D1 Road, Long Hau IP, Long Hau Ward, Can Giuoc Dist., Long An Pro., Viet Nam Tel: +84 8 3997 0838 Fax: +84 839914694 0 October 21st, 2016 Dear Sir/Madam, For more than 2 years, TVR is at the forefront of research, production of new skin care products with the goal of providing customers with the basic types of products to advanced skin care solutions. We have tried to do it with professionalism and commitment, respecting the best practices and following the highest ethical standards. In the future, as in the past, we respect for People and Human Rights, the Environment, Ethical Principles and the best Working Practices to guide our work. These are the principles upon which TVR is based and that we will always uphold. Therefore, I am pleased to confirm that TVR Corporation reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. Through the pages of this Communication on Progress we seek to communicate to our clients, our employees and the communities which we impact, the actions that we are taking to live and operate by these principles. Sincerely yours, James Vu General Director TVR Corporation Lot E3, D1 Road, Long Hau IP, Long Hau Ward, Can Giuoc Dist., Long An Pro., Viet Nam Tel: +84 8 3997 0838 Fax: +84 839914694 1 INTRODUCE OUR CORE VALUES All long-term relationships are deeply connected and we always emphasize the importance of trust as it has been the ultimate deciding factor of business survivorship. Therefore, company transparency is our priority. We utilize different skill sets from a range of experienced employees toward a common goal. At TVR, we also commit to create a freedom working environment which aims to encourage creativity and innovation from employees. Each and every one of us possesses different skill sets and attributes. Therefore, it is important that our company recognizes and respects the distinct abilities of all employees. Similarly, we learn to respect nature and its creation. Therefore, efficient usage of natural resources is our number one priority in order to prolong longevity and minimize environmental damage. MISSION & VISSION At TVR, we put Trust, Value, and Respect as a foundation of our company to build mutual understanding and confidence in prospective clients. With the motto You and Us share the same vision , TVR has a desire to become a cosmetic manufacturer which is reliable and suitable for all clients. We strive for harmony and transparency to strengthen our company’s core “Ethical business practices and sustainable development”. Your development and prosperity bring us a pride and motivation for innovation and improvement. TVR Corporation Lot E3, D1 Road, Long Hau IP, Long Hau Ward, Can Giuoc Dist., Long An Pro., Viet Nam Tel: +84 8 3997 0838 Fax: +84 839914694 2 TVR & 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Principle 1: TVR supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: makes sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The human factor is a priority in TVR management policy. We believe that our employees are the cornerstone of company’s success. TVR is committed to ensuring that workplaces are free from all forms of discrimination or harassment on the basis of age, caste, sex, religion or any other ground. No discrimination whatsoever is practiced during the Human Resource processes of recruitment, employee development and rewarding performance. TVR is proud of its extremely thorough selection and recruitment procedures, as it strives to attract, select and retain skilled workers, with the best qualifications. We always satisfy the legitimate aspirations of the employees in accordance with law. There have been no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance pertaining to human rights, corruption, labour practices during this reporting period. There were no reported cases of child labour, forced or compulsory labour reported within the organisation or with our suppliers. TVR respects the dignity of labour and denounces all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Therefore, we ensure that its terms of employment are transparent and voluntary. Every quarter, the company organizes periodical meetings for dialogue between workers and employers. During the meeting, the parties will make a report of the activity in each quarter, answer to the questions and address the legitimate requirements of both sides. This shows respect and democracy within the company. During the year, there has not been issued concerning human rights by our employees and/or other stakeholders such as our supply-chain and clients. TVR Corporation Lot E3, D1 Road, Long Hau IP, Long Hau Ward, Can Giuoc Dist., Long An Pro., Viet Nam Tel: +84 8 3997 0838 Fax: +84 839914694 3 Labour Principle 3: TVR uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. TVR believes in protection of the young and vulnerable. It is the Company’s policy not to employ child labour. In order to ensure this, every new recruit is required to submit a proof of age. Further, the Company is committed to work in a pro-active manner to eradicate child labour by actively contributing to the improvement of children's social situation. To promote this, we encourage its Suppliers also to work towards a no child-labour policy. TVR does not engage in any kind of discriminatory practice in its recruitment process, particularly with respect to disability, gender, religion, political or sexual orientation, civil status, nationality, ethnic origin and trade union membership. Just as an example, more than 60% of our workers are female. TVR has an open door policy allowing for individuals to bring forward any concern or complaint that they may have regarding their employment, or the employment of others associated with TVR. TVR denounces all forms of forced and compulsory labour. TVR never uses any form of forced or compulsory labour in any of its operations. TVR complies with minimum wage standards for unskilled workers and applying attractive wage for skilled workers and high advanced degrees. TVR establishes a trade union organization. The trade union that represents the workers will ask the company to perform the rights and obligations which already commit in the labor agreement. Workers have the right to make comments and complaints when the company fails to comply with commitments in the agreement and labor laws through trade union. All employees join social insurance, health insurance as prescribed by labor law. Every year, all employees conduct checkup. During the last year, we have: 100% compliance on Health and Safety in the workplace. No cases work related injuries and complaints and/or disciplinary cases. TVR Corporation Lot E3, D1 Road, Long Hau IP, Long Hau Ward, Can Giuoc Dist., Long An Pro., Viet Nam Tel: +84 8 3997 0838 Fax: +84 839914694 4 Principle 7: TVR supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The Environment as well as Health and Safety are an intrinsic part of our commitments. In the strategies used and in all efforts to develop and optimize our processes, products and services, we must keep in mind the respect for the Environment and for the Health and Safety of our employees. To train and improve awareness for employees in the practice of saving energy, water, paper, and sanitary work areas. TVR commits to cosmetic good manufacturing practices (CGMP) under Agreement on the ASEAN Harmonized Cosmetic Regulatory Scheme. The commitments will be fulfilled throughout all areas of the company, by adhering to the following principles: To guarantee the quality, efficacy and safety of the cosmetic products, in harmony with the environment and the health and safety of employees; To strictly comply with the regulatory, technical and normative requirement that applies to our activity and other regulations to which TVR subscribes; To maintain an organization level that ensures high standards of quality, respect for the environment as well as the health and safety and the competitiveness of the company, by preventing non-compliances, adverse effects on the environment and harm to employees and/or third parties, who may be affected by our business operations in any way Requiring suppliers to comply strictly with the specifications and requirements of the various materials, products and services, to act responsibly in relation to the environment and health and safety, encouraging them to get involved in improving their processes, products and services. Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances. Continuously improving the performance of the system so that we deserve to be accepted by the community, regulatory authorities and the market, with consequent delivery of value to the company and to its shareholders, employees, medical profession, consumers and other interested parties. The main environmental aspects that directly and indirectly depend on its activity are monitored regularly and systematically. They comprise: Waste and water treatment system Environmental Noise TVR has established procedures under its Environmental Management system for addressing and reporting environmental incidents. There have been no legal or other actions brought against TVR for any environmental matters. TVR Corporation Lot E3, D1 Road, Long Hau IP, Long Hau Ward, Can Giuoc Dist., Long An Pro., Viet Nam Tel: +84 8 3997 0838 Fax: +84 839914694 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: TVR works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. TVR is trying to participate in anti-corruption activities within and outside the company. TVR efforts in anti-corruption principles In supply chain management, TVR always adheres to the basic principles of anti-corruption and bribery , in cooperation with various suppliers to eliminate any form of bribes, fair and impartial business cooperation partnership . In the aspect of internal management, establish the perfect anticorruption and business integrity aspects of the process and the approval process, and through a variety of meeting occasions to instill the staff awareness of anti-corruption and integrity. Minimize implementation of the forms of bribery in transactions with government agencies. There have been no legal or other cases brought against TVR in the area of anti-corruption. THANK YOU THROUGHOUT 2017 WE WILL CONTINUE TO WORK HARD TO BUILD RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR SUPPLIERS, CUSTOMERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS. TVR Corporation Lot E3, D1 Road, Long Hau IP, Long Hau Ward, Can Giuoc Dist., Long An Pro., Viet Nam Tel: +84 8 3997 0838 Fax: +84 839914694 6
