The United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) Name of Organization: SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd Sector: Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Website: www.squarepharma.com.bd Country of Headquarter: Dhaka, Bangladesh Reporting Period: January 2015 to December 2015 Our Statement of continued support for UN Global Compact SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is one of the pioneer signatories of UN Global Compact in Bangladesh. UNGC principles are aligned with company’s culture from the very outset. So, signing UNGC was a public endorsement of what SQUARE had already been practicing. The Management Team leads the entire range of activities with dedication and continues to identify sustaining ways of meeting our commitments to the UNGC. We strongly agree as an organization to increase the momentum and practical steps to meet our commitment made to UNGC. We run our business with transparency, under ethical standard and scaling up CSR activities to our stakeholders. I, as the Managing Director, feel obliged to express our commitment towards UNGC and will continue our efforts going forward in 2016. UNGC Principles 1 and 2 Human rights: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015 We at SQUARE strive to  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd, being in the  The number of Continual Medical Education (CME) programs ensure that our activities pharmaceutical sector, maintains a very close conducted in 2015 by Medical Services Department were 410 and the support the fundamental relation with the physician community. The number of participants were 33072 human rights, set out by management believes a better informed and the United Nation’s Bill educated doctor community creates a win-win  The number of seminars and clinical meetings conducted in 2015 by of Rights. situation for all the stakeholders. For this Veterinary Services Department were 208 and the number of purpose, SQUARE takes multiple initiatives participants were 7500. Doctors of veterinary medicine are also under its Continual Medical Education (CME) conducted some seminars. programs.  Clinical Meeting: These meetings are  These clinical meetings and seminars have the following impacts organized aiming to upgrade the day-to-day developments in medical sector. These  A wealth of knowledge is shared among medical professionals. meetings act as a forum for training and knowledge-sharing among the medical  A close relation with the physician community is maintained professionals and often attended by experts on the respective subject as key-note speakers  Product knowledge of the participants is increased significantly. which are continued efforts; these meetings are conducted by dedicated team of medical  Medical professionals receive updated information on different drugs graduates of the Medical Services Department and other relevant information. (MSD).  A better informed and educated community of doctors creates a winwin situation for all the stakeholders. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015  Our AgroVet Division also conducts seminar and clinical meeting across Bangladesh for Veterinary Doctors, Farmers and Quacks to disseminate the regular updated information of different drugs. These meetings are organized by Veterinary Graduates of Veterinary Services Department (VSD).  SQUARE Publications: SQUARE publishes  In 2015, SQUARE published 20000 product guides & 140,000 bulletins on a quarterly & half-yearly basis newsletters. As a result of this initiative, the physician community is which are distributed among the physicians of supported with contemporary and critical issues related to medicine, Bangladesh. They are Product Guide, Oshudh disease, medical innovation etc. Nirdeshika, The SQUARE, Diabetes  Newsletter, Asthma Focus, Women's Health,  Neurotale, Insight Heart, GI café, Allergy  Newsletter, eSQUARE.    SQUARE donated books to the Department  This initiative enrich their library with expensive original copy of of Pharmacy, Jahangirnagar University in books which will help the students to acquire knowledge. 2015.  Students of different schools and colleges presented their science  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has projects in the form of a report, display board, and models in this participated as the title sponsor in the science science festival to enrich their science knowledge. fair of Residential Model School & College in 2015. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. supports  In 2015, the donation was handed over to Mr. Md. Salim, the school 'School of Hope' (a non-profit, non-political, principal. The donation included 11250 units of medicines and 440 non-religious educational institute) medicines toiletries products. As a result of this donation, institution received the & other daily-need appliances. The school necessary resources to function efficiently and information on provides quality education & health-support to SQUARE and its products were disseminated among children and the 200 disadvantaged children every day. community.  SQUARE Kindergarten & High School  As of 2015, there is a total of 565 students in SQUARE Kindergarten provides education and educational facilities to & High School out of which 285 are female and 280 are male. This the children of the employees as well as the initiative enables the children of the employees to receiving quality children of the local community. education at a subsidized rate and creates employee satisfaction. The children of the local community are equally benefitted with standard education. Total 63 teachers and 20 staffs are there to provide adequate service.  SQUARE Textiles Ltd. provides pick & drop services with school buses for the children of  Currently, 192 students are enjoying hassle free journey as a result of factory employees. this service Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015  SQUARE established Dishari Computer  Dishari Computer Training Institute offers an alternative training Training Institute in Pabna to train the solution to the section of the community unable to afford costly underprivileged community and enable them to training programs. Trainees are empowered as prospective users of build their future with contemporary future technology enabling them to build their future with knowledge in computer science. contemporary knowledge in computer science. In 2015, a total of 279 students received training out of which 162 are female and 117 are male. 12 students trained from Dishari Training Institute are working  SQUARE operates a fuel station named Eakub at SQUARE group at present. Filling Station which is run by women employees.  The station generates employment opportunities to rural women allowing them to be self-sufficient. There are 6 female & 9 male  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. is partnering one of working as fuel operators at the moment. the projects of CARE by empowering women of JITA and BRAC. CARE, JITA and BRAC are humanitarian organizations committed to  At present, 3500 JITA women and 90000 BRAC women are helping families in poor communities improve empowered as they are able to have their own source of income their lives and alleviate poverty.The project & they increase company profit more than 2014. enables rural women to purchase our products from hubs at Trade Price (TP) and sell it to households at Maximum Retail Price (MRP), keeping the margin (not less than 10%) for themselves.   SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. provides health &  This awareness program covered 3.7 million girls till 2015 (over last 4 hygiene information to adolescent girls under years) educating them about menstruation facts and made them ready the brand “Senora”. This is a free campaign in for a healthier future. It also introduced our products to them. association with “Campaign for Popular Education (CAMPE)” that creates awareness among High School girls. Female garment workers are also covered under the campaign. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015  “Meril Baby” (a brand of SQUARE Toiletries  3.6 million mothers were benefitted with adequate knowledge on Ltd.) takes initiatives to make life better for breastfeeding, helping them guide their babies to a healthy future. Bangladeshi mothers by informing them of breastfeeding benefits and by helping them guide their babies to a healthy future.  SQUARE also arranged breast feeding & diaper changing room at SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. also disseminates Dhaka International Trade Fair, Khulna Trade Fair and Chittagong vaccination information for Polio elimination Trade Fair and also gave free samples of supermom diapers in Bus from Bangladesh station & Rail station of Dhaka during Eid.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. along with ‘Save the Children and ‘Bill & Melinda Gates  More than 50 thousand mothers took advice for their babies’ health foundation’ initiated a 24/7 helpline system for problems through this helpline in 2015. young mothers named ‘Supermom’.  Maasranga Television (a sister concern of  This initiative Creates health awareness among the mass population. SQUARE Group) broadcasts live “SQUARE It covered so many important topics in 2015. Some topics are Hospital Doctor’s Chamber” every Friday. mentioned belowThis is a program where Doctors and senior  Heart Failure & Cardiomyopathy consultants communicate directly with patients  Mother's Duty to Newborn Baby over telephone, providing valuable information  Chronic Kidney Disease and advice on various important topics related  Spinal Surgery to diseases, treatment etc.  World Cancer Day and Our Duty  Infertility  Normal Delivery vs Cesarean Delivery  Thalassemia  Abdominal Hernia  Liver Cirrhosis Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. has been a part of  Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) declined by 66% over the past 9 years; postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) reduction the Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) in Bangladesh is now 176 per intervention of ICDDRB. 100,000.  “Meril Splash” (a brand of SQUARE Toiletries  There are a limited number of psychiatrists against a huge number of Ltd.) engaged Dr. Mehtab Khanom, an eminent patients (10 million). As a result everyone does not get easy access to educationist and activist in the field of psychothis few psychiatrists. Through this initiative, SQUARE made it easier social counseling for psychological counseling for people to receive psycho-social counseling. through Supermom number (0961-2222-333 & websitesupermombd.com ) regarding various complexities and problems related to health and psychology of babies that parents face during rearing them. She and her associates advice not only about baby’s mental health but also about mental health of elders.  This initiative Creates health awareness among the mass population.  SQUARE Toiletries provide free blood pressure check-up & 5 lakh Zerocal sachets (free) to the morning walkers.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. took initiative to  This program is helping children to make a habit of washing their hand educate children to clean germ from hands when they are exposed to dirt and germs. SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. also through “Hand Sanitization Program” in placed Sepnil Hand Sanitizer & Sepnil Hand Wash for free in the different schools. washroom of around 23 campuses of 12 schools in Dhaka city.  SQUARE teamed up with CSR Center to  In 2015, 1 million of this directory in Bengali language has been launch Women Principles in Bangladesh which published through our brands – Senora and SUPERMOM. This is intended focus on women empowerment. It initiative came to empower women and help the country to grow is an essential directory and a supportive further. guidebook to women who wants to transform their lives through a progressive approach. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. stood beside the people who were suffering from cold winter by partnering with JAAGO Foundation (a nonprofit organization catering to the education  This initiative provided the poor with comfort and much needed needs of children from socially and warm clothes. economically disadvantaged background) for a winter clothing drive. The whole country was connected through social and mainstream media to create awareness among the mass.  This initiative also provided the poor students stationary during Eid. There were many collection points in almost every corner of the country and JAAGO distributed the blankets in the most impoverish areas.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. and Dhaka University jointly started 3 years fellowship program  This initiative provided to the meritorious students who studied named “CGS-SQUARE Fellowship 2015genocide studies. In 2015, 4 students got the fellowship. 2017”.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. arranged Folk Fest &  This initiative taken to encourage teenage girls & boys to listen Bengal Music Festival. classical as well as folk music so they can have the essence of the richness of our traditional culture.  SQUARE Food & Beverage arranged an award  This initiative provided to those female who achieve success in their program to celebrate International Women’s relevant field. It’s recognition to show respect to their work. In 2015, Day. 3 women got “Radhuni Kirtimoti Shommanona 2015” UNGC Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 Labor standards: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association, the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015 We respect the right of workers to  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. established  There are around 1374 members of the Trade Union. As a result join an association and engage in Workers’ Trade Union named “SQUARE of this Union, the door to negotiation with management is open constructive dialogue with the Kormochari Samity” (Registration No: and the various concerns of the workers are addressed. workers’ representatives. 1322). We follow ethical practices and  Detailed background and reference  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law. labor standards at workplace. At verification is done as a part of recruitment SQUARE, we do no recruit any & selection process to ensure no child is child labor and do not have any employed. forced/bonded labor engagement policy. We also provide safe  Competency based recruitment system are  Last year a total of 647 employees were recruited under the working conditions for all. carried out. Employees are selected based on system. their skills and competence.  We appreciate the individuality of  our workers and treat them fairly,  HR policies are continuously updated as per  Any possibility of discrimination based on gender, race or equally and respectfully the Labour Law of the country. religion is eliminated. regardless of personal characteristics such as nationality, gender, age, ethnicity, religion, or  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. runs the disability. program “Shohoj Kisti Reen Prokalpa” under  In 2015, a total of 242 employees were benefited by this scheme. which all unionized employees can take loan to purchase necessary home appliances with a small service charge. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015  Female employees do not work during night  This ensures compliance with the labor law. shift operations.  All of our employees are covered under mandatory Group Life Insurance Scheme.  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law and employee  All of our employees are a member satisfaction. (mandatory) of the company’s Provident Fund (PF).  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is providing  The plan promotes healthy employer-employee relationship and profit sharing through WPPF (Workers’ is an additional earning for employees as it is paid in addition to Profit Participation Fund) which is a direct salary and bonuses. payment & equally distributed to the employees depending on company's profitability.  Ensures compliance with the Labor Law.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. allows festival leave, sick leave, casual leave & annual leave for all its employees.  SQUARE Textiles Ltd. provides day care  There are 3 babysitters taking care of 15-20 children from 8 am to facilities to the children of women workers. 5 pm. For road repairing, STxL provide donations. Principles 7, 8 and 9 Environment: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Businesses should also encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015 We strive to be a leader in all aspects of  We maintain large greeneries around  Green landscaping & roof garden have been developed on environmental protection and SQUARE establishments. different floors & levels at our plant in Kaliakor. More than systematically 400,000 sft area has been developed & about 50,000 sft area is identify and manage environmental under development. risks in our activities and over the entire value chain of our products and  More than 300 plants of different types have been planted. services. We make efficient use of natural resources and minimize the environmental impact of our activities and products over their life cycle.  We utilize Effluent Treatment Plant  Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) treated water of ETP is (ETP) in our manufacturing plants. less than 50 mg/L. (National Standard for COD is less than Treated water through ETP is used to 200 mg/L for treated water of ETP). maintain Green belt around plants. SQUARE’s Environmental license has been updated on a continuous basis.  We use incinerators for disposing solid  In 2015, a total of 87821 kilograms of solid waste were wastes to protect the environment from disposed through incinerator. pollution. The exhaust temperature is cooled down to 200 deg C from 1100  The cooling of exhaust temperature prevents atmosphere deg C during operation using cyclonic warming. water scrubber. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015  ETP’s treated water is being used to  It is reducing use of underground water consumption reuse for gardening & plantation purpose.  In the office areas, canteen, café &  This ensures daylight in those areas reception areaslarge glass wall panels have been placed  A lake has been designed in our  It will be used as a reservoir of fire water and also to increase plant. Most of the portion of that lake aesthetic beauty of the plant. It plays a vital role on diversity. is already developed & rest of the portion is under development to store surface water.  Energy saving & LED lamps have been  170 LED street lights & thousands of energy savings lamps installed for street & indoor lights. have been installed and reduced power consumption.  Motion sensors for lights have been  The motion sensors are working well especially in the technical introduced in big corridors of the corridors & fire stairs where there are less personnel movement. building & other places where there are less personnel movement.  All exhausts from the production  No environmental pollution is being taken place from production buildings during production process are process since all air borne particles are arrested in HEPA filter & HEPA filter and water scrubber in water scrubber. controlled.  All generator & boiler exhausts are  Exhaust is being released at a high level (24 m) from ground made as per standard height. level. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015  At Sabazpur Tea Co. Ltd.(STCL), (a  Environmental friendly practices ensure protection of wildlife sister concern of SQUARE Group), we and maintenance of biodiversity. use organic fertilizer to produce tea. The  Soil erosion is prevented. tea garden uses natural pest & controls weed manually. It uses only renewable  STCL established 2 toilets (Men & Women) in the garden field resources and maintains the soil’s for ensuring the proper sanitation & hygiene of the garden workers. fertility.  STCL arranged a day long free medical treatment for the poor villagers adjacent to garden and tea garden workers. 3 specialist doctors from SQUARE Hospital served around 300 patients in the medical camp in 2015.  STCL renovated both the schools (Government Primary School and Palla School-run by SQUARE management) with paintings, colorful decoration, new furniture etc. New books, pencils, khatas etc. have been distributed among the students. It also planted fruit trees and constructed boundary fencing at the school premises.  SQUARE Herbal & Nutraceuticals ltd.  Apart from the fact that there are about 65,000 marginal (SHNL) seeks to reduce and reverse the farmers/families who are earning through this medicinal plant adverse effects on the environment by cultivation, there are a number of environmental impacts of this Green Product Designs especially for initiative: ‘Basak cultivation’ (Medicinal Plant).  Huge cultivation of medicinal plant in the abundant land has The company produces herbal medicine enhanced forest development (450 KM road side) such as “Adovas” which not only  Use of natural pesticides and organic fertilizer enhanced the impacts in environment positively but caring for environment. increases social values and integrity.  Roadside basak cultivation decreased soil erosion.  In 2015, 5 cultivator got help from SHNL to cultivate medicinal plants & they are from Rajshahi, Narayanganj, Sirajganj, Sunamganj and Bandarban. Principle 10 Anti-corruption: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2015 At SQUARE, we do not tolerate  SAP ERP Systems integrate the core any forms of bribery and business functions/processes. corruption. Our employee code of conduct describes various policies  Transparency in the transactions of the company is ensured. and practices regarding  We follow & ensure “Zero Tolerance” appropriate conduct that are against all kinds of corruption & we have  Company assets are safeguarded against misappropriation and fraud. aimed to promote acceptable an “Internal Audit” department which standards for the business and specifically deals with this issue. The head  Operations of company are run effectively and efficiently. provides the employees a of “Internal Audit” directly report to the professional work environment. Managing Director to ensure better  Cost of the company is optimized. We observe the highest standards control. of professionalism in daily business activities.  Regular external and regulatory audits (both local & foreign) are conducted in SQUARE.   Built awareness in newly joined employees.  All newly joined employees went through orientation program on business ethics & anti-corruption.
