ABN AMRO Group N.V. Annual Report 2015 Long-term stakeholder value: the heart of our story Introduction Welcome to the ABN AMRO Integrated Report Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Stakeholder cases Governance Report We all have our own story. At ABN AMRO, we strive to put our clients’ interests first in everything we do and to create long-term value for our stakeholders. In this Integrated Annual Report we share the stories of how ABN AMRO delivers value for them. Annual Financial Statements Private client Corporate client Employee Investor Society at large Service Sector-specific Diversity Relations Investigating our total knowledge Our relationship impact on society with investors during the bank’s IPO Other 14 38 120 270 326 Introduction 2 273 Strategic Report Introduction Governance Report Notes to the reader 2 Corporate governance 274 Our external reporting landscape 3 Supervisory Board report 300 ABN AMRO at a glance 4 Remuneration report 312 Message from the Chairman of the Managing Board 7 Employee representation 323 Message from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board 11 Senior Managing Directors 325 Business Report ABN AMRO shares 13 17 329 Annual Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Consolidated income statement 330 Risk, funding & capital Report Key trends 18 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 331 Our profile 21 Consolidated statement of financial position 332 Update on our strategic priorities 26 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 333 Strategic governance 33 Consolidated statement of cash flows 336 Our stakeholders 34 Notes to the Annual Financial Statements 338 How we create value  35 Other information 462 Independent auditor’s report on financial statements 465 41 473 Governance Report Business Report Economic environment 42 Other Regulatory environment 46 Independent auditor’s assurance report 474 Business review 50 Definitions of important terms 476 Financial review 86 Abbreviations482 Our people 106 Cautionary statements 484 Annual Financial Statements Sustainability114 Enquiries485 Responsibility statement 119 123 Risk, funding & capital Report Introduction to risk, funding & capital management 124 Risk, funding & capital management 134 Risk, funding & capital review 170 Other Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures 248 2 Introduction / Notes to the reader Introduction Notes to the reader Strategic Report Introduction This is the Annual Report for the year 2015 of ABN AMRO, which consists of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and its consolidated subsidiaries (‘ABN AMRO’ or ‘the Group’). The Annual Report consists of the Managing Board report, Supervisory Board report, and the Annual Financial Statements. The Annual Report is divided into the following five sections: ÅÅ Strategic Report; ÅÅ Business Report; Business Report ÅÅ Risk, funding & capital Report; ÅÅ Governance Report; ÅÅ Annual Financial Statements. This year we are taking the next step towards integrated reporting. In this Annual Report, we disclose and explain our material financial and non-financial results, strategy, governance, external developments and the risks and opportunities ABN AMRO faces. Risk, funding & capital Report Presentation of information The financial information contained in this Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU IFRS). It also complies with the financial reporting requirements included in Title 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, where applicable. Some chapters in the Risk, funding & capital Report of this Annual Report contain audited information and are part of the Annual Financial Statements. Audited information in these sections is labelled as ‘audited’ in the respective headings. ABN AMRO has increasingly integrated sustainability into its core activities. As a result, we have integrated the material Governance Report sustainability issues into this report as from 2015. Compared with 2014, no significant changes have been made to either the definitions and measurement methods or reporting policies and goals for sustainability reporting. The sustainability information contained in this Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative. Information on our basis for sustainability reporting and the definitions applied are provided on the Sustainable Banking section of our website. Our independent auditor, KPMG, has reviewed selected sustainability figures, which are labelled ‘<S>’ in their respective headings. Going forward ABN AMRO will take further steps towards publishing a fully assured integrated report. Annual Financial Statements Capital metrics and risk exposures for 2015 and comparative figures for 2014 are reported under the Basel III (CRD IV/ CRR) framework. Comparative figures for 2013 are reported according to Basel II. Where applicable, we have provided pro-forma figures for comparison purposes. Some sections in this Annual Report contain information according to Pillar 3 (as part of the CRR) and Enhanced Disclosure Task Force (EDTF) requirements. These sections are labelled ‘Pillar 3’ and/or ‘EDTF’ in their respective headings. This report is presented in euros (EUR), which is ABN AMRO’s presentation currency, rounded to the nearest million, and sets out the results for the entire ABN AMRO organisation worldwide (unless otherwise stated). All year-end averages in this report are based on month-end figures. Management does not believe that these month-end averages present trends that are materially different from those that would be presented by daily averages. Certain figures in this report may not Other tally exactly due to rounding. In addition, certain percentages in this document have been calculated using rounded figures. For a download of this report or more information, please visit us at abnamro.com/ir or contact us at investorrelations@nl.abnamro.com. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 3 Introduction / Our external reporting landscape Introduction Our external reporting landscape Strategic Report Purpose Frameworks applied Contents Assurance Annual Report Inform about our ▶▶ International <IR> framework Strategic Report, KPMG has audited the Annual ABN AMRO financial and non▶▶ Internation Financial Business Report, Financial Statements, including Group financial performance, Reporting Standards (EU IFRS) Risk, funding & capital certain disclosures in the Risk, (this report) sustainability ▶▶ Dutch Civil Code Title 9, Book 2 Report, Governance funding & capital Report, and has performance, an ▶▶ Capital requirements Report, Annual Financial expressed an unqualified audit update on our strategic regulations (Basel III, CRD IV, Statements opinion Business Report priorities and an CRR, EBA) assessment of how we ▶▶ Financial supervision act KPMG has reviewed the create value over time ▶▶ Corporate Governance Code sustainability disclosures ▶▶ Dutch Banking Code indicated with ‘<S>’ ▶▶ Enhanced Disclosure Task Force (EDTF) ▶▶ Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4) Annual Report Inform about our ▶▶ International Financial Business Report KPMG has audited the Annual Risk, funding & capital Report ABN AMRO financial and Reporting Standards (EU IFRS) Risk, funding & capital Financial Statements, including Bank non-financial ▶▶ Dutch Civil Code Title 9, Book 2 Report, Governance certain disclosures in the Risk, performance to ▶▶ Capital requirements Report, Annual Financial funding & capital Report, and has comply with regulatory regulation (Basel III, CRD IV, Statements expressed an unqualified audit requirements CRR, EBA) opinion ▶▶ Financial Supervision Act ▶▶ Corporate Governance Code ▶▶ Dutch Banking Code Additional Inform about how ▶▶ Capital requirements Selected Pillar 3 The figures presented in this Pillar 3 we manage risk and regulations (CRR, EBA) information in addition to document have been neither disclosures capital adequacy to the Pillar 3 information audited nor reviewed by our comply with regulatory published in the Annual external auditor requirements Report ABN AMRO Group Governance Report Additional Contains a balanced ▶▶ Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 disclosure These documents have been sustainabilty and comprehensive (GRI G4) index and additional neither audited nor reviewed reporting analysis of our sustainability disclosures by our external auditor sustainability performance in addition to the Annual Report ABN AMRO Group Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 4 Introduction / ABN AMRO at a glance Introduction ABN AMRO at a glance Strategic Report ABN AMRO is a full-service bank with primary focus on the Netherlands and selective operations internationally. We serve retail, private and corporate banking clients based on our in-depth financial expertise and extensive knowledge Business Report of numerous industry sectors. History ABN AMRO has a long-standing history in banking Risk, funding & capital Report and roots that go back for centuries. Following various Since 1720 legal and operational separations, combinations and restructurings, ABN AMRO is now a leading Dutch bank. Our business profile and international footprint has changed while our historic roots and strong brand name remain. Headquarters Number of employees (FTEs) 22,048 Amsterdam The Netherlands Governance Report Our businesses Corporate governance structure Annual Financial Statements Retail Banking Private Banking Two-tier board consisting of a Supervisory Board and a Managing Board. Corporate Banking Supervisory Board Credit ratings ABN AMRO Bank S&P: A/stable/A-1 Other Moody’s: A2/stable/P-1 Fitch: A/stable/F1 Managing Board DBRS: A/positive/R-1 (low) ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 5 Introduction / ABN AMRO at a glance Introduction Strategic Report Core values Business principles Trusted I aim to provide my clients with the best solutions I am a passionate professional Business Report Professional I take responsibility I am committed to sustainable business practices Ambitious I only take risks I understand I build relationships through collaboration Operating income Our goals Risk, funding & capital Report 2015: 8,455 m To be a full-service bank with a leadership role in the Dutch market. Internationally, we aim to be a capability-led bank in selected businesses and geographies. 6 By type of income (in %) 22 6 2015 22 EUR 8,455m Enhance Governance Report 2015 Improve client EUR 8,455m 72 profitability centricity 72 Netinterest Net interest income income Strategic Netfeefee Net Other andand operating commission commission income income income priorities Annual Financial Statements Other operating income Pursue 9 selective Invest in By geography (in %) international our future 11 growth 9 Strongly 2015 11 EUR 8,455m committed 2015 to a moderate EUR 8,455m risk profile 80 80 Other TheNetherlands The Netherlands Restof of Rest Europe Europe USA, USA,Asia and and Asia the of rest ofrest world the world ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 6 Introduction / ABN AMRO at a glance Introduction Key figures Client satisfaction Change in Net Promoter Score Strategic Report (in % client ratings >– 7) (Percentage point change compared with 2014) 100 12 2 82 79 80 78 + + 60 40 20 Clients Business Report Retail Private Corporate 2013 2014 2015 Banking Banking Banking Underlying return on equity Underlying cost/income ratio Target range is 10-13 (in %) 2017 target range is 56-60 (in %) 15 100 12.0 12 10.9 80 64 62 60 9 60 Risk, funding & capital Report 6 5.5 40 3 20 Investors 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Underlying earnings per share (in EUR) CET1 (fully-loaded) Underlying earnings per share 3.0 Target range is 11.5-13.5 (in %) (in EUR) 2.4 25 3.0 2.03 1.8 1.65 20 2.4 2.03 1.2 15.5 15 14.1 1.8 1.65 0.80 12.2 0.6 10 1.2 0.37 0.43 0.81 0.80 5 0.6 2013 2014 2015 Governance Report 0.37 0.43 0.81 Of which dividend per share 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Of which dividend per share Employee engagement Gender diversity at the top (in %) (in %) 100 25 23 20 80 74 76 76 20 19 60 15 Annual Financial Statements 40 10 20 5 Employees 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Index Sustainable client assets (scale 1 to 100) (in millions) 6,430 100 6,500 5,399 80 78 5,200 4,649 60 53 3,900 Other 47 40 2,600 20 1,300 Society at large 1 20131 20141 Figures are based on publicly available information. 2015 2013 2014 2015 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 7 Introduction / Message from the Chairman of the Managing Board Introduction Message from the Chairman of the Managing Board Strategic Report 2015 was a good year for the bank. We strengthened our relationships with our clients, and our engaged workforce moved the bank forward on various fronts while Business Report maintaining its client focus. We recorded a net profit of over EUR 1.9 billion, the highest level since the new bank began operations in 2010. A milestone was our successful IPO in November. While writing this new chapter in our history, we worked hard to create long-term value for our stakeholders. Risk, funding & capital Report A dynamic environment The economic environment in the Netherlands was favourable in 2015. Growth of the Dutch economy picked up speed in the course of the year, thanks to developments in consumption and investments. Exports continued to show steady growth driven by the weakening euro. Economic growth in the Netherlands was broadbased and the Dutch housing market continued to recover on the back of the economic upswing and low, further declining, mortgage interest rates. Governance Report The regulatory landscape is dynamic and subject to constant change. As a financial institution, we provide highly detailed and wide-ranging information to the supervisory authorities and clients. Examples of financial regulations are the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR), which increases reporting Annual Financial Statements requirements on all derivative contracts. The upcoming Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II) introduces additional organisational and conduct requirements. The Payment Services Directive (PSD II) will require investments on our part while opening up banks to increasing competition. It will also create the risk that the bank is less able to protect its clients against fraud and privacy abuse. Furthermore, the amended Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) also imposes various requirements and involves higher costs. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 8 Introduction / Message from the Chairman of the Managing Board Introduction The second Basel consultation paper on credit risk Long-term stakeholder value: (so-called Basel IV) was published at the end of 2015. the heart of our story Strategic Report The latest proposal continues to penalise mortgages with This year ABN AMRO is taking the next step toward a high loan-to-value, a common product in the Dutch integrated reporting, meaning we focus more attention in mortgage market with a long and good track record in this Annual Report on the bank’s future and strategy and terms of risk. This could result in a significant increase in provide more non-financial data and targets. The move to capital Dutch banks have to hold on mortgages and could integrated reporting is in line with our drive to deliver drive up the cost of mortgages for households. long-term value to all our stakeholders – clients, investors, employees and society at large. We regularly met with our Business Report In 2014 and 2015, we reviewed the records of an identified stakeholders in 2015 to discuss both our strategic group of SME clients with possible interest rate priorities and the issues that are of material importance to derivatives-related issues. We did so in close consultation them. The results of these in-depth dialogue sessions are with the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets presented throughout this report. (AFM). In December 2015 the AFM concluded that an additional reassessment was required. We further As we faced the challenges posed by the dynamic increased the provision levels for this matter in the operating environment, we continued to pursue our Risk, funding & capital Report fourth quarter. On 1 March 2016 the AFM announced it corporate strategy, which is described in the Strategic had advised the Dutch Minister of Finance to appoint Report. Our strategy is based on five priorities: enhance a panel of independent experts that, in cooperation with client centricity, invest in our future, strongly commit to a the banks involved, will try to determine a uniform moderate risk profile, pursue selective international recovery framework. This framework should serve as a growth, and improve profitability. benchmark for all file reviews. The outcome of the review under the new framework may lead to revised While each of these five priorities is a key ingredient for compensation for clients. The upcoming reassessment the success of our bank, the most important one is client poses uncertainty about the scope and magnitude of centricity. We are committed to maintaining long-term the required reassessment going forward. relationships with our clients. We took various initiatives Governance Report bank-wide in 2015 to put our clients’ interests centre As regulations change, become ever more complex, stage in everything we do. As part of our drive to enhance and multiply in number, the risk of breaching rules grows. client centricity, we have adopted the Net Promoter Score So we will need to remain vigilant as these developments (NPS) methodology at our businesses, and we made it an unfold. At the same time, as we work to comply with the official Key Performance Indicator (KPI) in 2015. NPS demanding regulatory requirements, we also recognise measures the likelihood of clients to recommend a that they are designed to create a bigger safety net and company, product or service to a friend or colleague. We Annual Financial Statements provide more transparency. We see it as part of our will use the NPS results to enhance the client experience. profession to adjust to this new regulatory environment. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 9 Introduction / Message from the Chairman of the Managing Board Introduction One benefit of forging lasting relationships with our clients As part of our efforts to be positively recognised for our is that we understand them, their business and their position in sustainability, we defined and published our Strategic Report industry. This is evident at our Corporate Banking sustainability metrics and targets. At the same time, our business, which has reclaimed its position in the corporate core business of providing finance and investment market in recent years; it also made good progress this services is becoming increasingly sustainable. For past year in delivering sector-based advice to all its clients. instance, we apply environmental, social and governance Corporate Banking’s industry experts understand the criteria (ESG) when assessing potential investment context in which their clients operate and use their sector opportunities for our clients. And we continue to endorse expertise to proactively offer tailored advice. international standards, such as the UN Global Business Report Compact. The bank also issued a EUR 500 million In this rapidly changing digital world, we are investing in five-year Green Bond in May 2015 which was chosen as our future by enhancing our IT landscape, a process that SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) bond of the year at has been gaining momentum since 2013. Among the the annual IFR (International Financing Review) awards. steps we took in 2015, we installed an on-premise dedicated private cloud and migrated the first applications This past October, we started working with the Global to this environment. At the same time, we started Sustainability Risk Indicator, a new tool that helps us Risk, funding & capital Report cleaning up redundant applications. Many of the client assess the sustainability of companies. All business centricity initiatives we took consist of technological segments, meanwhile, made progress in our Reliable and enhancements as the trend toward digitalisation gains Responsible Banking programme, which will help us momentum. We therefore created a new Digital Banking register client data more efficiently and effectively in the unit in Retail Banking, in line with the shift in client years to come. All of this helps us to maintain a moderate preferences for mobile and online services. Retail Banking risk profile and to avoid serving clients we do not want to will continue to invest in innovative ways to ensure that serve. our mobile services – already very popular – are futureproof. Most mobile and online services of Retail Banking We aim to grow our international business to 20-25% of are also offered by Private Banking and Corporate Banking. total operating income by 2017 (20% in 2015) by Governance Report increasing our Private Banking, Clearing and ECT activities Our people are our future, and we continued to pursue our abroad. Our representative office in Shanghai became a Top Class Employer strategy in 2015. We offer staff a banking branch in early 2016, enabling further growth. rewarding workplace and an array of attractive employee benefits. The 2015 score in our Employee Engagement One of the highlights of 2015 of which we are particularly Survey was 76%, compared with the global financial proud was our listing on Euronext Amsterdam. This was industry’s score of 74%. We also raised our gender the result of years of hard work of employees across the Annual Financial Statements diversity targets: our goal is to place women in 30% of organisation. While the IPO was a momentous event, it senior management positions and in 35% of upper will not change our bank, our business or our story: clients middle-management positions by 2020 (year-end 2015: will continue to receive the same high standard of service 23% and 25% respectively). they have come to expect of us. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 10 Introduction / Message from the Chairman of the Managing Board Introduction Financial results for 2015 The capital position continued to grow and the fully-loaded Based on a review of our performance and results, this CET1 ratio was 15.5%, compared with 14.1% at the end Strategic Report past September we raised two of our financial targets and of 2014. As implementation of the new Basel proposal added a new one. We now target a fully-loaded Common may lead to significant risk-weighting inflation for the Equity Tier 1 ratio range of 11.5% to 13.5%; a cost/income bank, we will continue to grow our capital position until ratio of 56% to 60% by 2017; a return on equity of 10% to there is more clarity on this topic. In the meantime, we 13% in the coming years; and a dividend payout ratio of have increased the proposed dividend payout ratio over 50% over 2017. 2015 from 35% to 40% of the reported full-year net profit, or EUR 0.81 per share. This is EUR 764 million, of which Business Report The underlying net profit for full-year 2015 was EUR 414 million (EUR 0.44 per share) is proposed as final EUR 1,924 million, an increase of 24% compared with cash dividend. full-year 2014. The improvement was achieved on sharply lower impairments and despite higher regulatory levies Looking back, 2015 was a year in which we as an and project costs. organisation continued to grow and learn lessons from the past. In the fast-paced environment in which we operate, Operating income was up 5%, based in part on further it is inevitable that we will sometimes have to adjust our Risk, funding & capital Report repricing of the loan portfolio and higher fee and actions to live up to what society expects of us. We take commission income. Operating expenses were up by 8% this responsibility seriously and will continue to listen compared with full-year 2014, caused by higher regulatory closely to all our stakeholders going forward. levies, increasing project costs (for various IT and digitalisation projects and projects to update and improve I would like to take this opportunity to thank our clients for the quality of our client files and electronic archives) and doing business with us. We realise that we need to earn higher pension costs. Loan impairments more than halved our clients’ trust, and we strive to do so every day with to EUR 505 million, benefiting from the improvement of our dedicated staff. I am grateful to our employees for the Dutch economy. Even though oil and commodity their willingness and ability to adapt in times of continuous prices showed significant movements in the last six change. With their commitment and determination, we are Governance Report months of the year, the cost of risk for our ECT business confident that the bank is equipped to take on the was 52 basis points, in the middle of the estimated cost opportunities and challenges that will come our way in the of risk of Corporate Banking. years ahead. I would also like to thank Peter Wakkie and Marjan Oudeman, both of whom resigned from the Our cost/income ratio in 2015 was 61.8% (60.2% in 2014). Supervisory Board in 2015. Their commitment to Rising regulatory costs and investments in our IT landscape ABN AMRO over the years is much appreciated by myself and digitalisation efforts caused the temporary increase. and my colleagues on the Managing Board. Annual Financial Statements We aim to get the cost/income ratio back in the 56-60% range by 2017. The ROE increased to 12.0% from 10.9% Gerrit Zalm in 2014 and was within the target range of 10-13%. Chairman of the Managing Board Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 11 Introduction / Message from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Introduction Message from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Strategic Report This past year the Supervisory Board undertook a multitude of activities, which are described in the Supervisory Board Report. I welcome the opportunity to place these Business Report activities in the broader perspective of ABN AMRO’s history as a new bank. ABN AMRO believes that its businesses and activities should always be client-oriented. Consequently, the bank no longer conducts proprietary trading for the sole purpose of making a profit for the bank. ABN AMRO Risk, funding & capital Report strives to be a solid, resilient bank with good returns that rewards its investors appropriately when possible. ABN AMRO seeks to create balance in its geographic focus. The bank is diversifying internationally to avoid being solely dependent on its home market in the Netherlands, but ABN AMRO seeks to grow abroad in businesses and countries in which the bank has historically had a strong position and in which it has a proven track record. Governance Report ABN AMRO is grateful for the government support it has received since 2010. Nevertheless, the IPO in 2015 was a logical first step in repositioning the bank as a healthy, independent financial institution. The considerations described above have been continuous Annual Financial Statements guidelines for the Supervisory Board in exercising its supervisory and advisory duties in recent years. Turning to 2015, ABN AMRO had an eventful year on several fronts. Since the new ABN AMRO began operations in 2010 The bank fell short of its societal expectations with regard having been created from the nationalised parts of to remuneration. different institutions the Supervisory Board has been committed to helping rebuild a stable bank. A solid bank with a strong focus on the interests of its clients. A bank that delivers on its promises. A bank standing on its own two feet. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 12 Introduction / Message from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Introduction ABN AMRO’s stakeholders were understandably critical of In this rapidly changing environment, ABN AMRO remains how this was handled. We found this feedback very committed to focusing on its clients’ interests at all times. Strategic Report valuable, as it has made the bank more alert and has There are numerous ways the bank centred its activities opened the door to further dialogue. ABN AMRO is around its clients in 2015, which are described throughout steadily devoting more attention and resources to being a this Annual Report. One way is by proactively approaching good corporate citizen. Among the many initiatives clients who are in danger of falling behind on their undertaken in 2015, the bank issued a EUR 500 million mortgage payments. The bank offers them advice and Green Bond, facilitated a large amount of volunteer work financial coaching to help them ward off potential among employees and organised its second International problems. ABN AMRO sees this service as part of its duty Business Report Human Rights Conference in December. These and the of care to clients. bank’s other socially oriented activities make a real difference to society. All in all, I am pleased with the bank’s results in 2015 and with its development over the past six years. On behalf In 2015 ABN AMRO further consolidated its strong of the Supervisory Board, I would like to thank all of position in Private Banking, a business that delivers an ABN AMRO’s stakeholders, and in particular its clients excellent return on equity for the bank, and Corporate and employees. I would also like to take this opportunity Risk, funding & capital Report Banking won several awards for its client-centred service. to thank my colleagues who stepped down from the Supervisory Board in 2015. Both Ms Oudeman and On the regulatory front, ABN AMRO, like other banks, Mr Wakkie made significant contributions to the new had to comply with stricter requirements in 2015. ABN AMRO. Many regulations those designed to strengthen banks’ liquidity and capital are crucial to safeguarding the health On behalf of the Supervisory Board, of systemic banks throughout Europe. Others require banks to deliver increasingly detailed information to the Rik van Slingelandt supervisory authorities. These tighter reporting regulations Chairman of the Supervisory Board enhance transparency and promote accurate documentation. Governance Report At the same time, they placed heavy demands on our workforce and drove up costs for the bank in 2015, and will continue to do so in the future. Other developments in 2015 present real challenges to ABN AMRO. Volatile oil and commodities prices, for example, could affect the bank’s income stream in Annual Financial Statements its ECT Clients segment. And while the Dutch economic environment was relatively favourable in 2015, the outlook for the economy remains uncertain. In addition, the emergence of fintechs in the financial landscape is both a threat and an opportunity, as it means that banks must continually develop new earnings models. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 13 Introduction / ABN AMRO shares Introduction ABN AMRO shares Strategic Report Key developments the STAK AAG, please refer to the ‘About ABN AMRO’ Following the IPO on 20 November 2015 and the section of abnamro.com. The depositary receipts trade subsequent exercise of the overallotment option under ISIN code ‘NL0011540547’, Reuters ticker ‘ABN.AS’ (‘greenshoe’), a total of 23% of ABN AMRO’s depositary and Bloomberg ticker ‘ABN NA’). receipts representing ordinary shares were listed on the Euronext Amsterdam exchange. These depositary Share price development Business Report (in %) receipts were allocated mainly to European and US-based institutional investors and to Dutch retail investors. 120% The remaining 77% of the shares are held by NLFI 110% (‘Stichting administratiekantoor beheer financiële instellingen’) on behalf of the Dutch government. 100% 90% Risk, funding & capital Report Listing information 80% A total of 216.2 million shares, or 23% of ordinary shares, are currently held by the STAK AAG (‘Stichting Jan 2015 Apr 2015 Jul 2015 Oct 2015 Dec 2015 Administratiekantoor Continuïteit ABN AMRO Group’), which subsequently issued depositary receipts ABN AMRO STOXX Europe 600 Banks representing such shares. For more information about Amsterdam Exchange Index (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Share count Governance Report Total shares outstanding/issued and paid-up shares 940 940 of which held by NLFI 724 940 of which listed (in the form of depositary receipts) 216 as a percentage of total outstanding shares 23% Average number of shares 940 940 Average diluted number of shares 940 940 Key indicators per share (EUR) Underlying earnings per share 2.03 1.65 Annual Financial Statements Shareholder's equity per share 17.63 15.81 Tangible shareholder's equity per share 17.44 15.54 Dividend per share1 0.81 0.43 Share price development (EUR) Closing price (end of period) 20.67 High (during the period) 20.80 Low (during the period) 18.00 Market capitalisation (end of period, in billions) 19.43 Valuation indicators (end of period) Price/Earnings 10.2x Other Price/Tangible book value 1.2x Dividend payout ratio 40% 35% 1 2015 figure is subject to approval of the General Meeting of shareholders. For 2015 the proposed final dividend per share is EUR 0.44. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other “Their attitude reflected a sincere and Private client personal interest in our well-being” Service Introduction Strategic Report S peed and personalisation are important Who elements of our Private Banking service. Hans Muysson, Hans Muysson, a client for fifteen years, Client of ABN AMRO MeesPierson Business Report shares what he believes is going well and what could be improved. ABN AMRO MeesPierson advises clients on how to transfer wealth legally and tax-efficiently to future generations. Our all-inclusive, tailored service includes administration, settlement and management of the Risk, funding & capital Report estate. Philanthropy helps clients donate their wealth to a good cause. “The timing and high standard of service made a big impression on me when we were drawing up my estate plan. ABN AMRO MeesPierson took the initiative, in response to a number of developments we had gone through. Their attitude reflected a sincere and personal interest in our well-being. Everything was handled quickly and professionally. This was a textbook case for how to do it right. And yet there’s room for improvement. The bank could take more responsibility for its own investment advice. After all, the bank and advisor should also be Governance Report concerned with the relationship between their advice and the results. Showing vulnerability helps build loyalty. I also think that they would do well to place more emphasis on modernisation. That would distinguish ABN AMRO MeesPierson from the competition.” Annual Financial Statements Other Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other 16 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Introduction / ABN AMRO shares / Our external reporting landscape Introduction Strategic Report Strategic Report In a challenging economic and regulatory environment, our strategy should address the opportunities and threats presented by our environment. This report highlights selected trends, our profile, Business Report an update on our strategic priorities and how we create value for our stakeholders. 18 33 Risk, funding & capital Report Key trends Strategic governance 21 Our profile 34 Our stakeholders Governance Report 26 Update on our strategic priorities 35 How we create value Annual Financial Statements Other 18 Strategic Report / Key trends Introduction Key trends Strategic Report This selection of trends could affect our strategy, execution and business model going forward. 1 ​ Changing role for banks in society 2 ​ Changing client behaviour and expectations Business Report The public’s trust in the financial sector in general, and in Online and mobile banking are playing an increasingly banks in particular, is low. This is reflected in changing bigger role in how clients interact with banks. Clients regulations and government policies, heightened media continue to demonstrate a growing preference for online scrutiny and an emphasis on duty of care towards clients. and mobile banking services. They increasingly expect a wide range of digital solutions and demand an omniIn addition, the changing needs and preferences of both channel and real-time approach. At the same time, they clients and employees have to be addressed in innovative expect banks to be sensitive to privacy issues regarding Risk, funding & capital Report and transparent ways. As a result, a broad range of the use of customer data. In addition, trust has not yet stakeholders are likely to influence the shape of the banking been fully restored to the financial sector. As a result of landscape going forward. It is becoming increasingly this and other factors, society expects greater important for banks to actively engage their various transparency in pricing and risk, straightforward products stakeholders and to act upon the material topics raised. and better value. We take our responsibility to manage our impact on all Social networks and cooperative platforms, combined stakeholders seriously, including clients, employees, with a desire to be less reliant on banks, support investors and society at large. To meet stakeholder collaborative financing models such as crowdfunding, expectations, the Group is altering its role and purpose peer-to-peer lending, social savings and social lending. Governance Report in society and further adapting to the needs and interests As a result, banks are competing increasingly with new of its stakeholders. There is an increasing trend among financing and less regulated platforms. Technological banks to adopt an integrated stakeholder approach and developments in areas such as mobile banking, social to change the way their businesses create and sustain media, data analytics (‘big data’) and cloud computing value, beyond solely the financial aspect. create both opportunities and challenges for banks to respond to changing client behaviour and needs. Annual Financial Statements Clients also expect banks to play a role in influencing social and environmental issues, such as the protection of human rights and reduction of carbon emissions. Correspondingly, we have witnessed growing demand for more environmentally friendly and socially responsible solutions. In light of the above trends, we need to establish and retain client intimacy, put client centricity at the heart of the Group’s business and work in our clients’ best interests, now and in the future. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 19 Strategic Report / Key trends Introduction 3 ​ Rapid technological change 4 ​ Increasing regulation and supervision Strategic Report In the coming years, financial institutions will depend on The banking landscape will continue to be dominated technology more than ever to satisfy the customer’s need by higher and stricter capital, liquidity and conduct for convenience and to comply with regulatory rules, requirements, ongoing changes to accounting and which are increasing in number and complexity. regulatory rules, and uncertainty about a financial transaction tax. The evolving regulatory and supervisory A digital architecture based on core systems renewal, the landscape in the EU is challenging for banks, and there cloud, and data analytics is fundamental for banks to cope are concerns that this may lead to an uneven playing field Business Report with the challenges of the rapidly-changing financial with banks in other regions, such as the US and Asialandscape. This means we need to re-engineer our core Pacific, or with new start-ups, such as fintechs. systems and processes on a modern digital platform. In addition, new technologies, such as blockchain, are gaining There is a relatively lower level of regulation imposed on the interest of many banks and may potentially have an players with new business models (such as Apple Pay and even greater disruptive effect on the financial sector. Google Wallet) which are entering parts of the traditional value chain of banks. Developments in areas such as Risk, funding & capital Report Open innovation and ecosystems are of increasing payment services could harm our access to clients and importance in design and delivery in the digital era. The result in lower business volumes for the Group. market is moving fast, and we need to launch new technologies with a short time-to-market by means of Many regulations designed to integrate EU financial internal innovation and collaboration with external markets will continue to be implemented (such as partners. As new start-ups – ‘fintechs’ – become an MiFID II, PRIIPS, MCD, PSD II and IDD). In addition, important feature in the market, forging connections with recent developments indicate that the European these players (either through collaboration or acquisitions) Commission intends to support access to finance, will be necessary, as will close partnerships with the increase investments and remove barriers to cross-border major players leading the digital era revolution. investments within the EU going forward. Examples of Governance Report developments include the formulation of an action plan Rapidly-changing technology is also increasing the for a Capital Market Union, plans for a Green Paper on potential impact of cyberattacks as more personal boosting consumer choices and cross-border competition, information is rapidly migrating into digitally open and and a proposed Digital Single Market to simplify and globally interconnected technology platforms. Banks must promote access to digital content and online sales across ensure that their technology platforms remain robust and the eurozone. secure against evolving threats. Annual Financial Statements Developments in US regulations, such as the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) and sanctions regulations, will significantly affect international banks as these regulations may require banks to put additional controls and procedures in place. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 20 Strategic Report / Key trends Introduction The sheer number and intensity of regulatory and supervisory requirements is expected to stretch the 6 ​ ​Macroeconomic trends, economic and monetary environment Strategic Report resources of banks in their operations, IT infrastructure, After having contracted, GDP in the eurozone rose again and management time and focus. Supervision has moved in 2014 and 2015, with the Dutch economy growing on from principles-based to rules-based standards, and data average slightly faster than the eurozone economy in 2015. requirements are expected to be much more granular since the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) was implemented Even though there are signs that the Dutch economy will in 2014. In response to the ‘conduct agenda’ of regulators, continue to grow in 2016, major uncertainties continue to banks are required to ensure that they set the right tone at exist and need to be monitored closely. Emerging market Business Report the top and embed a culture of doing the right thing for economies have been slowing, partly as a consequence of clients. Examples of such developments have an impact the strong drop in commodities prices. Global economic on strategic choices, client pricing and costs. growth may continue to show weaknesses. In addition, we will continue to monitor other factors or events that may 5 affect Dutch, European and global economic conditions, such as the potential exit of the United Kingdom from the ​ Increasing competition European Union, political risks that could lead to financial Risk, funding & capital Report Increasing competitive pressure continues to come stress in the eurozone, a sharper slowdown in China, from both non-traditional and traditional players such as a negative market reaction to (stronger than expected) insurance companies and pension funds. Traditional bank interest rate increases by the US Federal Reserve, activities are being re-shaped and new business models developments in oil and other commodities prices, are being examined and developed. A different form of the risk of real deflation in the eurozone and heightened competition comes from technology firms and other new geopolitical tensions in other parts of the world. entrants, which are not subject to the same regulatory controls imposed on banks and have already entered parts of the traditional banking value chain. Commoditisation of mass market segments as a result of new technology Governance Report results in fiercer competition and pressure on margins. Regulatory frameworks also contribute to more intense competition. For example, higher lending costs of banks, as a result of stricter requirements on capital buffers and the liquidity ratio imposed by CRD IV, create an impetus for clients who are considering seeking alternative Annual Financial Statements sources of funds in order to be less reliant on banks. Another example is the Payment Services Directive (PSD II), which will require investments on our part while opening up banks to increasing competition. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 21 Strategic Report / Our profile Introduction Our profile Strategic Report This section presents an overview of who we are, our values and the business principles that guide us in pursuing our mission and vision. Description of ABN AMRO corporate clients through a mix of branches (approximately Business Report We are a leading Dutch full-service bank with a transparent 260 Retail Banking branches, 21 Private Banking branches, and client-driven business model, a moderate risk profile, 22 Corporate Banking branches and a dealing room), a clean and strong balance sheet with predominantly 1 24/7 online and mobile banking, and telephone and traditional banking products, and a solid capital position and remote advice. strong funding profile. We serve retail, private and corporate banking clients with a primary focus on the Netherlands Internationally, our operations across the Private Banking and with selective operations internationally. We hold a and Corporate Banking business segments are based on Risk, funding & capital Report strong position in the Netherlands across all three market in-depth financial expertise and extensive knowledge of segments: Retail Banking, Private Banking and Corporate numerous industry sectors and established market Banking. Our stable client base generates recurring and positions. resilient operating income. With a long-standing history in banking and roots that go We operate an omni-channel distribution network in back for centuries, we have emerged from the financial the Netherlands to serve our Dutch retail, private and crisis as a leading Dutch bank. Operating income Operating income Operating income Governance Report by type of income by business segment by geography (in %) (in %) (in %) 6 2 9 11 22 37 46 2015 2015 2015 EUR 8,455m EUR 8,455m EUR 8,455m Annual Financial Statements 72 80 15 Net interest income Retail Banking The Netherlands Net fee and commission income Private Banking Rest of Europe Other operating income Corporate Banking USA, Asia and rest of the world Group Functions Other 1 The Group has a clean and strong balance sheet, which means a balance sheet with predominantly traditional banking products resulting in client-driven assets and liabilities. The clean balance sheet is also underpinned by the Group’s limited trading and investment banking activities geared towards serving the basic needs of clients in the Commercial Clients and International Clients business lines and the absence of non-core operating units. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 22 Strategic Report / Our profile Introduction Our organisation We are organised into three business segments -Retail Banking, Private Banking and Corporate Banking -which are Strategic Report supported by Group Functions. ABN AMRO Retail Banking Private Banking Corporate Banking Group Functions Business Report Leading position in the Market leader in Established business partner TOPS (Technology, Operations Netherlands the Netherlands of the Dutch corporate sector & Property Services) Principal bank for 21% Ranked 4 in France, 3 in th rd 70,000 commercial and Finance including of the Dutch population Germany and the eurozone international clients with ALM/Treasury and Tax Market share of 21% in Solid position in selected annual turnover exceeding RM&S (Risk Management the small business segment1 countries in Asia and the EUR 1 million across & Strategy) Risk, funding & capital Report #2 position in savings Middle East 15 defined sectors PR&I (People, Regulations (including Private Banking)1 Serves over 100,000 clients Clientand capability-led & Identity) #1 in new mortgage production 1 Present in 11 countries with international strategy that Group Audit 5,000,000 retail clients more than 50 branches focuses on three specialities: Corporate Office 300,000 small businesses Fully integrated financial ECT Clients, Clearing and Seamless omni-channel advice and a broad array of Asset Based Finance distribution with a nationwide services focused on wealth International presence network of around 260 structuring, wealth protection in the key financial branches, Advice & Service and wealth transfer and logistical hubs Centres and 24/7 internet and mobile banking Governance Report 1 In the Netherlands. Strong business segments that complement each other Our three business segments – Retail Banking, Private Banking and Corporate Banking – complement each other in terms of income, profitability, capital and funding. Annual Financial Statements Retail Banking Private Banking Corporate Banking Income Stable income in mature market Stable generator of income, Income growth potential with gearing to market cycles Profitability Consistently high profits Attractive financial profile, Operations with impairments with scale an important driver trending down Capital Lower RWA intensity Capital light Higher RWA intensity Funding Funding gap Funding surplus Funding gap Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 23 Strategic Report / Our profile Introduction Our three businesses work together to ensure that clients Selective international activities are served by the business that best meets their needs We are active in selected focus areas internationally Strategic Report and to optimise the use of resources and expertise across through our businesses below: the organisation, including in the key areas of technology ÅÅ Private Banking International; and product solutions. ÅÅ ECT Clients; ÅÅ Asset Based Financing; Private Banking and Corporate Banking cooperate by ÅÅ Clearing; means of referrals. For example, Corporate Banking ÅÅ MoneYou. introduces business owners, shareholders and executives Business Report to Private Banking. Conversely, Private Banking refers These activities provide us with an avenue for profitable business owners and executives to Corporate Banking growth and geographic diversification, subject to clearly for their business needs. defined criteria. Growth must: ÅÅ support client-driven activities; Private Banking works together with Retail Banking to ÅÅ be capability-led; optimise the use of organisational expertise in areas such ÅÅ be in line with our moderate risk profile; as core banking services, internet and mobile solutions, ÅÅ improve profitability. Risk, funding & capital Report and product management. Corporate Banking also supports Retail Banking and Private Banking in areas such as Our ambition is to generate 20-25% of operating income investment research, FX and hedging products. from outside the Netherlands by 2017. We regularly talk with our clients to understand and More information on our international activities is provided assess their needs. During these discussions, we in the Business review section. also take into consideration the wealth category and risk profile of individual clients and the annual turnover of business clients. Our mission and vision, identity, core values and business principles Governance Report Our mission and vision Strong focus on the Netherlands Our mission is to be successful through the success of We have a strong exposure to the Dutch economy, which our clients, to strongly commit ourselves to and has the following characteristics: be positively recognised for our position on sustainability ÅÅ An internationally oriented economy; and transparency, and to be an organisation that has the ÅÅ Highly competitive economy; best talent and where people grow both professionally ÅÅ Sound financials; and personally. Annual Financial Statements ÅÅ Large, persistent current account surplus ÅÅ Recent reforms further strengthen the fundamentals Our vision is to be a professional, full-service bank with of the Dutch economy in areas such as pensions, a leadership role in the Dutch market. Internationally, the labour market and the housing market. we aim to be a capability-led bank in selected businesses and geographies. We recognise that our competitive Based on key statistics, there are signs that the Dutch advantage will always be our people, their talent and economy is entering a period of economic growth in the trustworthy relationships they have with our clients. terms of real GDP growth and an improving housing Our capabilities, sector knowledge and brand awareness market. This is reflected in rising house prices and give us a competitive edge over our competitors in transactions volume. For more information on the selected markets. economic environment, please refer to the Economic Other environment section in this report. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 24 Strategic Report / Our profile Introduction Our identity knowledge, expertise and network to craft smart solutions Our identity is based on our core values and business that meet today’s needs; and to make a difference and Strategic Report principles. It consists of the ambition to carefully listen to continuously improve. stakeholders, understand their goals, take their interests into account and help them take the next step based on Our core values responsible financial decisions; to combine the Group’s The core values of the Group are Trusted, Professional and Ambitious. Business Report Trusted Professional Ambitious At ABN AMRO we believe trust is all At ABN AMRO we understand At ABN AMRO we are always about establishing and maintaining banking. As true professionals, stretching ourselves and striving Risk, funding & capital Report lasting relationships. We take the time we have a thorough grasp of the to achieve more for our clients. to get to know our clients by listening banking industry and the discipline We always strive to improve to their specific needs and aspirations. to achieve results. ourselves. Our goal is to find the products and We genuinely believe in our profession and We make it our business to know what services that are right for our clients. take responsibility by saying ‘no’ if saying is going on in the market and to respond When we make a promise, we always live ‘yes’ would not do right by our clients. proactively, and we do everything possible up to it; when we communicate with our to understand what clients really need clients, we are always straightforward We create solutions that are simple, and to design innovative solutions. and never have hidden agendas. understandable and workable, and we strive to improve ourselves every day by Our optimism about the future drives Governance Report Our commitment to responsible banking working together and learning from one our ambition to offer our clients more. means we carefully weigh risks and returns another – and from our clients. At ABN AMRO, we are not afraid to so that our clients know their money is in venture outside our comfort zone to put good hands at all times. our ambition to work for our clients. Annual Financial Statements Our business principles Our business principles are formulated in the ‘I’ form to denote individual responsibility: I aim to provide my clients with the best solutions I am a passionate professional I take responsibility I am committed to sustainable business practices Other I only take risks I understand I build relationships through collaboration ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 25 Strategic Report / Our profile Introduction Our SWOT The following summary of our SWOT provides a brief overview of our perceived capabilities within the environment Strategic Report in which we operate. Strengths Weaknesses Leading player in the Dutch market as a full-service bank Large exposure to and dependence on the Dutch economy with strong core and local brands Growth opportunities in the Dutch home market limited Business Report Low complexity, client-driven business model that generates by current leading position resilient operating income Solid but complex IT landscape following the integration Strong positions in selected international activities of ABN AMRO Bank and Fortis Bank Nederland (FBN) Experienced senior management with a proven track record Suboptimal scale of businesses in a few countries which includes establishing the 'new' ABN AMRO and its successful IPO Risk, funding & capital Report Diversified mix of activities combined with a solid liquidity position, well capitalised, strong balance sheet contributing to a moderate risk profile Strong mobile and internet capabilities, which are highly appreciated by clients Opportunities Threats Dutch economy well-positioned to benefit from continued Potential macroeconomic and geopolitical headwind effects Governance Report momentum in the recovery of the global economy and the eurozone on the Netherlands and the eurozone New technological developments can be leveraged to respond Mature market combined with ageing population resulting in relatively to changing client behaviour and needs limited GDP growth upside Increasing client desire to be environmentally and socially Regulatory pressure, complexity and number of regulations responsible provides opportunities for new product development New entrants (including fintechs) within the banking value chain Lowered barriers to enter other EU markets as a result of the with potentially disruptive effects from the accelerating pace of European Banking Union (technological) innovation Annual Financial Statements Partnership with other players, including new entrants, which could Increased competition from incumbents and non-traditional players, enhance our ability to respond to challenges posed by the increasing especially in the mortgage and savings markets speed of change caused by technology Lack of public trust in traditional banks, if not recovered, Risk management activities for clients could increase sympathy towards new entrants Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 26 Strategic Report / Update on our strategic priorities Introduction Update on our strategic priorities Strategic Report Our strategy is based on five priorities designed to create sustainable value for our stakeholders – our clients, investors, employees and society at large – and with measurable financial targets and key metrics. These five priorities are: enhance client Business Report centricity, invest in our future, strongly commit to a moderate risk profile, pursue selective international growth and improve profitability. The following section provides an overview of our achievements in 2015. Risk, funding & capital Report Enhance Improve client profitability centricity Strategic priorities Governance Report Pursue selective Invest in international our future growth Strongly committed to a moderate risk profile Annual Financial Statements Strategic targets Targets Results 2015 Results 2014 Return on equity 10% 13%1 12.0% 10.9% Cost/income ratio 56% 60%2 61.8% 60.2% CET1 ratio (fully-loaded) 11.5% 13.5% 15.5% 14.1% Dividend payout ratio 50%2 40% 35% Other 1 Target for coming years. 2 Target for 2017. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 27 Strategic Report / Update on our strategic priorities Introduction Enhance client centricity Client Change in Net Change in Net Change in Net Strategic Report satisfaction1,2 Promoter Score Promoter Score Promoter Score Retail Banking2,3,4 Private Banking4,5 Corporate Banking4,6,7 78% 79% +1 +2 -2 2015 2014 2015 2015 2015 Business Report Invest in our future Employee engagement8 Gender diversity at the top Dow Jones Sustainability Index9,10,11 76% 76% 2015 2014 23% 20% 2015 2014 78 2015 53 2014 Risk, funding & capital Report Strongly committed to a moderate risk profile CET1 ratio LtD ratio Leverage ratio Underlying cost (fully-loaded) of risk (bps) 15.5% 14.1% 108.9% 116.5% 3.8% 3.7% 19 45 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Governance Report Pursue selective international growth Operating income from international activities 20% 19% 2015 2014 Annual Financial Statements Improve profitability Underlying return on equity Underlying cost/income ratio Dividend pay-out ratio 12.0% 10.9% 61.8% 60.2% 40% 35% 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 1 % clients rating ≥ 7 (scale 1 to 10). 6 NPS for Corporate Banking is composed of the NPS 7 Source: TNS NIPO/Deep Insight/Greenwhich. 2 Source: TNS NIPO. results of former Business Banking Clients, former 8 Source: Towers Watson. 3 Consists of ABN AMRO label clients. Corporate Clients, Public Sector Clients, Large Corporates 9 Source: RobecoSAM. Other 4 Percentage point change compared with 2014. and ECT Clients weighted by actual operating income. 10 2014 figures are based on publicly available information. 5 Source: TNS NIPO/Scorpio Partnership. The set-up of the NPS surveys differs among the 11 Scale 1 to 100 business lines. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 28 Strategic Report / Update on our strategic priorities Introduction Enhance client centricity were integrated into online channels for Private Banking We aim to stand out from other banks based on the clients. We designed a digital strategy for Corporate Strategic Report quality and relevance of our advice and services. We Banking that should help us achieve our ambition to make intend to further distinguish ourselves by enhancing our every client a promoter. needs-based client segmentation and providing solutions that suit our clients’ unique situations. We made improvements to our product offering in 2015. New mortgage services include a tool to help clients better We are embedding the Net Promoter Score (NPS) way manage payments, a pilot programme to assist flex workers of working in our operations. We focus on continuously with the application procedure, and a plan which we Business Report improving our services and internal processes based on announced to offer interest rate averaging to help clients feedback from our clients. In 2015 Retail Banking launched benefit from the low interest rate environment. Following a successful closed-loop feedback pilot to act on feedback the accelerated rollout of the new bank cards, almost all of gathered from clients, and we plan to implement this our Retail Banking clients can now make payments with process throughout the rest of Retail Banking in 2016. contactless cards. A pilot was launched to use biometric recognition technology for credit card payment verification. We work with our clients to avoid residual debt and to For our Private Banking clients, we introduced an innovative Risk, funding & capital Report help them meet their payments. An example is our discretionary portfolio management solution called the Carefree Living programme under which dedicated care Single Manager Mandate Funds, which incorporates the teams and certified financial coaches proactively support skill and experience of external asset managers with our clients with a higher risk of arrears. internal investment management expertise. We introduced several new products for our Corporate Banking clients such Several initiatives were implemented to improve the as eMandates, which supports a new selection of corporate quality of investment advice provided to our Private savings accounts and foreign ABN AMRO accounts. Banking clients in the Netherlands. These include ‘best fit’ Furthermore, we launched Online Credit Indication (OKI), initiatives based on risk profiles harmonised across Retail enabling Corporate Banking clients to apply for a loan and Private Banking, the Financial Scan with enhanced through online channels using Standard Business Reporting. Governance Report needs-based integrated financial advice and the establishment of a dedicated Private Banking Advice We are committed to providing transparent information & Service Team. about our products and services. To this end, we invite clients to rate the bank’s products on our website. We Further steps were taken in 2015 to enhance our sector have received more than 4,000 reviews and ratings to expertise as part of our service to Corporate Banking date, with an average rating of 4.0 on a scale of 1 to 5 for clients. For example, we have increased the level of insurance, payment and savings products. Annual Financial Statements specialisation of our Commercial Clients relationship managers, as 85% of these managers are expected to have their portfolios consolidated to allow them to focus on one of the 15 sectors covered. Invest in our future Re-engineering the IT landscape and optimising We continued our journey in 2015 in enhancing our processes omni-channel offering. Besides releasing updates of our TOPS 2020 mobile app, we introduced new, innovative ways to serve The TOPS 2020 programme, launched in 2013, aims to our Retail Banking clients. These include an Alert & Check re-engineer our IT landscape and simplify our processes app for iPhone and Apple Watch, a service enabling based on three aspirations: easiest to do business with, individuals to become clients using a selfie (a first for creating value through innovation and providing best-inOther a major Dutch bank), and a pilot financial planning app class productivity. The new IT landscape will be delivered launched in collaboration with a fintech start-up. in multiple stages until 2020. By reducing complexity, we Philanthropy Advice and several basic banking services will increase our agility and reduce our cost base. We took ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 29 Strategic Report / Update on our strategic priorities Introduction several important steps in 2015 on our roadmap towards Positively recognised position on sustainability 2020. We installed an on-premise dedicated private cloud and transparency Strategic Report and migrated the first applications to this environment. Our pledge is to be a better bank contributing to a better Since 2014, we have been rationalising our IT landscape world. As such, we are committed to being positively by decommissioning around 650 redundant applications, recognised for our position on sustainability and with a further reduction of 280 applications planned for transparency. Our sustainability strategy supports this 2016. And in 2016 we also intend to migrate a substantial commitment and is based on five aspirations: part of our applications to our on-premise dedicated ÅÅ We pursue sustainable and transparent operations by private cloud environment and will continue to rationalise acting within the letter and spirit of the laws and Business Report processes and applications. Furthermore, we will standards for financial services; accelerate the delivery of re-usable services in our ÅÅ We offer clients safe and reliable service by combining service-oriented software architecture. We aim to further highly secure and stable systems with client centricity; consolidate our international platforms and finish the initial ÅÅ We increase our contribution to a sustainable society implementation of a new advanced security concept by putting our expertise to use for the benefit of designed to protect our clients’ and employees’ digital society; data in this age of 24/7 accessibility. ÅÅ We enhance the bank’s positive value creation by Risk, funding & capital Report transparently integrating ESG criteria into our Retail Digitalisation investment advice and lending; The Retail Digitalisation programme, launched in 2014, ÅÅ We make our employees ambassadors of ABN AMRO will help us accelerate the digitalisation of key process. by giving them a role in increasing transparency and By making further investments in our online service sustainability. offering and mobile apps, we aim to deliver a seamless online, mobile and branch experience. In 2015, we further In 2015, we translated our sustainability strategy into optimised our distribution channels by integrating the goals and metrics. As an overall indicator of how we servicing of small business clients, further embedding are performing, we aspire to be in the top 15% of the remote advice in our offering, and increasing the number Dow Jones Sustainability Index by 2017. The goals are Governance Report of advisors and specialists across our branches. In light of presented in the Sustainability section of this report. the rapid digitalisation of society and increasing client preference for mobile and online banking, we consolidated Below are a number of sustainability results we achieved our branch network into 260 branches in the Netherlands. in 2015: We aim to be at the forefront of technological ÅÅ In June 2015, ABN AMRO issued the largest Certified developments so that we can swiftly address shifts in Climate Bond to date – with a notional amount of client behaviour. We seek to use the latest online and EUR 500 million – the proceeds of which are earmarked Annual Financial Statements mobile technology to improve the client experience and for loans to fund low-carbon residential mortgages, enhance convenience. commercial real estate and solar panels on existing residential real estate. IFR named this bond the Innovation ‘SRI Bond of the Year’; We teamed up with The Startup Orgy (TSO) to launch a ÅÅ We developed sustainable investment principles co-working space, TSO Munt Square, to support Dutch that focus on environmental, social and governance startups by sharing our expertise. Through our Digital (ESG) criteria; Impact Fund, we invest in innovative start-ups specialising ÅÅ We lowered the threshold for the sustainable fund in the digitalisation of financial products and services. This mandate, making it available to retail clients. This also gives us access to smart innovations which could makes it possible for a larger group of clients to invest benefit our business and retail clients. We have started, in sustainable assets; Other and will continue, to explore new ways of working by ÅÅ We continued to promote social entrepreneurship in organising hackathons and promoting lean start-up and the Netherlands through our Social Impact Fund by agile processes. making new investments. In 2015 a new social impact ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 30 Strategic Report / Update on our strategic priorities Introduction bond was launched in which the Fund collaborated with We continued to build a diverse and inclusive workforce BuzinezzClub and the city of Utrecht (the Netherlands); and focused mainly on three areas: gender, cultural Strategic Report ÅÅ In September 2015, ABN AMRO announced that it had diversity and disability. In 2015, we received recognition become a Climate Bonds Partner and that it is pursuing for our efforts as a best practice company for cultural growth on the green property bond market. diversity and gender diversity, as well as nominations for two awards in relation to our work with disabled people. We now report on the material sustainability results in New gender diversity targets have been set and we are the Annual Report, instead of in a separate Sustainability on track to meet these targets. At the end of 2015, 23% Report. Publication of a single Annual Report including of senior management positions and 25% of upper Business Report the bank’s financial and sustainability results will help us middle-management positions were held by women. achieve our goal of being positively recognised for our position on transparency. We also devoted attention to talent management in 2015 by introducing a new HR IT system called Talent2Grow to More details are provided in the Sustainability section of promote continuous learning across the organisation. For this report. managers, we set up the Leadership Impact Framework and a 360-degree e-survey to help them to further develop Risk, funding & capital Report Top Class Employer their skills and effectiveness. Making a difference to our clients now and in the future requires a talented, committed workforce. Our people We continued to do well in terms of employee strategy is based on our aspiration to be a Top Class engagement: we had a record response of 83%, and a Employer and is designed to help us attract, develop total of 76% of our employees felt engaged. This is equal and retain the best people. to the 2014 figure and higher than that of the global financial sector (74%). A total of approximately 9,500 In 2015, we defined a new Corporate Identity Statement suggestions were given on how to improve the bank. based on our core values – Trusted, Professional and Ambitious – and our business principles. We further Our new collective labour agreement and social plan Governance Report embedded the business principles in our performance (redundancy scheme) focus on sustainable employability management cycle and had 97% of all ABN AMRO and continuous development of talent. We have collective employees in the Netherlands take the Banker’s Oath. labour agreements and/or social plans (redundancy All employees of a bank must have taken the Banker’s schemes) in place not only in the Netherlands, but in other Oath by 1 April 2016. These measures are important steps parts of Europe, Australia and Japan as well. in helping the bank restore confidence in the Dutch financial sector. We continue to care for our employees as we care for our Annual Financial Statements clients and are committed to the health of our people and To support our vision of attracting the best talent in safety of the working environment. We encourage vitality an evolving labour market, we have redesigned our among our employees by offering a range of facilities to traineeship programme. The programme will now focus support their physical, mental, emotional and spiritual on six target groups, and the hiring procedure is based well-being. on an approach that is more personal than the traditional interviews. Furthermore, we began the process of reviewing and optimising our employee value proposition. S  trongly commit to a moderate This resulted in several project deliverables, including risk profile enhancing our employees’ knowledge, personalised We are committed to maintaining a moderate risk profile, benefits statements and increasing the capabilities of which is reflected by: (i) a clean and strong balance sheet, Other our HR professionals and managers. (ii) diversification and focus in our portfolio, (iii) sound capital and liquidity management, (iv) sustainability and transparancy, and (v) clear governance. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 31 Strategic Report / Update on our strategic priorities Introduction In 2015, we continued to optimise the sector-based credit We review our risk appetite annually and continue to focus risk approach throughout the Risk Management on actively managing it based on capital, liquidity and Strategic Report organisation, which focuses on improved risk knowledge interest rate risks. We increasingly manage our bank and awareness. This approach allows us to better monitor based on risk-adjusted return on risk-adjusted capital and manage portfolio intake and sector concentration and (RARORAC) to ensure that our capital is employed in the to add value in credit risk-taking and decision-making. most efficient way. We again heightened our focus on our concentration framework for sector, one obligor and country We further improved our capital buffer and revised our concentration. We continuously monitor and manage target for the fully-loaded CET1 ratio to 11.5-13.5%. Going Business Report our credit risk proactively in several sector deep dives, forward, we will continue to grow our capital position scenarios and stress testing (e.g. for our ECT and while awaiting more clarity on the impact of Basel IV. mortgages portfolio). Details on our capital position are provided in the Risk, funding & capital Report. We also continued to further strengthen the operational risk management framework using the best practices of the most advanced industry approach towards operational Pursue selective Risk, funding & capital Report risk management based on the Advanced Measurement  international growth Approach (AMA). We submitted a formal application to the We target growth in businesses where we have a strong ECB in the fourth quarter of 2015 on using the AMA model and proven track record (capability-led growth) and that fit to calculate regulatory capital and implemented the model into our moderate risk profile. in a parallel run in 2014. The ECB’s decision is expected in the second quarter of 2016. The AMA model is already The foreign currency branch licence granted by the China used to calculate economic capital for operational risk Banking Regulatory Commission in September 2015 purposes. This helps us in our continued efforts to further enables our ECT business to serve the integrate this approach into all types of operational risk international needs of our clients. In addition, Financial (convergence) and to strengthen awareness of operational Institutions set up local relationship management units in Governance Report risks among business managers and staff. the major Western European financial centres of London, Frankfurt and Paris. In February 2016, we obtained formal approval from the regulator for the use of the IMA approach for calculating The launch of our Clearing business on the Brazil equity regulatory capital. This approach was already being used market in 2015 further enhances our global market access, for internal risk management purposes, as well as for with our clearing services now spanning more than computing economic capital. 150 liquidity centres worldwide. Annual Financial Statements In terms of risk culture, we continued to ensure that In 2015, ABN AMRO sold its diamond and jewellery employees are aware of the drivers of our risk profile and activities in India to IndusInd Bank Limited. These activities feel accountable for the risks they take. Part of our were conducted under cohabitation with Royal Bank of employee training is the Integrated Risk Management Scotland in India. course, which is mandatory for all Risk Management department staff. The training was extended to most To strengthen our value proposition by leveraging our employees of the International Clients segment in 2015 scale, we announced the integration of our Private and we plan to roll it out to Commercial Clients staff in Banking activities in Jersey into our subsidiary in 2016. Furthermore, our employees are expected to adhere Guernsey. Integrating our Jersey and Guernsey activities to the ABN AMRO business principles. These principles will enable us to further strengthen the combined value Other guide us in everything we do and describe how we act as proposition to our clients in the region, leverage our scale, a bank, how we make decisions, and how we deal with create synergies and simplify our governance. various dilemmas. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 32 Strategic Report / Update on our strategic priorities Introduction Improve profitability The underlying cost/income ratio increased marginally to Underlying ROE improved to 12.0% in 2015 from 10.9% 61.8%, which is above the targeted range of 56-60% we Strategic Report in 2014, which is in the revised target range of 10-13% set for 2017. We were faced with higher IT investments announced in September 2015. Underlying profit for 2015 and increasing regulatory levies in 2015, and this will amounted to EUR 1,924 million, up 24% or continue in 2016. Our cost saving measures are expected EUR 373 million compared with the previous year. The to bring down the cost/income ratio to within our target improvement was achieved on sharply lower impairments range as planned by 2017. and despite higher regulatory levies, project costs and provisions. The decrease in loan impairments, seen across Business Report the consumer loan and mortgage portfolios, was driven mainly by stringent credit monitoring, balanced portfolio intake and continued improvement of the economic environment in the Netherlands. Risk, funding & capital Report Retail Digitalisation Retail Digitalisation TOPS 2020 As part of the drive to enhance the client experience, Retail Banking intends to accelerate the digitalisation of key customer processes. An initial investment of A total investment of EUR EUR 190 million is projected between 2014 and 2017, 699 million generating estimated annual recurrent cumulative cost savings of EUR 35 million as from 2017 onwards. In 2015 we invested in expanding our digital offering Governance Report and released several updates of our mobile banking is projected between 2013 and 2017 app, enhancing usability and introducing new features that make it easy for clients to interact with the bank. In addition, we reshaped our omni-channel TOPS 2020 and Retail digitalisation investments distribution in anticipation of changing client needs and savings by further integrating distribution for retail clients and (in millions) small business clients, by further embedding remote Annual Financial Statements 300 advice into our omni-channel offering and by pooling 265 240 of expertise within the branch organisation. 195 182 180 159 150 138 TOPS 2020 120 101 Under the TOPS 2020 programme, we are investing 60 59 in the current IT landscape to reduce complexity and costs and to enhance agility. A total investment 2014 2015 2016 2017 of EUR 488 million is projected between 2014 and Investments Cumulative savings 2017. The annual recurrent cumulative cost savings achieved (EUR 230 million as from 2017 onwards) will positively influence our business results as Other operating expenses at Group Functions are allocated to the business segments. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 33 Strategic Report / Strategic governance Introduction Strategic governance Strategic Report Below is an overview of the steps we take to assess, review and monitor the execution of our strategy. We review the validity and relevance of the long-term strategy annually in the Yearly Strategy Review (YSR). The Managing Board bases its discussions on, among External Internal Business Report other things, external developments (macroeconomic trends, competitive analysis, country landscape and scenario analysis) and internal developments. We discuss strategic subjects with various stakeholders. During the Yearly Strategic Review (YSR), the Managing Board Quarterly discusses the most notable developments in terms of Execution Monitoring Fact base their impact on the long-term strategy and whether Risk, funding & capital Report corrective actions are required. As part of the Strategy Control Cycle, the Managing Board monitors execution of the long-term strategy throughout Monitoring Dialogue the year by means of Quarterly Execution Monitoring Yearly (QEM). The QEM process consists of three building Strategic blocks: high-level monitoring of selected initiatives, Review performance reviews and in-depth dialogue sessions. The results of both the YSR and QEM are discussed, Governance Report reviewed and approved by the Supervisory Board as part of the corporate governance process. The Employee Assessment Council also receives updates on these results. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 34 Strategic Report / Our stakeholders Introduction Our stakeholders Strategic Report What drives value for our stakeholders being a healthy and stable company. We therefore focus We strive to create long-term, sustainable value for all of on systematically balancing the bank’s interests with our stakeholders. We take the interests of these those of our stakeholders in everything we do. stakeholders seriously and believe it is our responsibility to manage the impact of our activities. Part of this entails Business Report Key value drivers raised by stakeholders Examples of how are we responding Individuals: ▶▶Further embedding Net Promoter Score in our way ▶▶Convenience, transparency and reliability in the of working delivery of banking products and services ▶▶Providing transparent information about our products ▶▶Provide insights into clients’ personal finances and services and inviting clients to rate our products and offer advice and solutions based on their ▶▶Accelerating digitalisation and reshaping our omniRisk, funding & capital Report Clients unique situation channel distribution ▶▶Derive more value for money from the products ▶▶Increasing client intimacy through a range of initiatives, and services they purchase e.g. extensive use of remote advice in Retail Banking ▶▶Sensitivity to privacy issues regarding the use ▶▶Implementing Customer Excellence (based on Lean) of client data ▶▶Implementing the ABN AMRO Personal Data Policy ▶▶Introducing an advanced security concept designed to Businesses and corporates: protect our clients’ and employees’ digital information ▶▶Forge long-term relationships based on strong ▶▶Continue to improve our sector approach covering commitment, seamless execution and going 15 industry sectors the extra mile ▶▶Launching a digital strategy for Corporate Banking ▶▶Create insights and connectivity to other parts Governance Report of the value chain in the sector in which the client operates ▶▶Capture opportunities through product solutions and tools which provide convenience to the client ▶▶Strong, sustainable returns on risk ▶▶Undertaking material investments to position the bank adjusted capital for the future: Annual Financial Statements ▶▶Attractive dividend payout ratio and ▶▶Re-engineering IT landscape dividend yield ▶▶Digitalisation in all client segments ▶▶Simple business model operating in a relatively ▶▶Complying with regulatory demands Investors attractive banking market ▶▶Increasing our dividend payout ratio ▶▶Solid capital position and capital generation ▶▶Maintaining a clean and strong balance sheet through capabilities to respond to future regulatory our commitment to a moderate risk profile uncertainty ▶▶Continuous review of portfolio of activities ▶▶High quality and transparent disclosure ▶▶Increasing our CET1 target with flexibility to absorb regulatory changes and increasing requirements over time ▶▶Further improving our integrated reporting approach Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 35 Strategic Report / How we create value Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Key value drivers raised by stakeholders Examples of how are we responding ▶▶Being able to make a difference for clients and ▶▶Encouraging employees to work in a more society with a sense of purpose environmentally friendly manner ▶▶Fair, inclusive and flexible working environment ▶▶Creating a professional climate in which an inclusive ▶▶Well-supported by an efficient and collaborative workforce is given the opportunity to continuously working environment improve their expertise and skills in order to master their Risk, funding & capital Report Employees ▶▶Build sustainable employability through profession continuous improvement of employee skills ▶▶Offering a collective labour agreement and social plan and expertise (redundancy scheme) with a focus on employability and ▶▶Effective management style based on ‘walking continuous talent development the talk‘ by senior management whose actions ▶▶Encouraging employees to personalise their working are in line with what they say conditions and benefits, giving them the autonomy to create a healthy work-life balance ▶▶Developing our people continuously and keeping our organisation agile ▶▶Developing our managers’ leadership skills through training tools and 360-degree feedback Governance Report Community ▶▶Focusing on achieving a positively recognised position ▶▶Safeguarding human rights, health & safety, on sustainability and transparency and the environment via financing and ▶▶Actively seeking ways to offer our financial expertise investment activities to society Society ▶▶Embedding sustainability of our finance and ▶▶Embedding environmental, social and governance (ESG) at large investment services and offering sustainable criteria into our investment advisory process and products and services to our clients environmental, social and ethical (ESE) standards in our Annual Financial Statements ▶▶Minimising the organisation’s environmental lending activities impact ▶▶Building sustainable business operations and reducing ▶▶Actively contribute to restoring the public’s trust our environmental footprint (such as BREEAM in the banking industry certification for head office building and our fully energyneutral branch in ‘the Netherlands) Governments and regulators: ▶▶Adopting a proactive stance in meeting regulatory ▶▶Compliance with national and international requirements legislation ▶▶Implementing the Banker’s Oath Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 36 Strategic Report / How we create value Introduction How we create value Input Social and relationship Capital Strategic Report We forge and maintain cooperative relationships with our key stakeholders – clients, investors, employees and society at large – to make us a better bank and a good corporate citizen. Business Report External environment Financial Capital We use financial capital to invest in our Key trends activities, including reserves generated through equity, customer deposits and other funding sources. Risk, funding & capital Report ra tegic priori Human Capital r st ti e We need talented and committed employees to Ou s make a difference for our clients, now and in the future. As of year-end 2015, we had 22,048 FTEs Enhance Improve based in the Netherlands and abroad. profitability client centricity Who we are Strategic Our core values, mission, vision and business principles Intellectual Capital What we do This includes our specialised financial priorities Retail Banking Pursue Private Banking skills and expertise based on our strong Governance Report selective Corporate Banking Invest in Dutch and local brands abroad, and international Group Functions our future innovative capabilities we use to develop growth Strongly the best solutions and optimise the customer committed experience, as well as our in-depth sector to a moderate knowledge across 15 different industries. risk profile Natural Capital Annual Financial Statements This relates to the natural resources on which we depend to create value for all our stakeholders. The direct environmental impact of our operations is relatively limited; the bank’s primary energy footprint consists of carbon emissions and waste generation. Clients Investors Employees Society at large Technological Capital This consits of tangible and intangible infrastructures that we use to conduct our Other business activities. We are heavily dependent on our IT infrastructure for the continuity of our operations. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 37 Strategic Report / How we create value Introduction We recognise our dependence and impact on the forms of capital that are fundamental to our ability to create long-term value. Main output 2015 How we create value ▶▶Change in Net Promoter Score Social and relationship Capital Strategic Report ▶▶Retail Banking: +1 Our ambition is to build on our client-centric approach and to make our ▶▶Private Banking: +2 clients promoters by giving them the best experience. We continue to ▶▶Corporate Banking: -2 monitor and address the public’s trust in ABN AMRO and in the financial ▶▶Client satisfaction (% clients rating ≥7): 78 industry. By actively engaging other stakeholders through dialogue and ▶▶Trust Monitor score: 3.1 (scale 1 to 5) acting on material issues raised, we continue to strengthen our cooperative Business Report relationships with them. ▶▶ROE: 12.0% Financial Capital ▶▶CET1 ratio: 15.5% One of our key activities involves providing loans and advances to ▶▶C/I Ratio: 61.8% individuals, small businesses as well as corporates. We contribute to a ▶▶Dividend per share: EUR 0.81 strong and stable financial sector through our moderate risk profile. Our ▶▶Earnings per share: EUR 2.03 management actions, combined with improvements in the Dutch economy, Risk, funding & capital Report ▶▶Regulatory charges and taxes in have contributed to an improving ROE which underpins our dividend paying the Netherlands: approximately capacity. We invest in major initiatives such as TOPS 2020 and Retail EUR 1,912 million Digitalisation to further drive efficiency improvements. ▶▶Employee engagement score: 76% Human Capital ▶▶Global training costs as % of total staff Under our Top Class Employer strategy, we aim to attract, develop and costs: 2.1% retain the best people by defining a strong corporate identify, creating ▶▶Female representation in upper middlea culture of excellence and helping employees create their best place management positions: 25% to work. We continue to make progress in the area of diversity, focusing ▶▶Female representation in senior on gender, cultural background and disability. management positions: 23% Governance Report ▶▶Number of times employees volunteered Intellectual Capital for the community: 10,045 We continuously strengthen our advisory capabilities, expand our digital ▶▶Digital impact fund: EUR 10 million offering and reshape our distribution model to respond to changing client ▶▶Social impact Fund: EUR 10 million needs. We actively pursue collaboration with external parties to extend our innovative capabilities. In terms of contributing to society, we actively seek ways to offer our financial expertise, including sharing sector-specific knowledge and promoting social entrepreneurship. Annual Financial Statements ▶▶% reduction in energy consumed Natural Capital since 2012: 33% One of our priorities is to reduce our environmental footprint by making ▶▶CO2 emissions per FTE: 1.95 tonnes our operations more sustainable. We aim to decrease energy consump▶▶Sustainable client assets: EUR 6.4 billion tion in 2017 by 20-30% compared with 2012. Another way we contribute ▶▶Groenbank sustainable financing: to society is by embedding our sustainability approach in our financing EUR 216 million to corporates and investment services to retail and private clients. ▶▶Waste generated per FTE: 181 kg ▶▶Availability of our digital services: 99.5% Technological Capital ▶▶Number of households using internet We deliver value to our clients through a stable, secure and robust IT landscape with a high availability of systems and low losses from cyberOther banking: 5.8 million ▶▶Applications decommissioned since 2014: crime and fraud. We are currently in the process of re-engineering and Approximately 650 simplifying our IT landscape and accelerating the digitalisation of client processes, enabling us to be more agile and ready for the future. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Corporate client Introduction Sector-specific knowledge M  y advice to ABN AMRO is to continue Strategic Report Who Petter Heier, the dialogue with clients on sustainability CEO of Grieg Green and use its leverage to make them act responsibly. Business Report Corporate Banking’s Relationship Managers are specialised in a particular sector and use their in-depth knowledge to support clients in embedding sustainability in their business. One of those clients is Grieg Green, which provides ship recycling services to companies in the shipping industry. Petter Heier, CEO of Grieg Green, describes the cooperation with ABN AMRO: “Our parent Risk, funding & capital Report company Grieg Shipping Group had worked with ABN AMRO before, so they knew about our recycling operations. ABN AMRO wanted to know more about what we were doing and thinking in terms of sustainability, and we quickly found common ground.” “As a result, ABN AMRO now provides funding for our sustainable recycling solutions. Moreover, we got access to a network of potential business partners. The bank connected us to ship owners in North America and Southeast Asia. We share knowledge with each other whenever an interesting development occurs. For example, Governance Report we recently made a financial and environmental analysis for a ship that was bound to be recycled in Pakistan. Based on ABN AMRO’s research, it turned out that Turkey was the better option in both respects”. Annual Financial Statements Other Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements “We quickly found common ground. ABN AMRO now provides funding for our sustainable recycling solutions Other and we got access to a network of potential business partners.” Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other 40 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report / ABN AMRO shares / Our external reporting landscape Introduction Business Report Strategic Report This Business Report includes an overview of our operating environment, discussion and analysis of the results of operations, financial condition and business review of the Group Business Report and its different segments for the years 2015 and 2014. 42 86 Risk, funding & capital Report Economic environment Financial review Group results 88 46 Retail Banking 95 Private Banking 97 Corporate Banking 99 Group Functions 104 106 Regulatory environment ABN AMRO Group 50 50 Our people Governance Report 114 Business review Retail Banking 51 Annual Financial Statements Private Banking 61 Corporate Banking 69 Group Functions 79 Sustainability 119 Responsibility statement Other 42 Business Report / Economic environment Introduction Economic environment This section provides an overview of the main economic developments and trends Strategic Report that had an impact on our operating environment and results. Overview For the US economy, 2015 was a slightly bumpy, yet Business Report Growth of the Dutch economy picked up speed in the ultimately satisfying year. The period of growth percentages course of 2015, thanks to developments in consumption coming in at around 2%, which began in 2010, continued. and investment, and exports continued to show steady The steep decline in unemployment and improvement of growth driven by the weakening euro. Global trade, on the housing market were favourable developments. the other hand, disappointed. The Dutch housing market In addition, cheap oil drove up consumer spending. continued to recover on the back of the economic upswing and low – and declining – mortgage interest Unlike the US, the eurozone has staged a fragile recovery Risk, funding & capital Report rates. Bank lending faltered in 2015. in recent years, with the economy growing at a modest pace in 2015 – enough to bring down unemployment slightly and to improve public finances in most countries. Economic convergence The monetary union had the wind in its back on several Normally, emerging countries notch up the highest growth fronts, benefiting from low oil prices, the depreciated euro figures, followed by the US and with the eurozone following against the dollar, very low interest rates and improved at a respectable distance. This was again the case in 2015. credit conditions. The Greek debt crisis once again At an estimated average of almost 4%, growth of emerging reached the boiling point in the summer. Fortunately, economies was clearly higher than it was in the US and ‘Europe’ proved able to tackle problems when under the eurozone (2.4% and 1.5% respectively). Yet a shift was pressure. Although things are less urgent now, the Governance Report noticeable this past year. A number of emerging countries, situation in Greece remains vulnerable. such as Russia and Brazil, hit stormy weather. The biggest emerging market, China, saw its growth percentages slowly The eurozone and US economies were both inhibited by decline. This was the side effect of the transition from an the slowdown in emerging countries. Recovery came exports-focused economy to an economy focusing on mainly from domestic economies. At the same time, domestic spending. While growth of emerging countries emerging economies were held back by the imminent weakened, growth in the eurozone strengthened somewhat. interest rate increase in the US, which triggered an Annual Financial Statements outflow of capital to the US. This mainly affected countries Converging global cycles such as Brazil, which are dependent on foreign loans. The (GDP, % year-on-year) US is affected by developments in emerging economies, and vice versa. 8 6 Monetary divergence As the previous graph shows, economic cycles converged 4 in 2015. Monetary policies, on the other hand, diverged. 2 In this respect, all eyes were on the US Federal Reserve (Fed) and the European Central Bank (ECB) – and they Other 0 took divergent paths. Whereas the ECB opted to loosen -2 the monetary reins in late 2015, the Fed decided in 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 December to raise the Fed funds rate. This was US Eurozone Emerging Markets presumably the first of a series of interest rate hikes. Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream, EIU Emerging Markets Figure for 2015 is an ABN AMRO estimate. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 43 Business Report / Economic environment Introduction There was already evidence of this divergence on the capital Dutch growth dynamics market, as the graph shows. Meanwhile, the US was in (% year-on-year) Strategic Report an advanced stage of economic recovery, whereas the 12 upswing in the eurozone was fragile. What is more, this was 8 coupled with inflation that was far below the ECB’s target. Due to this monetary divergence, the euro weakened 4 against the dollar in 2015 from 1.21 USD to 1.09 USD. 0 Diverging bond yields -4 Business Report (Interest on ten-year government bonds) -8 5 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 4 GDP Exports Private consumption Fixed investment Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream 3 2 Consumption and investment continued the upward trend Risk, funding & capital Report 1 that began in 2014. Consumers benefited from the rise in real wages, thanks to low inflation, and from the decline in 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 pension contributions. The improving housing market had positive wealth effects, while investment in homes also rose US Eurozone steeply. There were no substantial government cutbacks in Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream 2015. The upturn in the housing market, improved financing conditions, higher capacity utilisation rates and better growth prospects stimulated businesses to invest more. Employment Slight acceleration of Dutch economic went up, causing wages to rise slightly. All in all, there was growth a chain of favourable domestic developments in 2015. Governance Report Recovery produces recovery. After bottoming out in 2012, the Dutch economy has picked up for three consecutive Sector developments years. Whereas in the previous years exports were the The broad-based recovery of the Dutch economy (exports, key driver, the recovery was rather broad-based in 2015. investments and consumption grew) pushed up turnover Growth of consumption and investment accelerated growth in all business sectors in 2015 – most of which throughout the year. grew for the second consecutive year. Some sectors even experienced a growth spurt. Business services, for Broad-based growth of the Dutch economy Annual Financial Statements instance, increased by 5% in 2015. The TMT sector Dutch economic growth was higher in full-year 2015 than (Technology, Media & Telecommunications) posted steep it was in 2014 (1.9% versus 1%). Growth would have been rises in percentages, benefiting from strong demand a half percentage point higher in both years if the created by the digital changeover that many companies production of natural gas had not been restricted due to are making. Construction led the pack, growing by around earthquakes in the north of the Netherlands caused by gas 9% in 2015. The upturn in the housing market caused extraction. The Dutch economy benefited from a number a significant increase in new building activities. of favourable developments. Some of these were movements that buoyed the entire eurozone, such as Growth figures for the sector are not always reflected in lower oil prices and low interest rates. The weak recovery corporate financial results. Overcapacity and changing of the eurozone and depreciation of the euro stimulated earning models could drag down business performance, Other Dutch exports. A notable development in 2015, however, mainly in the retail sector. Despite two continuous years was that domestic spending was responsible for the of modest sales growth, many retailers are contending growth acceleration compared with 2014. with big problems caused by the steep rise in online sales. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 44 Business Report / Economic environment Introduction Good year for housing market acceptance criteria in 2015. The surveyed banks attributed The housing market continued its upward trend in 2015. this development to competitive pressure and changing Strategic Report The economic recovery, combined with low and further risk perceptions. They also reported stronger demand for declining mortgage interest rates, led to increased credit among businesses. The results of this survey seem transaction volumes in the housing market, both for to be inconsistent with the decline reflected in ‘hard’ data. existing and for new homes. Sixteen per cent more A possible explanation is that the survey only relates to existing homes were sold in 2015 than in the previous new loans, whereas the 5% decline was partly the result year. The number of homes up for sale declined to of repayments. There are no indications that alternative 156,000 at year-end 2015, or 43% fewer than in 2014. credit platforms caused these declines, as these platforms Business Report Sellers had a better negotiating position, as is reflected in are very small. higher selling prices, which rose by 3.2% in 2015. Major differences were seen between regions, with large cities Dutch bank loans continue to shrink (Outstanding loans to Dutch entities, % year-on-year) in the lead. In this strengthening market, problems with negative equity gradually melted and backlog demand 4 picked up momentum. A return of the gift tax exemption 2 to lower levels and tighter mortgage standards barely Risk, funding & capital Report dented the housing market. 0 -2 The market is recovering, but the peak seen before the credit crisis is a distant memory. House prices are still -4 11% lower than when they were at their highest in -6 August 2008, although they have risen by 13% since 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 the low in June 2013. Non-financial corporations Households, for house purchase Source: DNB Data adjusted for securitisations and breaks Credit volume in the Netherlands continues Governance Report to contract Lending at eurozone level grew in 2015. Loans outstanding Costs of loan losses among the major Dutch banks to businesses and families rose, though by modest declined significantly in 2015. The economic recovery led percentages. It is hard to say to what extent monetary to a significant decline in the number of bankruptcies, relaxation filtered through to the real economy and to which benefited these banks. We do not have a clear what extent the demand for credit grew. Both factors picture of how interest margins developed among Dutch presumably played a role. banks in 2015. Data provided by the Dutch central bank Annual Financial Statements point to downward pressure on interest rates on both The credit volume of banks in the Netherlands did not sides of the balance sheet. Interest rates on home grow. The total volume of mortgage lending by banks to mortgages decreased, both for new contracts and for families inched down (-0.5% after adjusting for renewals. Interest rates for short-term deposits, both for securitisations). One factor at play here is that annuity businesses and for families, were also under downward mortgages have become popular once again, due to tax pressure. Savings balances of Dutch residents at banks in reasons. This means that consumers are repaying their the Netherlands rose by 1.3% in 2015. Banks’ capital mortgages more quickly than they were with previously buffers have grown in recent years to levels required in popular mortgage forms. Furthermore, banks have 2019 under Basel III. Yet there is uncertainty about these tightened their credit standards and competition with buffers as solvency rules will probably be further tightened non-banks intensified. Lending by banks to non-financial in the coming period. The way it looks now, that will Other businesses fell by 3.3% (after adjusting for mainly affect risk-weighting for home mortgages, securitisations). On the business front, banks relaxed their corporate loans and government bonds and the ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 45 Business Report / Economic environment Introduction Group Economics continued to support the bank’s Strategic Report businesses, Finance and Risk departments, and clients in 2015. Our research efforts, for example, were a crucial element in cementing client relationships in the area of fixed-income sales and trading. Among other things, ABN AMRO was added to the counterparty list of a prominent European Researching and forecasting central bank with which we had not done business Business Report our economic environment before. In its annual evaluation, the bank labelled our research as ‘very strong performance’. In addition, the prestigious Metal Bulletin awarded our precious metals analyst first prize for accurate forecasting in Georgette Boele, precious metals and 1 2015. Group Economics provided most of the currency analyst content to the Insights platform, where research and commentary are made available to the rest of the Risk, funding & capital Report named no. bank, clients and other interested parties. And lastly, predictor of the price of precious metals 2015 was another year in which our research earned by Metal Bulletin significant media exposure both in the Netherlands and internationally. around 1,200 external publications Governance Report produced by Group Economics requirements for bailing in a bank in the event of bankruptcy. In addition, internal risk models used by banks Annual Financial Statements are under discussion. Looking ahead to 2016 There are signs that the Dutch economy will continue to grow in 2016, as the upward spiral described does not seem to have come to an end. There are major uncertainties, however, and we update our forecasts regularly. The imminent monetary tightening in the US, the strong decline in oil prices, and turmoil in emerging economies caused volatility in the financial markets in Other 2015. Turbulence increased in the first two months of 2016, making a forecast of limited value. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 46 Business Report / Regulatory environment Introduction Regulatory environment Overview Strategic Report In 2015 further progress was made under post-crisis such as the Directive on Markets in Financial Instruments legislation in implementing rules under the Bank Recovery (MiFID II), were also published. and Resolution Directive (BRRD) and Deposit Guarantee Scheme Directive (DGSD). And, as the final step towards The European Commission shifted its focus in 2015 to Business Report a Banking Union, a proposal for the European Deposit jobs and growth. This resulted in an action plan for the Insurance Scheme (EDIS) was published. Large numbers Capital Markets Union (CMU) and a Green Paper on retail of implementing measures of other European legislation, financial services. Regulatory overview Risk, funding & capital Report Financial Supervision Amendment Act 2016 European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II / Regulation (MiFID II/MiFIR) Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II / Regulation (MiFID II/MiFIR) Market Abuse Directive II/Regulation (MAD II/MAR) International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Mortgage Credit Directive (MCD) Dodd-Frank Act Insurance Distribution Directive (IDD) Capital Requirements Directive/Regulation (CRD IV/CRR) Benchmark Regulation Securities Financing Transactions Regulation (SFTR) Packaged Retail Investment and Insurance-Based Securitisation Regulation Products Directive (PRIIPS) Data Protection Regulation European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) Dodd-Frank Act Common Reporting Standard (CRS) Central Securities Depositories Regulation (CSDR) Green Paper on retail financial services and insurance Consumer Improve Governance Report protection transparency Financial Supervision Amendment Act 2016 Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II / Strengthen Taxation/ Regulation (MiFID II/MiFIR) financial charges Market Abuse Directive II/Regulation (MAD II/MAR) industry Benchmark Regulation Single Supervisory Mechanism Regulation / Framework Regulation (SSM) Annual Financial Statements Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive (DGSD) Payment Services Directive II (PSD II) Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) Payment Accounts Directive (PAD) Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive (DGSD) 4th Anti Money Laundering Directive Financial Transaction Tax (FTT) Action Plan on building a Capital Markets Union Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) Prospectus Regulation Dutch bank tax European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS) European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS) Given the need to assess, respond and implement the therefore decided to install a Regulatory Committee vast stream of new rules and regulations in a timely and directly under the Managing Board and a Regulatory Office efficient manner, ABN AMRO recognises that a robust under the supervision of this Regulatory Committee. Other regulatory function is paramount. The Managing Board ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 47 Business Report / Regulatory environment Introduction Completing the Banking Union Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive In response to the financial crisis, the European The Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD), Strategic Report Commission pursued a number of initiatives to create which establishes a framework for the recovery and a safer and sounder financial sector. These initiatives, resolution of banks and certain investment firms, came Capital Requirements Directive IV/Capital Requirements into force on 2 July 2014. The BRRD sets out a set of tools Regulation (CRD IV/CRR), BRRD and DGSD, form the available to competent authorities to intervene in an basis for the Banking Union. To further create the Banking unsound or failing bank sufficiently early and quickly so as Union, a Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) and a to ensure the continuity of the bank’s critical financial and Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) for banks became economic functions, while minimising the impact of the Business Report operational. As a final step to completing the Banking bank’s failure on the economy and financial system. The Union, the European Commission published a proposal measures of the BRRD took effect on 1 January 2015, for a European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS) in 2015. with the exception of the bail-in resolution tool which may be applied as from 1 January 2016 at the latest. However, Capital Requirements Directive IV and Capital Dutch implementation of the BRRD only came into effect Requirements Regulation on 26 November 2015. On 16 December 2010 (revised in June 2011), the Basel Risk, funding & capital Report Committee on Banking Supervision (the ‘Basel As a result of the introduction of the Single Resolution Committee’) released the measures referred to as Basel Mechanism (SRM), the Single Resolution Board (SRB) will, III: A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks as from 1 January 2016, be the single resolution authority and banking systems (the Basel III Framework). This for the Group ultimately in charge of the decision to framework was implemented in the European Economic initiate the resolution, while operationally the decision will Area (EEA) through the Capital Requirements Directive be implemented in cooperation with national resolution (CRD IV) and the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR). authorities (NRAs). On 22 December 2014, the Basel Committee published Single Resolution Fund consultations (informally referred to as Basel IV) for In addition to the SRB, the SRM also provides for a single Governance Report revised standardised RWA calculations and on the resolution fund (Single Resolution Fund). The Single application of capital floors. As a result, banks that apply Resolution Fund will be financed by ex-ante individual advanced approaches to risk categories may be required contributions from banking entities included in the SRM. to apply the higher of (i) the RWA (REA) floor based on The individual contribution of each bank will be based on a (new) standardised approaches and (ii) the RWA (REA) flat contribution (pro rata based on the amount of liabilities based on advanced approaches in the denominator of their excluding own funds and covered deposits, in comparison ratios. Although the timing for the adoption, content and to the total liabilities, excluding own funds and covered Annual Financial Statements impact of these proposals remains subject to considerable deposits, of all participating banks) and a risk-based uncertainty, implementation of the standardised RWA contribution. In addition, where the funds of the Single (REA) floors would have a significant impact on the Resolution Fund are not sufficient to cover the losses, calculation of the Group’s risk-weighted assets due to costs or other expenses incurred by the use of the Single the substantial difference in RWA (REA) calculated on Resolution Fund in resolution actions, extraordinary ex-post the basis of advanced approaches and such calculation contributions from the participating banks may be raised, on the basis of new standardised rules for mortgages and, with a maximum of three times the annual amount of the to a lesser extent, exposures to corporates. individual contribution. The funding obligation will enter into force on 1 January 2016, and in principle after eight For revisions to the standardised approach for credit risk, years from that date the available financial means of the the Basel Committee published a second consultation on Single Resolution Fund must in principle be at least 1% of Other 10 December 2015. The proposals differ in several ways the amount of covered deposits of all participating banks. from the initial set of proposals of December 2014. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 48 Business Report / Regulatory environment Introduction Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive Launch of the Capital Markets Union The deadline for the transposition of the majority of On 30 September 2015, the European Commission Strategic Report provisions of the Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive published an action plan for building a Capital Markets (DGSD) into national law was 3 July 2015. In the Union (CMU). The key objectives of the CMU are to Netherlands the provisions of DGSD were implemented improve the free movement of capital by removing the on 17 November 2015. The funding of the current deposit barriers for cross-border investments and to diversify the guarantee scheme is amended from an ex-post funded sources of funding. system to a partially ex-ante funded system. This means that participating banks will have to contribute to the The CMU aims to complement Europe’s tradition of bank Business Report scheme on a periodic basis rather than facing charges only financing by (i) unlocking more investments from the EU when an actual insolvency event occurs requiring them to and the rest of the world, (ii) connecting financing more compensate the clients of the affected banks. The available effectively to investment projects across the EU, (iii) means in the deposit guarantee scheme system will in making the financial system more stable, (iv) reinforcing principle need to be 0.8% of the amount of covered financial integration and (v) increasing competition. deposits held with the participating banks in 2024. Contributions will be based on the covered deposits of In this respect, the European Commission published Risk, funding & capital Report the bank and risk-based contributions, but member states proposals for establishing a framework for simple, may also impose minimum contributions to compensate transparent and standardised securitisations and new clients of the affected bank. The ex-ante funding system is regulatory capital requirements for securitisations for expected to increase the Group’s expenses in connection banks in CRR. with the deposit guarantee scheme. In addition, if the available financial means of a deposit guarantee scheme is In addition, the European Commission has started a public insufficient to repay depositors when deposits become consultation on covered bonds. On 30 November 2015 the unavailable, an extraordinary contribution is required, which European Commission proposed a regulation to revise the will in principle not exceed 0.5% of the covered deposits Prospectus Directive to reduce barriers for the listing of held with the participating banks per calendar year. smaller firms, secondary issuances and frequent issuers. Governance Report Additional requirements of the DGSD include a broadening of the scope of clients for whom the deposit guarantee will be available (in addition to consumer deposits, deposits Focus on retail financial services of businesses will be included, whereas currently only On 10 December 2015, the European Commission companies who publish abridged annual accounts fall within published a Green Paper on retail financial services and its scope), transparency and information requiremets insurance to boost consumer choice and competition in to customers and shortening of the period for making cross-border retail financial services and insurance. The Annual Financial Statements payments under the DGSD from 20 working days to Green Paper complements the action plan for building a 7 working days. CMU (which will provide more options and better returns for savers and retail investors), the Digital Single Market European Deposit Insurance Scheme (which is designed to ensure that digitalisation can be On 24 November 2015, the European Commission proposed used most effectively in supporting consumers) and the a euro-area wide insurance scheme for bank deposits. Internal Market Strategy (to create an open single market The European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS) would that delivers for consumers, professionals and job creators). develop over time and in three stages. It would consist of a re-insurance of national deposit guarantee schemes, Recently adopted measures such as the Insurance moving after three years to a co-insurance scheme, in Distribution Directive (IDD), Mortgage Credit Directive which the contribution of EDIS will progressively increase (MCD), Regulation on Packaged Retail Investment and Other over time. As a final stage, a full European Deposit Insurance based Products (PRIIPS), MiFID II and Payment Insurance Scheme is envisaged in 2024. Services Directive II (PSD II) already address a number of issues across the retail financial and insurance sectors. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 49 Business Report / Regulatory environment Introduction In 2015, the European Securities and Market Strategic Report Association (ESMA) published a substantial number of draft implementing measures (delegated acts) under the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (MiFID II) and the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR). The definitive implementing measures will replace, extend and improve existing Changing European rules European rules on markets in financial instruments, Business Report for financial markets give more extensive powers to supervisory authorities and introduce the possibility to impose 6,200 higher fines in case of infringement of requirements. A project group is preparing the timely > pages implementation of these measures. ABN AMRO and its subsidiaries that fall within the scope of MiFID II Risk, funding & capital Report have been published in the legislative will have to review their existing activities and, process (to date) where necessary, may need to adjust the manner in which they operate. These Group entities will 60 probably also be required to provide more information to their clients about such matters as > measures the costs and charges involved in providing investment services. related to second level legislation are expected to include MiFID II Governance Report However, the European market for retail financial services insolvency, by the end of 2016. The next steps in respect of and insurance remains fragmented, and consumers do not the Green Paper for retail financial services will be presented shop abroad. Therefore, the objective of this Green Paper is in an action plan, to be published around summer 2016. to see how the European market for retail financial services Annual Financial Statements (insurance, loans, payments and savings accounts and other Considering the latest consultation of the Basel retail investments) can be further opened up. This would Committee for revisions to the Standardised Approach for not only benefit consumers, but also financial institutions credit risk, there may be other items on the agenda of the by giving them access to a much wider marketplace. Basel Committee for 2016. Lastly, the discussion paper of the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs) on automation in financial advice could indicate that 2016 will Outlook for 2016 see a stronger focus on technological development and Many initiatives to integrate European financial markets financial innovation. will continue to be implemented in 2016 (a few examples are MiFID II, PRIIPS, MCD, PSD II and IDD). In addition, further steps under the action plan for a Capital Markets Other Union are expected, such as a legislative initiative on ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 50 Business Report / Business review Introduction Business review ABN AMRO Group Strategic Report ABN AMRO Business Report Retail Banking Private Banking Corporate Banking Group Functions Risk, funding & capital Report Business description Geographic presence ABN AMRO is a leading Dutch full-service bank with a ABN AMRO is present in 22 countries and territories. transparent and client-driven business model, a moderate In the Netherlands, our home market, ABN AMRO is risk profile, a clean balance sheet with predominantly a full-service bank. We have an extensive presence both traditional banking products, and a solid capital position in terms of bricks and mortar and through a leading online and funding profile. ABN AMRO serves retail, private and banking service offering. Our international presence is Governance Report corporate banking clients with a primary focus on the for selected businesses in which ABN AMRO has specific Netherlands and with selective operations internationally. expertise and leading positions, such as Energy, ABN AMRO presents four reporting segments: Retail Commodities & Transportation (ECT Clients), Clearing, Banking, Private Banking, Corporate Banking (including Private Banking and asset-based financing. In these sub-segment information) and Group Functions. businesses: ÅÅ ABN AMRO has critical size and expertise; Operating income by business segment ÅÅ risk-taking is well understood and modest; (in %) Annual Financial Statements 2 1 ÅÅ significant value-creating opportunities exist. In addition, the international network serves Dutch clients 35 37 46 outside the Netherlands. This is part of our strategy to 2015 2014 develop and maintain sustainable relationships with Dutch EUR 8,455m EUR 8,055m clients, both as their primary bank in the Netherlands and 49 for their businesses abroad. Partner agreements are in place with selected banks to ensure coverage for clients 15 15 where ABN AMRO is not physically present. Retail Banking Private Banking Corporate Banking Group Functions Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Retail Banking Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Retail Banking is a leading retail bank with a solid and recognised position in our home market, the Netherlands. We are the principal bank for approximately 21% of the Dutch population and have a market share of 21% in the small business segment in the Netherlands. We provide a full range of transparent retail banking products and high-quality services under the ABN AMRO brand, and specific products and services under different labels. We offer our products and services through omni-channel distribution with extensive physical and digital coverage. 5 2 Risk, funding & capital Report Number two1 in savings (including Private Banking) Number of Number one2 in new mortgage production. ± retail clients Leading position in the Netherlands. Principal bank for 21%3 of the Dutch population and market m share of 21%4 in the small business segment 1 260 Seamless omni-channel ± Investable assets. 300,000 distribution with a small businesses with annual nationwide network, turnover up to EUR 1 million Advice & Service Centres Number of branches and 24/7 internet and up to m Governance Report worldwide mobile banking Overview In 2015 we maintained a leading market position and captured our omni-channel distribution network and accelerating a number one market position in new mortgage production, with digitalisation of our client processes. We released several updates a combined market share of all ABN AMRO brands in the Dutch of our mobile banking app this past year, enhancing usability and mortgage market of approximately 20%. Retail and Private introducing new features that make it easy for clients to interact Annual Financial Statements Banking together held a market share of 21% in the savings and with the bank. Clients are rapidly adopting digital channels, yet at deposits market. the same time physical distribution remains important, with clients increasingly requiring high-quality advice. We aim to provide Building on our client-centric approach, we aspire to offer the best seamless navigation and easy accessibility in every distribution client experience among our peers, making clients the bank’s channel. To this end, we reshaped our distribution network in ambassadors. To this end, we measure the Net Promoter Score anticipation of changing client needs by further integrating (NPS). More important than the score itself, however, is our distribution to retail clients and small business clients, further approach: we carefully monitor client feedback on what we can embedding remote advice in our omni-channel offering and pooling improve and what we are doing well. In 2015 we started a pilot to expertise in the branch network. help us improve our service based on clients’ feedback. We will further roll out the NPS way of working in 2016. Looking ahead, Retail Banking will continue to put clients’ interests first by further embedding the NPS way of working, expanding our Other We continued and launched several initiatives in 2015 to further digital services offering, optimising and simplifying products and improve the client experience. For example, we are redesigning services, and focusing on high-quality advice. 1 Source: calculated based on DNB Domestic MFI statistics and internal analyses, H1 2015 3 Source: GfK Online tracker, 2015. figures. 4 Source: TNS NIPO, 2015. 2 Source: calculated based on information provided by the Dutch Land Registry (Kadaster), 2015. 52 Business Report / Business review / Retail Banking Introduction Enhance client centricity Strategic Report Client satisfaction1,2 Change in Net Promoter Score Retail Banking2,3,4 77% 79% 2015 2014 +1 2015 Business Report Invest in our future Employee engagement5 Trust monitor6,7,8 78% 79% 3.1 5 2015 2014 2015 out of Risk, funding & capital Report Strongly committed to a moderate risk profile Underlying cost of risk (bps) Loan-to-Market Value residential mortgages9 6 2015 29 2014 76% 79% 2015 2014 Governance Report Improve profitability Net profit (in millions) Cost/income ratio 1,226 1,079 54.6% 51.6% 2015 2014 2015 2014 Annual Financial Statements 1 % clients rating ≥7 (scale 1 to 10). 6 Source: Trust Monitor, Dutch Banking Association. 2 Source: TNS NIPO. 7 No 2014 figures available. 3 Percentage point change compared with 2014. 8 On a scale of 1 to 5. 4 Consists of ABN AMRO label clients. 9 Excludes NHG residential mortgages. 5 Source: Towers Watson. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 53 Business Report / Business review / Retail Banking Introduction Business description services and high-quality financial advice. We believe Retail Banking is a leading retail bank in the Netherlands these principles will help us create a positive client Strategic Report with stable and recognised market positions and a loyal experience, turning the bank’s clients into ambassadors. client base. We serve approximately 5 million retail clients with investable assets up to EUR 1 million and We provide a full range of transparent retail banking approximately 300,000 small businesses with annual products and high-quality services under the ABN AMRO turnover up to EUR 1 million. We expect to lower the brand, and specific products and services under threshold of EUR 1 million in investable assets to different labels. EUR 500,000 in 2016. Business Report We offer our products and services through omni-channel Retail Banking and Private Banking cooperate closely to distribution with extensive physical and digital coverage. deliver a seamless offering across all wealth categories in Our complementary offering is provided by intermediaries the Netherlands through institutionalised upstreaming and and subsidiaries. We aim to be at the forefront of downstreaming of clients to the right segment. We technological developments so that we can swiftly provide a feeder channel of business clients to Corporate address shifts in client behaviour. We seek to use the Banking based on annual turnover criteria and receive latest online and mobile technology to improve the client Risk, funding & capital Report business clients who are better served by Retail Banking. experience and enhance convenience. The Retail Banking client proposition is based on three principles: always easily accessible, ease in daily banking Product offering Retail Banking Product Retail clients Small businesses Mortgages • Governance Report Savings and deposits • • Consumer lending • Commercial lending • Credit cards • • Payments • • Investments • • Insurance • • Financial Planning • • Annual Financial Statements Business developments The NPS methodology measures how likely customers are to recommend a company to their family and friends. Putting clients’ interests first Promoters are those who respond with a score of 9 or 10 Building on our client-centric approach, we aspire to offer (out of 10) and are thus considered loyal enthusiasts. the best client experience among our peers, making Detractors are those who respond with a score of 0 to 6 clients the bank’s ambassadors. We measure the Net (unhappy customers). NPS is calculated by subtracting Promoter Score on a continuous basis with TNS NIPO the percentage of customers who are detractors from interviewing approximately 2,100 of our retail clients every the percentage of customers who are promoters. The Net Other quarter. in 2015, the Net Promoter Score (NPS) went up Promoter Score is an absolute number between -100 and by 1 percentage point compared with 2014. +100. Passives (score 7 or 8) are not included in the formula. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 54 Business Report / Business review / Retail Banking Introduction More important than the Net Promoter Score itself is the average of the group of banks in the Netherlands for which NPS way of working. We carefully monitor client feedback results were included in the survey. On the other four Strategic Report on what we can improve and what we are doing well, and items, ABN AMRO scored average or higher. continuously improve services and internal processes based on our clients’ needs. Besides conducting research, Based on the survey results, the banks will focus on three we run a client community consisting of 300 active areas in the period ahead: offer advice or suggestions to clients, an online client survey panel (with more than clients who have stated that their personal situation has 5,000 clients) and a high-tech usability lab where clients changed or might change, make explicit how banks can can test proposed innovations and provide suggestions help clients who have fallen behind, or might fall behind, Business Report for improving the online client experience. on their mortgage payments, and make it clear to clients how they can easily submit a complaint to the appropriate Our slightly higher NPS score in 2015 shows that our person or department. efforts are paying off. At the same time, the absolute score tells us that we still have some work to do. In 2015 Leading market position we started closed-loop feedback pilots to help us improve Retail Banking has a strong and recognised market our service based on our clients’ feedback. Clients give position in the Netherlands. In 2015 we maintained our Risk, funding & capital Report feedback to financial advisors and specialists, who follow number three principal bank position for retail clients up in direct contact with the client. We will roll out the (21%‍1 of the Dutch population) and our number three NPS way of working across the Retail Banking position in the small business segment, with a market organisation in 2016. In response to NPS surveys share of 21%.2 suggesting that we can benefit from understanding what drives our clients, we are investing in developing our The Dutch mortgage market at 30 September staff’s interpersonal skills. NPS surveys are also being 20153 amounted to EUR 638 billion in terms of used to optimise client journeys, the sum of experiences outstanding loans, of which Retail Banking held a market that clients go through when interacting with ABN AMRO. share of approximately 23%.4 Retail Banking offers We have started optimisation of client journeys related to mortgages in the Netherlands under various brands, Governance Report our service to the bereaved and the elderly and to clients ensuring flexibility and ample choice for clients. We mainly who are applying for a new mortgage or getting a divorce. offer mortgages under the brands ABN AMRO (main brand), Florius (targeting intermediaries) and MoneYou In September 2015, the Dutch Banking Association (online). ABN AMRO captured a number one market published the Trust Monitor (Vertrouwensmonitor) for the position in 2015, with a market share of approximately first time. The Trust Monitor presents the results of a survey 20% in new mortgage production. As a result of legal conducted by market research institute GfK on how Dutch amendments in 2013, new mortgage production consists Annual Financial Statements people think about banks in general, their own bank and increasingly of redemption mortgages, while demand for how they experience various aspects of services provided interest-only mortgages and other types of mortgage is by banks. It also includes individual scores given by the declining. More information on the mortgage portfolio is Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) in its client provided in the Risk, funding & capital Report. centricity dashboard. On a scale of 1 to 5, the sector as a whole scored 2.8. The survey shows that trust in individual The Dutch retail deposit market amounted to banks is higher: 3.2 on a scale of 1 to 5. On nine items out EUR 336 billion at year-end 2015.5 Growth of the savings of 13, ABN AMRO scored slightly more negatively than the market has slowed down since 2013, due mainly to low Other 1 Source: GfK online tracker, 2015. 2 Source: TNS NIPO, 2015 3 Source: components of assets and liabilities of Dutch households, December 2015. 4 Source: calculated based on DNB Components of assets and liabilities of Dutch households, December 2015. 5 Source: DNB Domestic MFI statistics, December 2015. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 55 Business Report / Business review / Retail Banking Introduction interest rates, prepayments on mortgages and increased Personal Banking covers both the branch network and the consumption. At year-end 2015, Retail Banking and Private Advisory & Service Centres. The Retail Banking organisation Strategic Report Banking together held a market share of 21%1 in the also includes two dedicated product management units Dutch savings and deposits market. In the course of 2015 covering daily banking services and mortgages. Together we lowered interest rates on all our saving accounts and with the Private Banking product management team, deposits. Besides the Netherlands, Retail Banking is also which focuses on wealth and advisory services, these active in other countries (Germany, Belgium and Austria) teams align products across the organisation and pursue under its MoneYou label. At year-end 2015, 72% of synergies. These organisational changes support our MoneYou savings volume was generated outside of the strategy of putting clients’ interests first. Business Report Netherlands. In 2015 we started implementing Retail Banking’s Most Retail Banking products and services are offered long-term strategy announced in 2014. We made our under the ABN AMRO brand. Specific services are offered omni-channel offering and distribution more efficient and through other labels or by subsidiaries. Various labels, effective by further integrating distribution to retail clients such as Florius, serve intermediary sales channels to meet and small business clients, further embedding remote the needs of clients who prefer the service of an advice in our omni-channel offering, pooling expertise Risk, funding & capital Report intermediary agent. Some labels strive for product within the branch organisation, and staffing branches with excellence or product leadership, such as International on average more advisors and specialists per branch. Card Services (ICS), which remained market leader in 2015 In light of the rapid digitalisation of society and increasing in the Netherlands based on the number of consumer client preference for mobile and online banking, we credit cards in circulation. In addition to offering an consolidated our branch network. At the end of 2015, additional sales channel, other labels are used to we had a nationwide branch network of 260 branches. differentiate pricing to target highly competitive or price-sensitive markets without affecting the ABN AMRO We continued to invest in the expertise and brand. For example, Alfam, our subsidiary specialised in professionalism of our financial advisors and specialists. As consumer loans, grew its consumer credit loan book for from 2014 regulations under the Financial Supervision Act Governance Report the fifth consecutive year. We act as an intermediary for (Wet op het Financieel Toezicht) define new professional ABN AMRO Insurances by selling and providing advice standards applying to financial services providers, under on a comprehensive range of life and non-life insurance which client-facing employees must hold valid diplomas products. The ABN AMRO legal assistance insurance was relevant to their work. The regulations provide for rated number one by the Dutch Consumer Association transitional arrangements. At year-end 2015 nearly all (Consumentenbond) in 2015, with a score of 7.9. advisors and specialists held the relevant diplomas. We MoneyView rated both the ABN AMRO legal assistance will further invest in training front-office staff in order to Annual Financial Statements insurance and the ABN AMRO annual travel insurance enhance their professional and interpersonal skills. number one for conditions and flexibility. ABN AMRO measures employee engagement in an ​Organisational changes and our people annual Employee Engagement Survey. Employee To meet our clients’ changing needs, we restructured our engagement remained stable and high, with a score of organisation in 2015. Our organisational setup is now in 78% in 2015, meaning 78% of our staff feel engaged with alignment with our strategy and reflects our strong digital the bank. The 2015 survey revealed a number of focus and client focus. We created a dedicated Customer areas which we will address in 2016, such as facilitating Experience unit and also have two distribution units: cooperation across the retail bank so we can respond Personal Banking and the new Digital Banking unit. quickly to our clients’ changing needs. Other 1 Source: calculated based on DNB Domestic MFI statistics, December 2015. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 56 Business Report / Business review / Retail Banking Introduction Retail Digitalisation programme For identification purposes, clients must submit a photo Clients are increasingly switching to online banking of their identity card or passport and a selfie and must Strategic Report channels, as is reflected by the success of Retail Banking’s make an iDeal payment transfer of EUR 0.01. mobile banking app in the Netherlands. Clients use the app more than 60 million times a month and the number In December 2015 we launched a pilot for a financial of logins via the app is now over four times as high as the planning app called Grip. Ten thousand clients will be number via internet banking. trialling the app, which offers a range of financial planning features helping them to get a grip on their spending. The Retail Digitalisation programme, launched in 2014, We will further develop Grip using feedback from these Business Report will help us accelerate the digitalisation of key customer clients and, if the results are promising, will make the app processes. By making further investments in online available to all clients. We believe we can speed up access service offerings and mobile apps, we aim to deliver to innovative digital products by collaborating with fintech a seamless online, mobile and branch experience. These start-ups. Grip, for example, was developed together with initiatives are expected to generate estimated recurrent the successful Swedish fintech start-up Tink, which has cumulative yearly cost savings of EUR 35 million from launched a similar app used by over 300,000 of their 2017 onwards, based on an initial investment of Swedish clients. Risk, funding & capital Report EUR 190 million projected between 2014 and 2017. As part of this programme, we invested in 2015 in expanding our ABN AMRO aims to invest in start-ups that focus on digital offering and released several updates of our mobile digitising financial products and services. To this end, the banking app, enhancing usability and introducing new bank launched the Digital Impact Fund this past October. features that make it easy for clients to interact with the ABN AMRO will invest in companies, preferably European bank. New features include access to credit card details in fintechs, that have already launched a product and have the mobile banking app and the possibility to add images entered the growth phase. We will invest in these to individual debit card transactions, making transactions companies provided they develop products and more personal and more transparent. The app and internet technologies that are useful to our clients or our own banking offer a visual search function allowing clients operations. The new investment fund represents the logical Governance Report simply to click on an image to retrieve all debit and credit next step in our innovation and digitalisation strategy. entries relating to a particular person or organisation. We have made it possible to execute iDEAL payments in While digital channels are still on the rise, physical the app, and clients can now transfer money to unknown distribution continues to play an important role, with a shift account numbers up to a daily limit by simply entering towards high-quality advice. We offer our products and a 5-digit identification code to authorise the transfer. services through an extensive network of 260 branches Previously, such transfers could only be made if the and through Advice & Service Centres. A broad range of Annual Financial Statements beneficiary was an account number to which the client financial advisors and specialists are available to advise had already transferred funds within the past 18 months. clients at every stage of their life. In addition, dedicated Every new feature is carefully tested during development teams serve specific client segments, such as medical (before launch) at our usability lab and among a group specialists, self-employed professionals, expats in the of employees. Netherlands and non-Dutch residents. We aim to provide seamless navigation and easy accessibility in every In 2015 we introduced new and innovative ways to serve distribution channel. Small business clients conduct banking our clients better and faster. A good example is the new affairs primarily online and by telephone, but financial Alert & Check app for the iPhone and Apple Watch. This specialists are also available to provide in-depth advice. app gives clients free push alerts, meeting their need for real-time information on their finances, and visualises the Our remote advice service, allowing clients to consult Other client’s spending and income. We were the first major their advisor by webcam six days a week, days and Dutch bank to enable individuals to become clients using evenings, has shown strong growth since it was only their smartphone and without visiting a branch. introduced several years ago. More than 15,000 webcam ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 57 Business Report / Business review / Retail Banking Introduction meetings have been held since the service was launched. in 2015 to facilitate instant payment within four years. Clients in an increasing number of locations can now This means payments will be credited to the payee’s Strategic Report decide what communication channel to use for each account within five seconds, twenty-four hours a day, individual step of the advisory process. We have made seven days a week. the most progress with this omni-channel approach in our mortgage advice and are in the process of introducing Together with other Dutch banks, we aim to start offering it for other bank products. an online service called iDIN in 2016, which allows clients to prove their identity to online service providers. Clients In July 2015 Retail Banking started a six-month trial using who use this service will be able to use their own bank’s Business Report WhatsApp to provide customer service (in addition to the familiar and secure login applications to identify service already offered via Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn). themselves, for example to insurance companies, We want our clients to be able to contact the bank as government authorities and webshops. With digital quickly and easily as possible, whenever they want. As the services on the rise, companies and institutions are trial was successful, we will launch the new service to all experiencing a growing need for assurance about the of our account holders in 2016. identities of their online customers and users. Banks can offer this assurance, having previously authenticated the Risk, funding & capital Report Retail Banking was the first Dutch bank to launch a broker identity of each client when they opened a bank account. app for the intermediary channel. This new app allows the bank’s intermediaries to inform their clients better and In 2015, ICS, the credit card issuing subsidiary of provide accurate mortgage information more quickly. ABN AMRO, launched a pilot with MasterCard to use Intermediaries can use the app to directly view the current biometric recognition technology for payment verification. status of mortgage files, interest rates and the latest news. Instead of using passwords, clients can pay online using fingerprint or facial recognition. The pilot was held in the Product innovation and operational excellence Netherlands among 750 ABN AMRO credit card users. Retail Banking offers a full range of transparent retail banking products and services. We offer small business ​Retail Banking started implementing a bank-wide, Governance Report clients a comprehensive range of standard business multi-year programme designed to optimise mortgage banking products and services, such as cash processes in order to increase agility and lower costs. management, lending and insurance. We continuously This programme involves simplifying the mortgage explore opportunities for product innovation and product offering, digitising client processes, investing in operational excellence. IT systems and simplifying the governance and organisational structure. We want to enable clients to In 2013 ABN AMRO was the first bank in the Netherlands handle more of their mortgage business online, freeing up Annual Financial Statements to start issuing contactless debit cards. Contactless debit our mortgage advisors so that they can spend more time cards allow clients to pay amounts up to EUR 25 simply giving advice. Clients can now make additional mortgage by holding their card against a card reader, making it no repayments on internet banking, without having to visit a longer necessary to enter a PIN code. By the end of 2015 mortgage advisor. Other examples are the option to use almost all retail clients were able to pay with contactless internet banking to access mortgage data and to renew cards. Contactless payment terminals are also rising in interest rates at the end of the fixed-interest period. number, with one in every three terminals now equipped Furthermore we introduced a new orientation tool allowing for contactless payment. This new payment method has clients to calculate their maximum mortgage and grown explosively, with the number of contactless expected monthly payments. This tool was rated number payments made by ABN AMRO clients rising from around one by independent online market research company 3 million in 2014 to around 46 million in 2015. WUA! and has been used by more than one million clients Other and prospects. We will continue to make new and In response to the growing demand for ultra-fast payment, improved functionalities available to our clients in 2016 and Dutch banks, including ABN AMRO, announced a plan 2017. Retail Banking’s mortgage label Florius won the 2015 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 58 Business Report / Business review / Retail Banking Introduction Gouden Spreekbuis award for mortgage services to authorities. In implementing the BCRs, ABN AMRO has intermediaries and consumers. The jury report stated that developed a policy that sets out the privacy principles that Strategic Report Florius is one step ahead of the competition in the area of all staff must observe when processing personal client digitising and innovating services. Digitising the mortgage and employee data. Compliance with the policy is process helps us put our clients’ interests first. overseen by the newly established Privacy Office. We strive to guarantee the privacy of our clients’ financial Retail Banking also introduced new and improved transactions. To evaluate our approach, we use a system mortgage products in 2015. At the beginning of the year, for complaints handling with which we actively monitor, we started offering new mortgage clients the option to for instance, complaints where the client’s interest is at Business Report refinance residual debt. Previously, only existing clients stake and where the client believes his or her privacy has were given this option. We also welcome freelancers for been violated. a mortgage interview after just one year of selfemployment. A large majority of self-employed people Providing mortgages is an important element of our believe that it is difficult or even impossible to get a service to retail clients. Various stakeholders have mortgage from a bank when looking to buy a home. We expressed concerns about aspects of the mortgage have specially trained our advisors to listen to the needs policies pursued by ABN AMRO and other Dutch banks, Risk, funding & capital Report of self-employed clients and to help them discover what which are highly influenced by laws and regulations. We the bank has to offer them. At the end of 2015 communicate with our stakeholders about our mortgage ABN AMRO joined the Work Prospects Statement pilot – policy and take their opinions and expectations into initiated by Obvion (a Dutch mortgage firm which is a account when fine-tuning the policy. We also work with subsidiary of Rabobank), Randstad (employment agency) our clients to avoid residual debt and to help them meet and the Dutch homeowners’ association Vereniging Eigen their payments. As part of our aim to make our mortgageHuis (VEH) – to help people with flexible employment related products as widely accessible as possible, we contracts to obtain a mortgage. Applicants with a work launched a proposition targeting self-employed clients in prospects statement will be assessed on the basis of their 2015. In addition, Retail Banking offers several financial income security rather than job security. We also solutions, such as GreenLoans, designed to help improve Governance Report announced that we will offer mortgage clients interest the energy efficiency of our clients’ homes. rate averaging as soon as possible. Interest rate averaging allows clients in some cases to benefit from the current We are committed to providing transparent information low interest rate by spreading the penalty and fees over about our products and services. To this end, we invite the remaining term of their current mortgage. clients to rate the bank’s products on our website. We have received more than 4,000 reviews and ratings to ​Sustainable banking date, with an average rating of 4.0 on a scale of 1 to 5 Annual Financial Statements As part of our commitment to build sustainable for insurance, payment and savings products. relationships with clients and to put clients’ interests centre stage, we addressed material topics arising from the materiality analysis. These issues are the privacy Strategic ambitions of clients’ financial transactions and the bank’s Retail Banking’s strategic ambitions are in line with mortgage policy. ABN AMRO’s strategic priorities: enhance client centricity, invest in our future, strongly commit to a moderate risk We understand the importance of data protection profile, pursue selective international growth and improve in providing financial services. In the Netherlands, profitability. ABN AMRO is bound by the Dutch Personal Data Protection Act (Wet bescherming persoonsgegevens, Enhance client centricity Other Wbp). In addition, ABN AMRO has adopted Binding Our ambition is to build on our client-centric approach and Corporate Rules (BCRs), a set of self-imposed rules to be perceived as offering the best client experience written in consultation with several data protection among our peers, making clients the bank’s ambassadors. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 59 Business Report / Business review / Retail Banking Introduction We aim to deliver high-quality advice through seamless coherent range of measures designed to enhance the multi-channel distribution. Our competitive value client experience and supplement the investments being Strategic Report proposition for clients combines a personal element made to re-engineer the IT landscape and optimise (highly qualified advisors), state-of-the-art technology digital processes. (online banking) and broad accessibility of advice (at a branch, by telephone or via webcam). In addition, we strive We will also continue to invest in the future by training to offer self-directed small business clients dedicated front-office staff. Our goal is to enhance their professional online services in an efficient and effective manner. and interpersonal skills. ABN AMRO believes that the ability to offer a full range of competitive and transparent Business Report By focusing on customer loyalty, we aim to increase the products and services in an omni-channel environment is business generated by existing clients. We actively involve key to maintaining contact with clients. As the same time, our clients in developing and improving our services. we aim to make our omni-channel offering and distribution At the same time, we seek to respond to opportunities in more efficient and effective. In light of the rapid the market with initiatives targeting specific client groups digitalisation of society and increasing client preference or products. for mobile and online banking, we expect to further reduce the number of branches in the next few years. Risk, funding & capital Report In 2015 we started measuring our clients’ opinions of our products, service and staff by means of the Net Promoter Strongly commit to a moderate risk profile Score (NPS). We aim to enhance the client experience Retail Banking strives to maintain a stable mortgage book based on the results of the NPS. Starting in 2016, NPS relative to the market. We actively managed our portfolio in will be a prominent part of all employees’ KPIs. 2015, aiming to strike the right balance between risk, return and volume/market share by focusing on sustainable Invest in our future margins for new mortgage production (mainly with the We want to build on our leading market positions and ABN AMRO, Florius and MoneYou brands) and repricing. continue making investments in order to seize opportunities to better serve clients, create more value We continued our Carefree Living programme under Governance Report and respond to challenges posed by non-traditional which dedicated care teams and certified financial coaches banking players. actively support clients with a higher risk of arrears. Activities range from raising client awareness of their We intend to make further investments in our digital personal financial situation (e.g. with an online selfoffering to address the shift in client preferences for these diagnosis tool) to providing personal advice and coaching distribution channels and to encourage clients to use to prevent payment arrears (individual plans). While this self-service channels. As part of our drive to enhance the programme’s primary aim is to support clients (as part of Annual Financial Statements client experience, we intend to accelerate digitalisation of our effort to enhance client centricity), these initiatives key customer processes and will continue to simplify also help to reduce the risk and impairment levels of the products and streamline processes and channels. We aim overall mortgage and consumer loan portfolios. to stay at the forefront of technological developments and use the latest technology to enhance the client experience In addition, Retail Banking aims to reduce the Loan-toand boost convenience. Technology developed by Retail Deposit ratio to strengthen the balance sheet in line with Banking, such as mobile and internet banking, is also ABN AMRO’s moderate risk profile. available to Private Banking and Corporate Banking clients. Pursue selective international growth Retail Banking intends to invest a total of EUR 190 million Retail Banking focuses on ABN AMRO’s home market of between 2014 and 2017 – the majority of which in 2016 the Netherlands. We pursue international growth Other and 2017 – generating an estimated annually recurring selectively, mainly via the MoneYou label. MoneYou cumulative cost savings of EUR 35 million as from 2017 currently offers savings accounts in the Netherlands, onwards. These investments will be geared towards a Germany, Belgium and Austria, with 72% of its savings ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 60 Business Report / Business review / Retail Banking Introduction You are self-employed and you want to buy a house. Strategic Report Many believe that it is difficult or even impossible to get a mortgage from a bank in that case. Yet more and more people are self-employed. ABN AMRO wants to cater for their specific needs and was the first bank to introduce a dedicated mortgage offering for this fast growing segment. Self-employed people A mortgage for can apply for an ABN AMRO mortgage after just one Business Report year of freelancing, with up to 75% of their income self-employed people taken into consideration when calculating the maximum mortgage. This is how we calculate income: Many self-employed clients are doing well Number of years Qualifying income1 professionally and financially, and the longer they self-employed of your average income have been self-employed, the higher the percentage Risk, funding & capital Report as self-employed of their income taken into account. ABN AMRO has 3 years 100% specially trained advisors to listen to the needs of > self-employed and help them discover what the bank can offer them. We have introduced an online 2-3 years 90% orientation tool for the self-employed and are committed to providing clarity within 48 hours on what will qualify as income to allow a swift and clear 1-2 years 75% view on financing possibilities. We look at the average income from the years a client has been self-employed. Governance Report 1 The full conditions are available at abnamro.nl/nl/prive/hypotheken/zzp-hypotheek/index.html volume generated outside of the Netherlands. In the We will focus on retaining and growing the share of wallet Annual Financial Statements Netherlands, the MoneYou product offering also includes of the most promising clients (high contribution to income) residential mortgages and consumer loans. In Germany, while at the same time leveraging our broad client base by MoneYou intends to provide investment services on an realising efficient cross-sell (selling additional products or execution basis only. services to existing clients). Improve profitability Retail Banking’s strategy is to continuously optimise risk Retail Banking has a proven track record of efficiency and reward with respect to the volume, margin and thanks to strict cost control, FTE reductions and channel market share of key products (mortgages, savings and efficiency initiatives. Given the growing use among clients consumer loans) using the ABN AMRO brand and other of mobile and internet banking, the number of branch visits brands. We aim to have a market share of 20-25% in has been steadily decreasing over the past few years. In the Netherlands and to improve top-line revenue and Other five years’ time, Retail Banking has closed around half of cost efficiency. its branches, with virtually no impact on client satisfaction. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Private Banking Introduction Strategic Report Business Report ABN AMRO Private Banking is a modern private bank, internationally present and locally involved, that understands changing client needs while providing agile service and distinctive financial solutions to ensure true client engagement. Risk, funding & capital Report >100,000 Number of clients. Year-end 2015 present Fully integrated financial advice And a broad array of services focused on wealth in 11 countries with > 50 offices structuring, wealth protection and wealth transfer 1 Market leader in the Netherlands under the Seamless multi-channel brand name ABN AMRO MeesPierson. client servicing 1 Ranked 4th in France, 3rd in Germany and the eurozone, with a solid position in selected In the Netherlands and is investing in order to do Governance Report countries in Asia and the Middle East the same in other selected geographical markets Overview A modern private bank ABN AMRO Private Banking operates through strong local brands. ABN AMRO Private Banking is a modern private bank, The Dutch brand, ABN AMRO MeesPierson, maintained its internationally present and locally involved, that understands position as market leader in the Netherlands in terms of client changing client needs while providing agile service and distinctive Annual Financial Statements assets, totalling EUR 199 billion in 2015. Banque Neuflize OBC financial solutions to ensure true client engagement. (NOBC) is our well-known private bank in France, with eleven branches in the main French cities. NOBC holds a top 4 position To realise its ambition, Private Banking has defined five strategic in the French private banking market. Bethmann Bank is a top 3 drivers: private bank in Germany, with twelve branches in the main ÅÅ We develop relevant client solutions; economic regions of Germany. Private Banking is also active in ÅÅ We innovate; Belgium, Luxembourg, the Channel Islands and in Asia and the ÅÅ We are dedicated to leadership and culture; Middle East. ÅÅ We deliver consistent execution and risk management; ÅÅ We drive sustainable performance and scale. Based on its strong commitment to putting clients’ interests first, ABN AMRO Private Banking’s pledge is that ‘every Other interaction counts’. 62 Business Report / Business review / Private Banking Introduction Enhance client centricity Strategic Report Change in Net Promoter Change in Net Promoter Score Private Banking Client satisfaction1,2 Score Private Banking NL2,3 International3,4,5 86% 85% 2015 2014 +2 2015 +2 2015 Invest in our future Business Report Employee engagement Employee engagement Sustainable client assets ­Private Banking NL6 Private Banking International6 (in billions) 77% 81% 77% 78% 6.4 5.4 Risk, funding & capital Report 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Strongly committed to a moderate risk profile Underlying cost of risk (bps) -2 2015 14 2014 Governance Report Pursue selective international growth Operating income from international activities 58% 57% 2015 2014 Annual Financial Statements Improve profitability Net profit (in millions) Cost/income ratio Gross margin on client assets (bps) 214 160 80.8% 80.2% 65 67 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Other 1 % clients rating ≥7 (scale 1 to 10). 4 Source: Scorpio Partnership. 2 Source: TNS NIPO. 5 Consists of clients in France, Germany and Belgium. 3 Percentage point change compared to 2014. 6 Source: Towers Watson. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 63 Business Report / Business review / Private Banking Introduction Business description Private Banking currently recognises four key client Private Banking serves high net worth individuals with segments: private wealth management (individuals with Strategic Report more than EUR 1 million in investable assets and ultra investable assets exceeding EUR 25 million), family high net worth individuals with more than EUR 25 million money (family wealth acquired and to be transferred over in investable assets. The threshold of EUR 1 million in generations), entrepreneurs (integrated services for investable assets is expected to be lowered to former and active business owners), and institutions & EUR 500,000 in the Netherlands in the course of 2016. charities (non-profit organisations). In the Netherlands, Private Banking is dedicated to long-term relationships and ABN AMRO MeesPierson has a fifth key segment of putting clients’ interest first. We have put client centricity professionals & executives. Client segmentation enables Business Report and open architecture at the heart of our identity and Private Banking to develop and deliver client-centred business model. This is the cornerstone of our long-term solutions with distinctive propositions for each segment. strategy, both in our policies and services and in the way we conduct our daily business. Private Banking has a network of strong local brands in selected geographical markets, with more than 50 branches Private Banking offers fully integrated financial advice and across 10 countries at the end of 2015. This includes our a broad array of services focused on wealth structuring, Jersey office. On 30 September 2015 we announced our Risk, funding & capital Report wealth protection and wealth transfer. Private Banking intention to integrate our Channel Islands activities into provides clients with a full service offering combined with Guernsey. In addition, we have a branch in Spain with a tailored solutions for specific client segments. Private small team providing local assistance to clients from other Banking’s international network encourages knowledge Private Banking locations. ​We serve clients with dedicated sharing and expertise across borders, allowing it to client service teams, consisting of a relationship manager provide the service best suited to its clients. Investment and an investment specialist, supported by dedicated services range from discretionary portfolio management assistants and specialists in lending, mortgages, estate to investment advisory and self-directed investments planning and other specialised services. (‘execution only’). Our open architecture approach allows clients to benefit from a wide range of solutions provided Governance Report by highly experienced and skilled asset managers. We provide lending products, including mortgages. Our specialised services include insurance, informal investment services (e.g. a matchmaking platform for clients, bringing together supply and demand for capital and coaching), philanthropy advice, art advisory and world citizen services. Annual Financial Statements Private Banking’s products and services are offered through various channels. In addition to the branch network, clients in the Netherlands have access to the dedicated Private Banking Advice & Service Team with extended opening hours as well as a 24-hour call centre for basic banking needs. We offer a full range of online and mobile services in most locations and are committed to offering clients a seamless multi-channel experience. Our online and mobile channels are used for portfolio reporting and investment proposals and support our investment alerts, and are Other gradually being implemented across our franchise. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 64 Business Report / Business review / Private Banking Introduction Strategic Report Specialised Lending services Integrated financial advice Basic banking services Investments Business Report Specialised Basic banking Integrated financial Investment Lending services services advice Risk, funding & capital Report Informal Investment Payments Wealth structuring Services Residential real estate Services1 Savings Estate planning, Discretionary Portfolio Lombard credit2 Private insurance Cards including wealth transfer Management Commercial real estate Philanthropy advice & Pension planning Distinctive investment International mortgages Charity advisory propositions Art advisory and Execution only brokerage Structured Products World Citizen Services Asset management Products Insurance solutions Equities and bonds Investment Funds Alternative Investments Governance Report Treasury 1 Informal Investment Services: matchmaking platform for our clients between supply of and demand for capital and coaching. 2 Lombard Credit: Loans fully collateralised with securities portfolios. Business developments Client assets in Private Banking increased to Market and organisational developments Annual Financial Statements EUR 199 billion at year-end 2015. Organic growth was ABN AMRO believes that private banking remains an supported by a focus on client acquisition and a more attractive business, as wealth is expected to continue to effective front office. In the Netherlands, we significantly grow worldwide. The private banking industry is strengthened our cooperation with Retail Banking. As a characterised by strong competition and consolidation, result, we have more opportunities to optimise the use driven by the need for scale to be able to address of specific expertise in areas such as technology and mounting regulatory requirements and increasing standard banking services. We have restructured our operating costs. In addition, clients have become more organisation in alignment with our strategic ambitions. knowledgeable and demanding, and increasingly expect transparency and simplicity. Clients have access to a wide On 30 September 2015 we announced our plans to range of virtual communities and tools providing financial integrate our private banking activities in the Channel Other information. We have responded to these changes in both Islands into our Guernsey operation. This move will enable our strategy and organisational structure. us to strengthen our value proposition, leverage our scale, create synergies and simplify governance. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 65 Business Report / Business review / Private Banking Introduction Private Banking has initiated a programme involving a Although we are investing in direct channels, we aim to comprehensive risk-based review of client files in order to be close to our clients whenever possible. In the Strategic Report ensure that client portfolios in the various Private Banking Netherlands, for example, the branch network will be locations meet our global standards and applicable expanded by five locations. Communication with clients is regulations. The programme also aims to reinforce supported by our connecting online and offline channels. compliance with the bank’s anti-money laundering policies Philanthropy Advice and several basic banking services and standards and head office oversight in accordance were brought online, and Institutions & Charities with the Dutch Anti-Money Laundering and Counterintroduced crowdfunding for a number of clients. Terrorist Financing Act and other applicable regulations. Business Report Private Banking scores consistently high on client Putting clients’ interest first satisfaction, and 2015 was no exception. In the To put the interests of our clients first, and to develop Netherlands, the Net Promoter Score for 2015 was up relevant value propositions, we must understand their by 2 percentage points compared with 2014. Clients in needs. In the Netherlands, we developed ‘best fit’ our markets outside the Netherlands continue to rate us initiatives to ensure clients receive a suitable investment above the benchmarks on key satisfaction metrics. proposition, and introduced harmonised risk profiles The European markets in particular have seen key Risk, funding & capital Report between Retail Banking and Private Banking in 2015. We improvements on most key satisfaction metrics, with also introduced the Financial Scan, helping us to maintain Net Promoter Score, for example, rising 2 percentage long-term client relationships and serving as a starting points from 2014 to 2015. point for relevant and needs-based integrated financial advice. In addition, a dedicated Private Banking Advice & ABN AMRO Private Banking won a number of prestigious Service Team was installed to assist clients in their daily industry awards in 2015. Professional Wealth Management/­ banking affairs. The Banker gave ABN AMRO Private Banking prizes in three categories: ‘Best Private Bank in the Netherlands’, We make use of the digital expertise of the Retail Banking ‘Highly Commended: Best Private Bank in Europe’ and organisation across Private Banking. The Retail Banking ‘Highly Commended: Best Private Bank in Germany’. Governance Report platform is used for the Private Banking website and app Asiamoney named ABN AMRO Private Banking ‘#1 Most design in the Netherlands. Outside the Netherlands, we Reputable and Financially Stable Private Bank in Asia’. are developing an ambitious digital offering consisting of ABN AMRO MeesPierson was recognised by Euromoney a blend of omni-channel services combined with personal as ‘Best private bank in the Netherlands’ for the 13th interaction. Using the expertise across the bank helps us consecutive year, while MT Finance 2015 awarded to develop innovative solutions and improves cost ABN AMRO MeesPierson a prize for ‘Best wealth efficiency, time-to-market and security. management & private banking’ in the Netherlands. This Annual Financial Statements industry recognition underlines the success of our efforts Open architecture is a key aspect of our investment to put our clients’ interests first. service. In 2015 we introduced an innovative discretionary portfolio management solution in the form of Single Manager Mandate Funds. These funds are managed by highly experienced and skilled asset managers from renowned, external organisations. The funds are exclusively tailored to our clients’ needs. In bringing this innovation to our clients, we successfully combined the expertise available within the bank in the fields of investment management and manager selection. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 66 Business Report / Business review / Private Banking Introduction Our people successful companies of the future. Facilitating such As part of our ambition to be a top class employer,we investments is one way we integrate sustainable banking Strategic Report invest in our people to help them realise their full into our core business. potential. Private Banking is dedicated to leadership and culture, while focusing on attracting best-in-class Thorough ESG screening is part of our core investment employees, developing inspiring leadership and promoting process. As a result, none of the EUR 148.8 billion of cross-border teamwork. These efforts are supported by a securities we manage in Retail and Private Banking are dedicated leadership programme. ABN AMRO measures invested in companies that are on our Controversial the engagement of its employees by means of its yearly Weapons List. Furthermore, all securities are equipped Business Report internal Employee Engagement Survey. Private Banking with a ‘sustainability indicator’ which gives clients insight scored 77% in 2015, meaning 77% of Private Banking into how specific companies perform on sustainable staff feel engaged with the bank. banking and corporate responsibility. This indicator is comprised of independent data from Sustainalytics, a We launched a training programme in 2015 for all private responsible investment firm specialised in ESG research banking employees in the Netherlands to help them live and analysis. We added information on controversies and up to our promise that ‘every interaction counts’. The company policies to this sustainable banking indicator. Risk, funding & capital Report programme will also address the opportunities that arise from changes in the private banking environment and the Total sustainable assets under administration at year-end impact of changes in client behaviour on the behaviour 2015 amounted to EUR 6.4 billion. These assets include and expertise required of our employees. our sustainable discretionary mandates and qualified sustainable investment products, such as funds and Following the success of the ABN AMRO INSEAD Private structured products. These are all highly sustainable Banking Certification Programme for relationship investments. We saw a significant increase and growing managers in 2010 to 2013, this programme was extended client interest in these assets in 2015. to investment professionals. Under this global programme, investment professionals are given the opportunity to Total sustainable assets under administration <S> Governance Report deepen their understanding of risk and return in the (in EUR millions) current dynamic investment landscape, develop new asset 6,430 6,500 177 allocation behaviour, reflect on broader macroeconomic 5,399 983 5,200 205 trends and financial markets, and explore the ABN AMRO 949 investment process and service models. 3,900 More than 470 investment professionals will be invited to 2,600 4,244 5,271 Annual Financial Statements participate in this programme between 2015 and 2017. 1,300 The first sessions were held in 2015. Alumni had the opportunity to continue their education by attending four 2014 2015 webinars in 2015, held by INSEAD professors, on current Sustainable investments under management and relevant topics. Sustainable investments Sustainable savings Sustainable banking ABN AMRO seeks to offer products and services that In 2015 ABN AMRO lowered the threshold for its have a positive, sustainable impact on society. We help Sustainable Fund Mandate, making it available to retail mobilise capital for sustainable businesses, while clients and consequently allowing a larger group of clients facilitating financing of and investment in socially to invest in sustainable assets. Other responsible companies. We believe that companies that take responsible and sustainable decisions are the ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 67 Business Report / Business review / Private Banking Introduction ESG criteria in investments Strategic ambitions We are convinced that doing business with companies Private Banking seeks to achieve disciplined growth in Strategic Report and other professional parties requires a responsible a number of selected markets where it already has a approach. We put our principles into practice in our sustainable presence. Our ambition is to be a modern investment services, by applying environmental, social private bank that is internationally present and locally and governance (ESG) criteria when assessing potential involved; a private bank that understands clients’ needs, investment opportunities for our clients. This allows now and in the future, while providing agile service and clients to integrate ESG considerations into their financial solutions. investment decisions. Business Report The strategic ambitions of Private Banking are in line with Our ESG criteria are based on independent research and ABN AMRO’s strategic priorities: enhance client centricity, on our own interpretation of policies. These policies invest in our future, strongly commit to a moderate risk comply with international agreements such as the UN profile, pursue selective international growth and improve Global Compact and the UN Principles for Responsible profitability. Investment. We also take into account the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Enhance client centricity Risk, funding & capital Report Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Private Banking focuses on understanding clients’ needs standards of the International Labour Organisation. and developing relevant value propositions for specific Our ESG policy framework is constantly evolving, as we client segments in order to ensure client engagement develop new policies or adjust existing ones as necessary. and to attract new clients. We are moving towards a consistent and distinctive segmentation of all our markets. In 2015 we developed sustainable investment principles For example, we want to attract entrepreneurs and ‘next which incorporate the above elements and give guidance generation’ clients by offering these segments innovative to staff on sustainable and responsible investing. services. Lean programmes in customer excellence and continuous improvement are helping us to increase the ABN AMRO engages with companies in its investment available commercial time of front-office staff. In addition, Governance Report universe that have severely breached the UN Global we intend to continue developing cross-border connectivity Compact. Rather than excluding these companies, we to leverage the network of our international markets and work with Robeco SAM, an investment specialist focused offer clients solutions that best match their needs. In 2016 on sustainable investing, to engage them in a dialogue we will prepare for implementation of the MiFID II directive. in order to bring about improvement. If this proves We also intend to lower the Private Banking threshold in unsuccessful, ABN AMRO can put the company on the the Netherlands to EUR 500,000 in the course of 2016 to Soft Exclusion List. ABN AMRO engaged with a total of open up our service offering to a broader group of clients. Annual Financial Statements twelve companies regarding environmental and social These clients will receive a service offering more tailored issues in 2015. to their specific needs. ABN AMRO continued to promote social entrepreneurship Invest in our future in the Netherlands in 2015 through its social impact fund Private Banking is developing innovative solutions that by making new investments and launching a new social deliver a seamless multi-channel client experience and impact bond. Our collaboration with Social Enterprise NL extend our sustainable product offering. We intend to build was extended for another three years.We also make a on our leading position in the Netherlands, ensuring positive impact through our Philanthropy Advice Solutions, smooth implementation of new technology. Beyond the a service that is rated very highly in the countries where it Netherlands, we have mapped out a multi-channel is offered. strategy to continue improving our digital capabilities Other consistently across our markets and will start executing this strategy in 2016. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 68 Business Report / Business review / Private Banking Introduction At ABN AMRO MeesPierson, we offer our clients Strategic Report comprehensive service, from daily banking and investment advice to advice on complex wealth issues. Personal contact is an essential aspect of our service. At the same time, thanks to social media, we are communicating more quickly and frequently. Private LiveXpert responds to this development: 100% private banking using the latest means of Private LiveXpert Business Report communication. We use state-of-the-art digital innovations to offer services such as video calls for 16 years lower advisory consultations with a private banker and a chat app for fast one-on-one communication over the secure Private LiveXpert app. average age of our Private LifeXpert clients We surprise our clients with smart data, alerts and Risk, funding & capital Report compared to other Private Banking clients short videos and involve them in the development of Private LiveXpert. ABN AMRO’s Private LiveXpert is a new service for existing clients that also reaches a group of new clients who are looking for a bank that meets the needs of clients who appreciate frequent and brief contact, fitting in with their lifestyle. Governance Report Strongly commit to a moderate risk profile Pursue selective international growth Private Banking delivers consistent execution and focuses Private Banking’s international ambition is twofold: to on prudent risk management for its clients and the bank, generate disciplined organic growth in line with expected while providing distinctive products, services and advice. annual wealth growth as estimated in industry reports, Long-term volatility in the cost of risk is expected to be and to selectively pursue acquisitions in its existing low due to strict risk acceptance and monitoring criteria core markets. and rationalisation of our product offering in alignment Improve profitability Annual Financial Statements with the bank’s moderate risk profile. We are in the process of implementing similar investment propositions Private Banking drives sustainable performance and scale across our national and international networks by applying by deepening and broadening client relationships in a uniform risk profiles to clients, while tailoring advice to cost-effective manner. We actively control costs and individual client portfolios. manage channels efficiently, and continuously optimise risk and reward parameters for our products and services. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Corporate Introduction Banking Strategic Report Business Report Corporate Banking is an established business partner of the Dutch corporate sector. Our clients are corporates in all sectors of the Dutch economy with annual turnover exceeding EUR 1 million. Internationally, we serve our domestic client base through local Dutch Desks in selective markets and through cooperation with partner banks. Risk, funding & capital Report 70,000 Clientand capabilityled international strategy With a focus on three specialities ECT Clients, Number of corporate clients Clearing and asset based financing > 1 Annual turnover m International presence Governance Report In the key financial and logistical hubs Overview Corporate Banking is strongly committed to the Netherlands, O ​ ur key strengths are our existing leading market positions and where we offer our clients a broad range of standard and tailorstrong brand name, relationship-driven business model combined made products and services based on in-depth client and sector with a dedicated sector approach, strong focus on risk Annual Financial Statements knowledge. Our clients are corporates in all sectors of the Dutch management, resilient revenues and proven management economy with annual turnover exceeding EUR 1 million. track record. We have a clientand capability-led international strategy that We launched several initiatives in 2015 that further enhanced client focuses on three specialities for which we operate in selective centricity: we strengthened our sector-based organisation and markets: (i) serving clients that are internationally active in the increased the in-depth sector knowledge across Corporate energy, commodities and transportation sectors (ECT Clients), Banking, and we pursued controlled international growth in (ii) clearing activities in more than 150 liquidity centres worldwide selective markets abroad. and (iii) asset-based financing (consisting of commercial finance and lease). Looking ahead, we believe that our key strengths form a solid foundation for adapting to the challenges presented by changing client needs, economic conditions and increased competition Other and regulation. 70 Business Report / Business review / Corporate Banking Introduction Enhance client centricity Strategic Report Client satisfaction Client satisfaction Change in Net Promoter Business Banking Clients1,2,3 Corporate Clients1,2,3 Score Corporate Banking4,5,6 68% 70% 92% 93% 2015 2014 2015 2014 -2 2015 Business Report Invest in our future Employee engagement7 Loans in scope of ESE assessment8 75% 74% 75% 40% 2015 2014 2015 2014 Risk, funding & capital Report Strongly committed to a moderate risk profile Underlying cost of risk (bps) 46 86 2015 2014 Pursue selective international growth Governance Report Operating income from international activities 25% 22% 2015 2014 Improve profitability Annual Financial Statements Net profit (in millions) Cost/income ratio 596 298 62.2% 61.1% 2015 2014 2015 2014 1 % clients rating ≥7 (scale 1 to 10). 4 Percentage point change compared with 2014. 6 Source: TNS NIPO/Deep Insight/Greenwhich 2 Source: TNS NIPO. 5 NPS for Corporate Banking is composed of the 7 Source: Towers Watson. 3 In 2016 the client satisfaction surveys of former NPS results of former Business Banking Clients, 8 Global Sustainability Risk Index (GSRI) is used to assess Business Banking Clients and former Corporate Clients former Corporate Clients, Public Sector Clients, credit applications on environmental, social and ethical will be aligned with the current set-up of Commercial Large Corporates and ECT Clients weighted (ESE) aspects. Clients. by actual operating income. The set-up of the Other NPS surveys differs among the business lines. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 71 Business Report / Business review / Corporate Banking Introduction Business description Markets Solutions. Each business line offers a tailored Corporate Banking is organised into three business lines: business proposition to clients and is supported by a Strategic Report Commercial Clients, International Clients and Capital central department, Products & Business Development. Corporate Banking Products & Business Development Commercial Clients International Clients Capital Markets Solutions Business Report Corporates (EUR 1-250m) Large Corporates (>EUR 250m) Sales & Trading Real Estate & Public Sector Clients ECT Clients ABN AMRO Clearing Bank ABN AMRO Commercial Finance Financial Institutions Risk, funding & capital Report ABN AMRO Lease Diamond & Jewellery Clients Commercial Clients serves Dutch clients that have annual consists of Sales & Trading and ABN AMRO Clearing. Sales turnover between EUR 1 million and EUR 250 million, as & Trading offers capital markets products that play an well as clients in the Dutch real estate and public sectors. essential role for Corporate Banking clients and partners In addition, Commercial Clients offers asset-based within the bank (such as the Asset & Liability Management financing to corporates in the Netherlands, Belgium and Treasury departments and Private Banking). In this way, (cross-border), France, Germany and the United Kingdom Sales & Trading aims to contribute to client relationships. through its subsidiaries ABN AMRO Lease and ABN AMRO ABN AMRO Clearing intermediates in the international Governance Report Commercial Finance. International Clients offers integrated capital markets with a client base of investors, corporates financial and strategic advice and solutions to Netherlandsand liquidity providers. based Large Corporate clients that have annual turnover of at least EUR 250 million. International Clients also serves Corporate Banking offers its clients a broad range of clients of ECT Clients, Financial Institutions and Diamond & standard and tailor-made products and services (see Jewellery Clients internationally. Capital Markets Solutions below) based on client needs and annual turnover. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 72 Business Report / Business review / Corporate Banking Introduction Product offering Corporate Banking Capital Strategic Report Commercial Clients International Clients Market Solutions Real Estate Commercial Diamond & Public Finance/ & Sector Lease Large ECT Financial Jewellery Clearing Product Corporates Clients Clients Corporates Clients Institutions Clients Clients Asset-based solutions • • • • • • •1 Capital markets products • • • Business Report Cash and liquidity management • • • • • • Clearing • • • • Commercial lending • • • • • • Debt solutions • • • • • • Equity participations • • • Financing products • • • • Investment products • • • Risk, funding & capital Report M&A/ECM • • • • • • Risk management products • • • • • • Trade finance • • • • • • 1 No Lease and Commercial Finance. The Commercial Clients and International Clients business of relationship managers is supported by ABN AMRO’s lines combine client centricity with a sector-oriented knowledge centres, Sector Advisory and Economic organisation. The Corporate Banking organisation has been Research. In addition, cross-business line teams for all tailored to serve its clients in 15 different industry sectors 15 industry sectors have been established to ensure Governance Report (see table below). We offer clients tailored service based knowledge-sharing. Moreover, our sector orientation has on their needs, annual turnover and earnings potential, been adopted by our Risk Management and Financial enhancing the quality of advice. Clients have been Restructuring & Recovery departments. We believe that assigned a relationship manager or a client service team clients benefit from an in-depth understanding of their consisting of a relationship banker and product and sector needs, activities and sectors. Our dedicated sectorspecialists. These relationship managers and client service oriented organisation helps limit impairments as it teams have in-depth knowledge of their clients’ activities increases in-depth client and sector knowledge and Annual Financial Statements and industries because most of their portfolios contain the understanding of sector-specific risks. clients in a limited number of sectors. The sector expertise Sector-oriented organisation Corporate Banking Technology, Media & Telecom Commercial Clients Government & Education Transportation & Logistics Business Services Financial Institutions International Clients Agriculture Construction Healthcare Manufacturing Real Estate Oil & Gas Utilities Sector Advisory Economic Research Food Leisure Retail Other Risk Management Financial Restructuring & Recovery ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 73 Business Report / Business review / Corporate Banking Introduction We are convinced that doing business with companies Clients are served from major logistical and financial hubs, and other professional parties requires a responsible i.e. Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Athens, Moscow, Oslo, Strategic Report approach. We put our principles into practice in our Dallas, New York, São Paulo, Dubai, Hong Kong, Shanghai corporate lending activities, by applying environmental, and Singapore. ABN AMRO Clearing offers global market social and ethical (ESE) standards to clients who operate access and clearing services in more than 150 liquidity in industries that are exposed to sustainability risks. centres worldwide. In asset-based financing, ABN AMRO These standards are integrated into the assessment Commercial Finance and ABN AMRO Lease offer assetprocess for our corporate lending activities. In this way, based solutions in Belgium (cross-border), Germany, the we systematically identify potential sustainability risks and United Kingdom and France (Commercial Finance only). Business Report assess whether they can be adequately managed by our clients. Our ESE standards reflect the risk profile of Sales & Trading (part of Capital Markets Solutions) is specific industries: if an industry has a high risk profile, instrumental in our efforts to strengthen the relationship we intensify our due diligence efforts and require our with our clients as their principal bank. This business line clients to put in place thorough sustainable risk offers capital markets products and services to, in management procedures. particular, Corporate Banking clients (see also the product offering table). We have a sales and trading presence in Risk, funding & capital Report Our ESE criteria are based on international treaties and the Netherlands and the United States, and sales desks voluntary agreements, such as the UN Global Compact, (no trading services) in France, Germany, Norway, the the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN United Kingdom and Singapore. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the standards of the International Labour Organisation. Business developments In the Netherlands Corporate Banking serves Dutch-based Putting clients’ interest first clients with annual turnover between EUR 1 million and To meet our clients’ changing needs, we have further EUR 250 million through its five regional units, including enhanced our focus on putting our clients’ interest first 22 regional sub-units. Netherlands-based clients with throughout the Corporate Banking organisation. We Governance Report annual turnover exceeding EUR 250 million are served by believe that enhancing client centricity will lead to our Amsterdam office. In addition, Corporate Banking long-lasting relationships and make clients promoters of serves commercial real estate clients (Amsterdam) and Corporate Banking. public sector clients (Utrecht) through its two central units. All clients have access to a dedicated and professional Further embedding the sector orientation support unit for their day-to-day banking affairs. By focusing on our sector orientation, we want to add more value and further improve our position as a strategic Annual Financial Statements Corporate Banking has a selective international network partner for our clients. We took further steps in 2015 to that is consistent with its clients’ financial needs abroad implement the sector approach across Corporate Banking. and with the three specialities in which Corporate Banking At the end of 2015, we started reorganising the portfolios has a long track record. Domestic clients that are of Commercial Clients relationship managers. Eighty-five internationally active are served by local Dutch Desks per cent of the portfolios managed by a relationship in selective markets (i.e. Belgium, France, Germany, manager will consist of clients in only one sector. the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Singapore and the United States). To extend the Group’s international cash Our sector orientation is also visible in the way we management offering to countries where it has no or address sustainability topics that are material to our limited presence, Corporate Banking cooperates with business activities. In 2015 the following sectors mapped partner banks to serve its clients. Furthermore, Corporate out a business plan for integrating sustainable banking Other Banking’s international presence is aligned with the focus into their activities by means of KPIs: ECT Clients, Real on its three international specialities. Clients of ECT Estate Clients and the Transportation & Logistics sector. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 74 Business Report / Business review / Corporate Banking Introduction Products & channels low-carbon residential mortgages, commercial real estate We continued to enhance client centricity in 2015 by and solar panels on existing residential real estate. In Strategic Report introducing several new products. For example, in addition to these various initiatives, ABN AMRO ECT transaction banking we launched a new selection of Clients is involved in many roundtables and committees corporate saving accounts, foreign ABN AMRO accounts (including the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, (Payments Eigen Netwerk) and e-Mandates. The latter Sustainable Shipping Initiative and the Equator Principles). solution supports the legally valid collection of electronic mandates. ABN AMRO also set up a joint venture in order One of Corporate Banking’s focus initiatives in 2015 was to develop a merchant services proposition. This to design a digital strategy for the coming years. We see Business Report proposition is based on omni-channel service, offering increasing client demand for digital and self-service clients a wide range of physical and electronic payment banking. One of the ways we are developing our digital methods. The target date for launching this service is offering is by working together with innovative fintech the first quarter of 2016. companies. To emphasise our commitment to these partners, ABN AMRO launched a Digital Impact Fund and Furthermore, ABN AMRO participated in the launch of a invested EUR 10 million in the fund. The goal of this fund new government guarantee for the shipbuilding industry is to invest in start-ups specialising in the digitisation of Risk, funding & capital Report (Garantie Scheepsnieuwbouwfinanciering) and the set-up financial products and services and to support ABN AMRO of a new club deal structure with Robeco (Bedrijfsleningen in further enhancing our digital client proposition. Fonds). Our Targeted Long Term Refinancing Operations (TLTRO) programme, which passes on the advantage of Client recognition favourable ECB funding directly to our clients, was The awards we won in 2015 are a recognition of our extended to run for the full year. Corporate Banking efforts to put clients’ interests first. ABN AMRO regained launched the Online Credit Indication (OKI), enabling its position as best equity bank in the Benelux region clients to apply for a loan through online channels using (Euromoney). Moreover, our number one position in the Standard Business Reporting. Towards the end of 2015, annual Thomson Reuters Extel Awards is a clear reflection we signed a first covenant with a selected and screened of how much our services as an equity broker are valued Governance Report alternative finance provider, helping our clients on their by our own clients. Also, in October 2015 MT Finance way when additional (risk-bearing) funding is required. Magazine ranked ABN AMRO Corporate Banking number 1 in 5 categories: Corporate Asset Management, Cash ABN AMRO seeks to offer clients products and services Management – Payments, Credit Management, Factoring that have a positive, sustainable impact on society. We and Collections, Corporate Finance and Risk Management. help mobilise capital for sustainable businesses, while Examples of awards won by ECT Clients are Best facilitating financing of, and investment in, responsible Commodity Trade Finance Bank in Asia-Pacific and the Annual Financial Statements companies and projects. This is one way we integrate Netherlands and number 2 Global Commodity Bank. sustainable banking into our core business. In September 2015, ABN AMRO announced that it had become a We measure our client satisfaction and the Net Promoter Climate Bonds Partner and that it is pursuing growth on Score per client segment. According to a survey by TNS the green property bond market. ABN AMRO is taking a NIPO, client satisfaction showed positive results, with leading role to further develop the green bond market for 68% of the former Business Banking Clients and 92% of its clients. We have been a member of the Green Bond the former Corporate Clients giving scores of 7 or higher.1 Principles since its founding year and are a founding In the Dutch large corporates segment ABN AMRO is joint member of the GRESB Green Bond working group. In Quality Leader for Large Corporate Banking and the June 2015, ABN AMRO issued the largest Certified number 1 for Large Corporate Cash Management as Climate Bond to date – worth a total of EUR 500 million measured by the Greenwich 2015 survey. The change in Other – the proceeds of which are earmarked for loans to fund 1 In 2016 the client satisfaction surveys of former Business Banking Clients and former Corporate Clients will be aligned with the current set-up of Commercial Clients. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 75 Business Report / Business review / Corporate Banking Introduction the aggregated Net Promoter Score for Corporate time. In conclusion, claims in relation to the alleged breach Banking was -2 percentage points, compared to the 1 of the duty of care remain contingent. Strategic Report score for 2014. At the request of the AFM, a dedicated project team Review of interest rate derivatives files within the bank, with the assistance of external specialists Since 2014, there has been a public debate in the and in regular consultation with the AFM, has been Netherlands on a bank’s duty of care towards SMEs with reviewing our SME client files containing interest rate respect to interest rate derivatives. ABN AMRO has derivatives. The objective of this review is to determine entered into interest rate derivatives with approximately whether the bank acted in accordance with the laws and Business Report 4,500 SME clients in combination with floating interest regulations applicable at that time and, if necessary, to rate loans. These SME clients entered into an interest rate offer the relevant clients a solution. Based on the outcome derivative with the purpose of fixing their interest rate risk of this review, ABN AMRO recognised a provision at on their floating rate loans. A combination of a floating year-end, details of which are included in to the Consolidated interest rate loan together with an interest rate swap was Annual Financial Statements note 28, Provisions. less expensive for the clients than the alternative of a loan with a fixed interest rate. As a result of the decline in In December 2015 the AFM concluded that some aspects Risk, funding & capital Report interest rates, the interest rate swaps have a negative of the reviews banks were conducting would need to be mark-to-market value. There are no negative amended. The AFM installed a taskforce with the objective consequences for clients as long as the loan is not repaid, to arrive at a uniform solution for all clients and banks. On in whole or in part, prior to its maturity date. Some SME March 1 2016, the AFM published a press release and a clients needed or wanted to repay their floating interest letter addressed to the Dutch Minister of Finance advising rate loans prior to their maturity date. As a consequence, him to appoint a panel of independent experts. These the interest rate swap needed to be unwound in order to experts, in cooperation with the banks involved, will try to assure that no overhedge was created. As a result of the determine a uniform recovery framework which will serve declining floating interest rates, the interest rate as a benchmark with which banks will need to re-perform derivatives had a negative mark-to-market value. In line all client file reviews. This may lead to revised Governance Report with standard market practice, the SME clients had to pay compensation solutions for clients. The uniform recovery the bank the negative mark-to-market value of the interest framework is expected to be finalised by mid-2016. rate swap. The negative mark-to-market value may be ABN AMRO will consult with the panel of independent compared to the penalty interest on a fixed rate loan. The experts to determine how these changes will affect bank received several complaints and some clients and/or ABN AMRO’s review process. As a result, the future interest groups instigated legal proceedings about the review process may change and parameters for future bank’s alleged violation of its duty of care, for instance compensation levels may increase. This may impact the Annual Financial Statements that the bank did not properly inform them of the risks scope of the contracts that require compensation as well associated with interest rate swaps. In some of these as the level of compensation per contract. As this is a cases, the client’s claim was denied. In some other cases, possible liability dependent on a future event, there is no the bank paid compensation to the client. For litigation in provision for this possible outflow of resources and it is relation to SME derivatives, the bank does not recognise therefore considered a contingency. More details are provisions for claims that do not meet the recognition and/ provided in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements, or measurement criteria. There can be no assurance that note 33 Commitments and contingent liabilities. additional proceedings will not be brought or that the amount demanded in claims brought to date will not rise. Reliable and Responsible Banking Current proceedings are pending and their outcome is In 2015 the Reliable and Responsible Banking programme uncertain. The uncertainties are likely to continue for some began at Corporate Banking, alongside the programmes at Other Retail and Private Banking and Private Banking International. 1 Source: NPS for Corporate Banking is composed of the NPS results of former Business Banking Clients, former Corporate Clients, Public Sector Clients, Large Corporates and ECT Clients weighted by actual operating income. The set-up of the NPS surveys differs amongst the business lines. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 76 Business Report / Business review / Corporate Banking Introduction The programme aims to ensure that consistent client Commercial Clients conducted a successful pilot of the acceptance standards are applied across segments, DNA project (Detect ‘N Act) in 2015. The project aims to Strategic Report to upgrade relevant client acceptance and anti-money enhance credit management and transform credit control laundering policies, to raise awareness among staff, from time-based to risk-based. DNA enables us to and to improve the quality of documentation in client increase monitoring of early warning signals, to improve due diligence files and the associated risk assessment. and standardise the client assessment procedure and to Regulators are tightening up the requirements for clear and reduce risks by undertaking action in a systematic way. accessible documentation of data. Moreover, documented As a result, we can address financial issues in a timely and accessible client information is crucial in order to manner and find relevant solutions together with our Business Report deliver relevant and suitable advice through all channels. clients. Following the successful pilot, we have decided to further implement DNA within Commercial Clients. Regulatory changes The current banking landscape is affected by ongoing As the Dutch economy is recovering, impairments in the regulatory changes. The evolving regulatory and supervisory Netherlands are decreasing. ECT Clients operates in landscape in the European Union is challenging for banks as cyclical sectors. This cyclicality is carefully considered in initiatives to further integrate European financial markets relation to lending policies, financing structures, advance Risk, funding & capital Report will be implemented in the coming years (such as MiFID II, rates and risk management. As market circumstances are Basel IV, CDR and PSD II). We started various initiatives in challenging for some of the clients in the ECT sectors, 2015 to ensure we comply with all legislation and to assess close monitoring of the impact of these developments is the impact on our business and opportunities. required. The bank periodically performs sensitivity analyses and stress testing exercises to gain insight into the credit For example, in 2015 we developed a strategy to address the performance under price scenarios, economic scenarios revised European payment services directive (PSD II). This and risk measures. Developments in commodity prices, directive will introduce additional requirements with respect and specifically in oil and gas, are under continued close to payment services in the European Economic Area. Banks risk management attention and stringent credit monitoring. will be obliged to allow access to their customers’ accounts Governance Report to third-party payment services providers offering payment ABN AMRO has a published energy policy with very strict initiation services or account information services. The bank criteria for financing coal-fired power plants. ABN AMRO supports the greater transparency intentions of PSD II. has not provided any new direct lending to coal-fired Towards the implementation of the PSD II Directive, there power plants since 2007. Credit policies are updated on are a number of client privacy considerations that need a regular basis and/or in response to changing more clarification and guidance. circumstances. In addition, our ESE policy framework is constantly evolving. We develop new policies or adjust Strict credit risk management Annual Financial Statements existing ones based, among other things, on feedback and ABN AMRO works according to the three lines of defence input from stakeholders, if any gaps become evident or if risk management model. As the first line of defence, new developments take place. To accommodate Corporate Banking is primarily responsible for the risk improvements in our ESE standards, we hosted a that it takes, the results, execution, compliance and stakeholder meeting in 2015 where we discussed our ESE effectiveness of risk control. Corporate Banking has criteria with key stakeholders. Employees are trained to a strong focus on risk management to help it maintain apply ESE criteria by means of the Learn2Sustain game. a moderate risk profile in line with the bank’s risk appetite. Risk Management and Corporate Banking have In addition to the rollout of the Sustainability Management made various changes to strengthen the bank’s credit Operating System (SMOS) for International Clients in policy in recent years, such as tightening acceptance 2014, we introduced the Global Sustainability Risk Other criteria for real estate finance, lower loan-to-values, Index (GSRI) for Commercial Clients in October stricter borrowing base criteria and the rejection of credit 2015. The tool helps us determine the sustainability risk applications for new clients below certain internal ratings. involved in lending to specific clients. When we receive ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 77 Business Report / Business review / Corporate Banking Introduction a credit application, we perform a risk assessment Clearing benefited from the volatile market circumstances consisting of a total of ten to fifteen questions, based on in 2015 and further expanded its business offering by Strategic Report the company’s AGIC code and the country where the going live on the Brazil equity market. company is established. These questions always vary according to country and sector and are based on the ABN AMRO Lease further developed the branches in the ABN AMRO sustainability policies and interviews with United Kingdom and Germany that were opened in 2014. clients and sustainability and sector experts. The The company has been successful in recruiting local staff sustainability questions focus on four aspects: compliance, with in-depth industry expertise and a relevant network in commitment, capacity and the client’s track record (CCCT). the local leasing markets. Double-digit growth was Business Report achieved in both countries. As part of its sustainable banking ambition, Clearing introduced a sustainability screening questionnaire in the In 2015, ABN AMRO Commercial Finance improved its summer of 2015. The questionnaire is part of the client due asset-based cross-border financing solutions for diligence and onboarding procedure and covers social international clients with subsidiaries in Europe. This themes. The client’s answers give Clearing a comprehensive resulted in a number of interesting asset-based structured picture of the client’s potential sustainability risks. All deals with international clients. Risk, funding & capital Report potential clients are screened, and existing clients are screened either annually or once every three years. Strategic ambitions International developments Our overall ambition is to be the strategic business partner ABN AMRO aims to grow its international business to to the Dutch corporate sector, guided by our strong 20-25% of operating income by 2017. In 2015, 25% of domestic and focused international strategy. Our strategy Corporate Banking’s operating income was generated is aligned with the five strategic priorities of ABN AMRO: internationally. Several Corporate Banking initiatives (1) enhance client centricity, (2) invest in our future, (3) contributed to the bank-wide international growth strongly commit to a moderate risk profile, (4) pursue ambition in 2015. selective international growth and (5) improve profitability. Governance Report ABN AMRO has been present in Shanghai with a Enhance client centricity representative office since April 2012. In January 2016 To enhance client centricity, we aim to further strengthen ABN AMRO received all necessary approvals from the our sector-based organisation and to increase our in-depth regulators to open a branch office for its ECT Clients sector knowledge across the entire Corporate Banking business. organisation. This allows us to be a distinctive strategic partner for our clients and deliver first-rate service by Annual Financial Statements Financial Institutions aims to build on the commercial understanding the client’s business and performance. successes and track record in the Dutch insurance sector By improving our service offering to clients and focusing and has therefore established local relationship on client centricity, we aim to realise our ambition to management units in the major Western European make every client a promoter of Corporate Banking. financial centres of London, Frankfurt and Paris. These relationship bankers will focus on local insurance Invest in our future companies and asset managers. We intend to invest in our future by pursuing standardisation, straight-through processing and flawless In 2015, we sold our diamond and jewellery activities in execution of business processes, in part by investing in India to IndusInd Bank Limited. These activities were our IT infrastructure and by enhancing our service offering conducted under cohabitation with Royal Bank of Scotland through new partnerships. We also aim to further embed Other in India. ABN AMRO and IndusInd Bank agreed to enter sustainable banking in our daily operations and to further into a partner banking agreement to continue their invest in passionate professionals by enhancing the cooperation in diamond and jewellery activities in India. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 78 Business Report / Business review / Corporate Banking Introduction More and more innovative start-ups are developing Strategic Report digital financial products and services that could benefit our retail and corporate clients. ABN AMRO is eager to work with promising fintechs and is investing EUR 10 million in these start-ups through the Digital Impact Fund. Digital Impact Fund Our collaboration with fintech start-ups means our Business Report clients benefit from smart innovations to our service, helping us to improve, among other things, our Engagement ratio on average during mobile apps and client portals. We are investing our campaign, compared with other times more than just growth capital; we also make our 10 network, expertise and systems available to leverage the new and innovative services from the start-ups. EUR million Risk, funding & capital Report Investments range between EUR 0.25-1.5 million Governance Report empowerment, knowledge, skills, development and As critical mass has been reached for ECT Clients, future working environment of our employees. growth is expected to be more gradual, with a continued focus on disciplined return on equity and a moderate risk Strongly commit to a moderate risk profile profile. We also intend to broaden existing client We are strongly committed to maintaining a moderate risk relationships based on fee income and cross-sell. profile, in line with the bank’s risk appetite. To this end, Corporate Banking has a strict credit policy and executes Improve profitability Annual Financial Statements this policy in a highly disciplined manner. To further We aim to improve profitability by maintaining our focus strengthen our moderate risk profile, we continue to focus on revenue growth, increasing cost efficiencies and on asset-based financing, a sustainable loan-to-deposit pursuing stringent risk-reward steering. As part of our ratio and risk-return capital allocation. efforts to improve profitability, we actively applied -and will continue to apply -repricing. We will continue our Pursue selective international growth efforts to increase our cost efficiency and to improve We pursue controlled and capability-led international operational efficiency. Corporate Banking also pursues growth in serving clients of ECT Clients from the major stringent risk-reward management, focusing on effective logistical and financial hubs and asset-based financing allocation of capital within the business lines to improve (through ABN AMRO Lease and ABN AMRO Commercial return on equity and to offer a profitable overall Finance) in Western Europe. We explore other client proposition. Other opportunities for moderate international growth while focusing on building on our existing product expertise and specific sector knowledge. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Group Functions Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Group Functions supports and controls all group-wide business activities. Its main focus areas include realisation of the Group’s long-term strategy by means of management control, compliance with regulations, and second and third line responsibilities. Risk, funding & capital Report Group Functions Group Audit Corporate Office Risk Management People, Regulations Finance TOPS & Strategy & Identity Governance Report Overview Group Functions is organised into four main departments, each of Group Functions. Group Audit reports to the Chairman of the which is headed by a member of the Managing Board: Finance, Managing Board, and the head of Group Audit has direct access Risk Management & Strategy (RM&S), People, Regulations & to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The majority of Group Identity (PR&I) and Technology, Operations & Property Services Functions’ costs are allocated to the business segments. (TOPS). Group Audit and the Corporate Office are also part of Annual Financial Statements Other 80 Business Report / Business review / Group Functions Introduction Technology, Operations & Property Services COO departments use a business process management (TOPS) method to manage the entire end-to-end value chain of Strategic Report TOPS supports the Group by providing services in the service delivery to clients and business lines in areas areas of IT (software and hardware), operations, facility including payments, credits, trade finance, securities and management, information security, procurement, and savings. The COO departments are responsible for programme or project management in the Netherlands end-to-end daily operations and management of changes and internationally. TOPS consists of the following main to these chains, coordinating IT demand and their departments: Business Services, TOPS IT and Chief respective IT portfolio management, and ensuring Architecture & Data Management (CADM). Three Chief successful delivery of strategic and tactical projects and Business Report Operating Officer departments (COO Departments) their budgets. coordinate matters between TOPS and Retail Banking, Private Banking, Corporate Banking and Group Functions. TOPS 2020 IT Programme The Group expects technological advancements to lead TOPS IT ensures the daily operation of IT systems used by to significant changes in client expectations in the near clients and employees, designs and develops IT solutions future. We believe that personal financial management and maintains the service quality of systems and tools will become a crucial basic functionality for clients Risk, funding & capital Report infrastructure. The Group has a widely centralised and as they adopt a more digital lifestyle. We therefore expect integrated IT infrastructure and application landscape with that clients will increasingly switch to online banking two central data centres, optimising synergies and channels. The success of the introduction of the mobile cross-business line use by customers. banking app in the Netherlands in 2011 confirms this rapid adoption of web-based services by Dutch consumers. Business Services is the overarching Group-wide department consisting of Operations, International The Group’s current IT infrastructure is stable and solid, Business Services (IBS), Property Services and but complex. As a result, maintenance costs are relatively Procurement. Business Services also oversees the high. More importantly, a complex infrastucture reduces activities of Stater, an independent mortgage service our agility in responding quickly to market trends and new Governance Report provider in the Netherlands that is owned by the Group innovations. The Group aims to create a more competitive and provides back-office and mid-office administrative and client experience in a constantly changing environment transaction processing services. Operations is responsible and to deliver agile, seamless and fully web-based client for processing transactions by or with clients, mutations in processes via the internet and mobile applications. The client contracts or relationships and administrative Group therefore intends to continue investing in IT. processing of products and services. IBS provides all Business Services-related services to offices abroad. An important part of TOPS 2020 involves upgrading the Annual Financial Statements Property Services (also known as Facility Management) two data centres in the Netherlands with cloud technology, provides housing, facility and logistical services. enabling computing resources, such as servers, storage and applications, to be accessed and shared as virtual CADM defines and safeguards the use of data models, resources in a secure and scalable manner. The aim is to data and IT architecture framework and data quality within create an on-premise dedicated private cloud infrastructure the Group. Alignment between the business lines and for the Group based on industry standards adopted by IBM TOPS is required in order to set standards of architecture which will (i) run in the Group’s data centres and store and to adhere to the agreed standards. CADM is also client and other data, and (ii) offer a uniform and secured responsible for safeguarding standards in the event of proprietary computing architecture to provide hosted changes, including monitoring realisation of the desired services to the Group’s business. Updating to cloud target IT architecture. technology is an important step in implementing a more Other effective and agile IT architecture for the Group to support new business initiatives. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 81 Business Report / Business review / Group Functions Introduction Our on-premise, private cloud got up and running Strategic Report in 2015. This environment is located in our own data centres and can only be accessed by ABN AMRO. This gives us total control over data and secures the privacy of our clients, while being compliant with the regulatory requirements set by the AFM Moving to our private cloud and the ECB. Business Report The main benefits of working in the cloud are: around ÅÅ Rapid availability of computing resources, 300 applications with self-service to be introduced in the future ÅÅ High scalability of computing resources, accommodating a varying workload ÅÅ High utilisation of computing resources, will migrate to the cloud by the end of 2016 with ‘pay per use’ reducing operational costs Risk, funding & capital Report On-demand network access We will improve the cloud in 2016, for example by lowering provisioning times and introducing provided by cloud computing to a a service portal. shared pool of computing resources on a ‘pay per use’ basis Several important steps were taken this past year in improvements. Having developed significant expertise Governance Report our roadmap towards 2020. In 2015 we installed an in sustainable buildings, we are actively sharing our on-premise dedicated private cloud and migrated the first knowledge with our clients and suppliers. applications to this environment. In parallel, we continued ÅÅ We obtained the first BREEAM Excellent In-Use rationalising our IT landscape by decommissioning certificate for the Gustav Mahlerlaan office in approximately 650 applications. Amsterdam for a building of this size, acquiring the highest total score in the Netherlands; Our organisation’s environmental impact ÅÅ Our Alkmaar branch is now fully energy-neutral; Annual Financial Statements The direct environmental impact of financial services ÅÅ 100% of our electricity demand is met by wind energy, providers is rather limited given the nature of their activities. in 2014 with wind generated in Europe and in 2015 ABN AMRO’s direct impact on the environment consists with wind generated in the Netherlands. primarily of the bank’s energy consumption, carbon emissions through its car fleet (lease cars) and waste generation. In Property Services, we are concentrating our efforts on reducing our energy consumption and waste generation, and are using Dutch wind power by purchasing Guarantees of Origin. In addition, we are focusing on the circularity of the materials we use. We track energy consumption, waste production and use of material at Other our branches and offices in order to make continuous ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 82 Business Report / Business review / Group Functions Introduction Direct environmental impact1 Strategic Report 2015 2014 Energy consumption in kWh Total consumption 168,227,418 173,647,075 per m 2 273 273 per FTE 10,634 11,030 Waste Total (in tonnes) 2,869 3,217 Business Report per FTE (in kg) 181 204 1 All figures are for the Netherlands only. Finance Controlling is responsible for management accounting and Finance helps keep the Group on track to achieve the management information (i.e. delivering monthly reports goals defined in its long-term strategy. Finance is the and analyses to all relevant organisational levels of the Risk, funding & capital Report primary supplier of management and reporting information Group, including the Managing Board, Supervisory Board, to the Group’s internal and external stakeholders. It plays the Group’s various business segments and account an independent role in delivering management information managers). Controlling is also responsible for supervising and challenging business decisions. Finance provides the Group-wide management control cycle, including a strong financial control environment and ensures budgeting and forecasting, and for independently compliance with accounting standards and requirements challenging the implementation of the Group’s strategy, set by the regulatory authorities. Finance consists of the not only at corporate level but also within the business following main departments: Financial Accounting, segments. To this end, Controlling’s Business CFOs liaise Controlling, ALM, Treasury and Tax. with all business Management Teams. Governance Report Financial Accounting is responsible for the financial ALM is responsible for managing the Group’s balance accounting, consolidation and reporting function for sheet with respect to interest rate risk, liquidity risk and the Group as a whole (i.e. operating income, operating capital adequacy. In accordance with Group policy, ALM expenses and balance sheet recognition), ensuring centrally manages the interest rate risk and liquidity risk transparent and efficient delivery of financial data to run by the Group’s business lines enabling them to fully internal and external stakeholders. Financial Accounting focus on their commercial tasks and credit risk ensures that correct and complete financial data relating management. By applying a funds transfer pricing Annual Financial Statements to the Group is received, processed, recorded, analysed, methodology, the Group’s business lines transfer risks to consolidated and reported in a timely manner. Financial ALM so that ALM can provide them with a stable margin Accounting also provides an accurate, timely and that is not affected by movements in interest rates or complete handling of incoming and outgoing invoices, liquidity spreads. ALM performs long-term capital, liquidity statements and company cards. and interest rate risk planning, taking into account expected developments within the business lines and anticipating regulatory developments. ALM also liaises with RM&S to ensure that the Group’s risk appetite is in line with its corporate strategy and manages the balance sheet in line with the Group’s moderate risk profile. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 83 Business Report / Business review / Group Functions Introduction Treasury is responsible for executing the Group’s liquidity, The bank works according to the three lines of defence collateral, capital and interest rate risk position. Treasury is risk management model. This model is generally accepted Strategic Report the lender of last resort for the daily funding need of as the best practice standard for risk management in several business lines (National & International Money the financial industry and makes risk management the Markets Desk) and is responsible for maintaining and responsibility of every employee of the bank. It enhances executing all secured and unsecured programmes. risk awareness and promotes the bank’s risk culture. Treasury manages the Group’s cash position and interest The Risk, funding & capital Management section of this risk in all currencies up to one year through its Money report further elaborates on this model. Markets Desk. Treasury is also involved in structuring and Business Report raising capital and funding for the Group through, among Risk Management & Strategy (RM&S) secures a sound other things, capital instruments, unsecured funding risk/return ratio based on a moderate risk profile. The transactions, securitisations, covered bonds and long-term bank-wide risk appetite determines our moderate risk repo transactions. Treasury manages the Group’s profile. All different events or risk types to which the bank investment and collateral portfolio (including the Group’s is exposed are defined and categorised in the risk liquidity buffer) and is involved in securities financing taxonomy. Risk Management identifies and manages all where securities are temporarily transferred or financed of the risk types classified in the risk taxonomy. The Risk, funding & capital Report against collateral (reverse repo, securities borrowing and RM&S organisation consists of Risk Management lending, sell and buy back, securities financing departments, Group Economics and Strategy & Corporate transaction). Development. ALM/Treasury risk was further embedded in the risk organisation to strengthen the second line of Tax is responsible for the Group’s tax declarations and ALM and Treasury and to ensure that ABN AMRO’s risk controls the Group’s tax positions worldwide within the appetite is in line with the bank’s corporate strategy and defined risk profile and applicable tax regulations. The Tax capital position, taking into consideration the economic department plays a role in many business processes. A outlook and activities of ALM and Treasury. specific tax control framework enables Tax to have control over tax risks within the Group. The Group’s tax control For our views on the economic environment, refer to Governance Report framework is an internal control instrument focused the Economic environment section of this report. For an specifically on the business’s tax function and contains explanation of our strategic priorities, an explanation of control procedures and policies. Tax works within the our risk governance and portfolio developments, refer boundaries of the Group’s risk profile to optimise tax rates. to the Risk, funding & capital Report. Risk Management & Strategy (RM&S) People, Regulations & Identity (PR&I) Annual Financial Statements A strong, sustainable bank relies on sound risk The primary responsibility of PR&I is to help the Group’s management. Risk management is a core and vital businesses put clients centre stage. PR&I consists of five competence at the heart of our bank. We have a risk departments: Human Resources, Compliance & Conduct, culture in which all members of staff understand risk and Legal, Security & Intelligence Management and act accordingly. The bank’s moderate risk profile is a Communications & Sustainability. To help the Group pivotal element of our corporate strategy and is reflected pursue its ambition to invest in the future, PR&I has in our clean and strong balance sheet. formulated and implemented two main strategies Group-wide: (i) Top Class Employer and (ii) Sustainability. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 84 Business Report / Business review / Group Functions Introduction Human Resources is dedicated to implementing the Top Legal provides exclusive, in-house and independent legal Class Employer strategy and is responsible for managing advice and support to all business segments of the Group Strategic Report and implementing human resources strategies across all (e.g. advising on specific transactions, developing and business segments. Working in partnership with the maintaining standard documents). Legal is responsible for businesses to meet their goals, Human Resources proactively managing the legal risk within the Group, both advises and supports management on people and within and outside the Netherlands, and preserving the organisation-related issues, such as staff operations Group’s reputation. planning, recruitment, retention, benefits and reward management, performance management, employee Security & Intelligence Management aims to prevent Business Report development, and culture and leadership. financial losses arising from abuse of the financial system by the Group’s clients and/or employees and to prevent Compliance & Conduct provides independent oversight reputational damage arising from the unethical behaviour and control on behalf of senior management and the of clients, the Group and/or its employees. Security & Managing Board of the core processes, policies and Intelligence Management assists the Group with its procedures that are designed to ensure that the Group social responsibility to preserve the functioning of, and complies with general and industry-specific laws and confidence in, the domestic and international financial Risk, funding & capital Report regulations, both in letter and in spirit, thereby helping to infrastructure. protect the Group’s reputation. Compliance & Conduct advises and supports the organisation with the Communications & Sustainability formulates the Group’s implementation of laws and regulations. It acts as a overall communication and sustainability strategies and navigator for good conduct by promoting a culture in the Group’s corporate identity. The Communications & which all employees feel responsible for maintaining Sustainability department strives to manage and improve compliance and fosters an environment in which staff the Group’s reputation, brand name and brand value are comfortable escalating concerns about conduct or within and outside the Netherlands in a consistent manner potential non-compliance with regulations. The function and to position the Group as a trustworthy and sustainable includes a dedicated monitoring and reporting team to organisation. The Communications & Sustainability Governance Report support senior management and the Managing Board department aims to ensure that sustainable banking is in effectively identifying, managing and monitoring the embedded in the Group’s business practices. ABN AMRO Group’s compliance and conduct risks, including support Foundation runs social projects and coordinates activities in contacts with national and international regulators. that promote social engagement. The Group defines compliance risks as the risk of failure to comply with laws and regulations, self-regulatory Annual Financial Statements standards, values and business principles, codes of conduct or generally accepted market standards applicable to the Group’s services and activities. Compliance and conduct risks could result in legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial losses and harm to the Group’s reputation. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 85 Business Report / Business review / Group Functions Introduction Results in 2015 Strategic Report ÅÅ The Banker’s Oath was implemented in 2015. By the end of 2015, 97% of our employees in the Netherlands had taken this oath. This oath signifies our employees’ commitment to doing their job with full conviction and a sense of engagement with ABN AMRO and our acceptance Compliance with national and of the rules of conduct for the banking sector; Business Report ÅÅ The bank’s Global Personal Account Trading Policy European rules and regulations was updated to ensure that personal account transactions are conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations; Compliance with rules and regulations is at the heart ÅÅ ABN AMRO improved its processes to help of our licence to operate. Infringements could cause employees easily identify and manage conflicts significant financial and reputational damage. of interest in a timely manner; Risk, funding & capital Report ABN AMRO wishes to adhere to both the letter ÅÅ Compliance & Conduct developed a new and the spirit of all applicable rules and regulations, compliance educational framework to strengthen including regulations governing financial services employee awareness, knowledge and capabilities and international standards applicable to financial with regard to compliance and good conduct. An institutions. We have a Regulatory Committee that intensive training programme to promote the right maintains oversight of the changing regulatory conduct and culture was rolled out internationally landscape and how the bank adapts to it. in 2015. We regularly review our policies and make adjustments where necessary. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 86 Business Report / Financial review Introduction Financial review Strategic Report The following section includes a discussion and analysis of the financial condition of ABN AMRO Group and its different segments for the years 2015 and 2014. The information in this section is presented on the basis of underlying results. A reconciliation from reported to underlying results is provided in the Group results of this section. More information on the activities, clients and products of the different Business Report segments is provided in the Business review section of the Business Report. As of 2015, ABN AMRO has extended the definition of In 2015, the definition of the underlying return on average assets under management for the Group to include client equity was altered to reflect the implications of the assets in Retail Banking and changed the name of assets accounting treatment for Additional Tier 1 instruments. under management to client assets. Client assets include Return on equity is now calculated as underlying profit Risk, funding & capital Report cash and securities of clients held on accounts with for the period attributable to owners of the company ABN AMRO. The development of client assets is explained (i.e. underlying profit after deduction of net reserved for Private Banking. payments for capital securities and result attributable to non-controlling interests) divided by the average equity attributable to the owners of the company (i.e. excluding capital securities and non-controlling interests). Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 87 Business Report / Financial review Introduction Overview Strategic Report ABN AMRO Group reported an underlying net profit of driven by lower impairments partly offset by lower net EUR 1,924 million, up EUR 373 million compared with interest income and higher regulatory levies. the previous year on the back of lower impairment charges and higher operating income partly offset by higher Private Banking posted an underlying net profit of regulatory levies and project costs. This resulted in EUR 214 million, an increase of EUR 54 million compared an underlying Return on Equity (ROE) of 12.0% and with 2014. Higher net fee and commission and other an increased cost/income ratio of 61.8%. operating income accompanied by lower loan impairments Business Report were partly offset by higher operating expenses, including Reported net profit for 2015 was equal to the underlying higher regulatory levies. The acquired German private net profit, as no special items were identified in banking activities were consolidated as of September 2015. Reported net profit for full-year 2014 was 2014, contributing to full-year 2015 underlying net profit. EUR 1,134 million and included EUR 417 million of negative one-off special items (SNS Reaal levy and Corporate Banking doubled underlying net profit to pension settlement charge). EUR 596 million, up EUR 298 million compared with 2014. Risk, funding & capital Report This increase was driven by higher operating income and The total balance sheet ended at EUR 390.3 billion, considerably lower loan impairments, partly offset by an increase of EUR 3.4 billion compared with December higher operating expenses, including higher regulatory 2014. The increase in Cash and balances at central banks levies. Commercial Clients and International Clients was partly offset by Financial assets held for trading, contributed to the underlying profit, while Capital Markets Derivatives and Loans and receivables banks. Total Solutions reported a small underlying loss. liabilities increased mainly in Due to customers and Subordinated liabilities, largely offset by decreased Group Functions posted an underlying net profit of Derivatives and Financial liabilities held for trading. EUR 112 million negative compared with an underlying profit of EUR 14 million in 2014. This was impacted by a Governance Report Retail Banking’s underlying net profit was tax-exempt provision related to the part of the Securities EUR 1,226 million, up EUR 147 million compared with Financing activities discontinued in 2009. 2014. The increase in underlying net profit was mainly Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 88 Business Report / Financial review / Group results Introduction Group results Strategic Report Income statement Operating results (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Net interest income 6,076 6,023 1% Net fee and commission income 1,829 1,691 8% Business Report Other operating income 550 341 61% Operating income 8,455 8,055 5% Personnel expenses 2,492 2,396 4% Other expenses 2,736 2,453 12% Operating expenses 5,228 4,849 8% Operating result 3,227 3,206 1% Risk, funding & capital Report Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 505 1,171 -57% Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 2,722 2,035 34% Income tax expense 798 484 65% Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 1,924 1,551 24% Special items -417 Reported profit/(loss) for the period 1,924 1,134 Of which available for AT 1 capital securities (net of tax) 11 Of which Non-controlling interests 5 Governance Report Other indicators 2015 2014 Net interest margin (NIM) (in bps) 146 153 Underlying cost/income ratio 61.8% 60.2% Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1 19 45 Underlying return on average Equity2 12.0% 10.9% Underlying earnings per share (in EUR)3 2.03 1.65 Annual Financial Statements 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Client Assets (in billions) 313.5 302.5 FTEs 22,048 22,215 1 Annualised impairment charges on Loans and receivables customers for the period divided by average Loans and receivables customers. 2 Underlying profit for the period attributable to owners of the company divided by the average equity attributable to the owners of the company. 3 Underlying profit for the period attributable to owners of the company divided by the average outstanding and paid-up ordinary shares. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 89 Business Report / Financial review / Group results Introduction The underlying profit for full-year 2015 amounted to Net interest income on consumer loans decreased due to EUR 1,924 million, up EUR 373 million compared with the declined average loan volumes and lower margins. Strategic Report previous year. The increase was due mainly to lower loan impairments and higher operating income, partly offset Net interest income on corporate loans increased in 2015 by regulatory levies and project costs. Income tax expense compared to 2014 due to both higher volumes and higher in 2015 was negatively impacted by the reassessment of margins. Margin improvements were mainly recorded in our tax position and the tax-exempt provision related to Commercial Clients. The increase in average corporate the part of the Securities financing activities discontinued loan volumes was chiefly by volume growth in the ECT in 2009. Clients loan portfolio (including currency developments). Business Report Average corporate loan volumes in Commercial Clients The underlying return on equity (ROE) increased to 12.0% showed a limited decline compared to 2014. in 2015, compared with 10.9% in 2014. Net interest income was negatively impacted by higher A number of special items impacted 2014 negatively. As a liquidity buffer costs. consequence, the reported net profit of EUR 1,134 million in 2014 was EUR 417 million lower than the underlying net In combination with higher average total assets, this Risk, funding & capital Report proft (EUR 1,551 million in 2014). The difference between resulted in a net interest margin (NIM) of 146bps in 2015. underlying and reported results is shown in the table Reconciliation from underlying to reported results. Net fee and commission income, at EUR 1,829 million in 2015, was EUR 138 million higher than in 2014. The Operating income increase was primarily recorded in Private Banking, due to Operating income grew by 5% compared with 2014 and a favourable stock market performance, and in Corporate amounted to EUR 8,455 million in 2015, of which 80% Banking due to higher transaction volumes at Clearing. was generated in the Netherlands. Other operating income amounted to EUR 550 million in Net interest income rose marginally to EUR 6,076 million 2015, up by EUR 209 million compared with the previous Governance Report in 2015 compared with EUR 6,023 million in 2014. The year. The increase was primarily driven by higher CVA/ development of net interest income was impacted by DVA/FVA results (EUR 76 million positive in 2015 versus several negative one-offs in 2015 (including a provision for EUR 58 million negative in 2014), favourable hedge the Euribor mortgages legal claim). In contrast, one-offs accounting-related results at Group Functions, and higher with a positive impact were recorded in 2014. tax-exempt results at Equity Participations on the back of improved market conditions. This was partly offset by a Net interest income on residential mortgages increased one-off tax-exempt provision in Group Functions related to Annual Financial Statements compared with 2014 as margin improvements exceeded the part of the Securities Financing activities discontinued the decrease in portfolio volumes. Margins improved due in 2009 and a provision in Corporate Banking for an to continued gradual repricing at higher margins, in identified group of SMEs with possible interest rate particular mortgages that originated pre-crisis. derivative-related issues. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 90 Business Report / Financial review / Group results Introduction Operating expenses A EUR 55 million settlement with Vestia was included in Operating expenses increased by EUR 379 million, or 8%, 2015. These increases were partly offset by a considerable Strategic Report to EUR 5,228 million in 2015 compared with 2014. VAT refund recorded in 2015 which was the result of discussions with the tax authorities related to the period Personnel expenses amounted to EUR 2,492 million in 2007-2014. 2015, up EUR 96 million compared with the previous year. Pension expenses were EUR 38 million higher in 2015 due Operating result mainly to lower discount rates. In addition, personnel The operating result improved marginally to expenses for international activities increased due mainly EUR 3,227 million, up by EUR 21 million compared with Business Report to growth of the number of FTEs and devaluation of the 2014, and the underlying cost/income ratio increased by euro. Personnel expenses in 2014 were positively 1.6 percentage points to 61.8% in 2015. impacted by releases from the employee benefits provision. Comparable restructuring provisions were Impairment charges on loans and receivables included in 2014 and 2015. Impairment charges on loans and other receivables amounted to EUR 505 million, EUR 666 million lower than Other expenses rose by EUR 283 million to EUR 2,736 million. in 2014. Lower impairment charges were recorded on all Risk, funding & capital Report The increase was driven by EUR 129 million higher portfolios due to improvements in the risk profile of the regulatory levies. Regulatory levies totalling portfolios on the back of improved economic conditions. EUR 220 million in 2015 included EUR 119 million for This also led to IBNI releases, which are determined the National Resolution Fund (NRF), EUR 98 million for based on recent losses in the portfolio. The decreasing the Dutch bank tax and EUR 3 million for the Deposit loan loss levels resulted in an IBNI release of Guarantee Scheme (DGS). Implementation of the Dutch EUR 221 million in 2015 compared with an IBNI addition DGS has been postponed by the national regulator to of EUR 22 million in 2014. Q1 2016; therefore, the DGS charge recorded in 2015 was lower than previously communicated. In addition, other The decrease in Impairment charges was recorded in each expenses increased due to higher project costs related to business segment. Governance Report enhancing client centricity and continuous improvement of products, services and IT processes (including the TOPS The underlying cost of risk amounted to 19bps in 2015, 2020 and Retail Digitalisation programmes). down from 45bps in 2014. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 91 Business Report / Financial review / Group results Introduction Balance sheet Strategic Report Condensed statement of financial position (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Cash and balances at central banks 26,195 706 Financial assets held for trading 1,706 9,017 Derivatives 19,138 25,285 Financial investments 40,542 41,466 Securities financing 20,062 18,511 Business Report Loans and receivables banks 15,680 21,680 Loans and receivables customers 259,319 261,910 Other 7,676 8,292 Total assets 390,317 386,867 Financial liabilities held for trading 459 3,759 Derivatives 22,425 30,449 Securities financing 11,372 13,918 Risk, funding & capital Report Due to banks 14,630 15,744 Due to customers 230,297 216,011 Issued debt 76,207 77,131 Subordinated liabilities 9,708 8,328 Other 7,635 6,652 Total liabilities 372,733 371,990 Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company 16,575 14,865 Capital securities 993 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 17 12 Total equity 17,584 14,877 Governance Report Total liabilities and equity 390,317 386,867 Committed credit facilities 21,559 16,164 Guarantees and other commitments 13,868 15,335 Main developments in total assets Financial assets held for trading decreased sharply by Total assets increased by EUR 3.4 billion to EUR 390.3 EUR 7.3 billion to EUR 1.7 billion at 31 December 2015, Annual Financial Statements at 31 December 2015 from EUR 386.9 billion at driven mainly by the wind-down of activities resulting 31 December 2014, due mainly to higher Cash and from the strategic review of Capital Markets Solutions balances at central banks, partly offset by Financial assets and a decrease in government bonds related to primary held for trading, Derivatives and Loan and receivables dealerships. banks. Derivatives decreased by EUR 6.1 billion to EUR 19.1 billion Cash and balances at central banks increased by (of which EUR 15 billion trading and EUR 4 billion non-trading) EUR 25.5 billion to EUR 26.2 billion as part of the liquidity on the back of midto long-term interest rates and FX buffer. The mandatory reserve deposits held with DNB rates movements impacting the fair value of derivatives. recorded in Loans and receivables – banks were This is also observed in the derivative liabilities. transferred to overnight deposits accounts. Other Loans and receivables – banks decreased by EUR 6.0 billion to EUR 15.7 billion due mainly to the transfer of mandatory reserves at DNB to overnight deposit accounts, partly ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 92 Business Report / Financial review / Group results Introduction offset by a EUR 2 billion move of ECT Clients trade bills are gradually growing, following amended tax from Loans and receivables – customers to Loans and regulations. As a result, redemptions exceeded new Strategic Report receivables banks. mortgage production. The market share in new mortgage production was stable at 20% in 2015. Loans and receivables – customers declined by EUR 2.6 billion. As shown in the following table this Corporate loans to clients underlying growth was more decline was primarily the result of lower residential than offset by a move of ECT Clients trade bills to Loans mortgage volume and lower consumer loans. The and receivables banks and the reallocation of part of the mortgage portfolio decreased by EUR 1.5 billion to public sector loan portfolio from Corporate Banking to Business Report EUR 146.9 billion at 31 December 2015, driven by fierce Group Functions (EUR 2.3 billion). This portfolio was competition especially towards year-end on longer interest reallocated due to the specific expertise required to rate periods and redemptions. Redemptions were higher manage risks other than credit risk associated with these due to increased refinancing, whereas extra repayments longer dated loans. Corporate Banking will continue to in 2015 returned to the same level as previous years. manage client relationships. As a result of this reallocation, Low interest rates and increased awareness among the portfolio was reclassified to Loans to professional homeowners of the possibility of residual debt are still counterparties. Risk, funding & capital Report incentives for extra repayments. Contractual repayments Loans and receivables – customers (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Residential mortgages 146,932 148,402 Consumer loans 15,147 16,052 Corporate loans to clients1 78,195 80,065 Total client loans2 240,274 244,519 Governance Report Loans to professional counterparties 12,194 9,635 Other loans3 6,357 6,777 Total Loans and receivables customers 2 258,825 260,931 Fair value adjustments from hedge accounting 4,849 5,739 Less: loan impairment allowance 4,355 4,761 Total Loans and receivables customers 259,319 261,910 1 Corporate loans excluding loans to professional counterparties. 2 Gross carrying amount excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. Annual Financial Statements 3 Other loans consists of loans and receivables to government, official institutions and financial markets parties. Main developments in total liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading declined by Total liabilities increased marginally by EUR 0.7 billion to EUR 3.3 billion to EUR 0.5 billion due to lower short EUR 372.7 billion at 31 December 2015 compared with positions in bonds mostly related to the primary EUR 372.0 billion at 31 December 2014. The increase in dealership. Due to customers and Subordinated liabilities was largely offset by lower Derivatives and Financial liabilities held Derivatives decreased by EUR 8.0 billion to EUR 22.4 billion for trading. (of which EUR 13 billion trading and EUR 9 billion nontrading) on the back of midto long-term interest and Other FX rates movements impacting the valuation of derivatives. This is also observed in derivative assets. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 93 Business Report / Financial review / Group results Introduction Due to customers increased by EUR 14.3 billion to Commercial Clients and Retail Banking. The combined EUR 230.3 billion. Growth was recorded in all business market share of 21%1 in retail deposits at Retail Banking Strategic Report segments and largely in demand deposits at Private and Private banking in the Netherlands at 31 December Banking and Corporate Banking and savings deposits at 2015 was stable compared with 31 December 2014. Due to customers (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Retail Banking 98,674 95,915 Business Report Private Banking 66,465 62,902 Corporate Banking 62,850 54,740 Group Functions 2,308 2,454 Total Due to customers 230,297 216,011 Demand deposits 119,109 109,753 Saving deposits 92,472 88,655 Time deposits 18,555 17,459 Risk, funding & capital Report Total deposits 230,136 215,867 Other borrowings 160 144 Total Due to customers 230,297 216,011 Subordinated liabilities increased EUR 1.4 billion to Difference between underlying EUR 9.7 billion mainly as a result of two Tier 2 issuances and reported results (EUR 1.5 billion and EUR 1.4 billion (USD 1.5 billion)) partly Underlying results are adjusted for special items and offset by the call of a EUR 1.7 billion Dutch State-held divestments. Special items are material, non-recurring subordinated loan. items which are not related to normal business activities. Governance Report A divestment is the sale of all or part of a business to a Total equity third party. Adjustments include past results and the Total equity rose by EUR 2.7 billion to EUR 17.6 billion at related transaction result. 31 December 2015, due mainly to the reported profit for 2015 and, to a lesser extent, the inaugural launch of The reported net profit and the underlying net profit for EUR 1 billion of capital securities qualifying as Additional full-year 2015 amounted to EUR 1,924 million as no Tier 1 capital. special items were recognised. Annual Financial Statements The reported net profit for full-year 2014 amounted to EUR 1,134 million and includes a EUR 288 million charge for the transition to a new pension scheme and a EUR 201 million levy for the nationalisation of SNS Reaal. Other 1 Source: De Nederlandsche Bank ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 94 Business Report / Financial review / Group results Introduction The following table presents the reconciliation from underlying to reported results. Strategic Report Reconciliation from underlying to reported results 2015 2014 Special Special (in millions) Underlying items Reported Underlying items Reported Net interest income 6,076 6,076 6,023 6,023 Business Report Net fee and commission income 1,829 1,829 1,691 1,691 Other operating income 550 550 341 341 Operating income 8,455 8,455 8,055 8,055 Personnel expenses 2,492 2,492 2,396 288 2,684 Other expenses 2,736 2,736 2,453 201 2,654 Operating expenses 5,228 5,228 4,849 489 5,338 Operating result 3,227 3,227 3,206 -489 2,717 Risk, funding & capital Report Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 505 505 1,171 1,171 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 2,722 2,722 2,035 -489 1,546 Income tax expense 798 798 484 -72 412 Profit/(loss) for the period 1,924 1,924 1,551 -417 1,134 Impact of special items (in millions) 2015 2014 Operating income Governance Report Total impact on Operating Income Operating expenses Pension settlement charge 288 SNS Levy 201 Total impact on Operating expenses 489 Loan impairments Total impact on Loan impairments Annual Financial Statements Total impact on Income tax expense -72 Total impact on result for the period -417 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 95 Business Report / Financial review / Retail Banking Introduction Retail Banking Strategic Report Operating results (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Net interest income 3,302 3,379 -2% Net fee and commission income 527 522 1% Other operating income 25 41 -40% Business Report Operating income 3,853 3,942 -2% Personnel expenses 487 560 -13% Other expenses 1,619 1,475 10% Operating expenses 2,106 2,035 3% Operating result 1,748 1,907 -8% Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 99 460 -79% Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 1,649 Risk, funding & capital Report 1,447 14% Income tax expense 423 368 15% Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 1,226 1,079 14% Special items Reported profit/(loss) for the period 1,226 1,079 14% Retail Banking’s underlying profit rose by EUR 147 million Personnel expenses decreased by EUR 73 million, or 13%, to EUR 1,226 million in 2015, up 14% compared with due mainly to a restructuring provision of EUR 60 million in 2014, as a result of lower loan impairments partly offset by 2014. Excluding this provision, personnel expenses were Governance Report lower net interest income and higher regulatory levies. EUR 13 million lower due to lower average FTE levels, following a further reduction in branches. This was partly Net interest income, at EUR 3,302 million, declined by offset by higher pension expenses. EUR 77 million compared with 2014. This was largely driven by provisions related to legal claims (including Other expenses were up EUR 144 million to Euribor mortgages) and inconsistencies in interest EUR 1,619 million in 2015. The regulatory levies in 2015 calculations between the bank and its business partners were EUR 48 million higher compared with 2014 Annual Financial Statements with respect to one of the mortgage products in 2015 (EUR 87 million in 2015 versus EUR 39 million in 2014). and positive one-off results in 2014. In addition to higher regulatory levies, other expenses were up due mainly to higher external staffing costs due Margins on residential mortgages improved as a result to increased residential mortgage production and higher of the gradual repricing of the mortgage book. This was project costs related to enhancing client centricity and partly offset by lower average residential mortgages continuous improvement of products, services and IT volumes. Consumer lending volumes and margins processes (including TOPS 2020 and the Retail decreased in 2015. Digitalisation programmes). Interest income on deposits remained stable. Higher Operating result decreased by EUR 159 million to average savings volumes were offset by lower margins EUR 1,748 million in 2015. The underlying cost/income ratio Other as market rates declined at a faster pace than client increased by 3.0 percentage points to 54.6%. savings rates. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 96 Business Report / Financial review / Retail Banking Introduction Impairment charges on loans and other receivables fell by outflow and an improvement of the portfolio’s risk profile. EUR 361 million, compared with 2014, to EUR 99 million Consumer loans also benefited from improved economic Strategic Report in 2015. The decline in impairments is visible in both the conditions and active risk management of the portfolio of consumer loan portfolio and the mortgage portfolio. clients in arrears, leading to sharply lower loan Mortgage impairments decreased on the back of impairments. In addition, impairment charges benefited improved conditions in the housing market, and the from releases from the IBNI allowances (EUR 85 million recovery of the Dutch economy contributed to a lower in 2015). Included in 2014 were EUR 50 million of inflow of mortgages in the impaired portfolio, increased IBNI additions. Business Report Other indicators 2015 2014 Underlying cost/income ratio 54.6% 51.6% Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1 6 29 Risk, funding & capital Report 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Loan-to-Deposit ratio 152% 158% Loans and receivables customers (in billions) 154.2 156.0 Due to customers (in billions) 98.7 95.9 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 34.8 36.8 FTEs 5,844 6,258 1 Annualised impairment charges on Loans and receivables customers for the period divided by average Loans and receivables customers. Loans and receivables – customers decreased by Consumer lending declined by EUR 0.7 billion. Governance Report EUR 1.8 billion. Residential mortgages declined by EUR 1.1 billion driven by fierce competition, especially Due to customers grew by EUR 2.8 billion, due mainly to an towards year-end, on longer interest rate periods. increase in deposits at MoneYou (in all active countries). Redemptions were higher due to increased refinancing, whereas extra repayments in 2015 returned to the same level as previous years. Low interest rates and increased awareness among homeowners of the possibility of Annual Financial Statements residual debt are still incentives for extra repayments. Contractual repayments are gradually growing, following amended tax regulations. As a result, redemptions exceeded new mortgage production. ​ Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 97 Business Report / Financial review / Private Banking Introduction Private Banking Strategic Report Operating results (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Net interest income 589 597 -1% Net fee and commission income 619 544 14% Other operating income 101 51 98% Operating income Business Report 1,310 1,193 10% Personnel expenses 501 460 9% Other expenses 549 503 9% Operating expenses 1,050 964 9% Operating result 260 229 13% Impairment charges on loans and other receivables -4 23 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 264 Risk, funding & capital Report 206 28% Income tax expense 49 46 6% Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 214 160 34% Special items Reported profit/(loss) for the period 214 160 34% Private Banking’s underlying net profit rose by Personnel expenses increased by EUR 41 million to EUR 54 million to EUR 214 million in 2015, up 34% EUR 501 million in 2015. The increase in the international compared with 2014. The increase was mainly driven entities was mainly attributable to the acquired German Governance Report by higher net fee and commission income and one-off activities, a restructuring provision for the announced results, partly offset by higher project costs. The acquired integration of ABN AMRO Jersey into ABN AMRO German private banking activities of Credit Suisse were Guernsey and FTE growth. consolidated as of 1 September 2014. Other expenses grew by EUR 46 million compared with 2014 Net interest income amounted to EUR 589 million and was to EUR 549 million. The increase was primarily due to nearly stable compared with 2014. higher project costs related to enhancing client centricity Annual Financial Statements and client documentation, and continuous improvement Net fee and commission income increased by EUR 75 million, of products, services and IT processes. Costs for the or 14%, to EUR 619 million in 2015. Net fees increased acquisition in Germany were included in 2014. The regulatory due to higher average client assets, attributable to the levies were EUR 7 million higher than in 2014 stock market performance and Net new assets. Private (EUR 11 million in 2015 versus EUR 4 million in 2014). Banking also generated additional fee income in 2015 from A goodwill impairment of EUR 25 million was included the full-year contribution of the acquired German activities. in 2014. Other operating income in 2015 was EUR 50 million higher Operating result went up by 13% to EUR 260 million. than in 2014, due to the sale of premises and increased The underlying cost/income ratio for Private Banking trading income in 2015 while 2014 included a provision for decreased slightly to 80.2% in 2015. Other a legal claim. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 98 Business Report / Financial review / Private Banking Introduction Impairment charges on loans and other receivables showed The release in impairments is partially explained by a net release of EUR 4 million, compared with a EUR 12 million IBNI release in 2015. Strategic Report EUR 23 million impairment additions in 2014. Other indicators 2015 2014 Underlying cost/income ratio 80.2% 80.8% Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1 -2 14 Business Report Gross margin on client assets (in bps) 65 67 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Loan-to-Deposit ratio 25% 26% Loans and receivables customers (in billions) 16.6 16.7 Due to customers (in billions) 66.5 62.9 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 8.2 8.3 Risk, funding & capital Report FTEs 3,722 3,599 1 Annualised impairment charges on Loans and receivables customers for the period divided by average Loans and receivables customers. Loans and receivables – customers were virtually stable at Due to customers increased by EUR 3.5 billion to EUR 16.6 billion at 31 December 2015 compared with EUR 66.5 billion at 31 December 2015. Growth was EUR 16.7 billion at 31 December 2014. achieved both in the Netherlands and internationally. Client Assets Governance Report (in billions) 2015 2014 Opening balance Client assets 190.6 168.3 Net new assets (excl. sales/acquisitions) 1.5 5.5 Market performance 7.1 8.7 Divestments/acquisitions 8.2 Other (incl. sales/acquisitions) -0.1 Closing balance Client assets 199.2 190.6 Breakdown by type Annual Financial Statements Cash 66.5 63.6 Securities 132.8 127.0 of which custody 35.0 31.3 Breakdown by geography (in %) The Netherlands 48% 47% Rest of Europe 44% 44% Rest of the world 8% 9% Client assets grew to EUR 199.2 billion at 31 December Net new assets amounted to EUR 1.5 billion in 2015, 2015. This was due mainly to improved market EUR 4 billion lower than in 2014. This decline was due Other performance. mainly to the outflow of custody assets of a single client (EUR 3 billion) in 2015. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 99 Business Report / Financial review / Corporate Banking Introduction Corporate Banking Strategic Report Operating results (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Net interest income 2,142 2,019 6% Net fee and commission income 751 646 16% Other operating income 227 173 31% Business Report Operating income 3,120 2,839 10% Personnel expenses 676 618 9% Other expenses 1,264 1,116 13% Operating expenses 1,940 1,734 12% Operating result 1,180 1,105 7% Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 419 717 -42% Risk, funding & capital Report Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 762 388 96% Income tax expense 165 91 83% Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 596 298 100% Special items Reported profit/(loss) for the period 596 298 100% Corporate Banking’s underlying net profit increased by Net interest income in International Clients increased by EUR 298 million to EUR 596 million in 2015. The key EUR 61 million to EUR 709 million, benefiting from growth drivers for the improvement were a rise in operating in the ECT Clients loan portfolio which was due partly to Governance Report income and a considerable decrease in impairment the devaluation of the euro. This was partly offset by lower charges. This was partly offset by increased operating margins on deposits. expenses including higher regulatory levies. Net interest income in Capital Markets Solutions improved Commercial Clients and International Clients contributed by 33% to EUR 127 million, mainly in Clearing on the back EUR 329 million and EUR 292 million respectively to the of higher average client financing and higher margins, due underlying profit of Corporate Banking. Capital Markets partly to the depreciation of the euro. Annual Financial Statements Solutions made an underlying loss of EUR 24 million. Net fee and commission income increased by EUR 105 million Net interest income increased by EUR 123 million to compared with 2014 to EUR 751 million. Fee growth was EUR 2,142 million. The improvement was seen in all of the mainly driven by higher transaction volumes in Capital sub-segments. Markets Solutions resulting from increased volatility in the financial markets and higher fees received from Group Commercial Clients posted a modest rise in net interest Functions related to Securities Financing activities. income of EUR 30 million to EUR 1,305 million. Margins on loans and average deposit volumes increased, while Other operating income went up by EUR 54 million to deposit margins decreased compared with 2014. Average EUR 227 million in 2015. The increase was driven by a loan volumes decreased partly due to the reallocation of EUR 116 million higher CVA/DVA/FVA impact compared Other part of the public sector loan portfolio to Group Functions. with 2014, which included first-time application of the FVA. The total CVA/DVA/FVA impact was EUR 49 million positive in 2015 versus EUR 67 million negative in 2014. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 100 Business Report / Financial review / Corporate Banking Introduction Results further improved driven by higher tax-exempt versus EUR 49 million in 2014). In addition, there were results on the Equity Participations portfolio on the back higher project costs related to enhancing client centricity Strategic Report of improved market conditions. This was partly offset by and continuous improvement of products, services and a provision for an identified group of SMEs with possible IT processes (including the TOPS 2020 programme). interest rate derivative-related issues. Clearing recorded a EUR 40 million gain in 2014 on the partial sale of the share Operating result went up by EUR 75 million to in Holland Clearing House. EUR 1,180 million in 2015. The underlying cost/income ratio in 2015 increased 1.1 percentage point to 62.2% Personnel expenses amounted to EUR 676 million in 2015, compared with 2014. Business Report up by EUR 58 million compared with 2014. Personnel expenses increased due to pension expenses, Impairment charges amounted to EUR 419 million, down restructuring provisions and higher personnel expenses by EUR 298 million compared with 2014. The decrease for the international activities driven by growth in FTE in impairment charges at Commercial Clients in 2015 and the depreciation of the euro. was partly offset by the increase at International Clients. An IBNI release of EUR 125 million was included for Other expenses grew by EUR 148 million compared with Corporate Banking in 2015, compared with a Risk, funding & capital Report 2014. The regulatory levies in 2015 were EUR 73 million EUR 25 million release in 2014. higher compared with 2014 (EUR 122 million in 2015 Other indicators 2015 2014 Underlying cost/income ratio 62.2% 61.1% Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1 46 86 Governance Report 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Loan-to-Deposit ratio 121% 143% Loans and receivables customers (in billions) 80.6 85.0 Due to customers (in billions) 62.9 54.7 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 55.1 53.5 FTEs 4,959 4,995 1 Annualised impairment charges on Loans and receivables customers for the period divided by average Loans and receivables customers. Annual Financial Statements Loans and receivables – customers decreased by Due to customers increased by EUR 8.2 billion to EUR 4.4 billion to EUR 80.6 billion at 31 December 2015. EUR 62.9 billion at 31 December 2015. Commercial The underlying growth, mainly in ECT on the back of the Clients, International Clients and Capital Markets Solutions depreciation of the euro, was more than offset by the all contributed to this increase. reallocation of part of the public sector loan portfolio from Corporate Banking to Group Functions and a reclassification from Loans and receivables customers to Loans and receivable banks within the ECT Clients portfolio. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 101 Business Report / Financial review / Corporate Banking Introduction Commercial Clients Operating results Strategic Report (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Net interest income 1,305 1,275 2% Net fee and commission income 205 196 5% Other operating income 13 30 -56% Operating income 1,524 1,502 1% Operating expenses 861 788 9% Business Report Operating result 663 713 -7% Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 213 605 -65% Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 450 108 Income tax expense 121 27 Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 329 82 Special items Risk, funding & capital Report Reported profit/(loss) for the period 329 82 Other indicators 2015 2014 Underlying cost/income ratio 56.5% 52.5% Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1 53 145 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Loans and receivables customers (in billions) 35.3 38.1 Governance Report Due to customers (in billions) 34.8 31.7 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 21.5 20.8 1 Annualised impairment charges on Loans and receivables customers for the period divided by average Loans and receivables customers. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 102 Business Report / Financial review / Corporate Banking Introduction International Clients Operating results Strategic Report (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Net interest income 709 648 9% Net fee and commission income 232 217 7% Other operating income 104 3 Operating income 1,044 868 20% Operating expenses 522 456 14% Business Report Operating result 522 412 27% Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 191 113 69% Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 331 299 11% Income tax expense 40 67 -41% Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 292 232 26% Risk, funding & capital Report Special items Reported profit/(loss) for the period 292 232 26% Other indicators 2015 2014 Underlying cost/income ratio 50.0% 52.6% Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1 57 40 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Governance Report Loans and receivables customers (in billions) 32.2 32.2 Due to customers (in billions) 19.0 16.7 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 22.6 19.9 1 Annualised impairment charges on Loans and receivables customers for the period divided by average Loans and receivables customers. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 103 Business Report / Financial review / Corporate Banking Introduction Capital Markets Solutions Operating results Strategic Report (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Net interest income 127 96 33% Net fee and commission income 314 233 35% Other operating income 110 140 -21% Operating income 551 469 18% Operating expenses 555 489 13% Business Report Operating result -3 -20 84% Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 15 -1 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation -18 -19 6% Income tax expense 6 -4 Underlying profit/(loss) for the period -24 -15 -57% Risk, funding & capital Report Special items Reported profit/(loss) for the period -24 -15 -57% Other indicators 2015 2014 Underlying cost/income ratio 100.6% 104.3% Underlying cost of risk (in bps)1 9 -1 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Governance Report Financial assets held for trading (in billions) 1.7 8.9 Loans and receivables customers (in billions) 13.1 14.7 Financial liabilities held for trading (in billions) 0.5 3.8 Due to customers (in billions) 9.1 6.3 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 11.0 12.8 1 Annualised impairment charges on Loans and receivables customers for the period divided by average Loans and receivables customers. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 104 Business Report / Financial review / Group Functions Introduction Group Functions Strategic Report Operating results (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Net interest income 44 28 56% Net fee and commission income -68 -21 Other operating income 197 75 Business Report Operating income 172 82 111% Personnel expenses 828 758 9% Other expenses -695 -641 -8% Operating expenses 133 117 14% Operating result 39 -35 Impairment charges on loans Risk, funding & capital Report and other receivables -8 -28 71% Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 48 -7 Income tax expense 160 -21 Underlying profit/(loss) for the period -112 14 Special items -417 Reported profit/(loss) for the period -112 -402 72% Governance Report The underlying result of Group Functions was EUR 112 million Net fee and commission income decreased by negative in 2015 compared with a profit of EUR 14 million EUR 47 million, mainly driven by higher fees paid to in 2014. This was impacted by a tax-exempt provision Capital Markets Solutions related to Securities related to the part of the Securities Financing activities Financing activities. discontinued in 2009. Other operating income increased by EUR 122 million Net interest income increased by EUR 16 million compared compared with 2014. The increase was driven by higher Annual Financial Statements with 2014. The increase was mainly driven by lower hedge accounting-related results and favourable CVA/DVA funding costs due to lower spread levels paid on funding. adjustments (EUR 27 million positive in 2015 and This was partly offset by higher cash level in the liquidity EUR 9 million positive in 2014). This was partly offset by buffer, higher client funding volumes and a tax-exempt a tax-exempt provision related to the part of the Securities non-recurring provision related to the part of the Securities Financing activities discontinued in 2009. Financing activities discontinued in 2009. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 105 Business Report / Financial review / Group Functions Introduction Personnel expenses, at EUR 828 million in 2015, went up expenses). Other expenses in 2015 were also impacted by EUR 70 million compared with 2014. This increase was by a considerable VAT refund, which was the result of Strategic Report driven by an increase in the number of FTEs and higher discussions with the tax authorities related to the period additions to restructuring provisions, and the fact that 2007-2014. This was partly offset by the EUR 55 million 2014 was positively impacted by adjustments to settlement with Vestia. Both years were impacted by employee benefits. releases related to the Deposit Guarantee Scheme provision for DSB (EUR 35 million in 2015 compared Other expenses decreased by EUR 54 million compared with EUR 66 million in 2014) and cost savings generated with the same period in 2014. Group Functions had higher by the TOPS 2020 programme. Business Report project costs related to enhancing client centricity and continuous improvement of products, services and Income tax expense in 2015 was negatively impacted by IT processes (including the TOPS 2020 and Retail the reassessment of our tax position and the tax-exempt Digitalisation programmes). This was, however, largely provision related to the part of the Securities financing allocated to the commercial segments (as negative activities discontinued in 2009. Risk, funding & capital Report Other indicators 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Securities financing assets 15.5 14.5 Loans and receivables customers (in billions) 7.9 4.2 Securities financing liabilities 10.2 12.6 Due to customers (in billions) 2.3 2.5 Risk-weighted assets (risk exposure amount; in billions) 9.9 11.0 FTEs 7,522 7,362 Governance Report Loans and receivables – customers increased to EUR 7.9 billion at 31 December 2015. This was mainly the result of the reallocation of part of the public sector loan portfolio from Corporate Banking to Group Functions to address the specific expertise required to manage the risks, other than credit risk, associated with these longer dated loans. Corporate Banking continues to manage Annual Financial Statements client relationships. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Our people Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report This section sets out the bank’s people strategy, what we achieved in 2015 and our plans for the future. Overview In 2015 we invested in further implementing our Top Class In pursuing our culture of excellence, we introduced a global HR Employer strategy. Nearly all our employees in the Netherlands IT infrastructure promoting continuous learning throughout the took the Banker’s Oath, a logical affirmation of their organisation. For our managers, we set up a Leadership Impact acknowledgement and acceptance of the rules of conduct for the Framework. We seek to retain our people not only by offering banking sector. Several nominations recognised our company as them a challenging and rewarding environment; we also give a diverse and inclusive top class employer. In order to attract the them the possibility to create their best place to work. The bank Governance Report best people, we started reviewing and optimising our employee reached agreement with the trade unions on a new collective value proposition and tailored our approach to the labour market labour agreement. through segmentation. Annual Financial Statements Other 107 Business Report / Our people Introduction Our workforce at a glance Total FTEs per segment Strategic Report 2015 2014 Change Retail Banking 5,844 6,258 -7% Private Banking 3,722 3,599 3% Corporate Banking 4,959 4,995 -1% Group Functions 7,522 7,362 2% Total 22,048 22,215 -1% Business Report Geographic breakdown of FTEs 2015 2014 Change Netherlands 17,908 18,250 -2% Rest of Europe 2,696 2,622 3% Asia 898 854 5% USA 413 364 13% Risk, funding & capital Report Rest of the world 133 125 7% Total 22,048 22,215 -1% Total outflow1 Breakdown of employees by age (in %) in the Netherlands 2015 <S> (in %) 15 5 8 12 9 9 8 27 26 Governance Report 6 2015 Total 17,908 3 2014 2015 1 Total outflow consists of natural attrition, reorganisations and other outflow such as outsourcing and leave of absence. 34 < 24 30 39 50 59 Annual Financial Statements Outflow was caused by attrition (voluntary and pension), 24 29 40 49 60 restructuring and other factors, including involuntary departures and employees being on temporary contracts. We deploy temporary staff and contractors to respond to developments in our environment and to hire people with specific knowledge or skills. The flexible part (temporary staff and contractors) of our total workforce was 16% in 2015 compared with 13% in 2014. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 108 Business Report / Our people Introduction Top Class Employer acknowledge their individual responsibility as an employee Making a difference for our clients now and in the future of ABN AMRO and accept the rules of conduct for the Strategic Report requires a talented and committed workforce. In 2012 banking sector. we introduced our Top Class Employer strategy, which consists of three building blocks: providing a meaningful Culture of excellence corporate identity, creating a culture of excellence and We define a culture of excellence as a culture in which offering the best place to work. This people strategy is part employees strive to excel at all times on behalf of the of the bank’s strategic priority ‘Invest in our future’. Our client and to constantly maximise their performance. Top Class Employer strategy aims to inspire employees We take our responsibility as an employer seriously by Business Report to develop continuously and to make their own, unique setting clear targets for every employee and helping our contribution to the bank’s sustainable growth. people get the best out of themselves. A culture that nurtures professionalism, creativity and accountability Our corporate identity is the best way to get the most out of our talented and A meaningful corporate identity that employees are eager diverse workforce. to embrace is key to attracting and retaining talent and maximising their potential. We want our employees Best place to work Risk, funding & capital Report to be proud of ABN AMRO and to be our brand Our people are our most valuable asset. We offer them ambassadors. A meaningful corporate identity also a challenging and rewarding environment in which they projects a clearly recognisable and distinctive image do meaningful work and add value for clients. We give to clients and other stakeholders. employees the freedom they need to personalise their fringe benefits, work schedules and work location -Our corporate identity reflects our core values Trusted, the freedom to create their best place to work. Professional and Ambitious and business principles. We evaluate our Top Class Employer strategy on an annual I aim to provide my clients I am a passionate basis by tracking metrics on themes such as corporate with the best solutions professional identity, leadership, talent management and best place to Governance Report work. We regularly measure the impact of HR factors and I am committed I take responsibility to sustainable activities in our business through statistical analysis. business practices Our people strategy, with its three building blocks, is I only take risks I understand I build relationships designed to help us attract, develop and retain the best through collaboration people. The rest of this section describes our most important initiatives and achievements relating to these Annual Financial Statements We hold each employee accountable for living up to our goals in 2015. business principles, and we incorporated these principles into our performance management cycle for 2015. Attract the best people The Banker’s Oath, which was introduced in the ABN AMRO can only live up to its pledge to its clients Netherlands in 2014, is a formal commitment to putting by having a highly talented, committed and diverse clients’ interests first. By the end of 2015, 97% of our workforce. In order to attract the best people, we tailor employees in the Netherlands had taken this oath. While our recruitment approach to specific groups of potential the oath will not change the way we work, it will make us employees. more aware of the choices we make. It ties in with the professional responsibility that our employees are already Employee value proposition Other accustomed to taking in their day-to-day work. By taking The demand for highly skilled people in the labour market the oath, ABN AMRO’s employees are helping to restore is growing. This development, combined with evertrust in the Dutch financial industry. It means employees increasing regulations governing remuneration in the ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 109 Business Report / Our people Introduction ABN AMRO wants to be a fully digital bank by 2020, Strategic Report and IT is playing an increasingly important role in helping the bank achieve this aspiration. Our talent and acquisition management has to take account of this development, as innovative professionals want to be challenged in their field. Creating the bank’s future To recruit this group of staff, we place inspiring and Business Report targeted advertisements in social media. By triggering the target group based on their expertise, 2x as many for example by means of challenges, we received more high-quality job applications in 2015 than in previous years. The result? ABN AMRO was nominated for a Recruitment Tech Award. responses to job vacancies during Risk, funding & capital Report our campaign than usual As part of our development programme for IT professionals, we set up the IT Academy, a topnotch, intensive learning environment for fintech Engagement ratio on average during professionals. We need these professionals, because our campaign, compared with other times only with a state-of-the-art, flexible IT landscape can 1.5% vs 0.8% we keep pace with our ever changing environment. Thanks to our way of attracting and developing professionals, we are once again viewed as an IT employer. At the end of 2015, we were nominated as ‘IT Employer of the Year’ by Computable magazine. Governance Report The engagement ratio expresses the activity of people on social media based on the number of ‘likes’, shares, comments and clicks. Annual Financial Statements Dutch financial sector, means that we need to come up statements for employees, which should increase their with a compelling story to attract key talent who will knowledge and appreciation of the total compensation enhance our culture of excellence. they receive. We offer our people an attractive total rewards package, Building our workforce effectively but believe we can do more to market our benefits. ABN AMRO already tailors its approach to the labour Mid-2015 we began the process of reviewing and market based on defined key target groups and segments. optimising our employee value proposition. In a dedicated Segmentation helps us achieve our goal faster and gives project, we are reassessing and redefining what the bank more meaning to our brand and positioning of ABN AMRO has to offer staff and aim to clearly differentiate as an employer. By knowing each group’s preferences, we ABN AMRO as a Top Class Employer. One of the project can address each target group effectively – not only for Other goals scheduled for 2016 is to deliver individual reward recruitment purposes, but also when communicating about education, development and mobility. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 110 Business Report / Our people Introduction In 2015 we aligned our traineeship programme with our Female representation <S> (in %) Top Class Employer strategy and vision on talent. By doing Strategic Report so, we are anticipating on the changing labour market and 50 the growing importance of personal development. We 43 43 40 now focus on six trainee target groups instead of the previously used 27 business-oriented tracks. We also 30 24 25 changed the procedure by replacing traditional interviews 23 20 20 and external assessments with a personal meet-andmatch day. This will help us hire the best candidates. 10 Business Report During the traineeship programme, trainees have the Total NL Upper Senior opportunity to discover ABN AMRO and to focus on their middle-management management own personal growth. The trainee programme includes at 2014 2015 least one client-facing assignment to allow trainees to experience the importance of client centricity. The Managing Board set new gender diversity targets in 2015: we aim to place women in 30% of senior Risk, funding & capital Report A diverse and inclusive workforce management positions and in 35% of upper middleA diverse workforce that reflects the communities we management positions by 2020. We are on track to meet serve helps us to create the best solutions and enhance these targets: in 2015, 23% of senior management the customer experience while fostering innovation, positions and 25% of upper middle-management positions respect and creativity. We do not view diversity only in were held by women. In addition to gender diversity, we terms of gender, but also with respect to cultural also focus on hiring more non-Western employees for background, disability, age and sexual orientation. In 2015 upper middle-management and senior management we focused mainly on three areas: gender, cultural positions and on hiring more disabled people. background and disability. Diversity and inclusion are about bringing together and making optimum use of the unique Governance Report talents and experiences of all people, regardless of who Develop our people they are or where they come from. Diversity is part of our We live up to our responsibility as an employer by Top Class Employer strategy and plays a pivotal role in our consistently encouraging employees to pursue personal annual Employee Engagement Survey, in the section on growth and to get the most out of themselves, so that fair treatment (81% of employees were positive). The they can make a difference for themselves, our clients results of this survey help us to determine what activities and society. we need to undertake to maintain or improve the results. Talent management Annual Financial Statements In 2015 ABN AMRO was acknowledged as a best practice In order to pursue a culture of excellence, we need to company for cultural diversity (Dutch Ministry of Social challenge employees and help them use and continuously Affairs and Employment) and gender diversity (Talent to develop their talents. We give all of our employees – the Top foundation and Dutch Ministry of Education). In regardless of age or education – numerous tools and 2014 and 2015 ABN AMRO was nominated for two opportunities to develop and grow. We believe everyone different awards relating to disabled people: the Lucille has talent. Management development for an exclusive Werner Foundation Business Walk of Fame and the Okura group of staff is no longer sufficient and is not consistent Award. In addition, our new media campaign, which with an inclusive culture. featured a same-sex couple getting married, was nominated for the Workplace Pride Leadership Awards. We believe development is a two-way street: employees Other All of these nominations acknowledge our efforts in recent are expected to take responsibility for their own growth by years and strengthen our brand as a diverse and inclusive stating their ambitions and using their talents. ABN AMRO Top Class Employer. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 111 Business Report / Our people Introduction adheres to the 70:20:10 principle to support and facilitate representative. They show that 76% of employees across learning where it is most effective: we help our people the organisation feel engaged with their work. This figure Strategic Report learn on the job (70%), from their colleagues (20%) and is equal to 2014 and higher than the global financial in formal courses (10%). This principle allows us to extend sector (74%). our focus beyond traditional ways of learning to create a culture of continuous development. In the latest survey a total of 9,500 suggestions were given on how to improve the bank. Our response in 2015 In the course of 2015 we introduced a new HR IT tool, to the previous year’s improvement suggestions yielded Talent2Grow, to promote continuous learning. From results. Eighty-one per cent of our employees have a Business Report training courses and job vacancies to records of personal favourable view of inclusion at the bank, as reflected in performance agreements and assessment interviews, the Fair Treatment Index section of the survey. Our staff Talent2Grow gives ABN AMRO staff and managers around also believe we have made progress in putting clients’ the world access to everything related to personal interests centre stage (from 70 to 77%). Appreciation for development and performance in a single system. In 2015 collaboration, commitment to vision & direction and our we rolled out the first two modules: Education and the sustainability efforts were rated higher than in 2014. dialogue supported by Performance Management and A large majority (65%) of our employees feel they are Risk, funding & capital Report Reward. The final module, Talent Acquisition and Mobility, being encouraged to work more environmentally friendly, will be rolled out in 2016. an increase of 14% in one year. A project group consisting of representatives from multiple disciplines within Alongside an evolving learning offering for employees, ABN AMRO was formed in 2015 to help reduce our we set up the Leadership Impact Framework for managers employees’ transportation footprint (including lease cars, to help them develop. This framework consists of public transport and business travel). The group is a mandatory, high-impact programme for new managers exploring ways for the bank to reduce its carbon footprint and a series of in-depth modules to help experienced and aims to switch the bank’s lease car fleet from energy managers develop specific leadership skills. We also label ABC to a carbon emission factor per car. More carried out voluntary Leadership Qualities e-surveys sustainable alternatives, such as public transport and Governance Report (360 degrees) in 2015 to measure the effectiveness of bicycles, need to be promoted. The project group’s first our managers’ leadership styles. deliverables are planned for 2016. Personal development and good leadership promote Retain the best people employee engagement. Many of our people (79%) are Employee engagement at ABN AMRO is high. We not positive about the training and development opportunities only offer employees a challenging and rewarding offered by the bank and 80% appreciate their immediate Annual Financial Statements environment to keep them engaged; we also give them manager. Both scores are high compared with other the autonomy they need to personalise their working financial services providers in the Netherlands. conditions and create their best place to work. ABN AMRO is committed to ensuring the safety of Our focus in 2016 will be on safeguarding the positive the working environment and the health of its people. results. We still see room for further improvement and The new collective labour agreement anticipates will devote extra attention to collaboration across developments in sustainable employability. the bank, encouraging managers to ‘walk the talk’ and promoting efficiency. Engaged employees drive sustainable business performance Flexible working environment Our annual Employee Engagement Survey gives us the We encourage employees throughout the organisation to Other information we need to strengthen engagement and personalise their working conditions and benefits, giving consequently improve our performance. With a record them the autonomy to create their best place to work and response of 83%, the results of the 2015 survey are highly the means to achieve a healthy work-life balance. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 112 Business Report / Our people Introduction For the bank’s head office in particular, we started rolling to EUR 100,000. All employees that are affected by this out a new workplace concept in 2015 called Yello. The cap receive an allowance that is derived from the Strategic Report concept is a collaborative product of HR, Facility collective defined contribution (CDC) premium. The Management and IT. Yello will help ABN AMRO achieve its allowance amounted to 30% of pensionable salary Top Class Employer strategy by providing an attractive exceeding EUR 100,000 in 2015. All or part of this workplace design that better meets individual needs and allowance can be used in the so-called net pension supports different forms of collaboration. The concept is scheme (DC). ABN AMRO uses the same CDC pension designed to encourage knowledge-sharing and innovation scheme (for pensionable salary up to EUR 100,000) and by providing shared workspaces, promoting multidefined contribution net pension scheme (for pensionable Business Report disciplinary contact and collaboration. It also allows salary above EUR 100,000) for all employees in the individual employees to choose how they work and their Netherlands, including Managing Board and Management preferred time, location and type of facility, such as quiet Group members. areas where they can concentrate on their work. In addition to the Netherlands, we have collective labour The design and materials of Yello are sustainable and the agreements and/or social plans (redundancy schemes) in concept allows for efficient use of our buildings. The place in other parts of Europe (Belgium, Luxembourg, Risk, funding & capital Report evaluation of the concept so far shows significant France, Germany, UK and Spain), Australia and Japan. increases in satisfaction with the working environment. In 2016 Yello will be further developed to better support an Health & Safety agile way of working and will be implemented at the head Healthy, safe and good working conditions enhance job offices in Amsterdam. The bank’s international offices are enjoyment and reduce the chance of illness, accidents and also interested in the concept. injuries. ABN AMRO is committed to creating healthy and safe working conditions and to actively informing staff Collective labour agreement and pension how best to prevent health risks. As part of our Top Class In December 2015 ABN AMRO reached agreement with Employer strategy and our ambition to be the ‘best place the trade unions on a new collective labour agreement to work’, ABN AMRO has a sound health and safety policy Governance Report and a new social plan (redundancy scheme). Both in place and encourages vitality among staff. We perform agreements focus more on employability and continuous regular inventories and risk assessments on possible development of talent. Sustainable employability is part of hazards concerning safety, health and welfare. working at the bank. We offer our employees a range of facilities to support their The new collective labour agreement (effective from physical, mental, emotional and spiritual well-being. A key 1 January 2016 to 1 January 2018) includes a freeze on initiative in this respect is our LEEFVitaal! programme in Annual Financial Statements salaries during 2016 and a salary increase of 1.5% on the Netherlands, which promotes awareness of the 1 January 2017. The new social plan (effective from benefits of a healthy lifestyle. Employees are invited once 1 January 2016 to 1 January 2020) includes a reduction every three years for a free, comprehensive health check of the time employees are entitled to spend in the to keep track of their health risks and biological age. If Redeployment Centre from twelve to six months and a necessary, we coach staff to help them improve their reduction of the level of redundancy pay, both effective lifestyle. Once every three years, employees receive an from 1 January 2017. online questionnaire, the ‘Balansmeter’. Based on the results of this survey, staff who are at risk of sickness Under the collective labour agreement for ABN AMRO absence are identified and offered assistance. Other employees in the Netherlands (effective from 1 January initiatives include a dedicated intranet site on health and 2014 to 1 January 2016), the employee pension vitality and a personal Sustainable Employability Budget Other contribution was lowered to 5.5% as from 2015 (2014: which staff can use to enhance their knowledge and skills 6.67%), whereas the tax-facilitated pension accrual was related to health and vitality. limited to 1.875% per year and to pensionable income up ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 113 Business Report / Our people Introduction Absenteeism at ABN AMRO in the Netherlands <S> Our plans for the future (in %) With the best people working for the bank, we will Strategic Report 5.00 continue to make a difference for our clients in 2016 and will concentrate even more on putting our clients’ 4.00 3.35 interests centre stage. 3.27 3.00 In 2016 we will carry out the initiatives and plans set out 2.00 in this chapter. We will accelerate the implementation of 1.00 our global HR IT infrastructure. With our global system Business Report live, we will have the benefits of a truly global HR 2014 2015 approach. As a result, ABN AMRO will have the tools it needs to make the most of the bank’s talents worldwide Absenteeism rose only slightly in 2015 to 3.35% by facilitating global mobility and development. In addition, (compared with 3.27% in 2014). Despite the small we will focus on further developing our in-depth increase, our absenteeism percentage is still below leadership capabilities and talent management. Our the average of our peers in the financial industry in continuous investment in HR analytics will help us Risk, funding & capital Report the Netherlands. anticipate future developments and clients’ needs. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 114 Business Report / Sustainability Introduction Sustainability Strategic Report We have introduced a new way of reporting on and communicating our sustainability performance which will help us get the right information across to the right stakeholders. In contrast to last year’s Sustainability Report, we are now communicating the information through several channels, targeting specific stakeholder groups. Results on the material topics have been integrated into this Business Report Annual Report. In 2015 we translated our material focus areas into metrics, enabling us to report on our progress in a concrete and transparent manner. Strategy Our sustainability strategy is based on two pillars: ABN AMRO strives to be a better bank contributing to Risk, funding & capital Report a better world. Our sustainability strategy up to 2017 Better bank commits us to achieving a positively recognised position ÅÅ We pursue sustainable business operations on sustainability and transparency. As a foundation of our ÅÅ We put our clients’ interests centre stage and build sustainability strategy, we endorse international standards sustainable relationships such as the UN Global Compact. Better world Banks play a key role in facilitating business and therefore ÅÅ We use our financial expertise for the benefit of society have a responsibility to shape and ensure the sustainable ÅÅ We finance and invest for clients in a sustainable development of business in the future. For ABN AMRO, manner that means doing business responsibly, putting our clients’ Governance Report interests centre stage and addressing the risks related to climate change, human rights and the shortage of natural resources. Sustainable business operations Annual Financial Statements Clients’ interests centre stage and sustainable relationships Better bank Better world Inspire and Using our financial expertise for the benefit of society engage A better bank our people contributing to Sustainable finance a better world and investment services Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 115 Business Report / Sustainability Introduction Our goal is to accurately measure and report on our Measuring progress progress by means of metrics. We aim to receive ​In 2015, we translated our sustainability strategy into Strategic Report assurance on the complete report in the coming years. goals and metrics. We make our employees ambassadors In this report the material topics relating to our long-term of ABN AMRO by giving them a role in increasing sustainability strategy are discussed in the sections on the transparency and sustainability at the bank. We measure business lines. We obtained assurance on a distinct set of the results of our efforts with our Employee Engagement quantitative data that are related to most of the material Survey and strive to score 80% or higher by 2017. topics. The data that are in the scope of the report are marked as such in the text. Overall indicator: we aspire to be in the top 15% of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index by 2017 Business Report Strategic pillar Goal Metrics for 2017 Sustainable business operations In our efforts to make our own business ÅÅCarbon emission reduction (to be defined Risk, funding & capital Report operations more sustainable and in 2016) transparent, we act within the letter and ÅÅGender diversity: women to be placed spirit of the laws and standards for financial in 30% of upper middle-management services provision. positions and 25% of senior management positions ÅÅA score of >180 points on the Transparency Benchmark Client centricity and sustainable We offer clients safe and reliable services by ÅÅIncrease the Net Promoter Score relationships combining highly secure and stable systems by 10% by 2017 compared with 2015 with client centricity. ÅÅIncrease the Trust Monitor score by 15% by 2017 compared with 2015 Governance Report Financial expertise for the benefit We increase our contribution ÅÅHave 40% of our employees volunteer of society to a sustainable society by putting through ABN AMRO Foundation or other our expertise to use in practical social projects and systemic issues. ÅÅIncrease our social impact on key themes (to be defined in 2016) Annual Financial Statements Sustainable finance and We enhance the bank’s positive value ÅÅESG/ESE criteria to be integrated investment services creation by transparently integrating into our investment advice and lending ESG criteria into our investment advice and (to be defined in 2016) lending. ÅÅTo be recognised as a sustainable bank by our clients (to be defined in 2016) Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 116 Business Report / Sustainability Introduction Materiality with senior managers from the different business lines. In 2014 we performed a materiality analysis that revealed A full description of this process is available on our Strategic Report what our internal and external stakeholders consider to be website, abnamro.com. the most material, or relevant, issues. In 2015 we conducted multi-stakeholder dialogues in order to deepen our Following up on a decision in 2012 endorsed by the understanding of, and approach to, these material issues. shareholder, it was decided to implement the decision to pay out the statutory temporary fixed allowance to six We began by asking external stakeholders to rate an Managing Board members as from 2015. This resulted in extensive list of materiality issues. This was followed by a a commotion in March 2015, both within and outside the Business Report dialogue with a wide range of participants, including retail organisation, after which the relevant Managing Board and corporate clients, a knowledge institution, a service members decided to waive their entitlement to the provider, a financial institution and a trade association. allowance. In consideration of the commotion, we will Internal stakeholders were also asked to rank various conduct an integrated, bank-wide review of our materiality topics and to explain their choices as part of a dialogue analysis in 2016. Risk, funding & capital Report High interest 8 9 3 14 13 10 1 15 5 6 2 Societal interest 4 11 7 12 Governance Report Business impact Top priority Clients’ interests Financial Sustainable Sustainable Annual Financial Statements centre stage expertise for finance and business and sustainable the benefit investment operations relationships of society services 1 Compliance with national 8 The privacy of clients’ financial 12 Volunteering and charity1 12 13 Safeguarding human rights, 13 and international legislation transactions (page 58) health and safety and the and regulations (page 85) environment in financing 9 The security of clients’ and investment (page 117) 2 Preventing corruption financial transactions (page 154) and fraud1 14 Offering sustainable products 14 10 The stability of our 10 and services (page 66) 3 The health of our employees digital services (page 154) and the safety of the working 15 ESG/ESE in financing and 15 11 Mortgage policy 11 1 environment (page 112) investment (page 66/73) 4 Responsible tax policy 1 5 The diversity of our workforce Other (page 110) 6 Our organisation’s environmental 1 Material topics of less significance. impact (page 81) 7 Responsible remuneration policy 1 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 117 Business Report / Sustainability Introduction Governance: embedding sustainability during our second International Human Rights Conference. in the organisation In this guide we publicly state our commitment to human Strategic Report Sustainability is an integral part of our organisation. rights and explain how we can be connected to human Reports on this topic are provided at least once a quarter rights impacts through our own activities, our suppliers’ to the Managing and Supervisory Boards as part of the activities and our clients’ business activities. Our Human monitoring of our long-term strategy (more details are Rights Statement states our own commitment to respect provided in the Corporate Governance section). Progress human rights and the expectations we have of the on the implementation of our sustainability strategy is businesses we serve and those that serve us. reported bi-monthly to the member of the Managing Business Report Board responsible for sustainability. Sustainability experts We need to focus our attention and prioritise our are employed in most businesses to foster engagement resources on the most severe risks to human rights: our with this theme throughout the bank. We also report ‘salient human rights issues’, in the language of the UN specific sustainability results to senior management at Guiding Principles Reporting Framework. In 2015, with the business lines. support from Shift, the non-profit centre of expertise on the UNGPs, we conducted an initial internal analysis to ABN AMRO uses several means of communication, aimed identify the bank’s salient human rights issues. This Risk, funding & capital Report at specific stakeholder groups, to report on sustainability. process is not necessarily the same as a materiality The Annual Report focuses on the material topics and analysis that focuses on risks to the bank, since salient presents results to all stakeholders. The scope of the issues focus first and foremost on risks to the material topics relates only to the Netherlands, as the ‘rightsholder’. However, where risk to people’s human majority of our activities take place in the Netherlands. rights is the greatest, there is often a strong convergence In 2015, there were no major acquisitions or divestments with risk to the business. It is therefore very likely that at that influenced our reporting on the material topics. least some of these salient issues also reflect material In addition to the Annual Report, we issue quarterly issues for the bank, e.g. in the case of the right to privacy. newsletters providing in-depth information on our sustainability practices, which can be found on We developed a first list of our salient human rights issues Governance Report abnamro.com. Each of these newsletters has an explicit during a cross-functional workshop with representatives focus and hence targets specific stakeholder groups. We who work or have experience in various business lines have published sustainability guides on specific sectors and functions. It was informed by feedback from our (Diamond & Jewellery, Fashion, Human Rights and the various discussions on human rights issues with Circular Economy), sharing our expertise and inviting stakeholders over recent months. The issues that came clients to work with us to promote greater sustainability. out of that workshop as likely to be the most salient ABN AMRO views this way of reporting as complementary, across all of the different parts of our bank are: Annual Financial Statements comprehensive and complete. ÅÅ Privacy: 1) abuse of client and employee data, for example the use of private information for advertising purposes; 2) a data security breach, which could put Human rights private information in the hands of third parties. Like any other business, we have a responsibility to ÅÅ Discrimination: 1) denying clients certain financial respect human rights in line with the UN Guiding products or services on discriminatory grounds; Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). 2) discrimination in labour practices of suppliers and For the first time, we will report on human rights issues clients; 3) discrimination of ABN AMRO staff in human in line with this responsibility, using the UN Guiding resources processes (e.g. promotion, salaries). Principles Reporting Framework. We are the first bank ÅÅ Labour rights: 1) wages, freedom of association and in the world to do so. rights to collective bargaining, health and safety, and Other working hours of both ABN AMRO’s own workforce In 2015, we published the ABN AMRO and Human Rights and those of its clients and suppliers; 2) forced labour guide, ‘Our Path Towards Respecting Human Rights’ and child labour in relation to clients of Corporate ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 118 Business Report / Sustainability Introduction Banking, suppliers (deeper down the supply chain), and Outlook investee companies on behalf of private clients. Looking ahead, we will continue to implement the Strategic Report ÅÅ Land-related human rights: the rights to water and performance metrics and targets we have set as we put sanitation, health and an adequate standard of living. our sustainability strategy into practice. This will enable us to report on our progress in an increasingly concrete and As a first step to test our conclusions with external transparent manner, and consequently help us to restore stakeholders, we surveyed participants of the ABN AMRO confidence in the bank. International Human Rights Conference on whether they would agree with the issues we had identified as most Business Report salient. Of the external respondents, the large majority agreed with our conclusions. Some also shared additional issues for us to consider as salient. ABN AMRO Participaties NPE Fund B.V. is a Risk, funding & capital Report shareholder in the StartGreen Capital investment funds, through which it finances young, clean-tech companies. Venture capital is a crucial source of funding for entrepreneurs engaged in sustainable innovation, as they can encounter great difficulty in raising capital through other means in the early StartGreen Capital stages of their development. Since its establishment in 2006, StartGreen has developed a portfolio of 8 14 investments, several of which have since been successfully exited. Governance Report By investing in StartGreen, ABN AMRO creates investments in portfolio societal return in two ways: by financing innovation and by stimulating sustainability. A good example of such an investment is FiberCore Europe, a company that designs and constructs bridges and lock gates Innovation in cleantech (B2C) that are made of composite instead of concrete and Annual Financial Statements Food Ojah steel. FiberCore Europe brings together innovation Telecom/personal devices Intivation and sustainability, and pioneers in the use of Solar power  Solesta composite for the construction of major Bio-based + biodegradable  Rodenburg infrastructure projects. The opening of the renewed lock gate of the Wilhelmina Channel, in early 2016, Innovation in cleantech (B2B) underlines the bright future specialists see for Smart mobility  2Getthere composite in civil engineering. Sustainable Infrastructure  Fibercore Sustainable IT  Visionsconnected and Eshgro Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 119 Business Report / Responsibility statement Introduction Responsibility statement Strategic Report Pursuant to section 5:25c sub 2 part c of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, the members of the Managing Board state that to the best of their knowledge: ÅÅ the Annual Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and the Business Report companies included in the consolidation; ÅÅ the Annual Report gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs on the balance sheet date and the course of business during the financial year 2015 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and of its affiliated companies, of which data is included in its Annual Financial Statements; ÅÅ the Annual Report describes the material risks with Risk, funding & capital Report which ABN AMRO Group N.V. is faced. Amsterdam, 15 March 2016 The Managing Board Gerrit Zalm, Chairman Johan van Hall, Vice-Chairman Kees van Dijkhuizen, Member Caroline Princen, Member Wietze Reehoorn, Member Governance Report Chris Vogelzang, Member Joop Wijn, Member Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Employee Introduction Diversity Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements “Recognising and being willing to increase diversity at the bank allows us to connect the wide Other variety of talents that people bring to the company.” Introduction Strategic Report Business Report In our team, diversity helps us see things Who from a different perspective, which adds Nargis Goldfinger Rasheed, Risk, funding & capital Report value to ABN AMRO. Asset & Liability Management Analyst ABN AMRO Diversity and inclusion are about bringing together and making the most of the unique talents and experiences of all people, regardless of who they are or where they come from. A diverse workforce that reflects the communities we serve helps us to create the best solutions and enhance the customer experience. At the same time, it fosters innovation, respect and creativity. At ABN AMRO, our approach to diversity focuses on increasing Governance Report the number of women and people with a culturally diverse background at the bank. Our business lines also have clear targets for attracting disabled people. We can create synergy by maximising the use of diverse talents within teams. Beyond our own organisation we focus on creating opportunities, for example with the ‘Route 99’ initiative, which helps corporations Annual Financial Statements offer suitable employment to disabled people. We realise that fighting inequality starts with raising awareness. Other Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other 122 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Business Report / Responsibility statement﻿ Introduction Risk, funding & capital Report Strategic Report The Risk, funding & capital Report discloses comprehensive Business Report information on risk management, capital adequacy and funding. Some disclosures in the Risk, funding & capital Report contain audited information and are an integral part of the Annual Financial Statements. Risk, funding & capital information 124 Introduction to risk, funding & capital management 170 Risk, funding & capital review Key developments 171 Balance sheet composition 178 134 Credit risk 179 Operational risk 224 Governance Report Market risk 226 Liquidity risk 230 Funding233 Risk, funding & capital management Capital238 Risk approach 135 248 Credit risk management 143 Operational risk management 153 Annual Financial Statements Market risk management 156 Business risk management 160 Liquidity risk management 161 Funding management 163 Additional risk, funding Capital management 164 & capital disclosures Sustainability risk management 165 Management Control Statement 167 Other 124 Risk, funding & capital Report / Introduction to risk, funding & capital management Introduction Introduction to risk, funding & capital management Strategic Report This section provides an introduction to the Risk, funding & capital Report. As the Risk, funding & capital Report includes information according to both EU IFRS and Business Report CRD IV/CRR, more information on scope differences and consolidation is provided. This section also includes reference tables for Pillar 3 disclosures, EU IFRS disclosures and EDTF disclosures. Contents Pillar 3 disclosures 1 Risk, funding & capital information The objective of Pillar 3 disclosures is to inform existing Risk, funding & capital management and potential investors in ABN AMRO on how the This chapter provides more information on the Group’s organisation manages risk and capital adequacy. Pillar 3 approach to risk, funding and capital management by disclosures are part of the Basel framework, which is describing strategy, policies, governance and based on the three-pillar concept. Pillar 1 details the measurement approaches. minimum capital requirements, Pillar 2 relates to the internal capital adequacy measurement and the Risk, funding & capital review supervisory review, and Pillar 3 relates to disclosures The portfolio composition and developments are on capital and risk to encourage market discipline. described in the Risk, funding & capital review section. ABN AMRO has incorporated the relevant Pillar 3 Governance Report This section also describes developments in the Group’s disclosures in this Annual Report. major risk types and regulatory capital. The Pillar 3 disclosures are prepared in accordance with Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR). The following This chapter provides an overview of additional disclosures table provides an overview of where information on each required under current regulations. Pillar 3 requirement can be found in the Annual Report. Pillar 3 disclosures are labelled as ‘Pillar 3’ in the Annual Financial Statements respective headings. Regulatory requirements v1 The Risk, funding & capital Report incorporates the disclosures required under the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wet op financieel toezicht Wft), the EU Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR), Title 9 Book 2 of the Dutch civil code and IFRS. Furthermore, ABN AMRO embraces the EDTF principles and recommendations. Reference tables regarding EU IFRS, Pillar 3 and EDTF disclosure requirements and their compliance status are also disclosed in this section. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 125 Risk, funding & capital Report / Introduction to risk, funding & capital management Introduction Overview of Pillar 3 requirements 1 Strategic Report Pillar 3 disclosure requirement Reference Additional information Scope of consolidation Introduction to risk, funding & capital Risk exposure measurement and scope differences, and management; page 124 regulatory reporting scope section Capital structure Risk, funding & capital review Capital; Capital structure and further information on share capital, page 238 dividend and capital instruments section Business Report Capital adequacy Risk, funding & capital management Capital management framework (Capital measurement and Capital management; page 164 allocation) and minimum capital requirement section Risk, funding & capital review Capital; page 238 Leverage ratio Risk, funding & capital review Capital; Leverage ratio section page 238 Risk management objectives, Risk, funding & capital management; Risk approach section for all risk types in Risk, funding Risk, funding & capital information governance and policies page 134 & capital management (strategy, profile, governance, measurement, mitigation, concentration, management of forborne, past due and impaired loans) and Capital management framework in Capital management section Credit risk Risk, funding & capital review Overall credit risk exposure in credit risk exposure section Credit risk; page 179 with specific focus on overall exposure and concentration Additional Risk, funding & capital (geography and industry). Maturity distribution disclosure disclosures; page 248 in Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Standardised approach Risk, funding & capital management Scope and approach in Regulatory capital in Risk approach Credit risk management; page 143 section, overall Standardised Approach (SA) in Risk, funding & Risk, funding & capital review capital review Credit risk section and detailed SA approach Credit risk; page 179 exposure in Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Governance Report Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures; page 248 Internal Ratings-Based Risk, funding & capital management Scope and approach in Regulatory capital in Risk approach approach Credit risk management; page 143 section, overall Internal Ratings-Based (IRB) in Risk, funding & Risk, funding & capital review capital review Credit risk section and detailed IRB approach Credit risk; page 179 exposure in Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Additional Risk, funding & capital disclosures; page 248 Annual Financial Statements Other approaches Risk, funding & capital management Counterparty scope and approach in Specific counterparty Credit risk management; page 134 risk in Credit risk management section, counterparty credit Risk, funding & capital management risk in Credit risk exposure section in Risk, funding & capital liquidity risk management; page 161 review Credit risk section with additional details on over-theRisk, funding & capital review Credit counter (OTC) derivatives in Additional risk, funding & capital risk; page 179 disclosures. Liquidity risk management approach in Liquidity Additional Risk, funding & capital risk management section contains the collateral posting disclosures; page 248 policy by a downgrade of ABN AMRO Equity positions not in the Additional Risk, funding & capital Exposure of equities not held for trading in Additional risk, trading book disclosures; page 248 funding & capital disclosures. Details on equities not held for Annual Financial Statements note 7, trading in several notes to the Annual Financial Statements note 16, note 22 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 126 Risk, funding & capital Report / Introduction to risk, funding & capital management Introduction Pillar 3 disclosure requirement Reference Additional information Strategic Report Credit risk mitigation Risk, funding & capital management Credit risk mitigation policies and processes in Credit risk Credit risk management; page 143 management section, Overall regulatory credit risk mitigation Risk, funding & capital review Credit risk; exposures in Credit risk exposure section in Risk, funding & page 179 capital review Credit risk and additional risk mitigation details Additional Risk, funding & capital on SA and IRB approach in Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures; page 248 disclosures Credit quality Risk, funding & capital management Accounting and risk policies in Management of forborne, past Credit risk management; page 143 due and impaired loans in Credit risk management section. Business Report Risk, funding & capital review Credit risk; Credit quality, past due and impairment disclosures broken page 179 down by geography and industry in Management of forborne, past due and impaired in Risk, funding & capital review Credit risk section Market risk Risk, funding & capital management Market risk (trading book) approach in Market risk Market risk management; page 156 management section and regulatory capital requirements in Risk, funding & capital review market risk (trading book) section in Risk, funding & capital Market risk; page 226 review Market risk section Risk, funding & capital information Operational risk Risk, funding & capital management Operational risk approach in Operational risk management Operational risk management; page 153 section and regulatory capital requirements in Risk, funding & Risk, funding & capital review capital review Operational risk section Operational risk; page 224 Interest rate risk not in the Risk, funding & capital management Market risk (banking book) approach in Market risk trading book Market risk management; page 156 management section and regulatory capital requirements in Risk, funding & capital review Market market risk (banking book) section in Risk, funding & capital risk; page 226 review Market risk section Securitisations Annual Financial Statements note 22; Note 22 to the Annual Financial Statements, Approach, role and page 408 details on securitisation positions in the integral Securitsation section Governance Report Remuneration Governance Report Remuneration Remuneration policies, principles and quantitative information report; page 312 on remuneration broken down by Idenitied Staff in Annual Financial Statements note 35; Remuneration report. Remuneration of Managing Board and page 456 Supervisory Board in note 35 to the Annual Financial Statements Additional Pillar 3 Publised on abnamro.com Capital instruments. Reconciliation IFRS to regulatory balance disclosures sheet Own funds Asset encumberance Global Systemically Annual Financial Statements Important Banks indicators EU IFRS 1 disclosures on financial instrument risk (IFRS 7) Some disclosures in the Risk, funding & capital Report are and presentation of financial statements (IAS1). an integral part of the Annual Financial Statement (AFS) Audited information in these sections is labelled and contain audited information. The audited parts concern as ‘audited’ in the respective headings. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 127 Risk, funding & capital Report / Introduction to risk, funding & capital management Introduction IFRS disclosures 1 Strategic Report Reference Additional information IAS 1 Financial Statements: Presentation Further information on selected items Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures; Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities presented in the Statement of financial page 248 position Risk, funding & capital review capital; page 238 Capital structure, Capital instruments, Minimum capital requirements Business Report Risk, funding & capital review funding; page 233 Liability and equity breakdown, Breakdown of customer deposits, Available funding instruments IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Information on risk types Risk, funding & capital information Explanation of exposures to risk Risk, funding & capital management Selected sections in Risk, funding & capital and how they arise Risk approach; page 135 management Objectives, policies and process Risk, funding & capital management Selected sections in Risk, funding & capital for managing the risk types and Risk approach; page 135 management the methods to measure the risks Information on credit risk Credit risk concentration Risk, funding & capital review Credit risk Credit risk concentration, including Geographic Credit risk concentration; page 185 concentration and Industry concentration, Additional Risk, funding & capital disclosures European government and governmentEuropean exposures; page 257 guaranteed exposures Governance Report Maximum exposure to credit risk Risk, funding & capital review Credit risk Maximum exposure to credit risk sections in Credit Credit risk exposure; page 179 risk and Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Additional Risk, funding & capital disclosures Credit risk exposure; page 249 Credit risk mitigation Risk, funding & capital review Credit risk Credit Offsetting, netting, and collateral & guarantees of risk mitigation; page 190 financial assets and liabilities Credit quality Risk, funding & capital review Credit risk Credit quality by exposure class Annual Financial Statements exposure; page 249 Risk, funding & capital review Credit risk Ageing of past due not classified as impaired mitigation Past due exposures page 196 Risk, funding & capital review Credit risk Coverage and impaired ratio, Coverage ratio, mitigation Impaired exposures page 196 Impaired ratio, Loan impairment charges and Risk, funding & capital review Loan impairment allowances charges and allowances; page 196 Risk, funding & capital review Credit risk Overview of forborne assets in Risk, funding mitigation Forborne exposures; page 196 & capital review. Forbearance credit quality, Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Forborne assets by geography, Forborne assets Other Additional disclosures on forborne, past due by business segment in Additional risk, funding & and impaired loans; page 258 capital disclosures ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 128 Risk, funding & capital Report / Introduction to risk, funding & capital management Introduction Reference Additional information Information on liquidity risk Strategic Report Maturity analysis for non-derivative Additional Risk, funding & capital disclosures Maturity based on contractual undiscounted cash financial liabilities (including financial Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities; page 263 flows guarantees) showing the remaining contractual maturities Maturity analysis for derivative Additional Risk, funding & capital disclosures Maturity based on contractual undiscounted cash financial liabilities, where essential for Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities; page 263 flows understanding the timing of the cash Business Report flows Liquidity risk management Risk, funding & capital management Liquidity Liquidity risk management in Risk, funding & risk management; page 161 capital management section. Loan-to-Deposit Risk, funding & capital review Liquidity risk ratio, Liquidity buffer composition, Liquidity buffer Liquidity risk management; page 230 currency diversification and liquidity buffer Risk, funding & capital review Funding; page 233 monthly average in Liquidity risk review section. Funding vs balance sheet total, Long-term funding components and Funding issuance in 2015 in Risk, funding & capital information funding section. Information on market risk Sensitivity analysis for each type Risk, funding & capital review Market risk Total Market risk in the banking book, Internal of market risk market risk exposure; page 226 aggregated diversified and undiversified VaR for all trading positions Methods and assumptions Risk, funding & capital management Market risk Market risk management trading book, Market management; page 156 risk measurement, Market risk in the banking book, Market risk (Foreign exchange risk), Market risk (Pension fund) Governance Report Enhanced Disclosure Task Force (EDTF) 1 recommendations and has implemented the vast majority The Enhanced Disclosure Task Force (EDTF) was formed of the 32 recommendations. For 2015, ABN AMRO in 2012 in order to enhance the risk disclosures of banks reaffirms its commitment to the EDTF report and and other financial institutions. The EDTF is an industry enhanced its EDTF disclosures, including certain work group with wide geographical representation, recommendations from the EDTF 2015 progress report. Annual Financial Statements including senior executives from leading financial The following table provides an overview of where institutions. On 29 October 2012, the EDTF together with information on each EDTF recommendation can be found the Financial Stability Board (FSB) published a report with in the Annual Report. EDTF disclosures are labelled as 32 recommendations on how to enhance risk disclosures. ‘EDTF’ in the respective headings. ABN AMRO embraces the EDTF principles and Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 129 Risk, funding & capital Report / Introduction to risk, funding & capital management Introduction Overview of EDTF recommendations 1 Strategic Report Brief description Reference Additional information General 1 Present all related risk information Risk, funding & capital Report; All risk information provided in Risk, together in any particular report page 123 funding & capital Report; IFRS, Pillar 3 and EDTF. Reference tables for Pillar 3, IFRS and EDTF included Business Report 2 Define the bank’s risk terminology Risk, funding & capital Risk approach section and credit, and risk measures and present key management; page 134 operational, market, business and liquidity parameter values used risk management sections. Funding and capital management sections 3 Describe and discuss top and Strategic Report Key trends; Described in key trends section in the emerging risks page 18 Strategic Report Risk, funding & capital information 4 Once the applicable rules are Risk, funding & capital Capital management strategy, funding finalised, outline plans to meet each management Liquidity management and liquidity strategy in the new key regulatory ratios management; page 161 relevant subsections of Risk, funding & Risk, funding & capital capital management section management Funding management; page 163 Risk, funding & capital management Capital management; page 164 Risk governance and risk management strategies/business model 5 Summarise prominently the bank’s risk Risk, funding & capital Risk approach in the Risk, funding & management organisation, processes management Risk approach; capital management section Governance Report and key functions page 135 6 Provide a description of the bank’s Risk, funding & capital Risk culture in Risk approach section. This risk culture, and how procedures and management Risk approach; includes a reference to the Remuneration strategies are applied to support the page 135 Report in the Governance Report culture 7 Describe the key risks that arise Risk, funding & capital Risk approach section describes from the bank’s business models and management Risk approach; risk taxonomy and key risks and Key activities, the bank’s risk appetite in page 135 developments are described in the Risk, Annual Financial Statements the context of its business models and Risk, funding & capital review funding & capital review section how the bank manages such risks Key developments; page 171 8 Describe the use of stress testing Risk, funding & capital management Stress testing in Risk approach section within the bank’s risk governance and Risk approach; page 135 and Stress testing in Market risk capital frameworks Risk, funding & capital management management section Market risk management; page 156 Capital adequacy and RWA (REA) 9 Provide minimum Pillar 1 capital Risk, funding & capital review Minimum capital requirements in the requirements Capital; page 238 Capital section Other 10 Summarise the composition of capital Risk, funding & capital review Regulatory capital structure in the Capital based on templates adopted by the Capital; page 238 section Basel committee ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 130 Risk, funding & capital Report / Introduction to risk, funding & capital management Introduction 11 Present a flow statement of Risk, funding & capital review Regulatory flow statement and capital movements since the prior reporting Capital; page 238 ratios developments in the in the Capital date in regulatory capital, including section Strategic Report changes in common equity tier 1, tier 1 and tier 2 capital 12 Qualitatively and quantitatively Risk, funding & capital Capital management strategy addressed discuss capital planning management Capital in the Capital management section. management; page 164 Further refinement to be addressed in future disclosures 13 Provide granular information to Risk, funding & capital review Key figures per business segment in the Business Report explain how RWA (REA) relate to Key developments; page 171 Key developments section business activities and related risks 14 Present a table showing the capital Risk, funding & capital review Overall Exposure at Default (EAD) and requirements for each method used Credit risk; page 179 RWA (REA) disclosure in Credit risk for calculating RWA (REA) for credit Risk, funding & capital review section describing EAD per methodology risk, for each Basel asset class as Capital; page 238 and subsequently minimum capital well as for major portfolios within requirement section in Capital section those classes presenting capital requirements per Risk, funding & capital information methodology. Further refinement to be addressed in future disclosures 15 Tabulate credit risk in the banking Risk, funding & capital review Credit risk exposure in Credit risk section book showing average probability Credit risk; page 179 and detailed Internal Ratings-Based (IRB) of default (PD) and LGD as well as Additional risk, funding & capital approach disclosures in Additional risk, exposure at default (EAD), total disclosures; page 248 funding & capital disclosures. Further RWA (REA) and RWA (REA) density refinement to be adressed in future for Basel asset classes and major disclosures portfolios within the Basel asset classes 16 Present a flow statement that Risk, funding & capital review RWA (REA) flow statements in Credit reconciles movements in RWA (REA) Credit risk; page 179 risk section, Operational risk section and Governance Report for the period for each RWA (REA) Risk, funding & capital review Market risk section. Regulatory capital risk type Operational risk; page 224 in Market risk in the trading book and Risk, funding & capital review Regulatory capital in Operational risk Market risk; page 226 section 17 Provide a narrative putting Basel Risk, funding & capital Risk models and model validation section Pillar 3 back-testing requirements into management Market risk; in Credit risk management and Market context, including how the bank has page 226 risk measurement section in Market risk assessed model performance and management section validated its models against default Annual Financial Statements and loss Liquidity 18 Describe how the bank manages Risk, funding & capital Strategy section and Liquidity risk its potential liquidity needs and management; page 134 management approach section in the provide a quantitative analysis of the Liquidity risk management section components of the liquidity reserve held to meet these needs Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 131 Risk, funding & capital Report / Introduction to risk, funding & capital management Introduction Funding Strategic Report 19 Summarise encumbered and Note 32 to the Annual Financial Note 32 Transferred, pledged, encumbered unencumbered assets in a tabular Statements; page 439 and restricted assets. Further refinement format by balance sheet categories to be adressed in future disclosures 20 Tabulate consolidated total Additional Risk, funding & capital Contractural maturity of assets and assets, liabilities and off-balance disclosures; page 248 liabilities section sheet commitments by remaining contractual maturity at the balance sheet date. Business Report 21 Discuss the bank’s funding strategy, Risk, funding & capital Strategy in the Funding management including key sources and any funding management Funding section. Further details of sources and concentrations, to enable effective management; page 163 funding concentration in the Funding insight into available funding sources, Risk, funding & capital review subsection in the Risk, funding & capital reliance on wholesale funding, any Funding; page 233 review section geographical or currency risks and changes in those sources over time. Risk, funding & capital information Market risk 22 Provide information that facilitates Risk, funding & capital review; Market risk exposure traded and nonusers’ understanding of the linkages Market risk page 226 traded risk in Market risk section between line items in the balance sheet and the income statement with positions included in the traded and non-traded market risk disclosures such as risk factor sensitivities, economic value and earnings scenarios and/or sensitivities 23 Provide further qualitative and Risk, funding & capital Market risk exposure and Regulatory quantitative breakdowns of significant management Market risk capital in Market risk trading & banking Governance Report trading and non-trading market risk management; page 156 book. Given the materiality of market risk factors beyond interest rates, foreign at ABN AMRO this requirement will be exchange, commodities and equity further addressed in future disclosures measures if material 24 Provide qualitative and quantitative Risk, funding & capital Market risk measurement sections in disclosures that describe significant management Market risk Market risk trading & banking book. market risk measurement model management; page 156 Given the materiality of market risk at limitations, assumptions, validation ABN AMRO this requirement will be procedures, use of proxies, changes further addressed in future disclosures Annual Financial Statements in risk measures and models through if material time and descriptions of the reasons for back-testing exceptions. 25 Provide a description of the primary Risk, funding & capital Market risk measurement sections in risk management techniques management Market risk Market risk trading & banking book. employed by the bank to measure management; page 156 Given the materiality of market risk at and assess the risk of loss beyond ABN AMRO this requirement will be reported risk measures and further addressed in future disclosures parameters, such as VaR, earnings or if material economic value scenario results Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 132 Risk, funding & capital Report / Introduction to risk, funding & capital management Introduction Credit risk Strategic Report 26 Provide information that facilitates Risk, funding & capital review Credit risk section, including granular users’ understanding of the bank’s Credit risk; page 179 exposure breakdowns, off-balance sheet credit risk profile, including any commitments and concentrations of significant credit risk concentrations credit risk 27 Describe the policies for identifying Risk, funding & capital Accounting & risk policies in Management impaired or non-performing loans, management Credit risk of forborne, past due and impaired loans including how the bank defines management; page 143 sections impaired or non-performing, Business Report restructured and returned-toperforming (cured) loans as well as explanations of loan forbearance policies 28 Provide a reconciliation of the Risk, funding & capital review To be addressed in future disclosures. opening and closing balances of Credit risk; page 179 Current disclosure in loan impairment non-performing or impaired loans in charges and allowances in Credit risk section the period and the allowance for loan presents opening and closing balance of losses impairment charges and allowances Risk, funding & capital information 29 Provide a quantitative and qualitative Risk, funding & capital Specific counterparty credit risk section analysis of the bank’s counterparty management Credit risk describing models used and Counterparty credit risk that arises from its management; page 143 credit risk disclosure in Risk, funding derivatives transactions Risk, funding & capital review & capital review provides quantitative Credit risk; page 179 information 30 Provide qualitative information on Risk, funding & capital Credit risk mitigation section describing credit risk mitigation, including management Credit risk mitigation management and quantitative collateral held for all sources of credit management; page 143 disclosures in the Risk, funding & capital risk and quantitative information Risk, funding & capital review review section where meaningful Credit risk; page 179 Governance Report Other risks 31 Describe ‘other risk’ types based on Risk, funding & capital Operational risk management and management’s classifications and management; page 153 and Business risk management discuss how each one is identified, page 160 governed, measured and managed 32 Discuss publicly known risk events Risk, funding & capital review Information on operational risk events; related to other risks, including Operational risk; page 224 page 224, Information on contingencies in operational, regulatory compliance Annual Financial Statements; note 33 to the Annual Financial Statements Annual Financial Statements and legal risks, where material or note 33 potentially material loss events have occurred Risk exposure measurement because of the following: EU IFRS classifies the financial and scope differences v position by class of product, whereas the objective of Risk measures differ depending on the purpose for which Basel reporting is to take a risk-sensitive view on the exposure is calculated: EU IFRS, determination of bank’s portfolio and to ensure that sufficient capital buffers regulatory capital or economic capital (CRD IV/CRR). for unexpected losses and sufficient liquidity buffers are Other EU IFRS is mainly used to measure the bank’s financial maintained. In addition, the financial position according to results and position. Regulatory and economic capital are EU IFRS provides a liquidity view instead of a credit view. more suitable for certain risk measurement purposes ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 133 Risk, funding & capital Report / Introduction to risk, funding & capital management Introduction EU IFRS reporting scope 1 ABN AMRO applies CRD IV/CRR for determining its The consolidation scope of ABN AMRO is determined regulatory and economic capital and is subject to the Strategic Report in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial reporting requirements imposed by its joint supervisors, Statements and IFRS 11 Joint arrangements. More the European Central Bank and the Dutch central bank information can be found in note 1 to the Annual Financial (DNB). The capital and related reporting requirements in Statements. In accordance with IAS 28 associates, the CRD IV/CRR apply under the following scopes: participations and joint ventures engaged in financial and ÅÅ ABN AMRO Group N.V. consolidated; non-financial activities are accounted for on an equity ÅÅ ABN AMRO Bank N.V. solo with its Dutch subsidiaries basis. These investments are recognised at cost and and foreign branches (solo consolidation); Business Report increased or decreased by ABN AMRO’s share of the ÅÅ Sub-consolidated application for profit or loss of the entity after acquisition. Further details ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V., Neuflize Vie, on reconciliation between EU IFRS and Basel exposures Bethmann Bank A.G., ABN AMRO Bank are provided in the Risk management section. (Luxembourg) S.A. Regulatory reporting scope v ABN AMRO has acquired waivers to apply the capital and The scope of consolidation for the purpose of calculating related reporting requirements on a solo basis to its Dutch Risk, funding & capital information regulatory and economic capital (based on the CRD IV credit subsidiaries. These waived subsidiary credit and CRR) is generally the same as the consolidation scope institutions are included in ABN AMRO’s solo consolidated under EU IFRS and includes subsidiaries directly or scope. Sub-consolidated reporting is not applicable to indirectly controlled by ABN AMRO that are active in the credit institution subsidiaries in the Netherlands, the banking and finance sectors. However, subsidiaries with the exception of ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V. consolidated under EU IFRS that are active in sectors other than banking and finance are excluded from the The Dutch credit institution subsidiaries are regulatory scope of consolidation. The table below ABN AMRO Bank N.V., ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V., describes the differences in consolidation for the purpose ABN AMRO Groenbank B.V., of calculating regulatory capital requirements and for ABN AMRO Hypotheken Groep B.V. and Governance Report the purpose of financial reporting under EU IFRS. International Card Services B.V. Differences in scope of consolidation between EU IFRS and regulatory reporting v Capital treatment under Financial reporting the Capital Requirements Entity1 under EU IFRS Regulation Main related entities Insurance companies Fully consolidated The required capital is based ABN AMRO Captive N.V., White Rock Annual Financial Statements entities engaged in on the equity investment in Insurance (Gibraltar) PCC Limited/Cell, insurance activities. insurance entities. ABN AMRO Life Capital Belgium N.V., ABN AMRO Life S.A. Subsidiairies engaged in This category includes The required capital is based on Sumsare N.V., non-banking and non-insurance entities engaged in the equity investment in these ABN AMRO Arbo Services B.V., subsidiairies non-financial activities, subsidiaires. Landgoed Duin & Kruidberg B.V. which are consolidated in accordance with IFRS requirements. Associates, participations and Accounted for on an Accounted for on an equity Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Verzekeringen Other joint ventures engaged in nonequity basis. basis. Holding B.V. (NC), AACBOF NEBO B.V. (INV), financial activities Alma Maritime Ltd., MP Solar B.V. (NC), Aline Holding S.A. (NC) (see note 22 of the Annual Financial Statements for more information). 1 The formerly reported Securitisation “Smile Securitisation Company 2007 B.V.” was unwound in 2015. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 134 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management Introduction Risk, funding & capital management Strategic Report This section provides an overview of the Group’s risk, funding and capital management approach, including strategies, measurement approaches and risk governance framework. Portfolio developments are described in the Risk, funding & capital review section. Business Report Overview In 2015, we continued to optimise a sector-based credit risk The application for the AMA status was submitted to approach throughout the Risk Management organisation, the ECB in the fourth quarter of 2015. In 2014, the bank which focuses on enhancing risk knowledge and awareness already implemented the Advanced Measurement Risk, funding & capital information for individual industry sectors. The approach allows us Approach (AMA) for internal purposes to calculate the risk to better monitor and manage portfolio intake and sector exposure for operational risk and to calculate regulatory concentration and to add value in credit risk-taking and capital in a parallel run. decision-making. We obtained formal approval from the regulator for the Moreover, ALM/Treasury risk was further embedded in use of the IMA approach for calculating regulatory capital the risk organisation to strengthen the second line of ALM in February 2016. This approach was already being used and Treasury and to ensure that ABN AMRO’s risk appetite for internal risk management purposes, as well as for is in line with the bank’s corporate strategy and capital the computation of economic capital. position, taking into consideration the economic outlook Governance Report and activities of ALM and Treasury. Our clients and society increasingly recognise the importance of sustainability and transparency. ABN AMRO During the course of 2015, Risk Management & Strategy aims to hold a prominent position as a sustainable bank was closely involved in the preparations for the IPO. that takes responsibility for its actions. In its various roles, With regard to the various risks in the risk taxonomy, the bank is exposed to sustainability risk. Since sustainability all risk departments contributed to the successful IPO. is a key objective in the bank’s strategy, sustainability risk management has been integrated into this year’s Risk Annual Financial Statements In 2015, we managed to respond adequately to the approach section. growing number of bank-wide regulatory and supervisory changes, including those resulting from the transfer of supervision responsibility to the ECB in November 2014. By means of the ECB DNB Risk and Finance Desk, we ensured adequate management and response to bankwide regulatory and supervisory changes, including additional requirements for disclosure of highly detailed risk information. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 135 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction Risk approach Strategic Report ABN AMRO is committed to being a well-capitalised bank Based on the long-term strategy of ABN AMRO, the bank with sufficient liquidity that focuses on delivering has defined five key objectives with regard to risk sustainable value to our stakeholders. We are committed management, which are presented below: to maintaining a moderate risk profile, and we thoroughly evaluate on an ongoing basis the long-term risk and return implications of our operations. Business Report Strong focus on collateralised lending Loan portfolio matches deposits, long-term debt and equity Clean and strong balance sheet Strategic focus to limit LtD ratio Limited reliance on short-term debt Risk, funding & capital information Limited market risk and trading portfolios Diversification Our loan book is fully aligned to our strategic choices and focus areas: and focus in Loan book safeguarded against concentrations through Risk Appetite to sectors, single clients and countries portfolio Concentration developments monitored and reported monthly Capital and liquidity indicators meet regulatory requirements Sound capital Liquidity buffer steered to manage regulatory compliance and internal views and liquidity Costs for liquidity buffer charged to business to ensure proper pricing incentives management Governance Report Stress testing used to steer capital & liquidity Sustainable relationships with clients’ interests centre stage: long term interest above short-term gains Sustainability and Sustainable business operations (sustainable products, risk management, ecological footprint and a vital organisation) transparency Using our financial expertise for the benefit of society Sustainable and transparent finance and investment services Annual Financial Statements Credit risk mainly in the Netherlands and diversified across the economy Clear Operational risk managed by setting limits on potential losses governance Market risk low in comparison to size of the bank Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 136 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction Risk management strategy v Strategic Report Building blocks of our moderate risk profile Risk taxonomy Three lines of defence Risk governance Business Report Risk appetite Risk measurement & reporting Moderate risk profile Risk, funding & capital information Risk profile v27 Senior management continuously monitors the bank’s ABN AMRO is a Netherlands-based bank, with the activities based on the risk appetite. The status and majority of its activities performed in the domestic market. outlook are discussed on a monthly basis in the Managing The bank’s lending activities are largely asset-based. Board by means of the Enterprise Risk Management We are internationally active in Private Banking, Clearing, report. The Managing Board addresses the risk profile and Energy, Commodities & Transportation (ECT Clients), reviews both the individual risk types and the integrated, Commercial Finance (Factoring), Lease, Diamond & bank-wide risk profile. Jewellery Clients and International Card Services. The bank has in-depth knowledge of, and a proven track The following sections describes the five building blocks Governance Report record in, these specialised activities and serves foreign of our moderate risk profile. clients with operations in these specialised areas. In addition, we serve Dutch clients with activities abroad. Risk taxonomy b Trading activities are client-facilitating in nature and have Our risk taxonomy is the classification of risks into risk a limited contribution to the bank’s overall risk profile. types to which the bank is, or could be, exposed. It is reviewed and updated on a yearly basis to ensure that The risk profile is managed based on an integrated risk all material risks are identified, defined and taken into Annual Financial Statements management framework. In this framework, all risk type account in the risk governance framework. The purpose of issues, cross-risk type issues and overarching issues are the risk taxonomy is to support effective and efficient risk identified to provide one integrated view on the bank’s risk management throughout the bank. It creates a common profile and on the risk profile of the businesses. By looking risk vocabulary, provides a checklist of types of risks for at the overall, integrated risk profile, we strive to carefully use in risk assessments, assists in assuring that all balance actions that may be required to manage the risk material risks are managed and that roles and profile within the moderate risk profile. responsibilities are identified. Furthermore, it allows for aggregation of risk assessments throughout the bank for structured analysis. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 137 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction ABN AMRO’s risk taxonomy is summarised in the following figure. Strategic Report Risk taxonomy b External causal factors Internal causal factors Political Technological People Products (Macro) economic Environmental Processes Clients Social Legal Systems Reputation Balance sheet Enterprise risk Business Report Credit risk Market risk Operational risk Liquidity risk Business risk Trading Banking book book Risk, funding & capital information Strategic risk Reputational risk Model risk Concentration risk Reporting risk Remuneration risk Legal risk Compliance risk Change risk Tax risk The main risk types are credit, market, operational, As part of the risk appetite, we have introduced the liquidity and business risk. These risks are discussed later ‘Key guiding principles for risk appetite’. These principles in this section. Intersecting risk types, such as reputational are a translation of the moderate risk profile statement Governance Report risk (including sustainability risk) and model risk, are risk and consist of ten overall guidelines that provide a types that emphasise specific aspects applicable to qualitative explanation of the boundaries of the moderate several risk types in the risk taxonomy. risk profile for ABN AMRO. Risk appetite b The risk appetite determines the level and nature of risk that the bank is willing to take in order to pursue its Annual Financial Statements strategy, taking all relevant risks and stakeholders into consideration. The risks covered in the risk taxonomy are included in the risk appetite. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 138 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction The keywords of these guiding principles are shown in the following figure: Strategic Report Keywords of the key guiding principles for the risk appetite b Client centricity Understanding risks Maintaining a liquidity buffer Sustainable banking Managing credit Avoiding Business Report Maintaining a risks capital buffer surprises Limiting currency and interest rate positions Respecting rules Avoiding concentration risks and regulations Risk, funding & capital information The keywords and key guiding principles are further Risk culture 6 detailed in risk appetite parameters, among which: The bank aims to continuously increase risk awareness ÅÅ minimum levels for capital ratios; and to make it an integral part of the bank-wide risk ÅÅ risk-adjusted return measures; culture. The moderate risk profile is embedded in the risk ÅÅ concentration limits for single counterparties; culture by means of communication and training and is ÅÅ concentration limits for countries and industry sectors; monitored through performance assessment. ÅÅ liquidity ratios (Loan-to-Deposit ratio, LCR and NSFR); ÅÅ market risk ratios; Employees are expected to be aware of the drivers of our ÅÅ operational risk ratios. risk profile and to feel accountable for the risks they take. Governance Report Part of the training curriculum is the Integrated The bank-wide risk appetite is an integral part of our Risk Management course, which is mandatory for all corporate strategy. Business-line specific risk appetite Risk Management employees. The course emphasises statements further specify the bank-wide risk appetite the importance of taking a holistic view of risks. at business line level. We introduced the course to most employees of the International Clients segment in 2015, and it will be rolled The actual and forecasted risk profiles are monitored out to employees of Commercial Clients in 2016. Annual Financial Statements and discussed on a monthly basis by benchmarking them Furthermore, employees are expected to adhere to the against the risk appetite. When a risk factor approaches ABN AMRO business principles. These principles are or exceeds its limit, corrective actions are defined and fundamental to everything we do and describe how we approved at the appropriate decision-making level in act as a bank, how we take decisions, and how we deal accordance with the risk governance charter. The Risk & with various dilemmas. Capital Committee of the Supervisory Board monitors and discusses the risk appetite on a quarterly basis and We place strong emphasis on sound risk control in our the members of the Supervisory Board are informed of compensation policies. ABN AMRO’s remuneration policy the risk profile on a monthly basis. is in line with our risk profile. More details are provided in the Remuneration report in the Governance Report. The risk appetite is reviewed by the Managing Board and Other approved by the Supervisory Board on an annual basis and serves as input for the budgeting process. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 139 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction Risk governance bv5 Three lines of defence The Risk Governance Charter is based on the risk strategy The three lines of defence principle provides a clear Strategic Report and appetite, which is embedded in the risk organisation, division of activities and responsibilities in risk policies and methods. The framework is in place to management at different levels in the bank and at different safeguard and control the bank’s risk profile, support stages in the life cycle of risk exposures. It aims to provide efficient and effective risk management throughout and clarity for every employee within the bank, with regard to at all levels of the bank, and manage risk management their role and the level of risk awareness that is expected processes in line with the risk appetite of the bank. from them. Business Report The Risk Management organisation operates under the The three lines of defence principle is summarised in the direct responsibility of the Chief Risk Officer, who is a following figure. member of the Managing Board. The Managing Board has overall responsibility for the risks that ABN AMRO takes. Three lines of defence bv Risk, funding & capital information 1 1st Line of Defence Business 2 2nd Line of Defence Risk control functions 3 3rd Line of Defence Audit Risk ownership Risk control Risk assurance Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for Risk taking and owning the risk Setting frameworks, rules and advice Evaluating and making recommendations Transaction execution Approval of risk intake to improve the effectiveness of risk Governance Report Acting in accordance with policies Monitoring, reporting, and risk control governance, risk management and Effectiveness of risk control Ensuring 1st line takes risk ownership control processes Coordinating with external auditor and main regulators Annual Financial Statements Executive committees Board. The other executive committees also decide on The Managing Board is ultimately responsible for a balanced risk-related issues, in the presence of Risk Management assessment between the commercial interests of the & Strategy representatives. In addition, the Managing bank and the risks to be taken within the boundaries of Board itself takes decisions that are of material the risk appetite. significance to the risk profile, capital allocation and liquidity of ABN AMRO. The Managing Board establishes clear lines of responsibility and authority within the bank to ensure The Supervisory Board is responsible for approving sound risk governance. In the risk decision-making ABN AMRO’s risk appetite statements and supervises framework, the Managing Board is supported by three whether our commercial interests, capital allocation and Other executive risk committees: Group Risk Committee, Central liquidity requirements in general terms comply with the Credit Committee and Asset & Liability Committee, each bank’s risk appetite. The Supervisory Board also oversees of which is (jointly) chaired by a member of the Managing ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 140 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction the risk governance and execution of ABN AMRO’s strategy as performed under the responsibility of the Strategic Report Managing Board. Executive committees bv Supervisory Board Business Report Remuneration, Selection & Risk & Capital Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Risk, funding & capital information Managing Board Asset & Group Transition Group Risk Central Credit Regulatory Liability Disclosure Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Governance Report Group Risk Committee Central Credit Committee The Group Risk Committee (GRC) is mandated by the The Central Credit Committee (CCC) is mandated by Managing Board to monitor, assess and manage our risk the Managing Board to decide on credit proposals that profile in relation to the risk appetite. The GRC is, for have a significant impact on our credit portfolio. In certain Annual Financial Statements example, responsible for establishing a product approval cases, the CCC decisions require final approval by the process to ensure we only accept risks that we Managing Board. understand and that serve the interests of clients, and for the adequate functioning of this process. The GRC may Asset & Liability Committee delegate specific approval powers to subsidiary risk The Asset & Liability Committee (ALCO) is mandated by committees, but remains responsible on behalf of the the Managing Board to decide on our interest profile, Managing Board. The terms and conditions of the liquidity profile and solvency position within the risk delegation of authority with respect to risk policies, appetite. The ALCO is responsible for the management of methodologies and new products are specified in the liquidity, market risk in the banking book and capital. Risk Governance Charter. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 141 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction Group Disclosure Committee the models against historical loss data and, where The Group Disclosure Committee is responsible for relevant, benchmarking the calibration of the models Strategic Report advising and supporting the Managing Board in relation with external studies. to (i) supervision on the accuracy and timeliness of public disclosures by the Group and (ii) integrity with regard to The independent Model Validation department validates all the financial statements and other public disclosures. internal models. Validation guidelines ensure objectivity, consistency, transparency and continuity. Models are Transition Management Committee validated according to these principles and reviewed The Transition Management Committee (TMC) has been against internal and regulatory requirements. Business Report attributed responsibility for, among other things, tactical management of the Group-wide transition programmes. New models first require formal internal and external approval before implementation and use is allowed. Regulatory Committee Internal approval for the continued use of a model is The Regulatory Committee’s responsibilities include (i) obtained from the Methodology Acceptance Group (MAG), ensuring thorough understanding and adequate overview a subsidiary committee of the Group Risk Committee. of matters relating to changes in national and international External approval is obtained from the regulator, if required. Risk, funding & capital information laws and regulations affecting the Group, (ii) regularly informing and consulting the Managing Board about any Capital such matters, and (iii) making strategic choices and taking Regulatory capital (CRD IV/CRR) bv decisions on such matters. Under the Basel framework banks are required to hold capital to cover the financial risks that a bank faces. For Pillar 1 the capital requirement is based on the Risk measurement v2 aggregated risk weighted assets (RWA) for the three We develop and use internal models to quantify the risk major risk types (credit risk, operational risk and market for most risk types in the risk taxonomy. The models for risk). The capital requirements are stated as a percentage credit, operational, market, liquidity, and business risk are (set by the regulators) of the RWA. Governance Report the most widely used and allow for measuring the level of risk. They support day-to-day decision-making as well as Economic capital periodic monitoring and reporting on developments in the In addition to regulatory required capital, for Pillar 2 we bank’s portfolios and activities. In most cases, models calculate economic capital (EC). Economic capital covers quantify the probability and severity of an event, i.e. the all risk types in our risk taxonomy, for which capital is likelihood that an event occurs and the loss the bank may deemed to be the mitigating instrument to sustain suffer as a consequence of that event. This serves as the unexpected losses, and is used as the key metric for Annual Financial Statements basis for ABN AMRO’s internal measures of risk internal risk measurement and management. Economic (economic capital) and can be key input for the calculation capital is the amount of capital we reserve in order to of the minimum regulatory capital requirements according achieve a sufficient level of protection against large to the Basel framework (regulatory capital). unexpected losses that could result from extreme market conditions or events. In the following section we give a brief introduction of the models for the abovementioned risk types and how these For the calculation of economic capital, we make use of models are validated and approved. In subsequent internal models. These models calculate the economic sections, we describe how these measures are used to capital on a 99.95% confidence level and a one-year time calculate required regulatory and economic capital. horizon. This implies that the estimated capital figure for the coming year is sufficient to cover a level of loss that Other The modelling departments develop the models in close will be exceeded in only 0.05% of all possible situations. cooperation with the relevant business and risk experts. In principle, we review the models annually, back-testing ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 142 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Risk approach Introduction Economic capital is aggregated for all risk types to Stress testing purposes determine the required capital and to support capital The bank applies bank-wide stress testing based on Strategic Report allocation, ex-post performance measurement (RARORAC) internally defined scenarios for the following purposes: and risk-appetite setting such as industry concentration ÅÅ Risk-appetite setting and monitoring: the outcome of risk limits. Economic capital figures are also used at stress testing is used for setting and monitoring risk transactional level in loan-pricing tools. These tools act appetite limits and targets. Limits under stress are set as a decision-making mechanism for assessing the to ensure the moderate risk profile. If the stress test profitability of a new or existing transaction, in terms outcome breaches the limits, mitigating actions will be of risk-adjusted return on risk-adjusted capital. considered to close the shortfall. The impact is taken Business Report into account in the capital and funding plan; Regulatory capital is limited to the risk types credit risk, ÅÅ Contingency planning: stress testing is used to assess operational risk and market risk in the trading book; and strengthen the contingency plans’ triggers and economic capital is, however, calculated for the other measures. To this end, reverse stress testing is material risk types (liquidity risk, business risk) as well. executed to gain insight into plausible events that could put the continuity of ABN AMRO under heavy pressure. EC Quality Assessment Risk, funding & capital information The EC models described above form the core of the The Scenario & Stress Test Committee (subsidiary of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), Group Risk Committee) and the Managing Board discuss but may not capture all risk. As part of the ICAAP, we and decide on scenario development, impact and perform an annual EC Quality Assessment (ECQA). For management actions. each main risk type the calculated EC figure is evaluated in the following areas: In addition to bank-wide stress testing, we perform stress ÅÅ risk coverage; tests by focusing on specific portfolios, business lines or ÅÅ responsiveness to internal and external developments; risk types. ÅÅ data quality; ÅÅ compliance with EC policy; Governance Report ÅÅ validity of choices and assumptions. If considered necessary, an additional capital buffer (‘EC add-on’) is taken to cover shortfalls in the EC framework. Stress testing b8 Stress testing is an important risk management Annual Financial Statements instrument used by ABN AMRO. The main objective of stress testing is to ensure that the bank retains a moderate risk profile, to increase risk awareness throughout the bank and to safeguard business continuity by means of proactive risk management and the review of potential future scenarios. Bank-wide stress testing, as applied by ABN AMRO, takes into account the effect of material plausible but unlikely events and developments on the bank. These events may be systemic (e.g. multiyear macroeconomic stress) or ABN AMRO-specific and cover capital as well as liquidity. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 143 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Credit risk management Strategic Report Credit risk is the risk that the value and/or the earnings Credit risk management approach bv of the bank decline due to uncertainty in a counterparty’s We manage our credit risk either through customised ability or willingness to meet the terms of any lending to counterparties, whereby the risk assessment financial contract. takes place on an individual basis, or through standardised products and processes, whereby risk criteria are Credit risk management within the bank is governed assigned on a pooled basis. Business Report by the bank-wide central credit risk policy and further detailed in underlying specific credit risk policies. The The credit risk life cycle primary responsibility for managing and monitoring credit The process of credit risk management, the credit risk life risk lies with the business as the first line of defence. cycle, is illustrated in the following figure. A distinction is The business is required to identify, assess and manage, made between Programme Lending and Non-Programme monitor and report potential weaknesses in the credit risk Lending. Programme Lending is a unique form of portfolios in line with the credit risk framework. Monitoring managing large portfolios of standardised and typically Risk, funding & capital information takes place on a permanent and ongoing basis to limit small homogeneous loan products in an effective and credit risk exposures to a level in line with the business highly transparent manner. Non-Programme Lending is line’s risk appetite. characterised by individual assignments and assessments of counterparties and exposures. Effectively everything In addition, risk in the credit portfolio is measured and that is not defined as Programme Lending is defined as monitored at bank-wide level on a monthly basis. Non-Programme Lending. Furthermore, we report and perform ad-hoc portfolio analyses on a quarterly basis, with specific attention for risk developments and concentrations. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 144 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Credit risk life cycle b Strategic Report Planning Credit acceptance Credit risk monitoring Restructuring & Recovery Non-impaired clients Non-impaired & impaired clients Credit risk Credit Business analysis & contracting decision & servicing Business Report 1st and 2nd Non-Programme Lending line monitoring Financial Restructuring Recovery Intensive Regular monitoring monitoring ‘Watch’ Risk, funding & capital information (Semi) Annual review Programme Product Credit Account Prevention Restructuring Collections Lending Planning Acquisition Maintanance Governance Report Credit quality Planning counterparties, the industry, management and owners, Within Programme Lending, the credit cycle starts with a and a financial and non-financial analysis. The credit product planning phase in which the product is designed decision is based on the independent assessments of and/or reviewed with the goal to optimise its key drivers both the commercial function and the credit risk function. Annual Financial Statements of risk and return. The business, the product, the target The authority to approve the acceptance of credit risk is market, the processes and the credit standards are ultimately vested in the Managing Board. The Managing documented in a Product Programme (PP) which must be Board has partly delegated this authority to the Central reviewed at least annually and approved by the appropriate Credit Committee (CCC), to business line-specific credit committee(s). committees and to authorised persons who are defined in the risk governance charter. Credit acceptance The credit acceptance phase of a credit proposal starts For a credit approval decision within Programme Lending, with an assessment of the credit proposal by the business client-specific aspects and internal/external data are taken line and Risk Management. All credit risk must be into consideration to calculate a credit score (scorecard). assessed qualitatively and quantitatively in detail prior to The credit decision is based on the outcome of the Other approval. Information must be provided on matters such scorecard and policy rules. as the purpose, details and structure of the proposed credit facility, information about the obligor and other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 145 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Credit risk monitoring Credit risk measurement bv2 Consistent and regular monitoring is designed to We use internal models to estimate Probability of Default Strategic Report safeguard the bank’s position in relation to all risks (PD), Loss Given Default (LGD) and Exposure at Default associated with the counterparty or portfolio. This allows (EAD) parameters. These models are embedded in the us to identify, at an early stage, any development in the credit approval and internal reporting processes and are counterparty or portfolio position that might trigger an used to measure the credit risk in exposures to individual increase in the risk profile. The monitoring process clients and portfolios. consists mainly of credit reviews, monitoring of outstanding positions, early notice of limit excesses and These models include pure statistical models, as used in Business Report monitoring of collateral. Monitoring starts when the credit Retail Banking and part of Corporate Banking, as well as facility has been provided and continues throughout the expert-based models as used in other business segments. life cycle of the credit facility and the relationship with These expert-based models are based on quantitative as the counterparty. well as qualitative risk drivers. A watch status may be assigned to individual The same parameters are used to calculate economic counterparties with an increased risk due to political, capital and the minimum regulatory capital requirements Risk, funding & capital information social, economic, legal, industry or counterparty-specific under the Basel Advanced Internal Ratings-Based (AIRB) developments. The watch status allows for more intensive approach. The parameters are also input to determine monitoring, early detection of deterioration of the credit the RARORAC, the risk-adjusted return on risk-adjusted portfolio and appropriate follow-up measures. capital, which is the bank’s primary performance measure on credits. For the trading book we use counterparty Restructuring & Recovery exposure models for internal limit monitoring. However, Credit facilities with an identified high risk are transferred for regulatory capital these exposures are reported under to the Financial Restructuring & Recovery department the Standardised Approach. (FR&R). In the event of a default situation, transfer to FR&R is mandatory. Additionally, there can be judgemental The section on the credit risk measurement framework Governance Report triggers that require a transfer to FR&R. If a ‘going concern’ details the different credit risk parameters and their use approach is applicable and return to a performing status is in the calculation of expected loss, risk weighted assets deemed possible, the credit facility will be transferred to (RWA), regulatory capital and economic capital. Financial Restructuring. Otherwise the credit facility will be transferred to Recovery. For Financial Restructuring clients’ Credit risk decisions of individual files are based on credit facilities, FR&R devises a plan for rehabilitation or to quantitative information and model output. In addition increase the likelihood of final repayment. to this, the practical and conceptual limitations of metrics Annual Financial Statements and models, human judgement and critical analysis are Programme Lending contracts with an amount past due taken into account. For example, for non-retail clients the less than 90 days are treated by dedicated departments business and the credit approval authorities may have on behalf of the first line. When a default status is reasons to apply qualitative adjustments (‘overrides’) to a assigned to a client as a result of having an amount past rating as calculated by the rating model. If external credit due more than 90 days or another default trigger, the assessment institutions (ECAI) ratings are available for client will be transferred to restructuring and ultimately, certain counterparties, these are used to benchmark if this is not effective, to internal departments or external internal rating model outcomes. parties (such as Lindorff) for debt collection. If it is likely that a client will be able to meet its future Other payment obligations and involvement of FR&R is no longer required, the client will be transferred back to the business. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 146 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Credit risk measurement framework The graph below is a simplified representation of the risk Strategic Report management framework for credit risk. Each risk parameter used in this framework is explained. Risk parameters for calculating expected loss, RWA, regulatory capital and economic capital bv2 Parameters used to estimate economic capital (EC; amount) Business Report Parameters used to estimate RWA and regulatory capital (RC; amount) Expected loss (EL; amount) Expected loss rate (EL rate; basis points) EAD PD LGD M Correlations Risk, funding & capital information Exposure at Default Probability of Default Loss Given Default Maturity Correlations Expected outstanding Likelihood that a Percentage of the Remaining time until Measures to what extent exposure amount at the counterparty fails to expected outstanding the maturity date of the the risks in the various time the counterparty meet a financial exposure that is not loan or other credit facility industry sectors and defaults obligation within a time expected to be recovered regions in the loan horizon of 1 year (1-recovery rate) portfolio are related Using the input variables, the models calculate the Probability of Default Governance Report parameters PD, LGD and EAD. The EAD is established The internal definition of default is compliant with the on a monthly basis using actual limits and outstanding definition of default outlined in the Basel framework. exposure data. These PD and LGD parameters may be In short, the bank considers a default to have occurred overridden by the business and/or the approval authority when either of the following two events has taken place: and are determined at least annually. ÅÅ the counterparty is overdue more than 90 days, or; ÅÅ the bank considers that the obligor is unlikely to meet Exposure at Default its contractual obligations. Annual Financial Statements Exposure at Default models estimate the expected exposure at the time of a counterparty default. In the We assess the probability that a counterparty will default, event that all or part of a facility is currently undrawn and translate it into an internal uniform counterparty rating (the outstanding exposure is less than the limit), (UCR). The UCRs range from 1 to 8. A probability of a percentage of this undrawn amount is added to the default (PD) percentage is attached to each UCR grade, exposure to reflect the possibility that the facility is which is the probability that a counterparty will go into utilised differently in the event of a default situation. default within a one-year time horizon. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 147 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Internal rating scale mapped to external ratings bv2 Strategic Report UCR (internal Low High Standard & Poor's Moody's Grade Category rating) PD% PD% equivalent equivalent Fitch equivalent from to from to from to from to Investment grade UCR 1 UCR 30.000% 0.465% AAA BBBAaa Baa3 AAA BBBSub-investment grade UCR 4+ UCR 6+ 0.465% 100% BB+ C Ba1 C BB+ C Default without provision UCR 6 UCR 6 D D D D D D Default with provision UCR 7 UCR 7 D D D D D D Business Report Default (in liquidation) UCR 8 UCR 8 D D D D D D The grade categories Investment grade and SubCorrelations investment grade correspond with the equivalent The economic capital model uses correlations between classifications of these categories by rating agencies. The different combinations of regions and industry sectors to grade category Default without provision, UCR 6, pertains quantify the relationship of risk between, for instance, two Risk, funding & capital information to exposures that are in default, but for which the bank industry sectors. The correlations measured are based on has not, or has not yet, established an impairment internal data as well as externally obtained equity returns. allowance. The grade categories Default with provision, Higher correlations result in higher capital figures. UCR 7 and UCR 8, pertain to provisioned (impaired) exposures. Counterparties are assigned a UCR 8 if they Capital for credit risk are in liquidation. Regulatory capital The AIRB approach is used to calculate more than 85% Within Programme Lending, Retail Banking and smaller of the RWA. All exposure classes are reported under credits that are part of Commercial Clients, products with AIRB. Within these exposure classes, a number of the same characteristics are pooled and a PD is assigned smaller portfolios are temporarily calculated applying Governance Report to each pool. the Standardised Approach (SA), as they are subject to a rollout plan and scheduled to be transferred to the AIRB Loss Given Default approach at a later stage. For some portfolios a permanent Loss Given Default (LGD) models estimate the economic exemption is obtained. These portfolios are reported on loss that may result from a credit facility in the event the SA on a permanent basis. counterparty defaults. It is expressed as the ratio of the loss on an exposure to the amount outstanding at default. Economic capital Annual Financial Statements The models use specific facility characteristics and The economic capital model for credit risk uses a Monte collateral pledged to the bank. Carlo simulation to determine a full portfolio loss distribution taking into account specific portfolio Maturity characteristics and diversification effects. Loan facilities The effective Maturity (M) is the remaining time from the are valued on an economic value (mark-to-market) basis, estimation or reporting date to the contractual maturity of so that loss estimates can occur not only due to defaults the financial instrument. Longer maturities result in higher of the obligors, but also due to possible credit migrations capital figures. and associated changes in the market values of loans. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 148 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Specific counterparty credit risk Regulatory and economic exposure calculation v2l for specific counterparty credit risk Strategic Report Specific calculation methodologies are applied for The counterparty credit risk exposure calculation of OTC counterparty credit exposure on over-the-counter (OTC) derivative instruments is based on the mark-to-market derivative instruments and for securities lending. (MtM, i.e. current exposure) plus an add-on for potential future exposure. The add-on is calculated to cover 95% of OTC derivative instruments the potential positive MtM movement in favour of the OTC derivatives are financial instruments used to cover bank over the deal tenor. The add-on is determined by current and/or future financial risks or to achieve additional several parameters, such as type of derivative product Business Report return on an investment. They consist of transactions (underlying), deal tenor, currency (pair) and the absence or concluded between two parties and of which the value is presence of netting and collateral agreements. Under the based on a so-called underlying base value (e.g. interest bank’s policy, add-on tables are updated periodically. The rate swaps or equity options). regulatory calculation methodology applied for calculation of the counterparty credit risk exposure value (EAD) for Securities financing transactions OTC derivative instruments is the mark-to-market method. Securities financing in the balance sheet refers to Risk, funding & capital information securities lending. Securities lending is the market activity For securities lending, the Financial Collateral whereby securities are temporarily transferred from a Comprehensive Method (FCCM) is used in the regulatory lender to a borrower, with the commitment to re-deliver calculations. For internal counterparty exposure the securities, usually in the short term. The borrower will calculations, the FCCM is applied with additional collateralise the transaction with cash or other securities conservatism. of equal or greater value than the lent securities in order to protect the lender against counterparty credit risk. As Wrong-way risk an intermediary between clients and the market, we act This risk refers to transactions where counterparty credit both as lender and borrower. exposure arising from OTC or Securities Lending transactions is positively correlated to the counterparty’s Governance Report In managing the risk of the securities lending activities, probability of default. Or, put differently, the credit we make a distinction based on the type of collateral: exposure increases when the credit quality of the ÅÅ if the transaction is collateralised with securities, the counterparty deteriorates. lender is exposed to the counterparty risk of a potential In general, we do not engage in such specific wrong-way default of the borrower. The lender is then entitled to risk transactions. Furthermore, we are prudent in close out the position by selling the securities in the considering transactions where this correlation is less market, where the usual risks of liquidity, valuation and obvious, e.g. transactions where a general wrong-way risk Annual Financial Statements volatility apply; component forms part of the deal, and a counterparty and ÅÅ if a transaction is secured by cash provided by the the underlying issuer are in a similar industry, or in the securities borrower, the lender is exposed to same country or geographical region. reinvestment risk of the cash deposit as well as the risk of rising asset values associated with the asset(s) lent to the borrower. Credit concentration risk bv Credit concentration risk is the risk of loss due to the The bank monitors counterparty credit exposure from insufficient diversification of risks within a portfolio caused securities lending activities and value of collateral on a by relatively large concentrations of exposures to daily basis and requires additional collateral to be positively and highly correlated counterparties. deposited in case of insufficient coverage. Concentrations are monitored against limits set in the Other bank’s risk appetite. The presence of a number of positively correlated counterparties in a portfolio creates credit concentration risk, resulting in the potential effect of ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 149 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction a significant loss due to a failure to pay. Positively actions by the authorities of that country or by other correlated counterparties in this case are those events impeding the transfer. These risks are managed by Strategic Report counterparties that have a tendency to default under setting country credit limits, based on individual country similar circumstances. Limiting excessive concentrations analysis from economic and country risk experts. Country is fundamental to our credit risk strategy. Therefore, the limits are reviewed at least once a year, with more bank aims to keep the credit risk portfolio sufficiently frequent reviews for higher risk countries with evolving granular and diversified. risks. Each country also has an internal credit rating approved twice a year, which is an important factor in To avoid excessive credit risk concentrations, Risk managing country concentration risks. Approval of country Business Report Management aims to diversify credit risk and sets risk policy and country limits is managed through the maximum levels for subgroups in each category: bank’s senior risk committees, with some authority ÅÅ Single clients and groups of related clients delegated to risk specialists. (counterparty concentration); ÅÅ Countries (geographic concentration); Industry concentration ÅÅ Industry sectors (industry concentration). Industry concentration risk is the risk of loss arising from a relatively large aggregated credit exposure to Risk, funding & capital information Counterparty concentration counterparties active in a single industry. Industry Counterparty concentration credit risk is the risk of loss concentration risk arises when deterioration in a specific arising from relatively large exposures to counterparties industry has an effect on all credit exposures relating to belonging to the same risk group. The total exposure, or that industry. ABN AMRO limits its industry One Obligor Exposure (OOE) on a risk group, includes all concentrations by setting credit risk economic capital (EC) drawn and undrawn facilities granted, plus all indirect limits as a percentage of total credit risk EC per industry exposure to the relationship, including guarantees and any sector. In addition to these EC limits, EC concentration other recourse claims. A risk group is an interrelated group checkpoints are set to facilitate timely and sufficient of counterparties (companies and/or persons) with a high management interventions to avoid breaching the limit. degree of dependency. This interrelationship may be due to Governance Report direct or indirect majority interests by the same shareholder or group of shareholders, or due to other relevant economic Credit risk mitigation vz dependencies. Counterparty credit concentration risk is Credit risk mitigation mainly relates to collateral measured by the OOE and the Loss at Default (LAD) per management and guarantees, offsetting financial assets counterparty. The LAD is an estimate of expected loss if and liabilities, and enforcing master netting agreements a counterparty defaults. The bank limits its counterparty or similar instruments. credit risk by setting OOE and LAD limits. Additionally, Collateral management and guarantees Annual Financial Statements all credit applications with a LAD or OOE above a certain threshold are reviewed by the Managing Board. Collateral are assets with material value over which a security right is vested, such as a mortgage, charge, Geographic concentration pledge, lien on an asset, or right securing obligations The bank has a number of offices located outside the under a credit facility or other exposure which gives the Netherlands and clients who operate internationally. The bank priority rights on the proceeds of that asset. bank is therefore exposed to country risk; in other words, Requiring a security right over a clients’ collateral is a way the risk of credit losses due to country-specific events or to mitigate or reduce credit risk associated with a credit circumstances. Management of country risk focuses on facility or exposure. In addition, when certain predefined cross-border risk, for example the risk of country events eligibility criteria are met, collateral can also provide a impacting upon the creditworthiness of clients and hence reduction in both regulatory capital and economic capital Other their ability to meet their credit commitments to the bank. held by the bank. This also includes the risk that funds, goods or services cannot be transferred out of a risk country as a result of ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 150 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Collateral is monitored regularly to ensure continued Forborne, past due and impaired loans eligibility and a correct administration of the collateral bj Strategic Report value. The collateral value must be monitored at least on Loans at risk are primarily exposures for which signals an annual basis. More frequent monitoring is required in have been detected indicating that the counterparty may case of a considerable decrease in value of the collateral, become impaired in the future. Loans at risk are classified significant market changes or significant decrease of into different risk categories for individual counterparties creditworthiness of the counterparty. For reporting and arrears buckets for groups of aggregated purposes we report net collateral value, the expected counterparties in order to optimise monitoring and recovery value of the collateral in case of a defaulted review of these loans. Business Report client. We also use third-party guarantees to mitigate risks. For example from banks, governments and export Forbearance credit agencies. It is often more beneficial, for the bank as well as for the client, to restructure a loan rather than to recover a loan The credit quality of guarantors is assessed at origination and take possession of the available collateral. The of the exposure and continuously monitored to ensure contracts of such clients are subsequently modified at the correct valuation of the guarantee for risk mitigation non-commercial terms to avoid foreclosure. The process Risk, funding & capital information purposes. of making concessions for clients, with the purpose of keeping them afloat, is referred to as ‘forbearance’. Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net We consider a forborne asset to be a contract under which amount is reported on the IFRS balance sheet if there is a the counterparty experiences, or is about to face, financial legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts difficulty and for which the terms and conditions of the and there is either an intention to settle on a net basis or contract have been modified or the contract has been an intention to realise the asset and settle the liability refinanced by the bank due to these financial difficulties on simultaneously. The bank applies netting to debtor and such terms that we would not have agreed to (concession) creditor balances, such as current accounts and certain if the counterparty had been financially healthy. Governance Report types of residential mortgages with clients’ savings, where offsetting is justified by formal agreement with The rationale behind forbearance is that we show leniency the client, provided they meet these criteria. towards the counterparty by agreeing on modified terms that would not have been agreed if the client had not been Enforceable master netting agreements or in financial difficulty. The objective is to give the similar instruments counterparty the time and financial flexibility to solve its Enforceable master netting arrangements take into financial problems, in the expectation that the Annual Financial Statements account all agreements with provisions that make counterparty in due course will be able to fulfil its financial offsetting exercisable only in the event of default. In obligations and, by doing so, to maintain a sustainable addition, agreements are enforceable when the bank has relationship between the bank and the counterparty. the right to offset and does not have any ability and/or intention to offset simultaneously. These arrangements include derivative clearing agreements, global master repurchase agreements and global master securities lending agreements. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 151 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction Forbearance measures can be applied to a contract that Triggers for impairment include, but are not limited to, has defaulted on its obligations as well as to a contract events such as significant financial difficulty, likeliness that Strategic Report that is still performing. A contract that is in the process of the client will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, being recovered and for which the client relationship will negative equity, regular payment problems, improper use be discontinued is not considered forborne, irrespective of of credit lines and legal action by other creditors. the application of restructuring measures or a previous forborne status. Accounting policy on impairment of loans and receivables b A forborne asset will only cease to qualify as forborne An indication that a loan may be impaired is obtained Business Report once all of the following conditions are met: through ABN AMRO’s credit review processes, ÅÅ the contract is considered performing; which include monitoring customer payments and ÅÅ a minimum probation period of two years has passed regular loan reviews depending on the rating of the from the date the forborne contract was considered facility. A loan is impaired if there is objective evidence performing; that the bank will not be able to collect all amounts ÅÅ regular payments of more than an insignificant amount due in accordance with the contractual terms (principal of principal or interest have been made during at least and interest). The objective evidence indicates that Risk, funding & capital information half of the probation period; the borrower’s credit quality has deteriorated and ÅÅ the counterparty does not have any contract that is the estimated future cash flows in the related financial more than 30 days past due at the end of the assets are impacted negatively. The amount of probation period. impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of estimated future If a forbearance measure is applied to a performing client, cash flows. the client stays forborne for at least two years. If a forbearance measure is applied to a non-performing Estimating the timing and amount of future cash flow client, the client stays forborne for at least three years. requires significant judgement. The impact of changes During this period, the asset will continue to be reported in amounts and timing of expected recovery is Governance Report as forborne. recognised in impairment charges on loans and receivables in the income statement. Following Past due credit exposures v impairment, the interest accrual is suspended and A financial asset is past due if a counterparty has failed to all accrued but not collected interest will be reversed make a payment when contractually due or if it has during the period of impairment. Three categories exceeded an agreed limit. ABN AMRO starts counting of impairment can be identified: Specific impairment days past due from the first day that a counterparty is past losses, Collective impairment losses and Incurred Annual Financial Statements due on any financial obligation, regardless of the amount. but not Identified. Impaired credit exposures v Where possible, ABN AMRO seeks to restructure A loan is impaired if there is objective evidence that the loans rather than to take possession of collateral. bank will not be able to collect all amounts due in This may involve extending the payment arrangements accordance with the contractual terms (principal and and agreeing on revised loan conditions. Management interest). The objective evidence indicates that the continuously reviews renegotiated loans to ensure borrower’s credit quality has deteriorated and the estimated that all revised loan conditions are met and that future future cash flows of the financial assets are negatively payments are likely to be made. The loans continue impacted. An indication that a loan may be impaired is to be subject to an individual or collective impairment obtained through ABN AMRO’s credit review processes. assessment. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 152 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Credit risk management Introduction ABN AMRO makes a distinction between three types of ÅÅ Incurred but not identified (IBNI): IBNI impairment losses impairment losses: are recognised for credit exposures in the performing Strategic Report ÅÅ Specific impairment losses for individual significant portfolio. The impairment losses have incurred but still exposures: If significant doubts arise over the client’s have to be identified at the balance sheet date. Specific ability to meet its contractual obligations, management or collective impairment assessment has therefore not of the relationship is transferred to the Financial yet taken place. All financial assets that are not yet Restructuring & Recovery department (FR&R). Reviews assessed for impairment are included in the IBNI of the credit facilities are performed on a continuous impairment loss calculation. All related off-balance basis. Based on these reviews, ABN AMRO recognises items such as credit commitments are also included. Business Report specific impairment losses. The amount of the specific The IBNI calculation combines the Basel II concept of impairment loss is based on the discounted value of expected loss on a one-year time horizon adjusted for the best estimate of future cash flow. Recognised IFRS elements by applying a loss emergence period specific impairment losses are partly or fully released (LEP) and a cycle adjustment factor (CAF). when the debt is repaid or expected future cash flows of the customer improve due to positive changes in When a loan is deemed no longer collectible, it is written economic or financial circumstances; off against the related loan loss allowance. Such loans are Risk, funding & capital information ÅÅ Collective impairment losses for individual not significant written off after all the necessary procedures have been exposures: Assets with similar credit risk characteristics completed and the amount of the loss has been are clustered in portfolios. These portfolios include determined. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously personal loans, residential mortgages, credit cards, written off are credited to the income statement line item home improvement loans and small and medium-sized Impairment charges on loans and other receivables. enterprises facilities. The assets in the portfolios are Assets acquired in exchange for loans to achieve an collectively assessed for impairment. In general, when orderly realisation are reflected in the balance sheet as payments (interest or principal) are 90 days past due, a disposal of the loan and an acquisition of a new asset, the loan is identified as impaired. The impairment initially recorded at fair value. assessment is based on historical loss experience Governance Report adjusted for current economic conditions. Factors that are taken into account are average life, past loss experience and portfolio trends; Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 153 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Operational risk management Introduction Operational risk management vx Strategic Report Operational risk arises from the uncertainty inherent in all Examples of operational risk are wrongful execution of an business undertakings and decisions. Operational risk is order, fraud, litigation for non-compliance with law, natural the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal disasters and terrorism. processes, people and systems or from external events. ABN AMRO has a framework in place to consistently manage and prevent operational risks. Business Report Framework for operational risk management­ v Management Control Statement Strategic risk assessment Risk, funding & capital information Operational risk management overview Operational risk appetite Reporting Operational risk capital Operational risk assessments Monitoring Business-as-usual (including scenarios) Operational risk events Changes Effectiveness of controls Key Risk Indicators Operational risk responses Mitigation Avoidance Transfer Risk acceptance Governance Report Operational risk management approach v operational risks in their daily work. An important focus All day-to-day operations comprise operational risks. was on further integrating the approach into all types of First-line managers are responsible for managing the operational risk (convergence). Periodic risk reporting is in operational risks in their area of responsibility. Within the place at various levels of the bank, up to the Managing bank, they are supported by a professional operational risk Board and Supervisory Board. The Managing Board Annual Financial Statements management organisation and an effective framework that systematically monitors the development of the enables them to respond adequately to the risks they are operational risks against the bank’s risk appetite. exposed to. Operational risk management instruments Over the past few years, ABN AMRO has further v2 strengthened the operational risk management framework At the heart of the operational risk management using only best practices of the most advanced industry framework, business managers use assessments to approach to operational risk management, Advanced identify and assess risks, including scenarios for rare Measurement Approach (AMA). As a result, management events. Assessments are executed for business-as-usual of operational risks is strongly embedded in business activities and for new initiatives, such as product processes and departments, control management has introductions or changes to processes and systems. Other been strengthened and operational risk awareness among Staff who are involved in daily operations conduct the risk employees has grown. All employees are expected and assessments with the support of operational risk encouraged to be alert to and aware of the wide range of managers and other relevant experts. If a risk exceeds ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 154 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Operational risk management Introduction the risk appetite, the business manager takes appropriate Specific operational risk areas v action to adequately respond to the risk. Periodically, at Stability, availability and security of systems are crucial Strategic Report least once a year, business managers monitor the to the bank. The stability and availability of our digital effectiveness of the controls in their area of responsibility, services, such as online banking, mobile banking, iDeal looking for potential flaws in the execution. Controls that and abnamro.nl, are an important part of our client do not adequately mitigate the identified risks are offering, given the fact that ABN AMRO has 5.8 million strengthened. Key Risk Indicators are monitored to signal Internet Banking contracts. Clients expect to be able to adverse risk developments. Despite all preventive make payments anytime, anywhere and easily. Any outage measures, incidents and operational losses cannot always of systems immediately affects the bank’s operations and Business Report be avoided. The bank systematically collects and monitors the bank’s clients. such events in order to make improvements. Information is one of the bank’s most valuable assets. Once a year, senior management teams review their The security of the bank’s financial transactions is crucial, strategies and business objectives from a risk perspective. and is a growing concern to our clients in the digital age. Taking into account the state of control in their Clients must be able to trust the security of client organisation, they define and reshape their strategic plans information and the payment systems. The ability to use Risk, funding & capital information for the upcoming years. Based on this strategic review, payment systems safely is an essential element of our senior management signs a Management Control payments strategy. These operational risk areas require Statement at the end of each year, which is included at specific knowledge. The bank therefore has a dedicated the end of this section. organisation in place that is devoted to information security and business continuity. Operational risk responses v The bank identifies four categories of risk response: Information security ÅÅ Risk mitigation: in many cases, controls will be The bank’s information infrastructures connect the bank’s strengthened by taking additional measures to mitigate networks with public networks. As a result, banking the risk; processes and their supporting information systems can Governance Report ÅÅ Risk avoidance: if mitigating measures are not effective, become vulnerable, threatening the security of client data then the risk can be avoided by closing down and services. The bank is faced with a constant threat of operations or not starting operations; cybercrime. Examples of such threats are computerÅÅ Risk transfer: if the risk cannot be mitigated or avoided, assisted fraud, unauthorised disclosure of confidential the bank may decide to transfer the risk. For example information, virus infection, computer hacking and denial Group-wide insurance programmes are in place for of service. Specific examples of cybercrime that clients specific operational risks. The Group Risk Committee experience are fake emails (phishing) and malicious Annual Financial Statements reviews the global insurance programmes annually. In software (malware). line with industry practices, ABN AMRO takes out the following Group-wide insurance policies from thirdIn recognition of the importance of protecting the bank’s party insurers: fraud and civil liability, directors’ and information and its associated assets, such as systems officers’ liability, property damage and general liability. and infrastructure, at all times, we have established a In addition, several local insurance policies are taken structured information security approach to ensure the out for the remaining local or specific risks; confidentiality, integrity and availability of information. ÅÅ Risk acceptance: there may be situations in which This approach defines the organisational framework, management decides to consciously accept a risk. management and staff responsibilities, and information security directives that apply to the bank, its vendors and third parties with whom the bank exchanges information. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 155 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Operational risk management Introduction As part of this approach, the bank continuously monitors Operational risk measurement v2 cybercrime threats and adjusts the bank’s defences where In line with the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA), Strategic Report necessary. The bank raises awareness among employees ABN AMRO has in place a model for operational risk and clients on how to recognise and prevent fraud and capital. The AMA model has a hybrid approach, combining cooperates with other major banks, police and justice a forward-looking and a backward-looking view of departments to shield clients and financial transactions operational risks. Risk control self-assessments and from crime. scenario analyses provide a forward-looking view of the operational risk profile for the coming year, taking into Business continuity management account the actual state of the business environment Business Report Business continuity management ensures organisational and the internal controls in the business lines. Historical resilience at all levels of the bank’s organisation and the operational loss data of ABN AMRO and industry ability to respond effectively to threats. This safeguards operational loss data provide a backward-looking view. stakeholders’ interests and the organisation’s reputation, The model combines the forward-looking data and brand and value-creating activities. Business continuity backward-looking data to produce an aggregated annual focuses on: loss distribution, from which the annual aggregated ÅÅ Analysis of threats and business impact of calamities expected loss amount can be estimated. Risk, funding & capital information and crises; ÅÅ Determining strategies and solutions to be taken in the Capital for operational risk event of a crisis to enable continuity of business Regulatory capital operations, such as business recovery, crisis ABN AMRO currently applies the Standardised Approach management and IT disaster recovery planning; (SA) to calculate regulatory capital for operational risk. ÅÅ Documentation, periodic assessment, and testing of Over the past few years, the bank has implemented the these strategies and solutions. AMA model. The application for the AMA status was submitted to the ECB in the fourth quarter of 2015. As part In the event of a disruption of our digital services, the of the application process, ECB is reviewing the bank strives to identify solutions as quickly as possible and implemented AMA model. The ECB decision is expected Governance Report to communicate transparently. Business continuity in the second quarter of 2016. management is in place to enable us to act in the event of incidents and crises. This includes procedures to inform Economic capital relevant stakeholders of any disruptions. ABN AMRO uses The AMA model is already being used to calculate various platforms to inform clients: via service messages economic capital for operational risks. The bank applies on Internet Banking and in our Mobile Banking app, our a 99.95% confidence level to calculate the economic Advice & Service Centres and Webcare team, and tweets operational risk capital, whereas a 99.9% confidence Annual Financial Statements and Facebook messages. level will be applied to calculate regulatory operational risk capital. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 156 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Market risk management Introduction Market risk management Strategic Report ABN AMRO is exposed to market risk in its trading book Market risk management for the trading book and banking book. bv ABN AMRO has a detailed risk management framework Market risk in the trading book is the risk of losses in place to identify, measure and control market risk in the occurring in the trading book due to market movements. trading book. The framework provides assurance that the As part of its business strategy, ABN AMRO facilitates bank’s trading activities are consistent with its clientBusiness Report client orders, acts as a market maker in key markets and focused business strategy and moderate risk profile. provides liquidity to clients, including institutional investors and private clients. In accordance with the strategy, The first line is responsible for implementing, executing the Trading Risk Committee annually approves trading and monitoring the necessary operational controls and mandates, which define the nature and amount of the is part of the decision-making quorum in various risk permitted transactions and risks and the associated committee meetings. The first line owns the valuation constraints. The Trading Risk Committee is a subsidiary models and is responsible for signing off the daily Risk, funding & capital information committee of the Group Risk Committee. Profit & Loss (P&L) produced by the second line. It is also responsible for ensuring that actual position management Market risk in the banking book is the risk that the value or is within the approved risk appetite at all times. the earnings of the bank decline because of unfavourable market movements. The market risk of the banking book Risk Management is responsible for setting and consists predominantly of interest rate risk. Management maintaining the risk framework in which the first line can of this risk is described in greater detail in this section. operate autonomously. Risk control responsibilities are executed through a product and limit approval process, exposure monitoring and reporting against the approved Market risk in the trading book risk appetite. Governance Report The following market risks are inherent in the trading book: ÅÅ Interest rate risk: arises where market values are The second line is also responsible for market reference exposed to changes in interest rate risk curves and/or data as input for daily risk and P&L calculations. interest rate volatilities; Furthermore, Risk Management monitors the execution ÅÅ Credit spread risk: arises where market values are and effectiveness of the key operational controls. Senior exposed to changes in the term structure of credit representatives of Risk Management chair the bank’s risk spreads and/or from changing credit quality of debt committees and are part of the decision-making quorum. Annual Financial Statements securities or CDS reference entities, which impact default probabilities; Market risk measurement for the trading book ÅÅ Equity risk: arises where market values are exposed bv2ufg to changes in equity prices, dividends and volatilities; ABN AMRO measures and manages market risk in the ÅÅ Commodity risk: arises where market values are trading book on a daily basis. The key metrics used are exposed to changes in commodity prices; economic capital, regulatory capital, Value-at-Risk (VaR), ÅÅ Foreign exchange risk: arises where market values stressed VaR (SVaR) and incremental risk charge (IRC) are exposed to changes in FX spot and forward rates together with a wide array of stress and scenario tests, and/or FX volatility. sensitivity measures, concentration limits and notional limits. These metrics are measured and monitored with appropriate limits set at global and business levels. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 157 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Market risk management Introduction The metrics used to manage the trading book risks are For the trading book, we take into account adjustments dependent upon the design and assumptions used in the for credit risk on our customers (CVA, Credit Valuation Strategic Report financial models from which they are derived. New Adjustment), ABN AMRO funding costs (Funding Valuation models are therefore validated by an independent Adjustment) and ABN AMRO credit risk (Debt Valuation validation team and approved by duly authorised risk Adjustment). committees. Furthermore, existing risk models are reviewed and re-approved annually. As part of the review, models are assessed as to whether they behave Market risk in the banking book b appropriately under current market conditions. If and We use internal models to calculate the risk measures Business Report when required, models are adjusted. Besides the formal needed for the management of interest rate risk in validation and review of models, the daily explanation of the banking book and control against the risk appetite. risk reporting figures, periodic portfolio reviews and The models are mainly behavioural in nature and are used regular back testing are important tools to assure the in the calculation of risk measures, such as duration of adequacy of the models. equity, NII-at-Risk, Market Value of Equity and economic capital for interest rate risk. The VaR model measures a one-day 99% VaR using Risk, funding & capital information a historical simulation approach and 300 days of The following market risks are inherent in the banking book: historical data. A one-day 99% VaR means that a VaR of ÅÅ Interest rate risk: the risk of losses in the economic EUR 1 million implies a 1% chance of a loss of more than value of equity or the Bank’s net interest income due to EUR 1 million over the next trading day. The daily VaR is unfavourable yield curve developments. Interest rate back-tested against the calculated actual mark-to-market risk arises from holding assets that have a longer changes for each subsequent trading day and the number average behavioural maturity than the liabilities. of outliers is used to assess the reliability of the VaR Derivatives are used to steer the interest rate risk model. In 2015, the model’s back-testing performance position within the bank’s risk appetite and strategy. was satisfactory. The overall objective of interest rate risk management is to protect and stabilise current and future earnings Governance Report In addition to daily VaR, ABN AMRO also uses stressed as well as the economic value of equity; VaR and incremental risk charge (IRC) metrics. Regulatory ÅÅ Credit spread risk: arises as part of the bond portfolio guidelines require the bank to calculate a stressed VaR that is held to maintain adequate liquidity for the bank; measure calibrated to a continuous 12-month period of ÅÅ Equity risk: arises from equity positions taken in financial stress relevant to our trading portfolio. The strategic partnerships and joint ventures, positions incremental risk charge provides an estimate of the risk in private equity and positions where debt held by arising from credit migrations and default events that are the bank has been converted to equity as part of a Annual Financial Statements not covered in VaR or SVaR. restructuring process; ÅÅ Property risk: arises primarily from the potential decline Stress and scenario testing is designed to focus in the value of property owned by the bank; specifically on the impact of tail events which are outside ÅÅ Foreign exchange risk: arises for operational reasons the VaR confidence interval. We run daily stress tests for where it is inefficient to hedge exposures as they arise. large moves in single risk factors. For specific portfolios, FX Risk is centrally managed and the principal objective the latter is also combined with shifts in the related is not to be exposed to FX risk related to open currency volatility risk factors. Scenario tests are also conducted exposures in the banking book; the risk is mitigated frequently to evaluate the impacts of extreme market through match-funding non-euro assets in the same events that cover multiple risk factors, and the results of currency or by hedging. these tests are monitored. These scenarios can either be Other based on historical or hypothetical events or a combination of both. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 158 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Market risk management Introduction Interest rate risk in the banking book v Market risk management for the banking book In order to model and measure interest rate risk, ABN AMRO has in place a detailed risk management Strategic Report assumptions are made about client behaviour, most framework to identify, measure and control market risk in importantly with respect to the maturity of savings and the banking book. The framework provides assurance that the prepayment of mortgages. The nature of these the banking book activities remain consistent with the assumptions can substantially alter the anticipated bank’s moderate risk profile. interest cash flow pattern. Interest rate risk is therefore continuously managed within the risk appetite as the The first line is responsible for implementing, executing profile of assets and liabilities on the balance sheet and monitoring the necessary operational controls. Business Report changes and as assumptions made about client behaviour Furthermore, the first line is part of the decision-making are updated. quorum in various risk committee meetings and is also responsible for ensuring that position management stays The four main sources of interest rate risk are: within the approved risk appetite at all times. Risk ÅÅ Yield curve risk, which arises when unanticipated Management is responsible for setting and maintaining changes in the shape or level of the yield curve have the risk framework in which the first line can operate adverse effects on the expected net interest income or autonomously. Risk control responsibilities are executed Risk, funding & capital information underlying economic value; through a product and limit approval process, exposure ÅÅ Repricing risk, which occurs when interest rates are monitoring and reporting against the approved risk reset due to maturities or floating rate resets. Through appetite. The second line is also responsible for market repricing, yield curve risk results in changes in Net reference data as input for daily risk and P&L calculations. Interest Income (NII) and therefore NII at Risk; Furthermore, Risk Management monitors the execution ÅÅ Option risk, which arises from the options in assets and and effectiveness of the key operational controls. Senior liabilities. These options can be either embedded, as in representatives of Risk Management chair the bank’s risk prepayment options on loans, mortgages and deposits, committees and are part of the decision-making quorum. or can be explicit options, such as in derivatives Internal Audit, the third line of defence, performs a risk contracts; assurance role. Governance Report ÅÅ Basis risk refers to the impact of relative changes in the term structure of interest rates for financial instruments Risk measurement for interest rate risk that are priced using different interest rate reference v28ufg curves. The key metrics used are Net Interest Income (NII) at Risk, duration of equity, market value of equity and Interest rate risk is managed according to the Asset & economic capital. These are complemented with stress Liability Management (ALM) framework as approved by testing and scenario analysis. Annual Financial Statements the Asset & Liability Committee (ALCO). Funds Transfer Pricing is applied to shift interest rate risk away from The metrics used for managing banking book risks are commercial business lines, enabling central monitoring dependent upon the design and assumptions used in the and management. The day-to-day management of financial models from which they are derived. Models positions is delegated to ALM, while Treasury performs must therefore be validated by an independent validation the execution of interest rate risk steering. team and approved by duly authorised risk committees. Models are assessed as to whether they behave appropriately under the current market conditions and, if required, they are adjusted. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 159 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Market risk management Introduction NII-at-Risk Economic value of equity sensitivity to non-parallel yield The Net Interest Income (NII) mainly depends on curve changes Strategic Report commercial margin and the results of interest rate risk ABN AMRO uses stress testing and scenario analysis to position management. ensure a comprehensive approach to risk management and to identify potential weakness. The set of scenarios in NII-at-Risk is defined as the worst outcome of two use includes steepening, flattening, bow up and bow scenarios: a gradual increase in interest rates and a down of the yield curve. gradual decline in interest rates by 200bps. A floor on interest rates is assumed in the falling rates scenario. Risk measurement for credit spread risk Business Report Credit spread risk for the liquidity portfolio is measured NII-at-Risk measures the loss of NII over a particular time and limited as the impact on economic value of a 1 basis horizon resulting from interest rate movements. NII-at-Risk point change in spreads to a swap rate (CS01). This is done is the difference in NII between a base scenario and an across the term structure of exposure as well as for a alternative scenario. The method used to calculate NII-atparallel shift across the curve. Risk takes into account components of the sensitivity of NII to risk factors, including yield curve risk and the impact Capital for market risk Risk, funding & capital information of changes in client behaviour. The method used to Regulatory capital calculate NII-at-Risk also takes into account components of The bank has implemented the Internal Models Approach the sensitivity of NII to risk factors such as yield curve risk for calculating market risk capital for the trading book and basis risk, as well as the impact of changes in savings and submitted the application for IMA to the regulator balances and rates and prepayment behaviour. for approval. We obtained formal approval from the regulator for the use of the IMA approach for calculating The bank applies limits to NII-at-Risk measures in line with regulatory capital in February 2016. For external reporting the approved risk appetite requirement for income of market risk RWA for the trading book, we use the stabilisation. The current risk appetite for NII-at-Risk is Standardised Approach. based on the maximum interest mismatch income the Governance Report bank is willing to lose in a 1-year period, expressed as a Economic capital percentage of the banks total NII. Market risk economic capital is calculated for both the trading book and the banking book. Calculation of Duration of equity economic capital for market risk in the trading book is Duration measures value changes due to small parallel based on a daily Value-at-Risk (VaR) market risk measure shifts of the yield curve. Computation of the duration is and historical scenarios simulating stress events such as based on deriving the change in economic value of a Black Monday and the financial markets crisis. For market Annual Financial Statements portfolio due to an interest rate increase or decrease risk in the banking book, we use a VaR model to compared to a base scenario. In the base scenario, not determine the economic capital needed to absorb losses only the changes in the discount rate are incorporated, but due to adverse interest rate movements. The model also also the interest rate-related changes in the magnitude of accounts for the potential impact of client behaviour, such the expected cash flows for any instruments containing as prepayment on mortgages and withdrawal of deposits embedded options. A duration limit puts a maximum on and savings balances. the decrease in the economic value of equity due to small parallel interest rate movements. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 160 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Business risk management Introduction Business risk management Strategic Report Business risk is the risk that business earnings and Business risk measurement franchise value decline and/or deviate from expectations To determine business risk, we collect a combination because of unexpected changes in business volume, of historical and forward-looking scenarios from experts margins or costs. Business income is affected by various ineach business line. These scenarios vary from annual internal and external factors, such as changes in client revenue growth to revenue drivers, such as preferences, competition, economic and geopolitical macroeconomic variables or industry performance Business Report developments and regulations. We continuosly monitor indicators. The scenarios determine the volatility of and respond to these factors. revenue growth for each business line, and any correlation between them. Based on the individual volatilities, we Key criteria for classifying a risk as a business risk are: calculate bank-wide volatility using a variance/covariance ÅÅ an event that leads to uncertainty in present or future methodology. business earnings and/or franchise value; ÅÅ drivers such as uncertainty in volumes, margins, fee Economic capital for business risk Risk, funding & capital information and commission rates and/or business expenses. Economic capital for business risk is defined as the maximum downward deviation of actual net operating The bank mitigates sensitivity to business risk drivers by profit from expected net operating profit. performing management practices that effectively and timely address developments in these drivers. In addition, business risk is mitigated by a capital buffer. The bank’s strategy and business risk are correlated. The strategy incorporates mitigation of uncertain events and business risk drivers. Annual review of the strategy Governance Report ensures alignment with business risk developments. To ensure that the bank’s strategy is pursued and the strategic goals are met in the long term, our business plans and budgets take into account these strategic goals. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 161 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Liquidity risk management Introduction Liquidity risk management Strategic Report Liquidity risk is the risk that actual and potential payments Liquidity risk management approach or collateral posting obligations cannot be met on a timely bv2i basis, or only at excessive costs. There are two types of The natural maturity mismatch between loans and funding liquidity risk: requires liquidity risk management. We consider this ÅÅ Funding liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to maturity transformation function an integral part of our meet both expected and unexpected current and future business model, which is why we closely monitor our Business Report cash outflows and collateral needs because insufficient liquidity position and the resulting risks. We diversify our cash is available. Eventually, this will affect the bank’s funding sources to ensure market access, and we daily operations or its financial condition; diversify funding tenors to avoid concentration of ÅÅ Market liquidity risk is the risk that the bank cannot sell outflows. We also hold a portfolio of highly liquid assets an asset in a timely manner at a reasonable market that can be converted into cash in the event of unforeseen price due to insufficient market depth (insufficient market disruptions, allowing us to meet payment and supply and demand) or market disruption. Market collateral obligations at all times. Risk, funding & capital information liquidity risk includes the sensitivity in liquidity value of a portfolio due to changes in the applicable haircuts and Liquidity risk is managed centrally. We incorporate liquidity market value. It also concerns uncertainty about the costs into the pricing of our day-to-day business activities. time required to realise the liquidity value of the assets. In managing liquidity risk, a clear distinction is made between going-concern and contingency liquidity risk Strategy 4ia management. We have in place a liquidity risk management framework that helps maintain a moderate risk profile and safeguards ABN AMRO’s reputation from a liquidity perspective. This Going-concern liquidity management Governance Report framework ensures that even under severely adverse Going-concern liquidity management entails management conditions the bank can meet its payment obligations at a of the day-to-day liquidity position within specified limits reasonable cost. We have formulated a set of liquidity risk to ensure all obligations can be met on a timely basis. metrics and limits to manage the bank’s liquidity position The most important metrics we use are: and ensure compliance with regulatory requirements at all ÅÅ Stress testing: We conduct monthly and ad-hoc stress times. By maintaining a smooth long-term maturity profile, tests in which we evaluate the impact of cash inand limiting dependence on wholesale funding and holding a outflows under plausible stress scenarios. Both Annual Financial Statements solid liquidity buffer, we maintain a prudent liquidity profile. market-wide and bank-specific stress scenarios are defined and analysed. The goal of stress testing is twofold. Firstly, it helps us review our liquidity risk framework, i.e. the liquidity buffer size, risk appetite and limits. Secondly, it allows us to identify ways to reduce outflows in times of crisis; ÅÅ Regulatory liquidity requirement: The regulatory liquidity requirement measures the liquidity position in a one-month scenario of severe stress, as defined by the Dutch central bank. The central bank requires the one-month liquidity position to be in excess of the Other minimum required regulatory level at all times; ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 162 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Liquidity risk management Introduction ÅÅ Survival period: The survival period reflects the period Basel III/CRD IV that the bank’s liquidity position is expected to remain The Basel III framework includes two liquidity ratios: the Strategic Report positive in an internal stress scenario in which Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and the Net Stable Funding wholesale funding markets deteriorate and retail Ratio (NSFR). The objective of the LCR is to promote the and commercial clients withdraw a proportion of short-term resilience of banks by ensuring sufficient their deposits; high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant stress ÅÅ Loan-to-Deposit ratio: The Loan-to-Deposit ratio (LtD scenario lasting 30 calendar days. The objective of the ratio) measures the relationship between the loan book NSFR is to promote resilience over a longer time horizon (Loans and receivables customers) and deposits from by creating additional incentives for banks to fund their Business Report clients (Due to customers). The ratio includes all clientactivities with stable sources of funding on an ongoing driven loans and deposits, but excludes loans to and basis. Regulatory minimum requirements for both the deposits from governments. The LtD ratio gives an LCR and NSFR will be 100% under Basel III/CRD IV, indication of our dependence on wholesale funding for both with effect from 2018. financing of client loans. Due to the Dutch mandatory and collective pension savings scheme, mortgage loans outweigh client savings balances in the Netherlands, Risk, funding & capital information driving the LtD ratio up above 100%. Contingency liquidity risk management v Contingency liquidity risk management aims to ensure that in the event of either a bank-specific or general market stress event, the bank is able to generate sufficient liquidity to withstand a short or long-term liquidity crisis. ÅÅ Contingency Funding Plan: The Contingency Funding Plan Governance Report (CFP) sets out the guidelines and responsibilities for addressing possible liquidity shortfalls in emergency situations. This only comes into effect in the event the liquidity position is threatened. The CFP is aligned to the Recovery Plan, as required by the regulators. It enables us to manage our liquidity without unnecessarily jeopardising business lines, while limiting Annual Financial Statements excessive funding costs in severe market circumstances; ÅÅ Collateral posting in the event of a rating downgrade: In the event that ABN AMRO’s credit rating is downgraded, collateral requirements may increase. ABN AMRO monitors these potential additional collateral postings in its liquidity management framework; ÅÅ Liquidity buffer: ABN AMRO holds a liquidity buffer which accomodates cash outflows during stress. This buffer consists of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets including government bonds, retained RMBS Other and cash. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 163 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Funding management Introduction Funding management Strategic Report Strategy The funding strategy is executed taking into account the ABN AMRO’s main source of funding consists of deposits following guidelines: from Retail Banking, Private Banking and Corporate ÅÅ Maintain market access by diversifying funding sources Banking clients. The remainder of our funding is raised in different funding markets (Europe, the US and the largely through various long-term wholesale funding Asia Pacific region); instruments. ÅÅ Optimise funding costs within the targets set for Business Report volumes and maturities; A substantial portion of Dutch consumer savings is placed ÅÅ Maintain strong relationships with the investor base in mandatory and collective pension schemes rather than through active marketing and issuance; in bank deposits. As a result, many Dutch banks, including ÅÅ Optimise balance between private placements and ABN AMRO, have a Loan-to-Deposit ratio above 100%. (public) benchmark deals; ÅÅ Build, maintain and manage credit curves in different ABN AMRO’s strategy for wholesale funding is derived funding programmes and currencies; Risk, funding & capital information from the bank’s moderate risk profile. This strategy aims ÅÅ Continuously monitor attractive funding opportunities to optimise and diversify the bank’s funding sources in for ABN AMRO and investment opportunities for order to maintain market access and the targeted funding investors; position. We aim to have a balance sheet with a diverse, ÅÅ Optimise planning and execution of funding in different stable and cost-efficient funding base. market windows. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 164 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Capital management Introduction Capital management Strategic Report Capital management strategy v4w Capital measurement and allocation The primary objective of the capital management strategy Capital adequacy is measured and monitored on an is to ensure that capital adequacy requirements are met at ongoing basis against target capital ratios, derived from all times and sufficient capital is available to support the the bank’s overall risk appetite and strategy. Capital bank’s strategy. Capital is a necessary resource for doing projections and stress-test scenarios, both market-wide business and defines the bank’s commercial possibilities. and bank-specific, are used to ensure that actual and Business Report The balance between available and required capital is future capital levels remain above the targets. managed centrally, optimising the use of available capital. Capital is allocated to businesses in a way that optimises The basis of the capital management strategy is the the long-term value of the bank while serving the bank’s bank’s risk appetite and its business plans. Other strategic objectives. In the capital allocation process both important factors taken into account while managing the risk-based and non-risk-based return parameters are capital position are expectations and requirements of considered, taking into account economic and regulatory Risk, funding & capital information external stakeholders (such as regulators, investors, capital requirements. This process ensures that the bank’s shareholders, equity analysts, rating agencies and clients), return targets are met while maintaining a moderate risk the bank’s position in the market, market developments, profile, in line with the bank’s risk appetite. contingent capital needs and the feasibility of capital management actions. Contingency capital management Although ABN AMRO manages its capital centrally, the Contingency plans are in place to address capital issues, if group companies are sufficiently capitalised to comply any. The Contingency Capital Plan provides a framework to with all local regulatory solvency requirements and to detect capital adequacy stress by setting out various early meet any local business needs. warning indicators. The Contingency Capital Plan also sets Governance Report out a range of available actions that could be undertaken ABN AMRO’s banking activities are carried out by legal based on the level of severity and urgency of the issues. entities that are part of the Group’s tax unit for corporate tax. Apart from prevailing legal and regulatory legislation, there are no specific material impediments to prompt the transfer of the bank’s regulatory capital. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 165 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Sustainability risk management Introduction Sustainability risk management Strategic Report Sustainability is a key objective in our strategy. We aim to Our sustainability risk policy framework is constantly hold a prominent position as a sustainable bank that takes evolving: we develop new policies or adjust existing ones responsibility for its actions and engagements, as a based on, among other things, feedback and input from member of society with its own impact on the stakeholders (e.g. clients, government bodies, NGOs) if environment and on people. any gaps become evident or if new developments take place. To accommodate improvements in our standards, Business Report In its various roles as lender, investor, asset manager, we host stakeholder meetings where we discuss our service provider, purchaser, operator and employer, the Environmental, Social and Ethical (ESE) criteria with key bank is exposed to sustainability risk. As a subcategory of stakeholders. reputational risk in our risk taxonomy, sustainability risk is a transversal risk of increasing importance and is aligned ABN AMRO’s sustainability risk management is guided by with the bank’s moderate risk profile and risk appetite. It five sustainability risk principles, as defined in the policy: supports the bank’s mission to bring sustainable solutions ÅÅ sustainability risk management is a driver for quality Risk, funding & capital information to its clients. improvement; ÅÅ the bank is responsible for its actions and its decision Safeguarding human rights, health and safety and the to engage with a client; environment in financing and investments is a key topic ÅÅ the bank strives for an inclusive approach and will enter of sustainability. Our approach to safeguarding human into a dialogue with its clients; rights is based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business ÅÅ the bank will not engage in activities that do not meet and Human Rights. In line with these principles, we have its ESE standards; integrated human rights assessment criteria into both our ÅÅ the bank engages actively and openly with its corporate lending and investment services. To further stakeholders regarding sustainability risk. strengthen our approach to human rights risks, Governance Report ABN AMRO performs supply-chain analyses to identify Client acceptance and management human rights risks and mitigating actions in specific Client acceptance is crucial to our approach to managing industries (e.g. diamonds, cocoa, copper). In addition, sustainability risks. We have in place instruments to ABN AMRO participates in the SHIFT Business identify potential breaches of sustainability principles and Learning Programme. we do not do business with companies that are not willing or able to run their business responsibly. We also refrain A total of 160 clients were subject to human rights from engaging in business activities that are illegal or that Annual Financial Statements screening in 2015, compared with 167 clients in 2014. we consider substandard or unethical. These activities are In 2015 this related to client acceptance or review in specified in the Exclusion List, part of our Sustainability 95 cases, to corporate lending in 61 cases, to an asset Risk Management Policy, which is available on our leasing transaction in one case and three Corporate corporate website. Finance advisory mandates for the acquisition and/or sale of assets. An assessment for corporate lending based on our ESE criteria focuses on the compliance, commitment, capacity Policy framework and track record of our client in managing its sustainability As part of the bank’s ‘three lines of defence’ model, risk. This means that we may decide to accept ABN AMRO has in place a policy framework to manage transactions with a high sustainability risk profile, as long sustainability risks. The Sustainability Risk Management as our client is capable of adequately managing these Other Policy is the overarching document which covers most of risks and operates within the limits of our sustainability our activities, varying from corporate lending and sector policies and procedures. investment to procurement and product development. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 166 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Sustainability risk management Introduction If our criteria are not met, we explore possibilities for they face vary as well. Our Central Sustainability Risk improvement. We do this by conducting an open dialogue department provides advice regarding clients operating Strategic Report with our clients, by addressing and discussing these in industries with a higher sustainability risk. The following matters and, where necessary, promoting and negotiating graphs present a breakdown of the advice given per for improvement. In specific cases, we do not provide industry, together with the type of advice and the lending unless our conditions for improvement have been conclusion of the advice. accepted by the client. Cases of advice provided by the Central Sustainability Risk Sustainability is integrated into both our corporate lending department increased slightly from 444 in 2014 to a total Business Report and investment services. Some industries face more of 450 in 2015. sustainability risks than others and the nature of the risks Global advice1 <S> 19 44 22 7 10 16 52 Risk, funding & capital information 4 Agriculture Chemicals & Pharma 72 65 Defence 87 87 Energy & Public utilities Fisheries 2015 2014 Total 450 Total 444 Forestry 39 32 Infrastructure 17 Manufacturing industry 27 Mining & Metals 28 Miscellaneous industries 59 5 43 11 Oil & Gas 8 39 51 37 57 1 Tobacco Transport & Logistics Governance Report 1 Provided by the central sustainability risk department. Other industries The types of advice and conclusion of advice are In 86 cases, we approved the request subject to certain presented below. Of the 450 cases of advice given conditions. In these cases, we engage with our clients in 2015, we rejected 8 cases and approved 353 cases. and negotiate for improvement. Annual Financial Statements Type of advice <S> Conclusion of advice <S> 500 500 444 450 444 12 450 3 22 23 10 8 400 400 11 86 107 109 300 300 96 200 200 315 318 315 353 100 100 2014 2015 2014 2015 Other Client acceptance Approvals Pending Request for finance Qualified approvals Withdrawn Other requests Rejections ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 167 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Management Control Statement Introduction Management Control Statement Strategic Report Under best practice provisions II.1.4 and II.1.5 of the Dutch The internal risk management and control systems provide Corporate Governance Code, ABN AMRO’s Managing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial Board is requested: reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of ÅÅ to describe the main risks related to the strategy ABN AMRO’s published financial statements. of ABN AMRO; ÅÅ to describe internal risk management and control During the past years, ABN AMRO has implemented an Business Report systems for the main risks during the year; Operational Risk Management Framework (ORMF) for ÅÅ to describe any major shortcomings (if any); sound operational risk management, worldwide, in line ÅÅ to substantiate the operation of internal risk with the requirements for Advanced Measurement management and control (related to financial reporting Approach compliance. This ORMF combines the various risks) during the year under review, and; non-financial risk disciplines into a single converged ÅÅ to state its adequacy and effectiveness. approach and provides the business with a clear and fair view on their operational risks and the way these are Risk, funding & capital information ABN AMRO’s internal risk management and control is managed. These insights allow senior management to a process implemented by the Managing Board, form an opinion on the adequacy of internal and management and other personnel. It is designed to management controls regarding the risks they face while provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement pursuing their business objectives. of objectives in the following categories: ÅÅ effectiveness and efficiency of operations; Based on risk assessments and monitoring and control ÅÅ reliability of (financial) information; activities, the Managing Board of ABN AMRO Group N.V. ÅÅ compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies makes the following statement with regard to risks that with respect to the conduct of business; may jeopardise ABN AMRO’s business objectives for the ÅÅ safeguarding of assets, identification and management short term: Governance Report of liabilities, and; ÅÅ Within ABN AMRO internal risk management and ÅÅ strategic goals of ABN AMRO. control systems are in place to provide reasonable assurance that ABN AMRO will not be hindered in Different parts of the Risk & Capital Report elaborate on achieving its business objectives or in the orderly and ABN AMRO’s identified risks, such as credit risk, market legitimate conduct of its business by circumstances risk, operational risk, liquidity risk and business risk. which may reasonably be foreseen; ÅÅ Based on internal risk management and control Annual Financial Statements Based on the process regarding internal risk management systems in place and barring unforeseen adverse and control over financial reporting, the Managing Board external conditions, the Managing Board is of the of ABN AMRO Group N.V. makes the following statement opinion that there are no material elements within regarding the group’s financial reporting risks: ABN AMRO that could significantly endanger the ÅÅ ABN AMRO’s internal risk management and control realisation of its business objectives; systems provide reasonable assurance that ÅÅ Regarding internal risk management and control ABN AMRO’s consolidated financial statements do not systems, the Managing Board has identified contain any material inaccuracies; dependencies. The following external factors could ÅÅ ABN AMRO’s internal risk management and control have an impact on ABN AMRO’s current business systems functioned properly in 2015; model: ÅÅ There are no indications to suggest that ABN AMRO’s ÅÅ Adverse external developments (macroeconomic, Other internal controls will not continue to function properly geopolitical and monetary), prolonged negative in 2016. interest rates and intensified competition may have an impact on ABN AMRO’s revenues. There is ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 168 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Management Control Statement Introduction increased competition from non-bank entities such support new business initiatives. Furthermore, the as insurance companies and pension funds, which bank is continuing its efforts to improve the customer Strategic Report had already entered parts of the banking value chain, experience through the Retail Digitalisation programme and new entrants (often less bound by legacy and ÅÅ Regulatory changes that may not be adequately laws/regulations that are imposed on banks). identified, interpreted and/or implemented (due to ÅÅ Eisting and impending legislation and regulations e.g. late communication, complex organisational (e.g. MiFID, Basel IV, Payment Services Directive 2, structure and human factors) could lead to a risk of EU privacy law and Market Abuse Directive) and non-compliancy with regulatory requirements. The change of interpretation of existing European and current flow of new regulations and the renewed Business Report local legislation and regulations may significantly interpretation of existing regulations has increased impact the balance sheet, as well as liquidity and the workload significantly. The awareness in our capital adequacy. Change in the risk-weighted capital organisation that this has become “the new day-toframework is an example of such potential impact. day reality” for ABN AMRO and its people is ÅÅ The following areas of improvement have been imminent. In practice, we also notice the risk of a identified and agreed upon and are actively managed weakened legal position, resulting from the by senior management: unavailability of crucial information (record-keeping Risk, funding & capital information ÅÅ The significant number of projects, combined with and archiving of both physical and electronic capacity constraints (budget and people), inherently documentation). Continued functioning of the limit the room for improvement initiatives and Regulatory Office department and programs like innovation of the business model, products, services MiFID II, Client File Review and Reliable & and technology. Becoming less innovative and agile Responsible Banking (Vertrouwd & Verantwoord than competitors and/or new entrants may lead to Bankieren) will help to mitigate these risks further decreasing returns and a loss of customers/market ÅÅ Due to the increase in, and professionality, of share within a timeframe of 3-5 years, as well as external cyber threats, there is a risk that the sub-optimal risk decisions (like missed opportunities). organisation will not be able to keep up with new Improvements to the innovation power are being security threats, which could result in a major Governance Report worked on; for example the introduction of an agile security incident happening, with large financial way of working (which requires adaptations in the and/or reputational impact. control framework) and Digital Ambition structures/ The increased cyber threat has several implications programmes/investments for the bank and its clients. Cyber vulnerabilities on ÅÅ The bank’s current IT infrastructure is complex. the client side may also hit the bank, while, on the This results in relatively high maintenance costs other hand, vulnerabilities on the bank’s side could and unexpected challenges and necessitates manual also have negative consequences for clients, if Annual Financial Statements actions in day-to-day processes, but more clients were to become victims of cyber attacks via importantly, reduces our agility to respond quickly the bank’s services and/or products. to market trends and new innovations. The bank Strengthening of access management, network aims to create a more competitive customer segmentation, vulnerability management and the experience in a constantly changing environment, Security Operations Centre is ongoing in order to and to deliver agile, seamless and fully web-based further mitigate these risks; customer processes via the internet and by mobile ÅÅ New laws and regulations are often accompanied applications. by more strict (behavioural) regulatory oversight. The bank therefore launched the TOPS 2020 Suboptimal awareness regarding integrity, programme in 2013, which aims to re-engineer our transparency and duty of care, combined with IT landscape and simplify our processes. Updating inadequate tooling and lower tolerance levels, Other to cloud technology is an important step in the may have an impact on the bank (in the form of fines implementation of a more effective and agile or reputational damage). IT architecture, which will enable the Group to Remuneration limitations, reduced career ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 169 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital management / Management Control Statement Introduction opportunities and decreased employer attractiveness The evaluation of the adequacy of internal risk may lead to an unwanted decline in the quality and management and control systems has regularly been Strategic Report quantity of our labour force. In order to mitigate this discussed with the Audit Committee and the Risk & risk, compliance-related programmes are being Capital Committee and has subsequently been submitted organised, a robust policy framework is being set to the Supervisory Board. Due to its inherent limitations, and the internal reward structure is being revised. ABN AMRO’s internal risk management and control Furthermore it is being investigated how ABN AMRO systems do not provide complete assurance on the can remain successful in attracting top talent. realisation of business objectives, and cannot at all times prevent inaccuracies, fraud and non-compliance with rules Business Report and regulations. Risk, funding & capital information Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 170 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review Introduction Risk, funding & capital review Strategic Report The following section provides a comprehensive overview of the different risks across business segments and portfolios. Information on capital developments is also provided. More information about the Group’s risk management strategy, framework, governance and policies is provided in the Risk, funding & capital Management section. Additional mandatory disclosures are provided in the Additional risk, Business Report funding & capital disclosures. Overview The Dutch economy grew by 1.9% in 2015, double the The improvement of the Dutch economy and Dutch growth percentage recorded for 2014. This improvement housing market combined with strict credit monitoring Risk, funding & capital information was entirely driven by accelerating consumption and is reflected in a decrease in loan impairments across all investment. For the first time in years, their joint portfolios and in overall improved risk indicators. contribution to growth was greater than that of exports. The revival of investments was partly driven by an improvement of manufacturing capacity utilisation. Growth in consumption is being fuelled by a rise in the real disposable income of family households, which is due to the fact that wages are rising faster than inflation. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 171 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Key developments Introduction Key developments Strategic Report Key figures (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Total assets 390,317 386,867 372,022 of which Residential mortgages 150,009 151,998 153,439 of which Consumer loans 14,587 15,398 15,629 Business Report of which Corporate loans 88,367 87,866 85,268 On-balance sheet maximum exposure to credit risk 383,522 375,007 358,480 Total Exposure at Default1 369,169 350,762 349,235 Total risk weighted assets (REA)/total Exposure at Default1 29.3% 31.3% 31.2% RWA (REA)1 Total RWA (REA) 108,001 109,647 109,012 of which Credit risk2 86,063 87,667 86,201 Risk, funding & capital information of which Operational risk 16,227 16,168 16,415 of which Market risk 5,710 5,811 6,396 Fully-loaded CET1 ratio 15.5% 14.1% 12.2% Fully-loaded leverage ratio 3.8% 3.7% 3.2% Credit quality indicators Forbearance ratio3 3.5% 3.5% 3.6% Past due ratio 3 1.9% 2.3% 2.9% Impaired ratio3 2.7% 2.9% 3.0% Coverage ratio3 55.8% 53.6% 55.2% Cost of risk (in bps) reported4, 5 19 45 37 Cost of risk (in bps) underlying4 19 45 63 Governance Report Liquidity and funding indicators Loan-to-Deposit ratio 108.9% 116.5% 120.6% LCR >100% >100% 100% NSFR >100% >100% >100% 1 2013 figures are reported under Basel II and the 2015 and 2014 figures are reported using the Basel III (CRD IV/CRR) framework. Under Basel III 2013 pro-forma figures are: EAD EUR 353,856 million; total RWA (REA) EUR 115,442 million; credit risk RWA (REA) EUR 92,631 million. No RWA (REA) impact from CRD IV/CRR on market and operational risk. 2 RWA (REA) for credit value adjustment (CVA) and default fund contribution (DFC) are included in credit risk. In 2015 CVA amounted to EUR 1.1 billion (2014: EUR 1.3 billion; 2013: EUR 1.5 billion) and DFC amounted to EUR 0.3 billion. 3 Ratios calculated on Loans and receivables customers only. Annualised impairment charges on Loans and receivables customers for the period divided by average Loans and receivables customers. Annual Financial Statements 4 5 2013 includes a release of EUR 432 million following the sale of the remaining Greek government-guaranteed corporate exposures. Additionally, 2013 includes a release of EUR 252 million following the sale of collateral related to the Madoff files (these special items are related to Group functions). The continued improvement of the Dutch economy is the portfolios on the back of improved economic reflected in the gradual decline of the impaired portfolio conditions and strict credit monitoring. This also led to and in a significant drop in impairment charges. Total IBNI releases, which are determined based on recent impairment charges on loans and other receivables losses in the portfolio. The decreasing loss levels resulted amounted to EUR 505 million, EUR 666 million lower than in an IBNI release of EUR 221 million in 2015 compared in 2014. Lower impairment charges were recorded in all with an IBNI addition of EUR 22 million in 2014. portfolios due to the improvement of the risk profile of Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 172 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Key developments Introduction As a result of the significant decline in the total The bank’s liquidity position remained strong. The Liquidity impairment charges, the cost of risk improved to 19bps Coverage Ratio (LCR) and the Net Stable Funding Ratio Strategic Report in 2015, compared with 45bps in 2014. (NSFR) both remained above 100% during 2015. This is in line with the bank’s targeted early compliance with future The Residential mortgage portfolio declined by regulatory requirements. In addition, an increase in client EUR 2.0 billion compared with year-end 2014, as a result deposits improved the Loan-to-Deposit (LtD) ratio. This is of repayments on existing mortgage loans exceeding reflected in the increase of the cash position throughout new production of mortgage loans. The Consumer loan 2015. The higher cash position was used to further portfolio decreased by EUR 0.8 billion in 2015. The strengthen the liquidity buffer. Business Report Corporate loan portfolio increased by EUR 0.5 billion. The increase was mainly driven by higher volumes in During 2015, ABN AMRO raised EUR 14.3 billion in term loans. long-term funding (including EUR 2.8 billion in subordinated debt). The average remaining maturity of All credit indicators improved further, reflecting the long-term wholesale funding increased during 2015 from improved risk profile of the loan portfolio. 4.3 to 4.6 years, mainly due to the issuance of long-term secured funding in the third quarter of 2015. Risk, funding & capital information Key figures per business segment 7e 31 December 2015 Retail Private Corporate Group (in millions) Banking Banking Banking Functions Total Total assets 155,797 24,171 117,355 92,994 390,317 On-balance sheet maximum exposure to credit risk 155,282 20,834 115,803 91,603 383,522 Total Exposure at Default1 174,229 22,105 103,443 69,392 369,169 Governance Report RWA (REA) Credit risk1 28,896 6,852 45,867 4,447 86,063 Operational risk 5,875 1,373 3,537 5,441 16,227 Market risk 5,710 5,710 Total RWA (REA) 34,771 8,226 55,115 9,888 108,001 Total RWA (REA)/Total Exposure at Default 20.0% 37.2% 53.3% 14.3% 29.3% 2015 Annual Financial Statements Average RWA (REA) 36,109 8,500 57,191 10,851 112,651 Cost of risk (in bps) reported2 6 -2 46 19 Cost of risk (in bps) underlying2 6 -2 46 19 1 RWA (REA) for credit value adjustment (CVA) and default fund contribution (DFC) are included in credit risk. In 2015 CVA amounted to EUR 1.1 billion and DFC amounted to EUR 0.3 billion. 2 Annualised impairment charges on Loans and receivables customers for the period divided by average Loans and receivables customers. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 173 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Key developments Introduction Key figures per business segment 7e Strategic Report 31 December 2014 Retail Private Corporate Group (in millions) Banking Banking Banking Functions Total Total assets 157,614 22,935 133,579 72,739 386,867 On-balance sheet maximum exposure to credit risk 157,047 19,597 127,187 71,176 375,007 Total Exposure at Default1 175,460 21,137 103,619 50,546 350,762 RWA (REA) Business Report Credit risk1 31,291 6,754 43,939 5,683 87,667 Operational risk 5,550 1,558 3,712 5,348 16,168 Market risk 5,811 5,811 Total RWA (REA) 36,841 8,312 53,462 11,031 109,647 Total RWA (REA)/Total Exposure at Default 21.0% 39.3% 51.6% 21.8% 31.3% 2014 Cost of risk (in bps) reported2 29 14 86 45 Risk, funding & capital information Cost of risk (in bps) underlying2 29 14 86 45 1 RWA (REA) for credit value adjustment (CVA) and default fund contribution (DFC) are included in credit risk. In 2014 CVA amounted to EUR 1.3 billion and DFC amounted to EUR 0.9 billion. 2 Annualised impairment charges on Loans and receivables customers for the period divided by average Loans and receivables customers. 31 December 2013 Retail Private Corporate Group (in millions) Banking Banking Banking Functions Total Total assets1 160,630 20,617 117,809 72,966 372,022 On-balance sheet maximum exposure to credit risk 160,139 17,736 109,870 70,735 358,480 Total Exposure at Default1 175,844 21,198 95,145 57,048 349,235 RWA (REA) Credit risk 28,772 7,247 45,610 4,572 86,201 Governance Report Operational risk 5,512 1,555 4,025 5,323 16,415 Market risk 6,396 6,396 Total RWA (REA) 34,284 8,802 56,031 9,895 109,012 Total RWA (REA)/Total Exposure at Default 19.5% 41.5% 58.9% 17.3% 31.2% 2013 Cost of risk (in bps) reported2, 3 42 89 105 37 Cost of risk (in bps) underlying3 42 89 105 63 Annual Financial Statements 1 The 2013 figures are reported using the Basel II (CRD IV/CRR) framework. Under Basel III 2013 pro-forma figures are: EAD EUR 353,856 million; total RWA (REA) EUR 115,442 million; credit risk REA EUR 92,631 million. No RWA (REA) impact from CRD IV/CRR on market and operational risk. 2 2013 includes a release of EUR 432 million following the sale of the remaining Greek government-guaranteed corporate exposures. Additionally, 2013 includes a release of EUR 252 million following the sale of collateral related to the Madoff files (these special items are related to Group functions). 3 Annualised impairment charges on Loans and receivables customers for the period divided by average Loans and receivables customers. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 174 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Key developments Introduction Total Exposure at Default increased by EUR 18.4 billion, Total RWA (REA) decreased to EUR 108.0 billion at arriving at EUR 369.2 billion at 31 December 2015, 31 December 2015, compared with EUR 109.7 billion Strategic Report compared with EUR 350.8 billion at 31 December 2014. at 31 December 2014. This change was mainly related to The increase was mainly attributable to Group Functions as credit risk. The decline in RWA (REA) was mainly the result result of a rise in deposits at central banks. Other of a decrease of EUR 2.4 billion in Retail Banking due to movements were noted for Retail Banking, which lower business volume and an improved grade quality of decreased by EUR 1.2 billion mainly as result of lower our clients. Other movements were noted in Corporate business volume in the Residential mortgage portfolio, due Banking, where RWA (REA) increased by EUR 1.9 billion, to redemptions exceeding the new production volume. The and Group Functions, where RWA (REA) decreased Business Report decrease of EAD in Retail Banking was partly compensated by EUR 1.4 billion at 31 December 2015. as a result of a change in the method used for the EAD calculation for Residential mortgages. The EAD of Private Banking decreased by EUR 1.0 billion and the EAD of Corporate Banking remained fairly stable in 2015. Risk, funding & capital information Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 175 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Key developments Introduction Reporting scope risk Strategic Report 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Gross Loan Gross Loan Gross Loan carrying impairment Carrying carrying impairment Carrying carrying impairment Carrying (in millions) amount allowance amount amount allowance amount amount allowance amount Loans and receivables banks 15,682 2 15,680 21,680 21,680 23,967 23,967 Residential mortgages 150,333 324 150,009 152,536 538 151,998 154,024 585 153,439 Less: Fair value adjustment from hedge Business Report accounting on residential mortgages 3,401 3,401 4,134 4,134 3,531 3,531 Residential mortgages, excluding fair value adjustments 146,932 324 146,608 148,402 538 147,864 150,493 585 149,908 Consumer loans 15,147 561 14,587 16,052 654 15,398 16,241 613 15,629 Corporate loans 86,312 3,380 82,932 86,299 3,439 82,860 84,353 3,672 80,681 Less: Fair value adjustment from hedge Risk, funding & capital information accounting on corporate loans 1,448 1,448 1,605 1,605 891 891 Corporate loans, excluding fair value adjustments 84,864 3,380 81,484 84,694 3,439 81,255 83,462 3,672 79,790 Other loans and receivables customers1 11,882 90 11,792 11,783 129 11,654 7,384 105 7,279 Less: Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting on other loans and receivables customers 1 1 -16 -16 -23 -23 Other loans and receivables customers, excluding fair value adjustments1 11,881 90 11,791 11,799 129 11,669 7,407 105 7,302 Governance Report Total loans and receivables customers, excluding fair value adjustments 258,824 4,355 254,469 260,947 4,761 256,186 257,603 4,975 252,629 Fair value adjustments on Loans and receivables customers 4,850 4,850 5,724 5,724 4,399 4,399 Total loans and receivables customers 263,674 4,355 259,319 266,670 4,761 261,910 262,002 4,975 257,028 Other 130,998 124,958 114,994 Annual Financial Statements Total assets 390,317 386,867 372,022 1 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. The previous table gives an overview of the figures were set out of scope as of year-end 2014 for the tables in reported in the consolidated balance sheet (net) and the the Risk section. As a result of the change in the reporting figures reported in the Risk management section (gross) scope, the definition of the cost of risk also changed. and excluding fair value ajdustments. Fair value adjustments Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 176 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Key developments Introduction Economic and regulatory capital 7e Corporate Strategic Report (in millions) Retail Banking Private Banking Banking Group Functions Total 31 December 2015 Credit risk 2,312 548 3,669 356 6,885 Operational risk 470 110 283 435 1,298 Market risk 457 457 Regulatory capital1 2,782 658 4,409 791 8,640 Business Report Credit risk 2,915 504 4,347 987 8,752 Operational risk 301 206 538 214 1,259 Market risk 145 145 Business risk 353 322 514 7 1,195 Other risk types2 275 156 97 4,117 4,643 Economic capital 3,843 1,187 5,640 5,324 15,995 31 December 2014 Credit risk Risk, funding & capital information 2,503 540 3,515 455 7,013 Operational risk 444 125 297 428 1,293 Market risk 465 465 Regulatory capital 1 2,947 665 4,277 882 8,772 Credit risk 4,298 450 4,069 889 9,706 Operational risk 294 199 808 285 1,586 Market risk 111 111 Business risk 381 298 455 9 1,143 Other risk types2 239 199 69 4,664 5,171 Economic capital 5,212 1,146 5,512 5,847 17,717 31 December 2013 Governance Report Credit risk 2,302 580 3,649 366 6,896 Operational risk 441 124 322 426 1,313 Market risk 512 512 Regulatory capital1 2,743 704 4,482 792 8,721 Credit risk 3,921 769 5,644 478 10,812 Operational risk 374 272 698 439 1,783 Market risk 116 116 Business risk 206 248 554 12 1,020 Annual Financial Statements Other risk types2 322 191 93 4,073 4,679 Economic capital 4,823 1,480 7,105 5,002 18,410 1 Minimum regulatory capital (8% of total risk exposure amount), representing the absolute minimum amount of capital required by a bank to cover three major risk types a bank faces. However available total capital ratios are substantially higher, as explained in the capital section. 2 Other risk types include market risk banking book (including interest rate risk) and pension risk. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 177 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Key developments Introduction In 2015, total economic capital (EC) decreased by EUR 1.7 billion to EUR 16.0 billion compared with year-end Strategic Report 2014. The decline in EC was driven mainly by credit risk (EUR 1.0 billion) and operational risk (EUR 0.3 billion). Credit risk EC decreased by EUR 1.0 billion to EUR 8.8 billion at year-end 2015 compared with year-end 2014. This decline was largely caused by improved credit risk drivers (average Exposure at Default, Probability of Business Report Default and Loss Given Default). The decrease was partly offset by an increase in Corporate Banking, mainly related to International Clients and Commercial Clients. Operational risk EC decreased by EUR 0.3 billion, as the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) has been implemented at most entities. During AMA Risk, funding & capital information implementation, control monitoring and testing was strengthened further throughout the bank, which contributed to the decline of EC. Please note that the use of the AMA model for the calculation of regulatory capital (RC) is pending the formal approval of the ECB. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 178 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Balance sheet composition Introduction Balance sheet composition Strategic Report ABN AMRO is mainly active in the Dutch market and in The balance sheet composition reflects the bank’s international operations where we have specific expertise moderate risk profile. and hold leading market positions in selected activities. Balance sheet composition at 31 December 2015 Business Report Residential mortgages Demand deposits Other loans to customers Bank deposits 38% Loans to banks Long-term & subordinated debt Securities financing 59% Securities financing Derivatives Derivatives Financial investments Short-term debt Other assets Equity 28% Other liabilities Risk, funding & capital information 4% 4% 5% 19% 5% 3% 10% 6% 3% 10% 5% 1% Assets Liabilities & equity ÅÅ Approximately two-thirds of the bank’s assets consist ÅÅ Securities financing is a fully collateralised activity, e.g. of lending to (mainly Dutch) clients and banks; repo transactions and stock borrowing & lending activities; Governance Report ÅÅ The bank’s lending activities are largely asset-based; ÅÅ The bank has limited market risk and trading portfolios; ÅÅ The loan portfolio is matched by client deposits, ÅÅ The financial investments for liquidity management long-term debt & subordinated liabilities, and equity purposes consist mainly of high-quality liquid with limited reliance on short-term debt; instruments. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 179 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Credit risk Strategic Report Credit risk exposure Credit risk overview b (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Total assets 390,317 386,867 372,022 Less: items that are not subject Business Report to credit risk exposure1 6,795 11,860 13,542 On-balance sheet maximum exposure to credit risk 383,522 375,007 358,480 Off-balance sheet Committed credit facilities 21,559 16,164 13,764 Guarantees and other commitments 13,868 15,335 16,103 Revocable credit facilities 82,865 78,508 71,657 Total Off-balance sheet credit facilities Risk, funding & capital information and guarantees 118,292 110,007 101,524 Maximum exposure to credit risk 501,814 485,014 460,004 Adjustments on assets2 -5,968 -9,852 -7,659 Valuation adjustments3 -7,615 -11,563 -5,141 Offsetting and netting -26,442 -23,508 -17,115 Off-balance sheet credit facilities and guarantees -118,292 -110,007 -101,524 Off-balance sheet exposure fraction expected to be drawn prior to default (Credit Conversion Factors) 25,672 20,677 20,670 Total Exposure at Default 369,169 350,762 349,235 Governance Report Credit risk RWA (REA)/Total Exposure at Default 23.3% 25.0% 24.7% 1 Items that are not subject to credit risk: more details are provided in Additional risk, funding & capital disclosure, table ‘Maximum exposure to credit risk EU IFRS’. 2 Main adjustments on assets are equity instruments, selected financial assets held for trading and fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 3 Adjustments on valuation include loan impairment allowances. The table above shows maximum exposure to credit risk and reconciliaton to the total Exposure at Default. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 180 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Overall credit risk EAD and RWA vrt 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Netting/ Original Exposure at Average RWA (REA)/ Exposure at Default Exposure at Exposure at Exposure at (in millions) Default mitigation3 Default Default RWA (REA) Default Credit risk IRB Central governments and central banks 55,459 -3,433 58,892 50,582 978 1.7% Institutions1 19,099 4,922 14,177 19,438 2,887 20.4% Business Report Corporates 196,468 97,340 99,128 99,765 40,592 40.9% Retail 179,737 5,608 174,129 174,878 26,631 15.3% of which secured by immovable property 159,573 159,573 160,366 20,269 12.7% of which qualifying revolving exposures 6,796 6,796 6,905 3,005 44.2% of which other retail 13,368 5,608 7,760 7,608 3,357 43.3% Credit valuation adjustment 1,105 Securitisation positions 1,125 1,125 1,268 84 7.5% Subtotal 451,889 104,437 347,452 345,931 72,277 20.8% Risk, funding & capital information Equities not held for trading 1,208 1,208 1,229 5,185 429.2% Other 2 1,286 1,286 1,299 1,491 115.9% Total IRB 454,383 104,437 349,946 348,459 78,953 22.6% Credit risk SA Central governments and central banks 2,978 20 2,958 2,849 132 4.5% Institutions1 4,485 92 4,393 7,416 153 3.5% Corporates 6,953 2,991 3,962 4,733 3,535 89.2% Retail 5,617 4,259 1,358 2,076 793 58.4% Covered bonds Secured by mortgages on immovable property 2,858 26 2,832 3,033 510 18.0% Exposures in default 668 603 65 78 88 134.9% Governance Report Subtotal 23,558 7,990 15,568 20,185 5,211 33.5% Other2 4,654 999 3,655 3,475 1,900 52.0% Total SA 28,213 8,990 19,223 23,661 7,110 37.0% Total 482,595 113,427 369,169 372,120 86,063 23.3% 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Other includes non-credit obligation assets. 3 Consists mainly of netting, secured funding trades, guarantees, credit conversion factors, and impairments under the Standardised Approach. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 181 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Overall credit risk EAD and RWA vrt 31 December 2014 Strategic Report Netting/ Original Exposure at Average RWA (REA)/ Exposure at Default Exposure at Exposure at Exposure at (in millions) Default mitigation4 Default Default RWA (REA) Default Credit risk IRB Central governments and central banks 37,753 -4,332 42,085 40,154 2,020 4.8% Institutions1 22,307 4,016 18,291 18,644 4,972 27.2% Corporates 198,495 108,644 89,851 85,236 36,586 40.7% Business Report Retail 179,884 6,273 173,611 164,309 28,646 16.5% of which secured by immovable property 156,386 -1,198 157,584 147,580 21,521 13.7% of which qualifying revolving exposures 13,125 5,990 7,135 7,081 3,702 51.9% of which other retail 10,373 1,481 8,892 9,648 3,423 38.5% Credit valuation adjustment 1,264 Securitisation positions 3,297 863 2,434 11,059 237 9.7% Subtotal 441,736 115,463 326,273 319,402 73,726 22.6% Risk, funding & capital information Equities not held for trading 1,124 1,124 955 5,009 445.6% Other2 1,326 1,326 1,390 1,099 82.8% Total IRB 444,186 115,463 328,723 321,746 79,833 24.3% Credit risk SA Central governments and central banks 2,606 2,606 1,472 154 5.9% Institutions1 6,288 2 6,286 6,239 344 5.5% Corporates 6,973 2,367 4,606 11,333 3,758 81.6% Retail 7,216 4,726 2,490 2,586 974 39.1% Covered bonds Secured by mortgages on immovable property 2,728 22 2,706 1,836 541 20.0% Exposures in default 690 573 117 83 156 134.1% Governance Report Subtotal3 26,501 7,690 18,811 23,548 5,927 31.5% Other2, 3 3,228 3,228 5,033 1,907 59.1% Total SA 29,729 7,690 22,039 28,581 7,834 35.5% Total 473,915 123,153 350,762 350,327 87,667 25.0% 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Other includes non-credit obligation assets. 3 Average EAD Other has been restated to the line Other after subtotal. 4 Consists mainly of netting, secured funding trades, guarantees, credit conversion factors, and impairments under the Standardised Approach. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 182 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction 31 December 2013 Netting/ Original Exposure at Average RWA (REA)/ Strategic Report Exposure at Default Exposure at Exposure at Exposure at (in millions) Default mitigation4 Default Default RWA (REA) Default Credit risk IRB Central governments and central banks 46,474 1,454 45,020 43,480 528 1.2% Institutions1 21,228 2,646 18,582 19,023 4,201 22.6% Corporates 193,470 105,991 87,479 86,836 39,020 44.6% Retail 182,255 8,057 174,198 174,007 27,212 15.6% of which retail mortgages 157,649 -254 157,903 157,589 19,326 12.2% Business Report of which qualifying revolving exposures 13,149 5,875 7,274 7,153 3,700 50.9% of which other retail 11,457 2,436 9,021 9,264 4,186 46.4% Securitisation positions 2,511 2,511 2,642 286 11.4% Subtotal 445,938 118,148 327,790 325,988 71,247 21.7% Equities not held for trading 951 951 834 2,733 287.4% Other2 1,452 1,452 1,473 1,490 102.6% Total IRB3, 4 448,341 118,148 330,193 328,295 75,470 22.9% Risk, funding & capital information Credit risk SA Central governments and central banks 303 -37 340 391 80 23.5% Institutions1 2,116 2,116 2,008 425 20.1% Corporates 10,249 3,611 6,638 11,512 5,930 89.3% Retail 8,847 5,198 3,649 3,882 1,364 37.4% of which Retail mortgages 2,313 51 2,262 2,188 497 22.0% of which Other retail 6,534 5,147 1,387 1,694 867 62.5% Subtotal 21,515 8,772 12,743 17,793 7,799 61.2% Other2, 3 6,299 6,299 5,576 2,932 46.5% Total SA 27,814 8,772 19,042 23,369 10,731 56.4% Total 476,155 126,920 349,235 351,664 86,201 24.7% Governance Report 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Other includes non-credit obligation assets. 3 Average EAD Other has been restated to the line Other after subtotal. 4 Consists mainly of netting, secured funding trades, guarantees, credit conversion factors, and impairments under the Standardised Approach. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 183 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Total Exposure at Default arrived at EUR 369.2 billion Retail increased as a result of a change in the method at 31 December 2015 compared with EUR 350.8 billion used for the EAD calculation, despite the fact that Strategic Report at year-end 2014, an increase of EUR 18.4 billion. mortgage redemptions exceeded new production volume. The RWA (REA) for the residential mortgage portfolio The IRB portfolio rose by EUR 21.2 billion to 349.9 billion, decreased as a result of a decline in the number of clients mainly as a result of an increase in Central government in arrears and a rise in housing prices. and central banks due to a rise in deposits at central banks. To a lesser extent, the rise was caused by an The Standardised EAD portfolio decreased by increase in exposure class Corporates, mainly due to EUR 2.8 billion to EUR 19.2 billion at 31 December 2015, Business Report increases in higher business volume and changes due compared with EUR 22.0 billion at 31 December 2014, to model updates. The abovementioned increases were mainly due to a policy change on collateral for interest partly offset by a decline in Institutions which was mainly rate swaps. related to a change in EaD calculation. Exposure class RWA (REA) flow statement credit risk EDTF 16 Risk, funding & capital information (in millions) 100,000 95,000 90,000 2,670 -2,382 87,667 -1,893 86,063 85,000 80,000 31 December Business volume Model changes Other 31 December Governance Report 2014 2015 RWA (REA) decreased by EUR 1.6 billion as a result of Retail and Corporate Banking. RWA (REA) decreased as decreasing business volumes in Group Functions and Retail a result of a decline in the number of clients in arrears and Banking. RWA (REA) increased due to model updates for a rise in housing prices (this is in the category Other). Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 184 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Credit quality by exposure class bv 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Sub-investment Default without Default with (in millions, Exposure at Default) Investment grade grade provision provision Total Central governments and central banks 58,769 123 58,892 Institutions 1 13,804 351 11 10 14,177 Corporates 37,131 56,787 961 4,250 99,128 Retail 140,275 31,295 2,559 174,129 of which secured by immovable Business Report property 134,265 23,555 1,486 159,306 of which qualifying revolving exposures 2,662 3,831 285 6,778 of which other retail 3,348 3,909 788 8,045 Securitisation positions 1,125 1,125 Total IRB 2 251,105 88,556 972 6,819 347,452 Total SA3 15,568 Total 363,020 Risk, funding & capital information 31 December 2014 Sub-investment Default without Default with Investment grade grade provision provision Total Central governments and central banks 41,815 270 42,085 Institutions1 17,867 418 7 18,291 Corporates 33,899 50,658 1,070 4,224 89,851 Retail 135,157 35,258 3,196 173,611 of which secured by immovable property 129,370 25,931 2,284 157,585 of which qualifying revolving exposures 2,483 4,310 341 7,134 Governance Report of which other retail 3,304 5,017 571 8,892 Securitisation positions 2,434 2,434 Total IRB2 231,172 86,604 1,077 7,420 326,273 Total SA3 18,811 Total 345,084 31 December 2013 Sub-investment Default without Default with Investment grade grade provision provision Total Annual Financial Statements Central governments and central banks 44,998 22 45,020 Institutions1 17,811 763 8 18,582 Corporates 28,999 52,775 1,290 4,415 87,479 Retail 135,764 35,202 3,232 174,198 of which retail mortgages 130,112 25,444 2,347 157,903 of which qualifying revolving exposures 2,322 4,687 265 7,274 of which other retail 3,330 5,071 620 9,021 Securitisation positions 2,511 2,511 Total IRB 2 230,083 88,762 1,290 7,655 327,790 Total SA3 12,743 Other Total 340,533 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 185 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction The investment grade portfolio increased to 72% of The total default portfolio decreased in line with the the IRB portfolio, compared with 71% at year-end 2014. improvement of the Dutch economy. Strategic Report The sub-investment portfolio remained relatively stable. Counterparty credit risk vl Counterparty risk by exposure class vl 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Total of which: Total of which: Total of which: Business Report Securities Securities Securities financing financing financing (in millions, Exposure at DerivatransactransactransacDefault) tives tions Derivatives tions Derivatives tions Credit risk Central governments and central banks 58,892 334 98 42,085 455 119 45,020 303 48 Institutions1 14,177 2,114 1,710 18,291 6,099 1,412 18,582 4,802 1,797 Corporates Risk, funding & capital information 99,128 3,148 1,756 89,851 4,704 968 87,479 3,748 635 Retail 174,129 173,611 174,198 of which secured by immovable property/ retail mortgages 159,306 157,585 157,903 of which qualifying revolving exposures 6,778 7,134 7,274 of which other retail 8,045 8,892 9,021 Securitisation positions 1,125 2,434 2,511 Total IRB2 347,452 5,596 3,564 326,273 11,258 2,499 327,790 8,853 2,480 Total SA3 15,568 1,417 2,156 18,811 2,244 3,589 12,743 149 1,260 Total 363,020 7,012 5,720 345,084 13,502 6,088 340,533 9,002 3,740 Governance Report 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. The EAD for derivatives declined, mainly due to a policy Credit risk concentration bv change on collateral for interest rate swaps. Geographic concentration Annual Financial Statements The consolidated exposures in the table are allocated to the geographical regions where clients are domiciled. The bank monitors and manages country risk based on the country of risk. The country of ultimate risk may be different from the country of domicile, e.g. when financing a project in another country than where the borrower is domiciled. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 186 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Geographic concentration by EAD bv Strategic Report 31 December 2015 The Rest of (in millions, Exposure at Default) Netherlands Rest of Europe USA Asia the world Total Central governments and central banks 31,530 19,894 4,160 2,822 486 58,892 Institutions1 1,897 7,035 2,041 2,604 600 14,177 Corporates 52,876 21,719 5,175 8,157 11,201 99,128 Retail 173,273 651 44 87 74 174,129 Business Report of which secured by immovable property 158,756 395 37 71 47 159,306 of which qualifying revolving exposures 6,689 73 3 4 9 6,778 of which other retail 7,828 183 4 12 18 8,045 Securitisation positions 1,125 1,125 Total IRB 2 260,702 49,299 11,420 13,670 12,361 347,452 Total SA3 5,490 8,511 1,077 95 395 15,568 Total 266,192 57,810 12,497 13,765 12,756 363,020 Percentage of total 73.3% 15.9% 3.4% 3.8% 3.5% 100.0% Risk, funding & capital information 31 December 2014 The Rest of Netherlands Rest of Europe USA Asia the world Total Central governments and central banks 19,348 18,172 1,959 2,309 297 42,085 Institutions1 5,795 6,273 2,230 3,590 403 18,291 Corporates 50,534 19,983 3,487 6,713 9,134 89,851 Retail 172,700 710 50 79 72 173,611 of which secured by immovable property 156,990 448 42 60 45 157,585 of which qualifying revolving exposures 7,043 75 3 4 9 7,134 of which other retail 8,667 187 5 15 18 8,892 Securitisation positions 2,434 2,434 Governance Report Total IRB2 250,811 45,138 7,726 12,691 9,906 326,273 Total SA3 9,168 7,701 1,177 284 481 18,811 Total 259,979 52,839 8,903 12,975 10,387 345,084 Percentage of total 75.3% 15.3% 2.6% 3.8% 3.0% 100.0% 31 December 2013 The Rest of Netherlands Rest of Europe USA Asia the world Total Central governments and central banks 27,796 14,929 1,494 685 116 45,020 Annual Financial Statements Institutions1 4,418 8,906 1,169 3,348 741 18,582 Corporates 55,033 17,910 1,980 5,721 6,835 87,479 Retail 174,198 174,198 of which retail mortgages 157,903 157,903 of which qualifying revolving exposures 7,274 7,274 of which other retail 9,021 9,021 Securitisation positions 2,511 2,511 Total IRB2 263,956 41,745 4,643 9,754 7,692 327,790 Total SA3 7,746 3,240 1,195 330 232 12,743 Total 271,702 44,985 5,838 10,084 7,924 340,533 Percentage of total 79.8% 13.2% 1.7% 3.0% 2.3% 100.0% 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. Other 2 Total Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 187 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction The geographical concentrations reflect the bank’s volume within the exposure class Corporates and business profile, with a large portfolio concentrated in the Central government and central banks, partly offset by Strategic Report Netherlands (73.3%). Businesses outside the Netherlands a decrease of EUR 1 billion in Institutions related to lower are primarily located in neighbouring countries in Europe. business volume. Specialised activities, such as Energy, Commodities & Transportation Clients (ECT Clients), Clearing, Asset Based Industry concentration Financing, Securities Financing and Private Banking ABN AMRO applies industry concentration limits following International, are also located outside of Europe. the Industry Classification Benchmark (ICB). In the exposure table, non-material industry clusters are Business Report The Exposure at Default in the Netherlands increased by aggregated under Other. Industry concentration limits are EUR 6.2 billion at year-end 2015 to EUR 266.2 billion established in the bank risk appetite. In the risk appetite, compared with year-end 2014. This increase was mainly thresholds for concentrations are based on relative risk, related to an increase in Central governments and central importance of the industry to the Dutch economy and banks, as a result of a rise in deposits at central banks, expert opinion. partly offset by a decrease in Institutions. Rest of Europe increased to EUR 57.8 billion at year-end 2015, rising by Industry concentration is presented both in terms of original Risk, funding & capital information EUR 5.0 billion compared with year-end 2014. This is obligor and in terms of resultant obligor. Original obligor the result of an increase in Central government and refers to the counterparty with whom ABN AMRO originally central banks and an increase in Corporates, both by has the contractual relationship, often referred to as the EUR 1.7 billion. borrower. The resultant obligor is the counterparty to which ABN AMRO has the ultimate credit risk, often referred to as USA exposure grew by EUR 3.6 billion to EUR 12.5 billion the guarantor. The industry view, based on original obligor at year-end 2015 compared with year-end 2014. The and resultant obligor, differs significantly for the industries increase was mainly related to Central government and real estate, healthcare and public administration. The central banks and, to a lesser extent, an increase of government-guaranteed exposures are included in the EUR 1.7 billion within Corporates due to new client lending original obligor view under the applicable industry sector. Governance Report related to ABN AMRO Clearing and ECT clients. However, in the resultant obligor view these exposures are included in the public administration industry sector, as The increase of EUR 2.4 billion in Rest of the world was they concern government-related exposures. mainly concentrated within Corporates due to new client lending for several clients, mainly ECT Clients. The bank manages industry concentrations within the Risk Appetite by setting credit risk economic capital (EC) limits The Asia region exposure grew by EUR 0.8 billion at as a percentage of total credit risk EC per industry sector. Annual Financial Statements 31 December 2015 compared with year-end 2014. The bank does not manage concentration based on EAD This slight increase was the result of higher business per industry sector. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 188 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Industry concentration by EAD bv 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Exposure at Default Exposure at Default (in millions, Exposure at Default) (original obligor) Percentage of total (resultant obligor) Percentage of total Industry sector Banks 16,230 4.5% 15,101 4.2% Financial services1 14,982 4.1% 13,326 3.7% Industrial goods and services 22,148 6.1% 21,932 6.0% Real estate 13,244 3.6% 12,021 3.3% Business Report Oil and gas 12,119 3.3% 12,011 3.3% Food and beverage 13,924 3.8% 13,810 3.8% Retail 5,132 1.4% 5,059 1.4% Basic resources 4,378 1.2% 4,347 1.2% Healthcare 4,871 1.3% 4,725 1.3% Construction and materials 3,559 1.0% 3,460 1.0% Other2 16,927 4.7% 17,583 4.8% Subtotal Industry Classification Benchmark 127,514 35.1% 123,375 34.0% Risk, funding & capital information Private individuals (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 178,105 49.1% 178,276 49.1% Public administration (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 57,401 15.8% 61,369 16.9% Subtotal non-Industry Classification Benchmark 235,506 64.9% 239,645 66.0% Exposure at Default3 363,020 100.0% 363,020 100.0% 1 Financial services include asset managers, credit card companies and providers of personal financial services and securities and brokers. 2 Other includes travel and leisure, utilities, personal and household goods, media, technology, automobile and parts, chemicals, telecommunication and insurance, in addition to unclassified. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 189 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Industry concentration by EAD bv 31 December 2014 Strategic Report Exposure at Default Exposure at Default (in millions, Exposure at Default) (original obligor) Percentage of total (resultant obligor) Percentage of total Industry sector Banks 16,459 4.8% 14,453 4.2% Financial services1 9,480 2.7% 9,497 2.8% Industrial goods and services 18,747 5.4% 18,407 5.3% Real estate 14,480 4.2% 11,221 3.3% Business Report Oil and gas 10,529 3.1% 10,404 3.0% Food and beverage 10,910 3.2% 10,823 3.1% Retail 4,418 1.3% 4,304 1.2% Basic resources 4,005 1.2% 3,992 1.2% Healthcare 5,276 1.5% 5,126 1.5% Construction and materials 2,922 0.8% 2,739 0.8% Other2 23,915 6.9% 26,278 7.6% Subtotal Industry Classification Benchmark 121,141 35.1% 117,244 34.0% Risk, funding & capital information Private individuals (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 186,704 54.1% 186,836 54.1% Public administration (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 37,239 10.8% 41,004 11.9% Subtotal non-Industry Classification Benchmark 223,943 64.9% 227,840 66.0% Exposure at Default3 345,084 100.0% 345,084 100.0% 1 Financial services include asset managers, credit card companies and providers of personal financial services and securities and brokers. 2 Other includes travel and leisure, utilities, personal and household goods, media, technology, automobile and parts, chemicals, telecommunication and insurance, in addition to unclassified. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 190 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Industry concentration by EAD bv 31 December 2013 Strategic Report Exposure at Default Exposure at Default (in millions, Exposure at Default) (original obligor) Percentage of total (resultant obligor) Percentage of total Industry sector Banks 16,990 5.0% 16,983 5.0% Financial services1 7,935 2.3% 7,949 2.4% Industrial goods and services 18,024 5.3% 17,869 5.3% Real estate 14,068 4.1% 12,326 3.6% Business Report Oil and gas 7,581 2.2% 7,576 2.2% Food and beverage 8,575 2.5% 8,508 2.5% Retail 7,302 2.2% 7,181 2.1% Basic resources 4,498 1.3% 4,486 1.3% Healthcare 4,221 1.3% 4,046 1.2% Construction and materials 3,196 0.9% 3,100 0.9% Other2 45,831 13.5% 45,437 13.3% Subtotal Industry Classification Benchmark 138,221 40.6% 135,461 39.8% Risk, funding & capital information Private individuals (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 181,011 53.1% 182,209 53.5% Public administration (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 21,301 6.3% 22,863 6.7% Subtotal non-Industry Classification Benchmark 202,312 59.4% 205,072 60.2% Exposure at Default3 340,533 100.0% 340,533 100.0% 1 Financial services include asset managers, credit card companies and providers of personal financial services and securities and brokers. 2 Other includes travel and leisure, utilities, personal and household goods, media, technology, automobile and parts, chemicals, telecommunication and insurance, in addition to unclassified. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. Governance Report The industry concentration consists largely (49%) of Due to a better allocation of exposures, the category credit risk exposures to private individuals (non-Industry Other decreased by EUR 7.0 billion to EUR 16.9 billion Classification Benchmark), which is mainly related at year-end 2015. to residential mortgage loans and, to a lesser extent, consumer loans. Private individuals decreased by EUR 8.6 billion to EUR 178.1 billion in the resultant obligor Credit risk mitigation bz Annual Financial Statements view. This decrease relates to a changed methodology in the EAD calculation for the residential mortgage Offsetting, netting, collateral and guarantees portfolio, partly ofsset by lower business volumes. bz Public administration increased largely due to a rise in Starting with the year-end figures for 2015, we are deposits at central banks. The highest industry sector reporting the value of collateral based on the Net concentration is in industrial goods and services. Collateral Value (NCV). NCV expresses the value of collateral in the event of a forced sale and is equal to The biggest movements in the industry concentration the expected recovery value of the collateral pledged were noted in the sectors financial services, industrial to the bank. goods and services, and food and beverage as a result of higher business volume. A surplus for guarantees will no longer be included as Other collateral after 31 December 2015, as the debtor can only be liable for the maximum debt. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 191 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Financial assets: offsetting, netting and collateral & guarantees bz 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Offset in the statement Net of financial position Not offset in the statement of financial position exposure8 Balance Carrying sheet Financial Other amount netting Master instruProperty collatbefore with netting ments & eral and Surplus balancegross Carrying agreecollaterequipguaranTotal risk collat(in millions) sheet netting liabilities amount ment6 al ment tees mitigation eral7 Business Report Financial assets held for trading 1,687 1,687 1,687 Derivatives held for trading1 14,735 14,735 10,529 10,529 4,206 Non-trading derivative assets1 4,403 4,403 4,378 4,378 25 Derivatives 19,138 19,138 14,907 14,907 4,231 Securities financing 23,405 3,343 20,062 361 21,859 22,219 2,358 201 Risk, funding & capital information Interest-bearing deposits 5,283 453 4,831 7 1,668 1,675 1,332 4,488 Loans and advances 8,114 8,114 7,275 74 7,349 765 Other 2,735 2,735 4 4 2,732 Total loans and receivables banks2 16,133 453 15,680 7,282 1,742 4 9,027 1,332 7,984 Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages3 155,089 8,481 146,608 160 180,455 7,812 188,427 56,291 14,472 Consumer loans 14,902 316 14,587 6,474 5,462 53 11,990 4,583 7,180 Corporate loans3, 4 98,690 17,206 81,484 3,920 29,721 42,638 13,006 89,284 24,931 17,131 Other loans and receivables customers5 11,956 165 11,791 748 2,590 3,006 1,406 7,750 842 4,883 Fair value adjustment from Governance Report hedge accounting 4,850 4,850 4,850 Total Loans and receivables customers2 285,487 26,168 259,319 4,668 38,944 231,561 22,277 297,450 86,647 48,515 Other assets 1,899 1,899 161 161 1,737 Total on-balance sheet subject to netting and pledged agreements 347,748 29,964 317,784 27,217 62,545 231,561 22,442 343,765 90,336 64,355 Assets not subject to netting Annual Financial Statements and pledged agreements 72,533 72,533 72,533 Total assets 420,281 29,964 390,317 27,217 62,545 231,561 22,442 343,765 90,336 136,888 Total off-balance sheet 118,292 118,292 5,226 5,710 1,643 12,578 5,435 111,149 Total onand offbalance sheet 538,573 29,964 508,609 27,217 67,771 237,270 24,085 356,343 95,771 248,037 1 In 2015 ABN AMRO entered into a revised rulebook with LCH Swapclear for its centrally cleared Interest Rate Swaps. After the legal amendment the payment and receipt of cash variation margin associated with these Interest Rate Swaps are legally considered settlement of the fair value on a daily basis. In previous reporting periods, payment and receipt of cash variation margin were legally considered to be separate postings of collateral. Positions in cash collateral paid or received with LCH Swapclear were accounted for as separate financial instruments under IAS 39, but were offset with the Interest Rate Swap exposures. As a result of the legal amendments in 2015, the carrying amount before balance sheet netting already includes the effect of settlement of the derivative positions with variation margin. Besides, application of offsetting is no longer possible or needed. 2 As of year-end 2015, a refined methodology for collateral reporting has been applied. The 2014 and 2013 figures have not been adjusted, 3 Carrying amount includes Loan impairment allowances. Other 4 As of 2014, a refined methodology for reporting of surplus collateral has been applied for ABN AMRO Clearing. This refinement has no impact on the net exposure amount. The historical information is adjusted for comparison purposes. 5 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. 6 Collateral in the column Master netting agreement is mainly markets related and consists of Master netting agreements which also includes cash collateral as part of these agreements. Cash collateral not part of Master netting agreements has been reported under Financial instruments. 7 Surplus collateral is the amount of over-collateralisation, calculated on an individual basis. 8 Net exposure represents the portfolio corrected for the surplus amount and gives a view on the potential shortfall in collateral on the total portfolio. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 192 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Financial assets: offsetting, netting and collateral & guarantees bz 31 December 2014 Strategic Report Offset in the statement Net of financial position Not offset in the statement of financial position exposure7 Carrying Balance amount sheet Other before netting Master Financial Property collaterbalancewith netting instru& al and sheet gross Carrying agreements equipguaranTotal risk Surplus (in millions) netting liabilities amount ment5 collateral ment tees mitigation collateral6 Financial assets held Business Report for trading 4,071 4,071 136 136 3,935 Derivatives held for trading 45,646 25,916 19,730 13,946 13,946 5,784 Non-trading derivative assets 8,642 3,087 5,555 5,533 5,533 22 Derivatives 54,288 29,003 25,285 19,479 19,479 5,806 Securities financing 22,054 3,543 18,511 59 19,831 19,890 1,829 449 Interest-bearing deposits 4,051 491 3,560 37 37 3,523 Risk, funding & capital information Loans and advances 13,178 1,796 11,382 9,813 9,813 1,569 Other 6,750 11 6,739 6,739 Total loans and receivables banks1 23,979 2,298 21,680 9,850 9,850 11,830 Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages2 155,816 7,952 147,864 25 98 205,730 5,072 210,925 71,635 8,574 Consumer loans 15,936 538 15,398 139 4,361 5,260 48 9,807 1,422 7,013 Corporate loans2, 3 107,148 25,893 81,255 3,121 26,146 30,749 8,434 68,450 18,083 30,888 Other loans and receivables customers4 12,697 1,027 11,669 1,585 4,008 2,866 2,488 10,946 2,287 3,010 Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting 5,724 5,724 5,724 Governance Report Total Loans and receivables customers1 297,321 35,411 261,910 4,870 34,613 244,605 16,041 300,129 93,427 55,208 Other assets 1,926 1,926 2 52 54 1,872 Total on-balance sheet subject to netting and pledged agreements 403,639 70,255 333,383 34,258 54,446 244,605 16,229 349,538 95,256 79,101 Assets not subject to netting Annual Financial Statements and pledged agreements 53,484 53,484 53,484 Total assets 457,123 70,255 386,867 34,258 54,446 244,605 16,229 349,538 95,256 132,585 Total off-balance sheet 110,007 110,007 152 2,429 3,250 1,795 7,625 829 103,211 Total onand offbalance sheet 567,130 70,255 496,874 34,410 56,875 247,854 18,024 357,163 96,085 235,796 1 As of year-end 2015, a refined methodology for collateral reporting has been applied. The 2014 and 2013 figures have not been adjusted, 2 Carrying amount includes Loan impairment allowances. 3 As of 2014, a refined methodology for reporting of surplus collateral has been applied for ABN AMRO Clearing. This refinement has no impact on the net exposure amount. The historical information is adjusted for comparison purposes. 4 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. Other 5 Collateral in the column Master netting agreement is mainly markets related and consists of Master netting agreements which also includes cash collateral as part of these agreements. Cash collateral not part of Master netting agreements has been reported under Financial instruments. 6 Surplus collateral is the amount of over-collateralisation, calculated on an individual basis. 7 Net exposure represents the portfolio corrected for the surplus amount and gives a view on the potential shortfall in collateral on the total portfolio. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 193 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Financial assets: offsetting, netting and collateral & guarantees bz 31 December 2013 Strategic Report Offset in the statement Net of financial position Not offset in the statement of financial position exposure7 Carrying Balance amount sheet Other before netting Master Financial Property collaterbalancewith netting instru& al and sheet gross Carrying agreements equipguaranTotal risk Surplus (in millions) netting liabilities amount ment5 collateral ment tees mitigation collateral6 Financial assets held Business Report for trading 5,548 5,548 5,548 Derivatives held for trading 24,210 12,362 11,848 7,670 7,670 4,178 Non-trading derivative assets 2,423 2,423 1,359 1,359 1,064 Derivatives 26,633 12,362 14,271 9,029 9,029 5,242 Securities financing 21,129 2,767 18,362 593 20,806 21,399 3,712 675 Interest-bearing deposits 16,477 507 15,970 18 18 15,952 Risk, funding & capital information Loans and advances 7,621 7,621 6,714 6,714 126 1,033 Other 856 480 376 376 Total loans and receivables banks1 24,954 987 23,967 6,732 6,732 126 17,361 Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages2 157,361 7,453 149,908 212 208,018 5,410 213,640 73,178 9,446 Consumer loans 16,774 1,146 15,628 1,889 5,989 77 7,955 235 7,908 Corporate loans2, 3 120,750 40,959 79,791 1,574 20,008 28,921 9,086 59,589 10,900 31,102 Other loans and receivables customers4 11,093 3,791 7,302 360 3,440 2,714 159 6,673 2,028 2,657 Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting 4,399 4,399 4,399 Governance Report Total Loans and receivables customers1 310,377 53,349 257,028 1,934 25,549 245,642 14,732 287,857 86,341 55,512 Other assets 2,182 2,182 2 33 35 2,147 Total on-balance sheet subject to netting and pledged agreements 390,823 69,465 321,358 18,288 46,357 245,642 14,765 325,052 90,179 86,485 Assets not subject to netting Annual Financial Statements and pledged agreements 50,664 50,664 50,664 Total assets 441,487 69,465 372,022 18,288 46,357 245,642 14,765 325,052 90,179 137,149 Total off-balance sheet 101,524 101,524 247 1,898 2,173 4,318 306 97,512 Total onand offbalance sheet 543,011 69,465 473,546 18,288 46,604 247,540 16,938 329,370 90,485 234,661 1 As of year-end 2015, a refined methodology for collateral reporting has been applied. The 2014 and 2013 figures have not been adjusted, 2 Carrying amount includes Loan impairment allowances. 3 As of 2014, a refined methodology for reporting of surplus collateral has been applied for ABN AMRO Clearing. This refinement has no impact on the net exposure amount. The historical information is adjusted for comparison purposes. 4 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. Other 5 Collateral in the column Master netting agreement is mainly markets related and consists of Master netting agreements which also includes cash collateral as part of these agreements. Cash collateral not part of Master netting agreements has been reported under Financial instruments. 6 Surplus collateral is the amount of over-collateralisation, calculated on an individual basis. 7 Net exposure represents the portfolio corrected for the surplus amount and gives a view on the potential shortfall in collateral on the total portfolio. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 194 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Total net exposure of Total Loans and receivables noticeable for existing surplus collateral. Surplus collateral customers decreased by EUR 6.7 billion to is over-collateralisation, serving as additional security in Strategic Report EUR 48.5 billion at 31 December 2015 compared with case the collateral value declines. EUR 55.2 billion at 31 December 2014. This decrease was mainly the result of improved collateral reporting Total risk mitigation within Corporate loans rose by offset by the implementation of the NCV valuation EUR 20.8 billion compared with 31 December method. Furthermore, the carrying amount decreased 2014, arriving at EUR 89.3 billion at 31 December 2015. by EUR 2.6 billion in this period. The rise was attributable to the effect of a number of improvement projects for collateral reporting offset by Business Report Total risk mitigation for Residential mortgages decreased the implementation of the NCV valuation method. to EUR 188.4 billion at 31 December 2015, down by EUR 22.5 billion from EUR 210.9 billion at 31 December The impact of the NCV valuation method on Other loans 2014. This decrease was mainly the result of the and receivables customers is visible, as net exposure implementation of the NCV valuation method. The net increased by EUR 1.9 billion to EUR 4.9 billion at exposure increased by EUR 5.9 billion to EUR 14.5 billion. 31 December 2015 compared with year-end 2014. The effect of the NCV valuation method was most Risk, funding & capital information Financial liabilities: offsetting, netting and collateral & guarantees b 31 December 2015 Offset in the statement Not offset in the statement of financial Net of financial position position exposure Carrying Balance amount sheet before netting Master Financial balancewith netting instrusheet gross Carrying agreements Surplus Total risk (in millions) netting assets amount ment1 collateral collateral mitigation Governance Report Financial liabilities held for trading 459 459 459 Derivatives held for trading 12,958 12,958 10,318 10,318 2,640 Non-trading derivative liabilities 9,466 9,466 9,436 9,436 31 Derivatives 22,425 22,425 19,754 19,754 2,671 Securities financing 14,715 3,343 11,372 131 13,682 3,718 17,532 1,277 Deposits 15,053 449 14,604 3,849 3,849 10,756 Annual Financial Statements Other 26 26 26 Due to banks 15,079 449 14,630 3,849 3,849 10,781 Deposits 256,308 26,172 230,136 3,483 3,483 226,653 Other borrowings 160 160 160 Due to customers 256,468 26,172 230,297 3,483 3,483 226,813 Other liabilities 5,729 5,729 5,729 Total liabilities subject to netting arrangements 314,876 29,964 284,912 27,217 13,682 3,718 44,617 247,730 Remaining liabilities not subject to netting 87,821 87,821 87,821 Other Total liabilities 402,697 29,964 372,733 27,217 13,682 3,718 44,617 335,551 1 Collateral in the column Master netting agreement is mainly markets related and consists of Master netting agreements which also includes cash collateral as part of these agreements. Cash collateral not part of Master netting agreements has been reported under Financial instruments. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 195 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Financial liabilities: offsetting, netting and collateral & guarantees b Strategic Report 31 December 2014 Offset in the statement of financial Net position Not offset in the statement of financial position exposure Carrying amount Balance before sheet Master Financial balancenetting netting instrusheet with gross Carrying agreements Surplus Total risk (in millions) netting assets amount ment1 collateral collateral mitigation Business Report Financial liabilities held for trading 3,759 3,759 3,759 Derivatives held for trading 45,754 27,551 18,203 15,155 15,155 3,048 Non-trading derivative liabilities 13,698 1,452 12,246 12,238 12,238 8 Derivatives 59,452 29,003 30,449 27,393 27,393 3,056 Securities financing 17,461 3,543 13,918 56 10,972 2,684 13,712 5,574 Deposits 16,261 562 15,699 3,786 3,786 11,913 Risk, funding & capital information Other 45 45 45 Due to banks 16,306 562 15,744 3,786 3,786 11,958 Deposits 253,017 37,151 215,867 3,176 3,176 212,690 Other borrowings 144 144 144 Due to customers 253,161 37,151 216,011 3,176 3,176 212,834 Other liabilities 5,470 -4 5,473 5,473 Total liabilities subject to netting arrangements 355,609 70,255 285,353 34,410 10,972 2,684 48,067 242,655 Remaining liabilities not subject to netting 86,637 86,637 86,637 Total liabilities Governance Report 442,246 70,255 371,990 34,410 10,972 2,684 48,067 329,292 1 Collateral in the column Master netting agreement is mainly markets related and consists of Master netting agreements which also includes cash collateral as part of these agreements. Cash collateral not part of Master netting agreements has been reported under Financial instruments. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 196 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Financial liabilities: offsetting, netting and collateral & guarantees b Strategic Report 31 December 2013 Offset in the statement of financial Net position Not offset in the statement of financial position exposure Carrying amount Balance before sheet Master Financial balancenetting netting instrusheet with gross Carrying agreements Surplus Total risk (in millions) netting assets amount ment1 collateral collateral mitigation Business Report Financial liabilities held for trading 4,399 4,399 4,399 Derivatives held for trading 22,211 12,362 9,849 7,113 7,113 2,736 Non-trading derivative liabilities 7,378 7,378 7,323 7,323 55 Derivatives 29,589 12,362 17,227 14,436 14,436 2,791 Securities financing 15,033 2,767 12,266 594 13,919 2,299 16,812 52 Deposits 12,720 1,143 11,577 1,782 1,782 9,795 Risk, funding & capital information Other 49 49 49 Due to banks 12,769 1,143 11,626 1,782 1,782 9,844 Deposits 260,415 53,178 207,237 1,476 1,476 205,761 Other borrowings 347 347 347 Due to customers 260,762 53,178 207,584 1,476 1,476 206,108 Other liabilities 7,128 15 7,113 7,113 Total liabilities subject to netting arrangements 329,680 69,465 260,215 18,288 13,919 2,299 34,506 230,307 Remaining liabilities not subject to netting 98,239 98,239 98,239 Total liabilities Governance Report 427,919 69,465 358,454 18,288 13,919 2,299 34,506 328,546 1 Collateral in the column Master netting agreement is mainly markets related and consists of Master netting agreements which also includes cash collateral as part of these agreements. Cash collateral not part of Master netting agreements has been reported under Financial instruments. Management of forborne, past due Clients in (or potentially in) financial difficulty, where and impaired loans contract amendments have been made since 1 January 2012 which are considered to be a concession Forborne exposures Annual Financial Statements b made by the bank, have been identified as forborne The following table provides an overview of forborne assets. A contract that is in a recovery phase at the assets, broken down into performing and non-performing reporting date is not considered forborne. assets, specified by type of forbearance measure. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 197 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Overview of forborne assets b 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Performing assets Non-performing assets Total Total TempoPermaperformTempoPermanon-perForGross rary nent ing rary nent forming Total bearcarrying modifimodifiRefiforborne modifimodifiRefiforborne forborne ance (in millions) amount cation cation nancing assets cation cation nancing assets assets ratio Loans and receivables banks 15,682 0.0% Business Report Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1 146,932 1,122 23 204 1,349 354 14 39 408 1,757 1.2% Consumer loans 15,147 174 77 174 426 105 72 47 223 648 4.3% Corporate loans1 84,864 1,368 1,330 1,244 3,941 594 839 902 2,335 6,276 7.4% Risk, funding & capital information Other loans and receivables customers2 11,881 110 39 148 109 124 2 235 383 3.2% Total Loans and receivables customers 258,824 2,775 1,468 1,622 5,865 1,162 1,049 990 3,201 9,065 3.5% Total 274,506 2,775 1,468 1,622 5,865 1,162 1,049 990 3,201 9,065 3.3% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. Overview of forborne assets b 31 December 2014 Governance Report Performing assets Non-performing assets Total Total TempoPermaperformTempoPermanon-perForGross rary nent ing rary nent forming Total bearcarrying modifimodifiRefiforborne modifimodifiRefiforborne forborne ance (in millions) amount cation cation nancing assets cation cation nancing assets assets ratio Loans and receivables banks 21,680 0.0% Annual Financial Statements Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1 148,402 1,027 28 122 1,177 606 3 29 638 1,814 1.2% Consumer loans 16,052 92 68 126 286 99 32 52 184 470 2.9% Corporate loans1 84,694 1,215 872 1,823 3,910 729 878 1,181 2,788 6,698 7.9% Other loans and receivables customers2 11,799 23 24 64 4 68 92 0.8% Total Loans and receivables customers 260,947 2,358 968 2,071 5,397 1,498 917 1,262 3,677 9,074 3.5% Other Total 282,627 2,358 968 2,071 5,397 1,498 917 1,262 3,677 9,074 3.2% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 198 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Overview of forborne assets b Strategic Report 31 December 2013 Performing assets Non-performing assets Total Total TempoPermaperformTempoPermanon-perForGross rary nent ing rary nent forming Total bearcarrying modifimodifiRefiforborne modifimodifiRefiforborne forborne ance (in millions) amount cation cation nancing assets cation cation nancing assets assets ratio Loans and receivables banks 23,967 0.0% Business Report Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1 150,493 961 8 15 984 1,373 4 60 1,437 2,421 1.6% Consumer loans 16,241 45 61 107 213 60 7 57 124 337 2.1% Corporate loans1 83,462 789 710 2,542 4,041 356 673 1,203 2,232 6,273 7.5% Risk, funding & capital information Other loans and receivables customers2 7,408 40 36 15 91 69 69 160 2.2% Total Loans and receivables customers 257,604 1,835 815 2,679 5,329 1,789 684 1,389 3,862 9,191 3.6% Total 281,571 1,835 815 2,679 5,329 1,789 684 1,389 3,862 9,191 3.3% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. Total forborne assets remained stable at year-end 2015 portfolio, primarily related to one single client in the real compared with year-end 2014. estate sector. Refinanced forborne exposure also declined Governance Report within the non-performing portfolio, which was mainly Total forborne Residential mortgages remained fairly due to an outflow of forborne exposure. This outflow stable compared with year-end 2014 and was mainly was observed primarily within the construction and related to temporary modifications within the performing materials industry. portfolio. The performing forborne portfolio within Residential mortgages increased by EUR 0.2 billion to Reductions in forborne assets within Corporate loans EUR 1.3 billion compared with year-end 2014, which was were partly offset by an increase in the performing Annual Financial Statements mainly due to non-performing forborne contracts returning forborne portfolio with permanent modification. Total to the performing portfolio. performing forborne assets with permanent measures within Corporate loans increased to EUR 1.3 billion at Forborne Consumer loans increased to EUR 0.6 billion at year-end 2015 compared with EUR 0.9 billion at year-end 31 December 2015, compared with EUR 0.5 billion at 2014. This increase was mainly the result of an inflow of 31 December 2014. This increase was mainly related to new forborne clients related to the industrial goods and temporary modifications within the performing portfolio, services sector. which resulted from an inflow of new forborne clients. Forborne Other loans and receivables customers Total forborne Corporate loans decreased by increased to EUR 0.4 billion at 31 December 2015, EUR 0.4 billion to EUR 6.3 billion at 31 December 2015 compared with EUR 0.1 billion at year-end 2014. This Other from EUR 6.7 billion at year-end 2014. This decline was increase was distributed equally between the performing mainly the result of debt repayments on existing forborne and non-performing portfolio and was the result of an contracts with refinancing measures in the performing inflow of new forborne clients. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 199 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Past due exposures b When a counterparty is past due or exceeds its credit Strategic Report limit, all loans and receivables (total gross carrying amount) in the related credit arrangement are considered past due. Ageing of past due not classified as impaired­ b 31 December 2015 Business Report Carrying amount Days past due Assets not Total classified past due as > 30 & > 60 & but not Past due (in millions) Gross impaired <= 30 <= 60 <= 90 >90 impaired ratio Securities financing 20,073 20,062 0.0% Loans and receivables banks 15,682 15,680 0.0% Risk, funding & capital information Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgage1 146,932 145,900 2,354 322 70 30 2,776 1.9% Consumer loans2 15,147 14,287 306 122 30 149 607 4.0% Corporate loans1 84,864 79,992 610 134 9 323 1,076 1.3% Other loans and receivables customers1, 3 11,881 11,671 187 36 17 160 400 3.4% Total Loans and receivables customers 258,824 251,852 3,457 614 126 662 4,858 1.9% Other assets 1,903 1,894 180 33 20 11 245 12.9% Total 296,482 289,488 3,637 647 146 673 5,103 1.7% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Consumer loans in the programme lending portfolio that are more than 90 days past due are immediately impaired. Governance Report 3 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 200 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Ageing of past due not classified as impaired b Strategic Report 31 December 2014 Carrying amount Days past due Assets not Total past classified due but as > 30 & <= > 60 & <= not Past due (in millions) Gross impaired <= 30 60 90 >90 impaired ratio Securities financing 18,521 18,511 0.0% Business Report Loans and receivables banks 21,680 21,680 0.0% Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgage1 148,402 146,924 3,057 463 118 3,639 2.5% Consumer loans2 16,052 15,184 335 135 38 125 633 3.9% Corporate loans1 84,694 79,704 924 182 51 590 1,747 2.1% Other loans and receivables customers1, 3 11,799 11,533 72 8 3 12 94 0.8% Total Loans and receivables customers 260,947 253,346 4,388 788 210 727 6,114 2.3% Risk, funding & capital information Other assets 1,932 1,920 202 19 8 24 253 13.1% Total 303,080 295,458 4,590 807 218 750 6,366 2.1% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Consumer loans in the programme lending portfolio that are more than 90 days past due are immediately impaired. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. Ageing of past due not classified as impaired b 31 December 2013 Carrying amount Days past due Governance Report Assets not Total past classified due but as > 30 & <= > 60 & <= not Past due (in millions) Gross impaired <= 30 60 90 >90 impaired ratio Securities financing 18,386 18,363 0.0% Loans and receivables banks 23,967 23,967 0.0% Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgage1 150,493 148,754 3,444 519 145 4,108 2.7% Annual Financial Statements Consumer loans2 16,241 15,354 461 115 78 231 885 5.4% Corporate loans1 83,462 78,424 1,426 219 140 565 2,350 2.8% Other loans and receivables customers1, 3 7,408 7,271 31 2 1 2 36 0.5% Total Loans and receivables customers 257,604 249,803 5,362 855 364 798 7,379 2.9% Other assets 2,187 2,174 48 25 7 9 89 4.1% Total 302,144 294,307 5,410 880 371 807 7,468 2.5% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Consumer loans in the programme lending portfolio that are more than 90 days past due are immediately impaired. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 201 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Total past due but not impaired for total loans and Corporate loans past due declined by EUR 0.7 billion receivables continued its downward trend, arriving to EUR 1.1 billion at 31 December 2015, as a result of a Strategic Report at EUR 4.9 billion at 31 December 2015 compared with combination of the upturn of the economy and effective EUR 6.1 billion at year-end 2014. This was mainly the credit monitoring. result of effective credit monitoring and the improved Dutch economy. Other loans and receivables – customers grew by EUR 0.3 billion to EUR 0.4 billion at 31 December 2015. Residential mortgages past due declined by This increase was mainly due to the fact that we aligned EUR 0.9 billion to EUR 2.8 billion at 31 December 2015, as the reporting view for lease contracts with a bank-wide Business Report a result of improved economic conditions and successful view on past due. active management of the portfolio in arrears, coaching of clients that have a higher risk of running into arrears. Impaired exposures b Coverage and impaired ratio b Risk, funding & capital information 31 December 2015 Allowances for Impairments for Gross carrying Impaired identified credit (in millions) amount exposures risk Coverage ratio Impaired ratio Securities financing 20,073 11 -11 100.0% 0.1% Loans and receivables banks 15,682 2 -2 100.0% 0.0% Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1 146,932 1,031 -245 23.8% 0.7% Governance Report Consumer loans 15,147 860 -471 54.8% 5.7% Corporate loans1, 2 84,864 4,872 -3,098 63.6% 5.7% Other loans and receivables customers1, 3 11,881 210 -78 37.4% 1.8% Total Loans and receivables customers 258,824 6,973 -3,892 55.8% 2.7% Other assets 1,903 9 -4 47.7% 0.5% Total on-balance sheet 296,482 6,994 -3,908 55.9% 2.4% Annual Financial Statements Total off-balance sheet 118,300 22 0.4% 0.0% Total4 414,782 7,016 -3,909 55.7% 1.7% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Includes impaired exposures on Madoff. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. 4 Amounts excluding Incurred But Not Identified (IBNI). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 202 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Coverage and impaired ratio b 31 December 2014 Strategic Report Allowances for Gross carrying Impaired Impairments for (in millions) amount exposures identified credit risk Coverage ratio Impaired ratio Securities financing 18,521 10 -10 100.0% 0.1% Loans and receivables banks 21,680 Loans and receivables customers Business Report Residential mortgages1 148,402 1,478 -408 27.6% 1.0% Consumer loans 16,052 868 -533 61.4% 5.4% Corporate loans1, 2 84,694 4,989 -3,017 60.5% 5.9% Other loans and receivables customers1, 3 11,799 265 -115 43.2% 2.2% Total Loans and receivables customers 260,947 7,601 -4,073 53.6% 2.9% Risk, funding & capital information Other assets 1,932 12 -5 43.7% 0.6% Total on-balance sheet 303,080 7,622 -4,088 53.6% 2.5% Total off-balance sheet 110,011 9 0.0% 0.0% Total4 413,092 7,632 -4,089 53.6% 1.8% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Includes releases on Madoff and Greek government-guaranteed corporate exposures. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. 4 Amounts excluding Incurred But Not Identified (IBNI). Coverage and impaired ratio b 31 December 2013 Governance Report Allowances for Gross carrying Impaired Impairments for (in millions) amount exposures identified credit risk Coverage ratio Impaired ratio Securities financing 18,386 23 -23 100.0% 0.1% Loans and receivables banks 23,967 Loans and receivables customers Annual Financial Statements Residential mortgages1 150,493 1,739 -472 27.1% 1.2% Consumer loans 16,241 887 -512 57.7% 5.5% Corporate loans1, 2 83,462 5,038 -3,237 64.3% 6.0% Other loans and receivables customers1, 3 7,408 137 -86 62.8% 1.8% Total Loans and receivables customers 257,604 7,801 -4,307 55.2% 3.0% Other assets 2,187 13 -5 38.5% 0.6% Total on-balance sheet 302,144 7,837 -4,335 55.3% 2.6% Total off-balance sheet 101,525 8 0.0% Other Total4 403,669 7,845 -4,335 55.3% 1.9% 1 Gross carrying amount excludes fair value adjustments from hedge accounting. 2 Includes releases on Madoff and Greek government-guaranteed corporate exposures. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consists of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and Factoring. 4 Amounts excluding Incurred But Not Identified (IBNI). ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 203 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Coverage ratio Introduction Audited Residential mortgages (in %) Consumer loans (in %) Corporate loans (in %) Coverage 75 ratio Audited 75 75 Residential mortgages (in %) Consumer loans (in %) 64.3 (in %) Corporate loans 63.6 61.4 60.5 60 60 57.7 60 Strategic Report 54.8 75 75 75 45 45 45 64.3 63.6 61.4 60.5 60 60 57.7 54.8 60 30 27.1 27.6 30 30 23.8 45 45 45 15 15 15 30 27.1 27.6 30 30 23.8 15 2013 2014 2015 15 2013 2014 2015 15 2013 2014 2015 Business Report 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Impaired ratio Audited Residential mortgages (in %) Consumer loans (in %) Corporate loans (in %) 10 10 10 Risk, funding & capital information 8 8 8 5.7 6.0 5.9 5.7 6 6 5.5 5.4 6 4 4 4 2 1.2 2 2 1.0 0.7 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Governance Report Impaired exposures decreased by EUR 0.6 billion to At portfolio level, the coverage ratio for residential EUR 7.0 billion at 31 December 2015 and Allowances mortgages decreased to 23.8% at 31 December 2015 for impairments decreased by EUR 0.2 billion to from 27.6% at 31 December 2014. Allowances for EUR 3.9 billion at 31 December 2015, compared impairments decreased even more steeply than the with 31 December 2014. impaired exposures; as a result, the coverage ratio declined. The allowances decreased mainly due to the The outflow of loans managed in the restructuring upswing in the housing market and continued improved Annual Financial Statements portfolio back to the regular portfolio is gradually economic circumstances, which led to a lower average increasing in line with the improving Dutch economy. loss on foreclosures. The impaired exposure dropped, as Nevertheless, some sectors still face issues of a more there was lower inflow into and higher outflow out of the permanent nature, for example certain agri-sectors and impaired portfolio. The impaired ratio improved to 0.7% the retail industry. The inflow into the non-performing at year-end 2015 compared with 1.0% at year-end 2014, portfolio is declining. mainly as a result of the decreased impaired portfolio. The coverage ratio for Total loans and receivables – In 2015, Allowances for impairments for Consumer loans customers increased to 55.8% at 31 December 2015 dropped by 11.6% compared with year-end 2014, thanks compared with 53.6% year-end 2014. The impaired ratio to the improved economy. The impaired exposure for the improved to 2.7% at 31 December 2015 compared with Consumer loan portfolio remained relatively stable in this Other 2.9% at year-end 2014. period, where the gross carrying amount declined. These developments resulted in a higher impaired ratio of 5.7% ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 204 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction at year-end 2015, compared with 5.4% at year-end 2014, The coverage ratio for Corporate loans increased to 63.6% and the Coverage ratio declined to 54.8% at 31 December at 31 December 2015 compared with 60.5% at Strategic Report 2015 compared with 61.4% at year-end 2014. 31 December 2014, as result of the gradually declining impaired portfolio, while Allowances for impairments rose slightly as a result of a few new files and an increase of allowances for impairments for existing clients. Loan impairment charges and allowances b Loan impairment charges and allowances bvk Business Report Securities Corporate Residential Consumer Other (in millions) financing Banks loans mortgages loans loans Total Balance at 1 January 2015 11 3,439 538 654 129 4,771 Impairment charges for the period 1 1,096 137 160 1,394 Reversal of impairment allowances no longer required -643 -99 -76 -818 Risk, funding & capital information Recoveries of amounts previously written-off -7 -25 -42 -74 Total impairment charges on loans and other receivables 446 14 43 502 Amount recorded in interest income from unwinding of discounting -45 -50 -10 -105 Currency translation differences 1 79 2 82 Amounts written-off (net) -629 -174 -150 -953 Reserve for unearned interest accrued on impaired loans 59 12 71 Other adjustments 2 123 -5 12 -131 Balance at 31 December 2015 11 2 3,470 324 561 1 4,368 Governance Report Total reported on-balance impairment charges on loans and other receivables 446 14 43 502 Total underlying on-balance impairment charges on loans and other receivables 446 14 43 502 Annual Financial Statements Individual and collective loan impairment allowances b 31 December 2015 Securities Corporate Residential Consumer Other (in millions) financing Banks loans mortgages loans loans Total Individual impairment 11 2 2,860 16 197 3,085 Collective impairment 1 610 307 364 1 1,283 Balance at 31 December 2015 11 2 3,470 324 561 1 4,368 Carrying amount of loans, individually determined to be impaired, before deducting any individually assessed impairment allowance 11 2 4,872 1,031 860 210 6,985 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 205 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Loan impairment charges and allowances bvk Strategic Report Securities Corporate Residential Consumer Other (in millions) financing Banks loans1 mortgages loans loans Total Balance at 1 January 2014 24 3,672 585 612 106 4,999 Impairment charges for the period 1 1,289 436 340 70 2,135 Reversal of impairment allowances no longer required -16 -562 -228 -81 -21 -908 Recoveries of amounts previously written off -13 -11 -36 -60 Business Report Total impairment charges on loans and other receivables -15 714 197 223 49 1,168 Amount recorded in interest income from unwinding of discounting -47 -66 -11 -125 Currency translation differences 2 67 2 71 Amounts written off (net) -984 -196 -182 -27 -1,389 Reserve for unearned interest accrued on Risk, funding & capital information impaired loans 37 39 -10 65 Other adjustments -19 -20 22 -17 Balance at 31 December 2014 11 3,439 538 654 129 4,771 Total reported on-balance impairment charges on loans and other receivables -15 714 197 223 49 1,168 Total underlying on-balance impairment charges on loans and other receivables -15 714 197 223 49 1,168 Individual and collective loan impairment allowances b 31 December 2014 Governance Report Securities Corporate Residential Consumer Other (in millions) financing Banks loans mortgages loans loans Total Individual impairment 10 2,733 26 223 114 3,106 Collective impairment 1 705 512 431 16 1,665 Balance at 31 December 2014 11 3,439 538 654 129 4,771 Carrying amount of loans, individually determined to be impaired, before Annual Financial Statements deducting any individually assessed impairment allowance 10 4,989 1,478 868 265 7,611 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 206 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Loan impairment charges and allowances bvk Strategic Report Securities Corporate Residential Consumer Other (in millions) financing Banks loans1 mortgages loans loans Total Balance at 1 January 2013 28 4,594 370 445 103 5,540 Impairment charges for the period 1,547 496 462 41 2,546 Reversal of impairment allowances no longer required -4 -1,230 -135 -130 -15 -1,514 Recoveries of amounts previously written off -6 -5 -39 -50 Business Report Total impairment charges on loans and other receivables -4 311 356 293 26 982 Amount recorded in interest income from unwinding of discounting -30 -14 -9 -53 Currency translation differences -32 -32 Amounts written off (net) -1,259 -165 -152 -22 -1,598 Reserve for unearned interest accrued on Risk, funding & capital information impaired loans 84 31 35 150 Other adjustments 4 7 -1 10 Balance as at 31 December 2012 24 3,672 585 612 106 4,999 Total reported on-balance impairment charges on loans and other receivables -4 311 356 293 26 982 Greek releases 432 432 Madoff releases 252 252 Total underlying on-balance impairment charges on loans and other receivables -4 995 356 293 26 1,666 1 Corporate loans includes a release for the Greek government-guaranteed corporate exposures and a a release for Madoff-related collateral. Governance Report Individual and collective loan impairment allowances b 31 December 2013 Securities Corporate Residential Consumer Other (in millions) financing Banks loans mortgages loans loans Total Individual impairment 23 2,911 78 228 85 3,325 Collective impairment 1 761 507 384 21 1,674 Annual Financial Statements Balance at 31 December 2013 24 3,672 585 612 106 4,999 Carrying amount of loans, individually determined to be impaired, before deducting any individually assessed impairment allowance 23 5,038 1,739 887 137 7,824 Loan impairment charges onand off-balance sheet b (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 On-balance sheet 502 1,168 982 Off-balance sheet 3 3 1 Other Total impairment charges on loans and other receivables 505 1,171 983 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 207 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction The on-balance sheet impairment charges in 2015 declined Other adjustments within Corporate loans increased as by EUR 666 million, coming to EUR 502 million at a result of a restatement from Other loans related to Strategic Report 31 December 2015, compared with EUR 1,168 million ABN AMRO Lease and Factoring. at 31 December 2014. Lower impairment charges were noted across all of the portfolios and were partly due to Impairment charges for the Residential mortgages IBNI releases. ABN AMRO bases its IBNI levels on recent portfolio dropped by EUR 183 million in 2015, coming losses in the portfolio. Decreasing loss levels resulted in to EUR 14 million at 31 December 2015. This material an IBNI release of EUR 221 million in 2015, representing decrease was due to improvements in the housing market around a third of the decline in impairment charges. and the Dutch economy, which resulted in a lower Business Report impaired volume. The impairment charges for the Impairment charges for the Corporate loans portfolio Residential mortgage portfolio included an IBNI release dropped by EUR 268 million, totalling EUR 446 million in of EUR 52 million. 2015, compared with EUR 714 million in 2014. This decline was due mainly to a decrease in impairment charges in Impairment charges for Consumer loans declined to the Commercial Clients portfolio, which was the result EUR 43 million in 2015, compared with EUR 223 million of a combination of a continued upturn of the economy, in 2014. The decline was also the result of the upward Risk, funding & capital information strict credit monitoring, and a well-balanced portfolio trend of the Dutch economy and an IBNI release of intake. The decline was partly offset by an increase in EUR 31 million. the International Clients segment. Impairment charges for the Corporate loans portfolio included an IBNI release of EUR 138 million. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 208 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Forborne, past due and impaired loans split by geography and industry v Forborne, past due and impaired loans split by geography v Strategic Report 31 December 2015 Exposures past Impairment Forborne due, but not Impaired Allowances for charges for the (in millions) exposure impaired exposures impairments period The Netherlands 7,853 4,557 5,451 -2,804 582 Rest of Europe 500 497 626 -377 61 USA 72 56 -49 5 Business Report Asia 189 1 80 -67 38 Rest of the world 451 48 781 -612 42 Total On-balance 9,065 5,103 6,994 -3,908 728 Off-balance 22 Total1 9,065 5,103 7,016 -3,909 728 31 December 2014 Exposures past Impairment Risk, funding & capital information due, but not Impaired Allowances for charges for the Forborne exposure impaired exposures impairments period The Netherlands 8,120 5,791 6,252 -3,074 1,036 Rest of Europe 518 449 646 -416 100 USA 17 3 60 -47 21 Asia 104 36 54 -29 -3 Rest of the world 314 87 611 -522 -3 Total On-balance 9,074 6,366 7,622 -4,088 1,151 Off-balance 9 Total1 9,074 6,366 7,632 -4,089 1,151 Governance Report 31 December 2013 Exposures past Impairment due, but not Impaired Allowances for charges for the Forborne exposure impaired exposures impairments period The Netherlands 8,165 6,376 6,375 -3,224 1,362 Rest of Europe 648 857 672 -457 -366 USA 15 12 95 -90 -244 Asia 46 90 104 -63 52 Rest of the world 317 133 591 -501 3 Annual Financial Statements Total On-balance 9,191 7,468 7,837 -4,335 807 Off-balance 8 Total 1 9,191 7,468 7,845 -4,335 807 1 Amounts excluding Incurred But not Identified (IBNI) The largest decline in forborne exposure was observed The decline in past due but not impaired exposure was in the Netherlands, which came to EUR 7.9 billion at mainly visible in the Netherlands. This was driven by 31 December 2015 compared with EUR 8.1 billion at the decline in past due exposure for Dutch residential 31 December 2014. This decline was mainly the result mortgages due to improved economic conditions. of a decrease in the Corporate loans portfolio within the Other Netherlands, which was primarily due to debt repayments Impaired loans decreased mainly in the Netherlands, partly on existing forborne contracts. due to the decline in impaired residential mortgages. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 209 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Impaired loans in the Rest of the world increased due to a few new files and the appreciation of the US dollar Strategic Report against the euro. Forborne, past due and impaired loans split by industry v 31 December 2015 Allowances for ImpairExposures impairments ment past due, for charges Business Report Exposure Forborne Forborne but not Past due Impaired Impaired identified for the (in millions) at Default exposures ratio (EAD) impaired ratio (EAD) exposures ratio (EAD) credit risk period Industry sector Banks 16,230 0.0% 0.0% 12 0.1% -12 Financial services1 14,982 99 0.7% 105 0.7% 808 5.4% -696 14 Industrial goods and services 22,148 1,990 9.0% 395 1.8% 1,136 5.1% -608 78 Risk, funding & capital information Real estate 13,244 798 6.0% 319 2.4% 656 5.0% -324 13 Oil and gas 12,119 674 5.6% 9 0.1% 170 1.4% -73 13 Food and beverage 13,924 1,042 7.5% 238 1.7% 492 3.5% -246 52 Retail 5,132 543 10.6% 111 2.2% 449 8.7% -282 93 Basic resources 4,378 295 6.7% 40 0.9% 293 6.7% -223 57 Healthcare 4,871 307 6.3% 34 0.7% 207 4.3% -167 102 Construction and materials 3,559 381 10.7% 50 1.4% 408 11.5% -285 80 Other2 16,927 599 3.5% 422 2.5% 520 3.1% -295 71 Subtotal Industry Classification Benchmark 127,514 6,728 5.3% 1,723 1.4% 5,152 4.0% -3,210 574 Governance Report Private individuals (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 178,105 2,325 1.3% 3,371 1.9% 1,864 1.0% -698 154 Public administration (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 57,401 12 0.0% 9 0.0% 0.0% Subtotal non-Industry Classification Annual Financial Statements Benchmark 235,506 2,337 1.0% 3,381 1.4% 1,864 0.8% -698 154 Total3, 4 363,020 9,065 2.5% 5,103 1.4% 7,016 1.9% -3,909 728 1 Financial services include asset managers, credit card companies and providers of personal financial services and securities and brokers. 2 Other includes, personal and household goods, media, technology, automobiles and parts, chemicals, telecommunication and insurance, in addition to unclassified. 3 Amounts excluding Incurred But Not Identified (IBNI). 4 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 210 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Forborne, past due and impaired loans split by industry v 31 December 2014 Strategic Report Allowances for Exposures impairments past due, for Impairment Exposure Forborne Forborne but not Past due Impaired Impaired identified charges for (in millions) at Default exposures ratio (EAD) impaired ratio (EAD) exposures ratio (EAD) credit risk the year Industry sector Banks 16,459 0.0% 0.0% 10 0.1% -10 -15 Financial services1 Business Report 9,480 127 1.3% 164 1.7% 813 8.6% -693 -22 Industrial goods and services 18,747 1,838 9.8% 550 2.9% 1,328 7.1% -703 289 Real estate 14,480 1,265 8.7% 234 1.6% 793 5.5% -390 68 Oil and gas 10,529 467 4.4% 8 0.1% 119 1.1% -76 27 Food and beverage 10,910 918 8.4% 400 3.7% 544 5.0% -245 59 Retail 4,418 633 14.3% 184 4.2% 630 14.3% -355 172 Basic resources 4,005 132 3.3% 37 0.9% 212 5.3% -152 38 Risk, funding & capital information Healthcare 5,276 405 7.7% 16 0.3% 65 1.2% -39 6 Construction and materials 2,922 448 15.3% 73 2.5% 371 12.7% -254 43 Other2 23,915 614 2.6% 417 1.7% 422 1.8% -255 77 Subtotal Industry Classification Benchmark 121,141 6,845 5.7% 2,084 1.7% 5,308 4.4% -3,170 742 Private individuals (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 186,704 2,211 1.2% 4,282 2.3% 2,324 1.2% -918 409 Public administration (non-Industry Governance Report Classification Benchmark) 37,239 18 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Subtotal non-Industry Classification Benchmark 223,943 2,228 1.0% 4,282 1.9% 2,324 1.0% -918 409 Total3, 4 345,084 9,074 2.6% 6,366 1.8% 7,632 2.2% -4,089 1,151 1 Financial services include asset managers, credit card companies and providers of personal financial services and securities and brokers. 2 Other includes, personal and household goods, media, technology, automobiles and parts, chemicals, telecommunication and insurance, in addition to unclassified. Amounts excluding Incurred But Not Identified (IBNI). Annual Financial Statements 3 4 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 211 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Forborne, past due and impaired loans split by industry v 31 December 2013 Strategic Report Allowances for Exposures impairpast due, ments for Impairment Exposure Forborne Forborne but not Past due Impaired Impaired identified charges for (in millions) at Default exposures ratio (EAD) impaired ratio (EAD) exposures ratio (EAD) credit risk the year Industry sector Banks 16,990 0.0% 0.0% 23 0.1% -23 -1 Financial services1 Business Report 7,935 105 1.3% 110 1.4% 720 9.1% -674 -149 Industrial goods and services 18,024 2,018 11.2% 414 2.3% 1,374 7.6% -721 -104 Real estate 14,068 1,231 8.8% 442 3.1% 819 5.8% -520 119 Oil and gas 7,581 357 4.7% 224 3.0% 105 1.4% -104 26 Food and beverage 8,575 888 10.4% 392 4.6% 421 4.9% -250 94 Retail 7,302 596 8.2% 235 3.2% 517 7.1% -292 144 Basic resources 4,498 189 4.2% 185 4.1% 208 4.6% -121 7 Risk, funding & capital information Healthcare 4,221 116 2.7% 21 0.5% 48 1.1% -25 11 Construction and materials 3,196 344 10.8% 116 3.6% 381 11.9% -271 76 Other2 45,831 850 1.9% 343 0.7% 652 1.4% -413 18 Subtotal Industry Classification Benchmark 138,221 6,694 4.8% 2,482 1.8% 5,268 3.8% -3,414 241 Private individuals (non-Industry Classification Benchmark) 181,011 2,482 1.4% 4,986 2.8% 2,577 1.4% -921 566 Public administration (non-Industry Governance Report Classification Benchmark) 21,301 15 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% Subtotal non-Industry Classification Benchmark 202,312 2,497 1.2% 4,986 2.5% 2,577 1.3% -921 566 Total3, 4 340,533 9,191 2.7% 7,468 2.2% 7,845 2.3% -4,335 807 1 Financial services include asset managers, credit card companies and providers of personal financial services and securities and brokers. 2 Other includes, personal and household goods, media, technology, automobiles and parts, chemicals, telecommunication and insurance, in addition to unclassified. Amounts excluding Incurred But Not Identified (IBNI). Annual Financial Statements 3 4 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. Forborne loans in the real estate sector decreased to Total past due exposures decreased by EUR 1.3 billion EUR 0.8 billion at 31 December 2015 compared with to EUR 5.1 billion at year-end 2015 from EUR 6.4 billion EUR 1.3 billion at year-end 2014. This decline was mainly at year-end 2014. The main contributors to this reduction the result of large repayments on existing forborne were Private individuals (non-Industry Classification contracts. Within the healthcare sector, forborne Benchmark) and the sectors industrial goods and services exposures also declined as a result of debt repayments. (EUR 155 million) and food and beverage (EUR 163 million). The largest increase in forborne assets was observed within the oil and gas industry, which was the result Other of an inflow of a few new forborne clients. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 212 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction The decrease of EUR 911 million in Private individuals, Furthermore, a number of smaller amounts were mainly related to the residential mortgage portfolio, was reclassified to other industry sectors in the course Strategic Report a result of improved economic conditions, successful of 2015. active management of the portfolio in arrears and coaching of clients that run a higher risk of running into arrears. The decline of EUR 155 million in industrial goods and Developments in specific portfolios services as well as the decline of EUR 162 million in The following section provides a more detailed overview the food and beverages sector was a result of the upturn of the developments in specific portfolios and products. of the economy and effective credit monitoring. Business Report Residential mortgages In 2015, the main decline in impaired exposure was The housing market continued to develop favourably related to Private individuals as a result of the improved throughout 2015. The housing price index of Statistics economic conditions. Other major declines in impaired Netherlands (CBS) increased by 2.8% compared with exposure at industry level were noted for industrial goods 2014. According to CBS, the number of houses sold was and services, retail, real estate, food and beverages, partly up by 16% compared with 2014. The upswing applied to offset by increases in the healthcare, basic resources, and all regions of the Netherlands and in all price categories. Risk, funding & capital information oil and gas sectors. The increase in housing transactions is based on house sales to both first time buyers as well as existing Impaired exposure of industrial goods and services homeowners. decreased by EUR 192 million, which was the combination of write-offs and a few releases following a successful The maximum amount for government-guaranteed loans restructuring. Retail is a volatile industry in which several (NHG) has been set at EUR 245,000 since 1 July 2015 and files were recovered, resulting in a decline in the impaired is scheduled to be reduced to EUR 225,000 on 1 July portfolio. The decrease in retail was partly offset by 2016. The government has further restricted home a few new files. financing by reducing the maximum Loan-to-Market Value (LtMV) of a mortgage loan from 103% in 2015 and 102% Governance Report Impaired exposures for real estate decreased as a result in 2016 ultimately to 100% in 2018. Since 2013, new of write-offs of several files. Furthermore, due to mortgages must be redeemed fully during the term of the successful restructuring of impaired files, releases were loan based on an annuity or linear scheme in order to be noted in Allowances for impairments. Impaired exposures eligible for tax deductibility. Mortgage loans dating from for the food and beverages sector was impacted by the prior to 31 December 2012 are not affected by this new finalisation of restructuring of impaired files, which legislation. resulted in write-offs. In addition, Allowances for Annual Financial Statements impairments in this sector were raised for existing For all mortgage loans, new and existing, tax deductibility impaired files. will be gradually reduced in the next 27 years from a maximum of 52% to 38%. In 2016, the maximum bracket Impaired exposures for basic resources increased as for deduction interest will be lowered to 50.5% (2015: a result of a few new impaired ECT Clients. Impaired 51.0%). In the improved economy, the housing market exposures for oil and gas also rose due to some ECT had no problem absorbing the restrictions. impaired exposures. Impaired exposures in the healthcare sector increased due to a single large file. ABN AMRO was the market leader in new mortgage production in 2015, holding a market share of 20.3%.1‍ ABN AMRO’s production of new mortgages in 2015 Other 1 Kadaster. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 213 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction was EUR 11.6 billion, considerably higher than Redemptions for 2015 amounted to EUR 12.3 billion EUR 8.7 billion for the previous year. The NHG proportion compared with EUR 10.2 billion in 2014. The number of Strategic Report of new mortgage production in 2015 was 39% in 2015 full redemptions rose due to increased relocation and (2014: 50%). The percentage of NHG of total new refinancing. Extra repayments were at the same levels as production dropped considerably to 25% in the fourth in previous years after an exceptionally high fourth quarter quarter. The lower NHG contribution can be explained by of 2014. Contractual repayments are gradually starting to the lower NHG limit of EUR 245,000 since 1 July 2015. grow, following modified tax regulations. Residential mortgage indicators Business Report (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Gross carrying amount excluding fair value adjustment from hedge accounting 146,932 148,402 150,493 of which Nationale Hypotheek Garantie (NHG) 38,872 37,540 35,603 Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting 3,401 4,134 3,531 Gross carrying amount 150,333 152,536 154,024 Risk, funding & capital information Exposure at Default1 162,405 160,291 160,165 RWA (REA)1 20,779 22,062 19,823 Total RWA (REA)/Exposure at Default 12.8% 13.8% 12.4% Forbearance ratio 1.2% 1.2% 1.6% Past due but not impaired 2,776 3,639 4,108 Past due ratio 1.9% 2.5% 2.7% Impaired ratio 0.7% 1.0% 1.2% Coverage ratio 23.8% 27.6% 27.1% Cost of risk (year to date, in bps) 1 13 23 Average LtMV (indexed) 80% 83% 84% Average LtMV excluding NHG (indexed) 76% 79% 80% Governance Report Total risk mitigation 188,427 210,925 213,640 Total risk mitigation/carrying amount 125.3% 138.3% 138.7% 1 2013 figures are reported under Basel II; 2015 and 2014 figures are reported using the Basel III (CRD IV/CRR) framework. Under Basel III 2013 pro-forma figures are: EAD EUR 157,902 million; RWA (REA) EUR 18,840 million. The gross carrying amount of the residential mortgage The forbearance ratio remained stable compared with portfolio amounted to EUR 146.9 billion at 31 December 31 December 2014, at 1.2%.The number of clients that Annual Financial Statements 2015, decreasing by 1% compared with EUR 148.4 billion went into arrears was considerably lower and more clients at 31 December 2014. NHG-guaranteed loans account were able to recover from arrears. for 26% of the residential mortgage portfolio at 31 December 2015. The mortgage portfolio in arrears (past due up to 90 days) decreased to EUR 2.8 billion at 31 December 2015 from The Exposure at Default increased to EUR 162.0 billion EUR 3.6 billion at 31 December 2014. The decrease of compared with EUR 160.3 billion at year-end 2014. the portfolio in arrears is the result of a combination of This was the result of a change in the method used improving economic conditions, extensive portfolio for the EAD calculation. The RWA (REA) for the management of the portfolio in arrears, and a programme residential mortgage portfolio decreased considerably aimed at creating awareness among our clients of by EUR 1.3 billion, coming to EUR 20.8 billion at situations that could increase the risk of getting into arrears. Other 31 December 2015 as a result of a decline in the number of clients in arrears and a rise in housing prices. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 214 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Total risk mitigation for residential mortgages decreased Cost of risk over 2015 improved to 1bp compared with to EUR 188.4 billion at 31 December 2015, down by 13bps in 2014. This improvement is attributable to the Strategic Report EUR 22.5 billion from EUR 210.9 billion at 31 December steep decline of total impairment charges, which in turn 2014. This decrease was mainly the result of the is the result of a lower impaired portfolio. This was the implementation of the NCV valuation method. As of result of the improved housing market and improved 31 December 2015 we are reporting the value of collateral economic conditions. based on the Net Collateral Value (NCV). NCV expresses the value of collateral in the event of a forced sale and is The risk profile of our residential mortgage portfolio has equal to the expected recovery value of the collateral further improved in recent years. The improvement that Business Report pledged to the bank. set in in 2014 continued in 2015. Measures taken by the Dutch government had a positive effect and improved The coverage ratio of the residential mortgage portfolio economic conditions resulted in fewer clients having stood at 23.8% on 31 December 2015, down from 27.6% financial difficulties. at 31 December 2014. Allowances for impairments decreased more than the impaired exposures. The The increase in house prices, combined with extra allowances decreased mainly due to the upswing in repayments on mortgage loans, contractual repayments Risk, funding & capital information the housing market and continued improved economic and restrictions on the maximum Loan-to-Market Value conditions, which led to lower loss levels on foreclosures. (LtMV) for new residential mortgages, resulted in a strong improvement of the average LtMV. The LtMV of the Impaired exposures declined, as there was lower inflow mortgage portfolio improved to 80% at 31 December into, and higher outflow out of, the impaired portfolio. 2015, compared with 83% at 31 December 2014. The impaired ratio improved to 0.7% at year-end 2015 Excluding NHG, the average LtMV improved to 76% compared with 1.0% at year-end 2014. This was due from 79% at the end of 2014. mainly to the decrease of the impaired portfolio to EUR 1.0 billion at 31 December 2015 compared with The rise in Dutch house prices was particularly strong in EUR 1.5 billion at year-end 2015. the densely populated ‘Randstad1’ area, where more than Governance Report 50% of the houses financed by ABN AMRO are situated. Breakdown of residential mortgage portfolio by loan type 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Gross carrying Percentage of Gross carrying Percentage of Gross carrying Percentage of (in millions) amount total amount total amount total Interest only (partially) 47,943 33% 48,936 33% 50,521 34% Annual Financial Statements Interest only (100%) 32,076 22% 34,081 23% 36,387 24% Redeeming mortgages (annuity/linear) 18,569 13% 11,956 8% 7,020 5% Savings 21,735 15% 23,243 16% 24,674 16% Life (investment) 17,787 12% 20,279 14% 22,248 15% Other1 8,822 6% 9,908 7% 9,643 6% Total 146,932 100% 148,402 100% 150,493 100% 1 Other includes hybrid, other and unclassified mortgage types. The hybrid portfolio consists of a combination of savings and investment mortgages. The shift in new production to redeeming mortgages is decreased to EUR 80.0 billion (55%) at year-end 2015 also reflected in the composition of the mortgage compared with EUR 83.0 billion (56%) at year-end 2014. portfolio. Interest-only mortgages (full and partial) ‘Redeeming mortgages’ increased to 13% of the Other 1 Urbanised area in the west of the Netherlands. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 215 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction mortgage portfolio at year-end 2015, up from 8% at year-end 2014. ‘Redeeming mortgages’ is the only Strategic Report category that grew in volume. Breakdown of residential mortgage portfolio by year of last modification1 (in millions) 25 Business Report 20 16.4 15 13.3 13.6 12.2 11.6 10 8.5 8.6 7.6 7.1 7.3 6.3 5 2005 Risk, funding & capital information 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Savings Redeeming (annuity/linear) Interest only Other2 1 Includes the new mortgage production and all mortgages with a modification date. 2 Other includes universal life, life investment, hybrid, other and unclassified mortgage types. The hybrid portfolio consists of a combination of savings and investment mortgages. Under Dutch tax regulations implemented on 1 January into 31% interest-only mortgages (2012: 45%), 61% 2013, mortgage interest for new mortgages is only redeeming mortgages (2012: 10%) and 3% savings deductible for redeeming mortgage loans. In 2015, mortgages (2012: 42%). Interest-only and savings mortgage loan type origination (defined as new production mortgages can still be produced if clients refinance and mortgages with a loan type modification) breaks down loans that were originated before 2013. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 216 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Residential mortgages to indexed market value 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Gross carrying amount Percentage of total of which of which (in millions) guaranteed unguaranteed Loan-to-Market Value category1 <50% 24,768 16.9% 1.8% 15.1% 50% 80% 39,755 27.1% 5.0% 22.1% Business Report 80% 90% 18,218 12.4% 3.6% 8.8% 90% 100% 24,943 17.0% 6.9% 10.1% 100% 110% 18,928 12.9% 5.0% 7.9% 110% 120% 12,648 8.6% 2.9% 5.7% >120% 5,721 3.9% 1.3% 2.5% Unclassified 1,951 1.3% Total 146,932 100% Risk, funding & capital information 31 December 2014 <50% 23,707 16.0% 1.7% 14.3% 50% 80% 36,927 24.9% 4.2% 20.7% 80% 90% 16,488 11.1% 2.8% 8.3% 90% 100% 20,396 13.7% 4.5% 9.2% 100% 110% 21,455 14.5% 5.8% 8.7% 110% 120% 16,280 11.0% 3.8% 7.2% >120% 10,885 7.3% 2.5% 4.8% Unclassified 2,264 1.5% Total 148,402 100% 31 December 2013 Governance Report <50% 23,726 15.8% 1.6% 14.2% 50% 80% 36,175 24.0% 3.7% 20.3% 80% 90% 15,583 10.3% 2.4% 8.0% 90% 100% 18,842 12.5% 3.3% 9.2% 100% 110% 21,346 14.2% 5.0% 9.2% 110% 120% >120% 32,598 21.7% 7.7% 14.0% Unclassified 2,223 1.5% Total Annual Financial Statements 150,493 100% 1 Loan-to-Market Value is calculated using the indexation of the CBS (Central Bureau of Statistics). Our residential mortgage portfolio volume with an LtMV Note that LtMVs of more than 100% are not necessarily higher than 100% decreased considerably to 25.4% on an indicator that these clients are in financial difficulties. 31 December 2015 from 32.8% on 31 December 2014. The gross carrying amount of residential mortgages categories with an LtMV above 110% shows an even stronger decrease, besides the higher market values, as there was no new inflow into these categories since Other amended mortgage regulations maximised the LtMV of new production in 2015 to 103%. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 217 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Residential mortgages to indexed market value for 100% interest-only 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Strategic Report Percentage of total Percentage of total Percentage of total Loan-to-Market Value category1 <50% 9% 9% 9% 50% 70% 6% 7% 7% 70% 100% 6% 6% 6% >100% 1% 1% 2% Total 2 22% 23% 24% Business Report 1 Loan-to-Market Value is calculated using the indexation of the CBS (Central Bureau of Statistics). 2 Percentages of the total mortgage portfolio. The table above shows the breakdown of the LtMV for part of the total mortgage portfolio. LtMV above 100% is the 100% interest-only part of the mortgage portfolio. decreasing as a result of higher house prices and limited On 31 December 0.8% of the total mortgage portfolio inflow into this loan type category under the current had an LtMV above 100% and was 100% interest-only mortgage acceptance rules. Risk, funding & capital information compared with 1.2% at year-end 2014. This is a very small Consumer loans Consumer loans indicators (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Gross carrying amount 15,147 16,052 16,241 Forbearance ratio 4.3% 2.9% 2.1% Past due but not impaired Governance Report 607 633 885 Past due ratio 4.0% 3.9% 5.4% Coverage ratio 54.8% 61.4% 57.7% Impaired ratio 5.7% 5.4% 5.5% Total risk mitigation 11,990 9,807 7,955 The Consumer loans portfolio (excluding residential Retail Banking and Private Banking. This also includes the Annual Financial Statements mortgages) includes current account-related products, private labels Alfam and MoneYou for personal loans and revolving and non-revolving credit facilities and credit International Card Services (ICS) for credit cards. cards. Consumer loans are predominantly sold within Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 218 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Consumer loans breakdown (in %) Strategic Report 4 5 24 21 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 56 EUR 15.1bn EUR 16.1bn 58 Business Report 16 16 Retail Banking Private Banking International Private Banking Netherlands Other Risk, funding & capital information The gross carrying amount for Consumer loans decreased Corporate loans by EUR 0.9 billion to EUR 15.1 billion compared with Corporate loans indicators year-end 2014. Consumer loans represent around 6% of the The Corporate loan portfolio grew slightly to total loans and receivables portfolio. The forbearance ratio EUR 84.9 billion at 31 December 2015, compared of Consumer loans increased to 4.3% at 31 December 2015 with EUR 84.7 billion at 31 December 2014. The main compared with 2.9% at year-end 2014. This increase is development in this portfolio was an increase driven a combination of a decreased Consumer loan portfolio by higher volumes in term loans. together with the result of an inflow of several new forborne clients. The past due but not impaired ratio of The forborne ratio improved to 7.4% at year-end 2015 the Consumer loan portfolio remained fairly stable at 4.0% compared with 7.9% at year-end 2014. This improvement Governance Report at 31 December 2015 compared with 31 December 2014. was mainly the result of debt repayments on existing forborne contracts with refinancing measures in the In 2015, Allowances for impairments for Consumer loans performing portfolio, primarily related to one single client dropped by 11.6% compared with year-end 2014, as a in the real estate sector, offset by the inflow of new result of improved economic conditions and stringent forborne clients. monitoring of our clients, while the impaired exposure for the Consumer loan portfolio remained relatively stable in Corporate loans past due improved to 1.3% at Annual Financial Statements this period. These developments resulted in a decreased 31 December 2015 compared with 2.1% at year-end 2014. coverage ratio of 54.8% at 31 December 2015 compared This improvement was the result of a combination of the with 61.4% at year-end 2014. upturn of the Dutch economy and strict credit monitoring. The coverage ratio for Corporate loans increased to Total risk mitigation increased to EUR 12.0 billion 63.6% at 31 December 2015 compared with 60.5% at compared with EUR 9.8 billion at year-end 2014. 31 December 2014, as a result of a gradually declining This increase was mainly the result of improved impaired portfolio and slightly increased Allowances collateral reporting. for impairments. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 219 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Real estate guarantees by the Waarborgfonds Sociale Woningbouw The Dutch commercial real estate market showed (WSW, a state agency). WSW provides guarantees to Strategic Report continued signs of improvement in 2015, thanks largely lenders granting loans to housing associations for social to high demand from investors. This demand resulted in housing projects and other properties with a social or an increase in investment volume compared with 2014. public function. Levels in 2015 were close to or even equal to the 2007 volume (EUR 12 billion‍1 invested in Dutch commercial real The impaired exposure for real estate amounted estate), due to several large deals that were closed, to EUR 656 million at 31 December 2015 compared with especially in the fourth quarter of 2015. EUR 793 million at year-end 2014, as a result of write-offs Business Report of several files. Specific loan impairment charges Investor demand is up for both prime and non-prime amounted to EUR 13 million in 2015 compared with offices, thanks mainly to the current low interest rate EUR 68 million in 2014. The coverage ratio for real estate environment. On the down side, demand from users remained stable at 49% at 31 December 2015 remained subdued as the vacancy rate in the office market (31 December 2014: 49%). continued to grow. The retail segment is still under pressure, given soft consumer spending and the increase Commercial Real Estate Risk, funding & capital information of e-trading. On the upside, consumer confidence is at its Commercial real estate (CRE) is defined as ‘land or highest level in eight years. This optimism resulted in rising property owned by project developers or investors with retail sales, which stabilised the level of vacancy rates. the purpose to develop, to trade or to rent the land or Logistical real estate benefited from an increase in demand property. The credit quality of the counterparty depends as trade picked up. Demand from national and international on real estate-generating cash flows and income logistics companies remained relatively buoyant. producing real estate.’ ABN AMRO’s real estate portfolio has relatively low Although they do overlap, categorisation of the real estate Loan-to-Values. Loans are based mainly on Dutch property. Industry Classification Benchmark (ICB) is not equal to The loan portfolio consists mainly of investment loans commercial real estate. The main differences between real Governance Report diversified across different asset types. Real estate estate and CRE are: loans may include additional collateral, e.g. parent ÅÅ social housing corporations are not included in CRE; company guarantees. ÅÅ corporate unsecured real estate and real estate for own use financing is not included in CRE; At 31 December 2015, the EAD of ABN AMRO’s real ÅÅ private individual exposures are not included in estate financing as shown in the industry concentration real estate. table, according to the ICB Industry code real estate, Annual Financial Statements amounted to EUR 13.2 billion (31 December 2014: CRE is mainly originated by the businesses Corporate EUR 14.5 billion). Exposures to social housing corporations Banking and, to a lesser extent, Retail Banking and are included in the real estate exposure, and includes Private Banking. Other 1 Source: Jones Lang LaSalle. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 220 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Energy, Commodities & Transportation Clients (ECT) ECT portfolio composition Strategic Report 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 CommodiTransporta­ Total ECT CommodiTransportaTotal ECT (in billions) Energy ties tion clients Energy ties tion clients On-balance sheet exposure 4.7 11.1 9.3 25.0 3.7 11.7 6.8 22.2 Guarantees and letters of credit 0.7 5.5 0.2 6.3 0.6 6.9 0.2 7.7 Subtotal 5.3 16.5 9.5 31.4 4.3 18.5 7.1 29.9 Business Report Undrawn committed credit facilities 2.3 2.4 1.9 6.7 2.0 1.6 1.5 5.2 Total 7.6 19.0 11.4 38.0 6.3 20.2 8.5 35.0 RWA (REA) (in billions) 12.2 10.8 RWA (REA) (in %) 19% 59% 22% 100% 16% 53% 31% 100% Exposure at Default (in billions) 32.0 24.0 Exposure at Default (in %) Risk, funding & capital information 18% 51% 31% 100% 18% 51% 31% 100% ABN AMRO provides financial solutions and support to and typically secured by either commodities for which clients across the entire value chain of the Energy, liquid markets exist, first priority ship mortgages, or Commodities & Transportation (ECT) industry. ECT Clients pledged contracted project cash flows. Conservative finances and serves corporate clients that are active advance rates are applied, taking into account through-theworldwide in Energy (upstream, offshore, midstream, cycle asset values. FPSO, corporate lending), Commodities (energy, agricultural and metals) and Transportation (ocean-going ECT Clients’ total loan portfolio amounted to an equivalent vessels and containers). of EUR 25.0 billion on-balance sheet exposure at Governance Report 31 December 2015, compared with EUR 22.2 billion at ECT Clients’ controlled growth strategy is based on year-end 2014. The increase of the on-balance sheet in-depth sector knowledge and focuses on monitoring and exposure of ECT Clients’ portfolio by 12.6% was primarily managing the credit risk profile of the portfolio in line with due to the appreciation of the US dollar against the euro the respective market sentiment, trends and economic of 11.5% over the same period. Growth in Energy, Clients cycles. Dedicated credit policies are in place for the three & Transportation Clients sectors was offset by lower ECT Clients sectors, including criteria for transaction utilisation of credit facilities in Commodities Clients due Annual Financial Statements structures, type of clients, advance rates, sustainability to the low commodity prices. requirements and exclusion of certain types of transactions, obligors and markets. Core components of Commodities Clients remains the largest sector of ECT ECT Clients’ risk management include regular contact and Clients and accounted for EUR 11.1 billion of the ECT client intimacy at various levels in the client organisation, Clients loan portfolio (down from EUR 11.7 billion at adherence to a strict client acceptance procedure, year-end 2014). Loans to clients in the Transportation monthly credit monitoring meetings for clients with an Clients sector now account for EUR 9.3 billion (up from increased risk (‘watch’) as well as frequent updates and EUR 6.8 billion at year-end 2014). Energy Clients’ share in deep dives into the portfolio and market developments. the on-balance exposure is now EUR 4.7 billion (up from The majority of the loan book is US-dollar denominated EUR 3.7 billion at year-end 2014). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 221 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction The off-balance sheet exposure, consisting mainly of As market circumstances are challenging for some of the short-term letters of credit secured by commodities, clients in the ECT sectors, close monitoring of the impact Strategic Report guarantees and availability under committed credit lines, of these developments is required. increased slightly to EUR 13.0 billion at 31 December 2015, of which EUR 3.0 billion in Energy Clients, The bank periodically performs sensitivity analyses and EUR 7.9 billion in Commodities Clients and EUR 2.1 billion stress testing exercises to gain insight into the credit in Transportation Clients. At year-end 2014, the off-balance performance under price scenarios, economic scenarios exposure was EUR 12.9 billion. and risk measures. Developments in commodity prices and specifically in oil and gas are under continued close Business Report The full-year 2015 impairment charges, divided over attention in terms of risk management and stringent Energy, Commodities and Transportation, amounted to credit monitoring. EUR 128 million, compared with EUR 54 million in 2014. The increase was mainly due to a specific large file in the Oil price risk on ECT Clients exposure third quarter as well as an increase in the IBNI ECT Clients is exposed to the oil and gas market in allowance. Like other parts of International Clients, particular through Energy Clients and Commodity Clients impairment charges for ECT Clients are typically incurred active in energy markets. Market circumstances were Risk, funding & capital information over a few individual files and can be relatively large challenging in 2015 for companies operating in oil and gas compared with other parts of the corporate loan book. related sectors. We apply close risk monitoring to our clients in these markets as well as frequent price ECT Clients operates in cyclical sectors. This cyclicality sensitivity analysis to assess the potential impact of oil is carefully considered in relation to lending policies, price fluctuations. financing structures, advance rates and risk management. The breakdown below shows the composition of our direct and indirect oil and gas-related exposure. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 222 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction Activity/ Estimated Estimated Description Business Line1 size Sensitivity Strategic Report Trade related exposure; majority is short-term and a substantial Trade Finance part is self-liquidating trade finance, generally for major Commodities trading companies Energy Clients Facilities are mostly secured and either pre-sold or price hedged, not exposing the bank to oil price risk Business Report Floating Production Storage & Offloading vessels are developed Roughly 30% Floating Production for exploitation of oil and gas fields of ECT Clients, Storage & Offloading Not directly Financing structures rely on long term contracts with investment in which Energy Clients exposed to grade major oil companies Commodities oil price risk Energy is the largest part Corporate Loans in oil & gas sector: predominantly loans Risk, funding & capital information Corporate Lending Energy Clients to investment grade integrated oil companies E.g. pipelines, tank farms, LNG terminals, etc. Midstream These assets typically generate revenues from medium Energy Clients to long-term tariff based contracts, not directly affected Energy Clients portfolio of EUR 5.3 billion by oil price movements Loans to finance drilling rigs Exposed to Offshore Drilling Companies Generally backed by 3-7 year charter contracts and corporate oil price risk. Governance Report Energy Clients guaranteed In part Roughly 6% mitigated by of ECT Clients management, Other Offshore Diversified portfolio of companies active in pipe laying, technology, Companies heavy lifting, subsea services, wind park installation, etc. low costs Energy Clients Corporate guaranteed and contracts Annual Financial Statements Financing based on borrower’s oil & gas assets. Loans secured Exposure to by proven developed reserves of oil & gas. Includes smaller oil price risk. Upstream (Reserve independent oil & gas producers Roughly 4% Risk mitigants Base Lending) Energy Clients Majority of clients are active in gas sector rather than oil and of ECT Clients may include have loss absorbing capital structures in place (junior debt, protection, second lien, equity) i.e. low advance rates and loss Total Oil & Gas exposure, of on-balance sheet outstandings + absorbing Total Oil & Gas Roughly 40%2 Other issued LCs and Guarantees, has been relatively flat since capital related exposures of ECT Clients beginning of 2015 structures 1 The allocation of clients into Energy Clients sub-segment has been based on management views for managerial purposes. Clients can have activities that could be mapped in other sectors. 2 40% of the subtotal of ECT clients (EUR 31.4 billion) ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 223 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Credit risk Introduction ABN AMRO Clearing Liquidity risk ABN AMRO Clearing covers the full market chain from Liquidity risk is the risk of having insufficient funds at Strategic Report market access and execution services to clearing, some point in time at the right locations around the world settlement and multi-product asset servicing on a global to meet margin calls with other brokers or clearing houses basis. ABN AMRO Clearing offers 24-hour/5-day global or failing to settle other transaction types. In conjunction services across multiple asset classes. In addition, with ABN AMRO Bank, Clearing constantly evaluates its ABN AMRO Clearing provides collateralised financing liquidity needs globally and implements mitigants to avoid and securities borrowing and lending services to its any temporary liquidity shortfalls. clients. With a top-three ranking based on turnover and Business Report global market share, ABN AMRO Clearing plays an Operational and reputational risk important role in supporting the global financial ABN AMRO Clearing devotes a great deal of attention infrastructure. Target client groups of ABN AMRO Clearing to the operational and regulatory risk component of its are categorised into three groups: Professional Trading business model. Being a highly IT-intensive organisation, Groups (PTG), Prime (hedge funds) and Corporates. business information security, IT security and business continuity management play an important role in the Sound risk management is a cornerstone of the business operational risk agenda. Risk, funding & capital information model of ABN AMRO Clearing. Risk centres are operated in various time zones, and these local risk centres are Like ABN AMRO, a full control framework is implemented supported and governed by various risk functions at the in order to identify, measure, manage and monitor bank’s head office in Amsterdam. In its daily operational operational and regulatory risks. Dedicated staff members activities ABN AMRO Clearing is confronted with various constantly monitor the operational risk profile of the global risks such as market, credit, liquidity, operational, and firm by, among other things, proactively performing risk reputational risks. Accurate identification and control of assessments, keeping track of up-to-date operating these risks constitutes an important part of day-to-day policies and procedures, monitoring controls, properly operations. The risk appetite of ABN AMRO Clearing is following up on implementation of audit points, following aligned with ABN AMRO’s corporate strategy and thus up on operational losses/near misses, and performing Governance Report set within the boundaries of a moderate risk profile. It is disaster recovery rehearsals to test business continuity. monitored on a monthly basis by benchmarking actual and expected risk profiles by a designated risk committee, As part of ABN AMRO’s governance, ABN AMRO Clearing the Clearing Business Risk Committee. applies the three lines of defence model (3LoD). Three lines of defence governance is supported by the Clearing Market and credit risk Business Risk Committee, where all three lines interact to Local risk management monitors client activity on a daily discuss the design, existence and operating effectiveness Annual Financial Statements and intraday basis to ensure that all clients stay within of the control framework and individual risks. the agreed market and credit risk parameters. Although ABN AMRO Clearing does not run market risk on its own, Clearing has not suffered significant losses over the past it will encounter market risk as a result of its credit few years. In 2015, the total credit loss was around 5.1bps activities: (i) ABN AMRO Clearing explicitly guarantees, as (2014: 0.3bps) on the total outstanding credit limits of a third-party clearing member, the fulfilment of obligations EUR 30.0 billion (2014: EUR 27.1 billion). The higher loss towards clearing houses and other third parties arising in 2015 resulted from the unprecedented movement of from clients’ transactions. In the event of a client the Swiss franc in January 2015. defaulting, it has the legal obligation to settle all of the client’s positions with the relevant clearing houses, possibly at a loss. Additionally, (ii) ABN AMRO Clearing Other provides credit lines to clients to leverage business opportunities. To manage the above, all client exposures are fully collateralised. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 224 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Operational risk Introduction Operational risk Strategic Report Operational risk by risk type Cybercrime ABN AMRO is faced with the constant threat of Operational losses by event category 1 cybercrime by organised crime groups, activists and/or Distribution (% of total loss amount) ill-intentioned employees. We therefore continuously 100 monitor this threat and adjust the bank’s defences where 81 necessary. The volume of phishing, malware and card Business Report 80 theft attacks was higher in 2015 than it was in 2014. 60 41 The bank further strengthened its security controls 40 29 throughout the year, resulting in very low losses despite 25 20 the persistent volume of attacks, and our clients did not 10 8 X 0 XX 4 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 experience a decrease in service availability due to cybercrime. Operational losses as a result of external Risk, funding & capital information al Employee Clients, External Execution, TechnoDisaster Internal Employee practices products fraud delivery, logy and and fraud practices and and process infrapublic and fraud through digital client channels in 2015 remained at workplace business managestructure safety workplace the low level of 2014. Compared with 2012 (baseline: 100), safety practices ment failures safety the level of fraud losses in 2014 and in 2015 was 7. 2014 2015 1 Due to recoveries and the development of loss amounts over time, the figures of previous years can be subject to change. Dutch banks cooperate, through the Dutch Banking Association and the Dutch Payments Association, in order The total operational net loss increased in 2015. However, to guarantee Dutch society’s shared interest in secure excluding the settlement of one single claim (Vestia) for payments. Dutch banks have agreed not to compete in the sale of interest rate derivatives contracts, the bank’s matters of security. Individual banks do not report figures total loss decreased. In addition to the losses, ABN AMRO on losses due to fraud related to internet banking, Governance Report provisioned for litigation of historical claims against the skimming and debit cards; these figures are reported jointly. bank. These claims are accounted for in the balance sheet under Provisions (more information on provisions is Business continuity included in Note 28 to the Annual Financial Statements). To address incidents/crises threatening the continuity of critical business processes, business continuity mitigation The development of the loss amounts for each event controls are in place, such as crisis management, business category shows an increase compared with 2014 for relocation plans and IT disaster recovery plans. During Annual Financial Statements Clients, products and business practices due to the 2015, ABN AMRO’s crisis management organisation aforementioned settlement. For the other main event proved to be stable and able to respond to incidents to categories, loss amounts decreased in 2015. assure recovery of these business processes within an acceptable timeframe, while the number of ‘code red’ escalations was lower than in 2014. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 225 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Operational risk Introduction Stability of digital services RWA (REA) flow statement operational risk EDTF 16 (in millions) Availability of the bank’s internet banking services during Strategic Report peak hours was 99.5% on average in 2015. 16,500 16,250 59 16,227 16,168 Regulatory capital v 16,000 The bank’s own funds for operational risks in 2015 were 15,750 calculated based on the Standardised Approach (TSA). Under the TSA, gross income figures are mapped to a set 15,500 Business Report of prescribed Basel II business lines, such as Retail, Payments and Trading & Sales. Depending on the business 31 December Business 31 December line, a percentage (predefined by the directives) is applied 2014 volume 2015 for calculating capital for that business line. The TSA capital for the bank is the sum of the TSA capital for each No material changes were noted in the movements in business line. RWA (REA) for operational risk in 2015. Risk, funding & capital information Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 226 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Market risk Introduction Market risk Strategic Report ABN AMRO is exposed to market risk in its trading book market risk factors to which the different assets and and banking book. The following table represents the liabilities of the balance sheet are sensitive. Total market risk exposure Market risk exposure traded and non-traded risk s Business Report 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Carrying Carrying Carrying Primary risk amount Market risk measure amount Market risk measure amount Market risk measure sensitivity Traded Non-tradTraded Non-tradTraded Non-trad(in millions) risk ed risk risk ed risk risk ed risk Assets subject to market risk Risk, funding & capital information Cash and balances at central banks 26,195 26,195 706 706 9,523 9,523 Interest rate Interest rate/equity/ Financial assets held FX/commodities/ for trading 1,706 1,706 9,017 9,017 12,019 12,019 credit spread Interest rate/equity/ FX/commodities/ Derivatives 19,138 14,735 4,403 25,285 19,730 5,555 14,271 11,848 2,423 credit spread Financial Interest rate/FX/ investments 40,542 40,542 41,466 41,466 28,111 28,111 credit spread Securities financing 20,062 20,062 18,511 18,511 18,362 18,362 Interest rate/FX Loans and Governance Report receivables banks 15,680 15,680 21,680 21,680 23,967 23,967 Interest rate/FX Loans and receivables customers 259,319 259,319 261,910 261,910 257,028 257,028 Interest rate/FX Other assets 7,676 7,676 8,292 8,292 8,741 8,741 Total assets 390,317 16,440 373,877 386,867 28,746 358,121 372,022 23,867 348,155 Liabilities subject to market risk Interest rate/equity/ Financial liabilities FX/commodities/ Annual Financial Statements held for trading 459 459 3,759 3,759 4,399 4,399 credit spread Interest rate/equity/ FX/commodities/ Derivatives 22,425 12,958 9,466 30,449 18,203 12,246 17,227 9,849 7,378 credit spread Securities financing 11,372 11,372 13,918 13,918 12,266 12,266 Interest rate/FX Due to banks 14,630 14,630 15,744 15,744 11,626 11,626 Interest rate/FX Due to customers 230,297 230,297 216,011 216,011 207,584 207,584 Interest rate/FX Issued debt 76,207 76,207 77,131 77,131 88,682 88,682 Interest rate/FX Subordinated liabilities 9,708 9,708 8,328 8,328 7,917 7,917 Interest rate Other liabilities 7,635 7,635 6,652 6,652 8,753 8,753 Total liabilities 372,733 13,418 359,315 371,990 21,962 350,028 358,454 14,248 344,206 Other Equity 17,584 17,584 14,877 14,877 13,568 13,568 Total liabilities and equity 390,317 13,418 376,899 386,867 21,962 364,905 372,022 14,248 357,774 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 227 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Market risk Introduction Activities in the trading book are sensitive to multiple risk VaR figures based on a diversified portfolio approach factors. As stated in the paragraphs on market risk in the will be lower compared with the figures when using Strategic Report trading book, the overall sensitivity to these risk factors is undiversified VaR. Undiversified VaR means that the VaR carefully managed to remain within the bank’s risk figures computed for the different risk factors are summed appetite. Most assets and liabilities in the banking book up without taking into account any offset across risk factors are to a large extent sensitive to interest rate risk. Some of and therefore negates the potential for risk reduction. the assets and liabilities are also sensitive to FX risk; however, ABN AMRO minimises this risk through hedging. VaR diversified and undiversified EDTF 23 (in millions) Business Report Market risk in the trading book 15 Market risk exposure d 12 The next graph shows the total VaR (‘VaR diversified’) and aggregation of the stand-alone risk factors 9 (‘VaR undiversified’). 6 ABN AMRO applies a diversified portfolio VaR approach. Risk, funding & capital information 3 This approach takes into account the fact that returns across risk factors may offset one another to a certain Jan 2015 Apr 2015 Jul 2015 Oct 2015 Dec 2015 extent and consequently reduce risk. As long as those returns are not perfectly correlated to one another, VaR diversified VaR undiversified Internal aggregated diversified and undiversified VaR for all trading positions bd 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) Diversified Undiversified Diversified Undiversified Diversified Undiversified Governance Report VaR at last trading day of period 3.0 3.4 1.4 2.5 1.4 2.4 Highest VaR 12.7 14.8 3.8 5.1 5.4 7.1 Lowest VaR 1.1 2.1 0.8 1.6 0.7 1.6 Average VaR 4.9 6.3 1.4 2.5 2.0 3.0 During 2015, the average diversified 1-day VaR at a 99% Market risk in the banking book b confidence level increased by EUR 3.5 million to Market risk in the banking book is the risk that the value Annual Financial Statements EUR 4.9 million compared with EUR 1.4 million in 2014. or the earnings of the bank decline because of The highest VaR in 2015 was EUR 12.7 million compared unfavourable market movements. The market risk of the with EUR 3.8 million in 2014. Average undiversified VaR, banking book consists predominantly of interest rate risk. being the sum of VaR across the FX, Equity, Interest Rates Interest rate risk arises from holding loans with different and Commodity risk factors, increased from interest rate maturities than the interest rate maturities EUR 2.5 million in 2014 to EUR 6.3 million in 2015. While of the savings and funding of the bank. The assets have the risk profile remained stable and moderate, this on average a longer behavioural maturity than the increase was driven by a low interest rate environment liabilities, especially savings. related to ECB quantitative easing in Q1 2015 and the VaR methodology. The VaR methodology was enhanced in Q4 2015 to handle low interest rate movements. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 228 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Market risk Introduction ABN AMRO uses a combination of portfolio (macro) Market risk exposure hedges and specific asset or liability (micro) hedges The table below shows the interest rate risk metrics Strategic Report to swap fixed interest rates to a floating interest rate at year-end 2015 and 2014. position. The resulting interest rate position, after the application of interest rate hedges, is in line with the bank’s strategy and risk appetite. Interest rate risk metrics vd Business Report 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 NII-at-risk (in %) 1.3 2.2 5.4 Duration of equity (in years) 3.6 4.0 4.3 NII-at-Risk is defined as the worst outcome of two approximately EUR 80 million in the falling rates scenario. scenarios: a gradual increase in interest rates and a In a scenario in which interest rates rise, NII would Risk, funding & capital information gradual decline in interest rates by 200bps. A floor on increase by 2.0% (approximately EUR 120 million). interest rates is assumed in the falling rates scenario. NII-at-Risk in 2015 decreased to 1.3% (approximately Duration of equity showed a moderate decrease to EUR 80 million) and reflects a reduction of NII of 3.6 years. Regulatory capital market risk vd Capital requirement and risk exposure amount vd 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Governance Report Capital Capital Capital (in millions) requirement RWA (REA) requirement RWA (REA) requirement RWA (REA) Position risk in traded debt instruments 128 1,600 122 1,524 139 1,735 Position risk in equities 2 23 6 76 23 281 Commodity risk 7 88 17 211 30 380 Add-on 320 4,000 320 4,000 320 4,000 Total 457 5,710 465 5,811 512 6,396 Annual Financial Statements The above table shows the composition of the trading RWA (REA) flow statement market risk EDTF 16 (in millions) books of ABN AMRO, broken down by risk factor and required regulatory capital/risk exposure amount. 6,000 5,811 -207 5,800 107 5,710 5,600 5,400 Other 5,200 31 December Business Other 31 December 2014 volume 2015 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 229 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Market risk Introduction RWA (REA) decreased slighly to EUR 5.7 billion at 31 December 2015 compared with EUR 5.8 billion at Strategic Report 31 December 2014. This decline was related to slightly lower RWA amounts for the traded debt instruments position. Business Report Risk, funding & capital information Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 230 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Liquidity risk Introduction Liquidity risk Strategic Report Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk indicators 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Going concern liquidity management Survival period (moderate stress) > 12 months >12 months >12 months Business Report Loan-to-Deposit ratio (in %) 108.9% 116.5% 120.6% Contingency liquidity risk management Available liquidity buffer (in billions) 82.8 73.9 75.9 Basel III LCR ratio >100% >100% 100% NSFR ratio >100% >100% >100% Risk, funding & capital information The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and the Net Stable The Loan-to-Deposit (LtD) ratio decreased to 109% at Funding Ratio (NSFR) both remained above 100% during 31 December 2015 compared with 117% at 31 December 2015. This is in line with the bank’s targeted early 2014. This was caused chiefly by a large increase in client compliance with future regulatory requirements. deposits across all business segments, particularly in the first half of the year. The survival period reflects the period that the bank’s liquidity position is expected to remain positive in an The following table shows the development of the internal stress scenario in which wholesale funding LtD ratio over the last three years. markets deteriorate and retail and commercial clients Governance Report withdraw a proportion of their deposits. The survival period was consistently >12 months during 2015. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 231 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Liquidity risk Introduction Loan-to-Deposit ratio bi (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Strategic Report Loans and receivables customers1 259,319 261,910 257,028 Gross up savings in mortgage linked saving products 7,911 7,571 7,236 Deductions Selected current accounts related to ABN AMRO Clearing Bank 4,799 4,806 2,030 Fair value adjustment from hedge Business Report accounting 4,849 5,739 4,422 Total deductions -9,648 -10,546 -6,452 Adjusted Loans and receivables customers 257,582 258,935 257,812 Due to customers1 230,297 216,011 207,584 Gross up savings in mortgage linked saving products 7,911 7,571 7,236 Risk, funding & capital information Debt certificates issued through Groenbank B.V. 55 103 227 Fiduciary deposits 422 749 Deductions Deposits from Dutch State Treasury Agency (DSTA) -1,750 -1,900 -2,100 Adjusted Due to customers 236,513 222,207 213,696 Loan-to-Deposit ratio (LtD) 108.9% 116.5% 120.6% 1 Excluding securities financing. Governance Report The liquidity buffer consists largely of cash and deposits at The increase in cash allowed for further optimisation of central banks, government bonds and retained RMBS. the liquidity buffer. This is reflected in the decrease of the Most of the securities in the liquidity buffer, with the retained RMBS portfolio. Retained RMBS have liquidity exception of the retained RMBS, are eligible for the LCR. value for internal stress testing purposes, but are not The internal assessment of the eligibility and haircut for eligible for the LCR. Cash and government bonds, on several liquidity instruments deviates from the Basel III the other hand, have liquidity value both for internal and regulation, which explains the differences between the regulatory purposes. Annual Financial Statements liquidity values. For government bonds, the internal haircut is higher. This explains why the liquidity buffer value for Further information on the composition of the government government bonds is lower than the LCR eligible amount. bond portfolio is provided in note 16 to the Annual Financial Statements. The liquidity buffer increased by EUR 8.9 billion to EUR 82.8 billion at 31 December 2015 compared with EUR 73.9 billion at 31 December 2014. The increase in the buffer was primarily driven by a higher cash position due to an improved LtD ratio. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 232 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Liquidity risk Introduction Liquidity buffer composition bi Strategic Report 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Liquidity of which LCR Liquidity Liquidity buffer eligible buffer of which LCR eligible buffer of which LCR eligible (in billions, liquidity value) Level 1 Level 2 Level 1 Level 2 Level 1 Level 2 Cash & Central Bank deposits1 24.4 24.4 5.3 5.3 16.8 16.8 Government bonds 26.0 26.9 27.3 28.3 18.0 18.8 Covered bonds 1.4 1.3 2.0 1.8 2.2 1.9 RMBS retained Business Report 24.0 31.8 33.1 Third party RMBS 0.7 0.6 1.0 0.8 1.1 0.9 Other 6.3 2.5 0.8 6.5 1.9 1.8 4.7 0.6 2.1 Total 82.8 53.8 2.7 73.9 35.6 4.4 75.9 36.2 4.9 1 The mandatory cash reserve with the central bank has been deducted from the cash and central bank deposits in the liquidity buffer. The following table shows the breakdown per currency of the liquidity buffer. The main currencies are EUR and USD, Risk, funding & capital information in line with the composition of our balance sheet. Liquidity buffer currency diversification bi (in billions, liquidity value) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 EUR 77.9 68.5 73.1 USD 2.4 2.1 1.7 GBP 0.3 0.3 0.2 CHF 0.6 0.2 Other 2.2 2.4 0.7 Total 82.8 73.9 75.9 Governance Report The monthly averages for 2015, 2014 and 2013 are shown in the table below: Liquidity buffer composition monthly average b (in billions, liquidity value) 2015 2014 2013 Cash & Central Bank deposits 11.1 Annual Financial Statements 5.6 14.5 Government bonds 26.8 23.3 14.8 Covered bonds 1.7 2.2 2.3 RMBS retained 29.8 32.1 32.1 Third party RMBS 0.8 1.0 1.1 Other 7.0 6.6 4.8 Total 77.2 70.9 69.6 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 233 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Funding Introduction Funding Strategic Report Liability and equity breakdown ba For full-year 2015, the share of client deposits as a Client deposits are our main source of funding, percentage of the total balance sheet increased to complemented by a well-diversified book of wholesale 59% from 56% in 2014. Total wholesale funding remained funding. Client deposits increased by EUR 14.3 billion stable at 22% of the total balance sheet. in 2015. This increase in deposits improved the Loan-to-Deposit ratio (LtD ratio) to 108.9% at The graph below shows the liability and equity breakdown Business Report 31 December 2015 from 116.5% at 31 December 2014. for the full balance sheet. The increase in client deposits The resulting increase in Cash and balances at central was offset by a decrease in other liabilities, mainly due to banks was used to further strengthen the liquidity buffer. a decrease in the trading book. ​ Liability and equity breakdown Audited EDTF 21 (in billions) Risk, funding & capital information 250 230.1 207.2 215.9 200 150 96.6 100 85.5 85.9 50 41.0 30.7 30.7 11.6 15.7 14.6 12.3 13.9 11.4 13.6 14.9 17.6 Client deposits1 Issued debt & Due to banks Securities financing Equity Other Subordinated deposits liabilities Governance Report 31 December 2013 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 1 A part of due to banks is reclassified as securities financing. Comparative figures have been amended accordingly. The graph below shows the breakdown of clients deposits by segment. Breakdown of client deposits Annual Financial Statements Audited EDTF 21 (in billions) 98.7 100 93.4 95.9 80 62.9 66.5 62.7 60 59.5 51.3 54.6 40 20 3.0 2.5 2.3 Other Retail Banking Private Banking Corporate Banking Group Functions deposits deposits deposits deposits 31 December 2013 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 234 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Funding Introduction The inflow of EUR 6.3 billion in Retail Banking and Private Available funding instruments ba Banking deposits was predominantly caused by an increase A key goal of the funding strategy is to diversify funding Strategic Report of deposits at MoneYou and the increase of Private Banking sources. To this end, the set of funding instruments deposits both in the Netherlands and internationally. The includes a broad set of funding programmes in different increase of EUR 8.1 billion in Corporate Banking deposits currencies, markets, maturities and investor bases. A was due to an increase across all segments. description of capital and funding instruments issued by ABN AMRO is provided on our website, abnamro.com. We continuously assess our wholesale funding base in order to determine the optimum use of funding sources. The Business Report main wholesale funding types can be specified as follows: Overview of funding types ba (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Euro Commercial Paper 1,326 1,706 2,054 London Certificates of Deposit 3,744 1,436 5,258 Risk, funding & capital information French Certificats de Dépôt 164 1,517 4,668 US Commercial Paper 4,585 4,070 3,630 Total Commercial Paper/Certificates of Deposit 9,820 8,729 15,610 Senior guaranteed (medium-term notes Dutch State)1 1,423 Senior unsecured (medium-term notes) 37,404 32,252 33,089 Covered bonds 25,956 27,077 25,913 Securitisations 2,968 9,001 12,295 Saving certificates 59 72 352 Total issued debt Governance Report 76,207 77,131 88,682 Subordinated liabilities 9,708 8,328 7,917 Total wholesale funding 85,915 85,458 96,599 Other long-term funding2 6,813 6,900 4,500 Total funding instruments3 92,728 92,358 101,099 of which issued debt matures within one year 19,607 20,194 30,719 Annual Financial Statements 1 The Dutch State guaranteed medium-term notes matured in May 2014. 2 Includes long-term repo (recorded in Securities financing), TLTRO funding (recorded in Due to banks) and funding with the Dutch State as counterparty (recorded in Due to customers). 3 Includes FX effects, fair value adjustments and interest movements. Total wholesale funding increased to EUR 85.9 billion The following graph shows the development of wholesale on 31 December 2015, compared with EUR 85.5 billion funding types relative to the balance sheet total at at 31 December 2014. The amount of short-term funding 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014. (CP/CD) increased to EUR 9.8 billion at 31 December 2015, compared with EUR 8.7 billion at 31 December 2014. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 235 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Funding Introduction Funding vs balance sheet total Audited EDTF 21 (as % of total assets) Strategic Report Short-term vs total Long-term vs total assets assets 2.3% at 21.6% at 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 10 9.6 9.0 8.4 8 7.0 7.0 6.6 1.8 1.7 6 4.2 1.2 4 3.3 Business Report 2.3 2.5 2.3 2.5 2.1 2.2 2 0.8 0.4 0.0 0.0 CP/CD Securitisations Senior Senior Subordinated Senior Other long-term Secured Unsecured debt Guaranteed funding 31 December 2013 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 Risk, funding & capital information Long-term funding components ba values and therefore differs from the information above The following graph shows an overview of the outstanding due to discrepancies between notional value and issue long-term funding at 31 December 2015 and 31 December price and fair value hedge accounting adjustments. 2014. The information presented is based on notional Long-term funding components Audited EDTF 21 (in %) 9 4 9 11 5 15 9 12 10 Governance Report 2 29 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2013 78.5bn 78.4bn 30 82.2bn 29 40 40 Annual Financial Statements 46 Securitisations Senior Unsecured Subordinated debt Senior Secured Senior Guaranteed Other long-term funding Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 236 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Funding Introduction Funding issuance in 2015 ba our funding profile by issuing, among other things, ABN AMRO executed a successful funding strategy in a 15-year covered bond. Furthermore, EUR 1 billion of Strategic Report 2015, reflected in issuance in more than ten currencies Additional Tier 1 capital instruments were issued in and a presence in almost all funding and capital markets. September 2015. We raised EUR 14.3 billion in long-term wholesale funding (including EUR 2.8 billion in subordinated debt) A large part of our wholesale funding was raised through compared with EUR 9.2 billion in 2014. The majority was private placements. The remainder of funding was raised issued as senior unsecured wholesale funding. This through benchmark transactions and taps on existing includes our first Green senior bond. We further diversified instruments. Long-term funding raised in 2013, 2014 and 2015 Audited EDTF 21 Business Report (notional amounts, in billions) 10 8 Risk, funding & capital information 6 5.7 5.1 5.1 5.0 4.5 4 3.7 1.5 1.3 2.9 3.5 4.1 2.9 4.3 2.5 2.1 3.3 2.0 1.8 3.3 1.5 2 2.0 2.8 2.0 2.6 0.1 0.4 1.6 0.8 1.6 0.1 2.0 0.5 1.8 0.2 1.6 0.4 Q1 2013 Q2 2013 Q3 2013 Q4 2013 Q1 2014 Q2 2014 Q3 2014 Q4 2014 Q1 2015 Q2 2015 Q3 2015 Q4 2015 Securitisations Covered bonds Senior Unsecured Subordinated liabilities Other long-term funding1 1 Other long-term funding includes long-term repos, TLTRO funding and funding with the Dutch State as counterparty. Governance Report As a result of our diversification strategy, the long-term Non-euro currency diversification funding in non-euro currencies rose to 27% of total of total outstanding long-term funding Audited EDTF 21 (in billions) outstanding long-term funding compared with 21% at year-end 2014. In 2015, the bank raised 63% of long-term 25 funding in EUR and the remainder mainly in USD, GBP, 21.1 20 JPY, AUD, NOK, CHF, CAD and NZD. Diversification of 5.0 16.1 Annual Financial Statements the outstanding long-term funding in non-euro currencies 14.6 1.8 15 3.1 4.1 2.6 is shown in the following graph. 1.3 1.0 10 3.2 3.3 11.7 5 7.3 7.4 2013 2014 2015 USD CHF GBP Other Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 237 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Funding Introduction Maturity calendar ba date, as early redemption of subordinated instruments We enhanced the maturity profile of our long-term is subject to the approval of the regulators. However, Strategic Report wholesale funding predominantly by spreading out this does not mean that the instruments will be called at redemptions of funding instruments over time. For the the earliest possible call date. coming years, ABN AMRO will focus on further optimising its wholesale maturity profile and on maintaining its In 2014, ABN AMRO participated in the Targeted Long-Term diverse funding base. Refinancing Operations (TLTRO) programme, which is the European Central Bank’s programme to support lending ​The average maturity of newly issued funding increased to the real economy (particularly for SMEs). ABN AMRO Business Report to 7.5 years (up from 5.5 years in 2014), while the average participated in the TLTRO for a total amount of maturity of outstanding long-term funding increased EUR 4.0 billion. The contractual maturity date is 2018. to 4.6 years at year-end 2015 (up from 4.3 years at However, depending on developments in the eligible year-end 2014). This was caused mainly by the issuance lending activities underlying the TLTRO programme, of long-term secured funding in the third quarter of 2015. early repayment could be mandatory. Given expected developments, early repayment in the second half of The stated maturity calendar assumes redemption on the 2016 is considered likely. Risk, funding & capital information earliest possible call date or otherwise the legal maturity Maturity calendar at 31 December 2015 Audited EDTF 21 (notional amounts, in billions) 15 13.9 11.8 1.0 12 2.1 1.0 10.3 1.2 9 8.7 4.0 0.1 7.3 1.6 6.8 7.5 6.7 0.5 Governance Report 6 8.5 1.5 0.9 4.7 3.6 5.0 4.6 0.3 1.2 2.5 3.1 3.3 3 0.8 0.1 1.9 0.2 5.5 2.1 1.1 1.4 0.6 1.9 1.8 1.6 0.6 1.1 0.8 0.5 2.3 2.4 2.6 1.8 1.7 0.3 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 ≥ 2026 Securitisations Covered bonds Senior Unsecured Subordinated liabilities Other long-term funding1 1 Other long-term funding includes long-term repos, TLTRO funding and funding with the Dutch State as counterparty. Annual Financial Statements Maturity calendar 31 December 2015 (notional amounts, in billions) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 ≥ 2026 Total Senior unsecured 8.5 7.5 3.6 5.0 4.6 0.8 2.5 1.1 0.2 1.6 0.9 36.5 Covered bonds 0.6 2.1 1.9 1.8 2.3 2.4 2.6 1.8 1.7 0.3 5.5 23.1 Securitisations 0.6 1.1 0.8 0.5 3.0 Subordinated liabilities 1.2 2.1 1.6 1.2 1.5 0.1 1.4 9.2 Other long-term Other funding1 1.0 1.0 4.0 0.1 0.3 0.5 6.8 Total 11.8 13.9 10.3 7.3 8.7 4.7 6.7 3.1 1.9 3.3 6.8 78.5 1 Other long-term funding includes long-term repos, TLTRO funding and funding with the Dutch State as counterparty. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 238 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Capital Strategic Report Capital structure b and capital issuances. The bank strives to optimise its ABN AMRO’s solid capital position ensures that the bank capital structure in anticipation of pending regulatory is already compliant with the fully-loaded capital requirements. The capital structure consists mainly of requirements of the Capital Requirements Directive IV common equity and highly loss-absorbing capital to cover (CRD IV). The overall capital base increased over the year, unexpected losses. The subordination of specific capital primarily due to profit accumulation, a decrease in RWA instruments provides further protection to senior creditors. Regulatory capital structure bv Business Report Basel III Basel II 31 December 2013 (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 pro-forma1 31 December 2013 Risk, funding & capital information Total Equity EU IFRS 17,584 14,877 13,568 13,568 Participations in financial institutions >10% -336 Cash flow hedge reserve 1,056 1,223 1,467 1,467 Dividend reserve -414 -275 -200 -200 Capital securities -993 Other regulatory adjustments -466 -399 1,183 1,199 Common Equity Tier 1/Core Tier 1 capital 16,768 15,426 16,018 15,698 Innovative hybrid capital instruments 700 800 800 1,000 Capital securities 993 Other regulatory adjustments -234 -241 -317 Tier 1 capital 18,226 15,985 16,501 16,698 Governance Report Subordinated liabilities Tier 2 4,938 5,502 5,607 5,610 Excess Tier 1 instrument recognised as Tier 2 capital 300 200 Participations in financial institutions >10% -336 Other regulatory adjustments -33 -39 -164 25 Total regulatory capital2 23,431 21,648 21,944 21,997 1 Pro-forma figures are not audited. 2 DNB requires Dutch banks to disclose the Basel I floor in accordance with CRR article 500. The Basel I floor is calculated by multiplying Basel I RWA (REA) of EUR 184 billion by 8% times 80%. After adjusting for IRB provision shortfall, this results in a minimum required amount of own funds of EUR 11.6 billion as per 31 December 2015. ABN AMRO comfortably meets this requirement. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 239 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Regulatory capital flow statement bq Strategic Report Basel III Basel II (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 pro-forma1 2013 Common Equity Tier 1 capital/Core Tier 1 capital Balance at 1 January 15,426 16,018 14,700 14,700 Addition of net profit attributable to shareholders 1,919 1,134 1,160 1,160 Reserved dividend -414 -275 -200 -200 Interim dividend paid -350 -125 -150 -150 Business Report Change in pension scheme (excluding impact on P&L) -1,682 Other, including regulatory adjustments 186 356 508 188 Balance at end of period 16,768 15,426 16,018 15,698 Additional Tier 1 capital Balance at 1 January 559 483 800 997 New issued Tier 1 eligible capital instruments 993 Redeemed Tier 1 eligible capital instruments Risk, funding & capital information Other, including regulatory adjustments -93 76 -317 3 Balance at end of period 1,459 559 483 1,000 Tier 1 capital 18,226 15,985 16,501 16,698 Tier 2 capital Balance at 1 January 5,663 5,443 6,703 6,703 New issued Tier 2 eligible capital instruments 2,859 Redeemed Tier 2 ineligible capital instruments -759 -1,399 -1,399 Other, including regulatory adjustments -2,559 220 139 -5 Balance at end of period 5,205 5,663 5,443 5,299 Total regulatory capital 23,431 21,648 21,944 21,997 Governance Report 1 Pro-forma figures are not audited. RWA (REA) b Basel III Basel II 31 December 2013 (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 pro-forma1 31 December 2013 Annual Financial Statements Credit risk 86,063 87,667 92,631 86,201 of which standardised 7,110 7,834 13,392 10,731 of which advanced 78,953 79,833 79,239 75,470 Operational risk 16,227 16,168 16,415 16,415 of which standardised 16,227 16,168 16,415 16,415 of which advanced Market risk 5,710 5,811 6,396 6,396 of which standardised 5,710 5,811 6,396 6,396 of which advanced Total RWA (REA) 108,001 109,647 115,442 109,012 Other 1 Pro-forma figures are not audited. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 240 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Main changes in capital position q appetite and strategic ambitions. ABN AMRO’s capital At 31 December 2015, the phase-in CRD IV Common position strengthened over the past quarter, as a result Strategic Report Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 and total capital ratios were 15.5%, of profit accumulation. 16.9% and 21.7% respectively, an increase compared with Q3 2015. All capital ratios were well above regulatory The following chart shows the primary drivers of the minimum requirements and in line with the bank’s risk capital ratios in 2014. Developments impacting capital ratios in 2015 EDTF 11 Business Report (in %) 25 -0.7 0.3 0.9 -0.3 20 1.8 21.7 19.7 16.9 15 14.6 15.5 14.1 10 Risk, funding & capital information 5 31 December Reported Dividend RWA AT 1 Other 31 December 2014 net profit reserve (REA) changes changes 2015 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio/Core Tier 1 ratio Tier 1 ratio Total capital ratio Developments impacting capital ratios Additional Tier 1 in 2015 q ABN AMRO currently has one EUR 1.0 billion in an AT1 Common Equity Tier 1 capital instrument outstanding, which was issued in September Governance Report Common Equity Tier 1 capital increased in 2015 primarily 2015. The AT1 instrument has triggers at the Group level due to profit accumulation. (7% CET1), the sub-consolidated level (5.125% CET1) and the solo level (5.125% CET1). If the CET1 ratio breaks Net reported profit attributable to the shareholder of through the trigger level, the AT1 will be temporarily ABN AMRO in 2015 amounted to EUR 1,919 million. written down. Based on December 2015 figures, Net profit after dividend allocation is included in Common ABN AMRO is comfortably above the trigger levels, with Equity Tier 1 capital, in accordance with regulations and the Group level CET1 ratio at 15.5%, the sub-consolidated Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO’s dividend policy. CET1 ratio at 15.5% and the solo CET1 ratio at 14.6%. Available Distributable Items (ADI) totalled EUR 15.1 billion In 2016, ABN AMRO will be required to meet a required at 31 December 2015. minimum CET1 ratio of 10.25% on a consolidated basis, which is composed of a 9.5% SREP requirement and a 0.75% phase-in of the systemic risk buffer (SRB). The SRB is expected to grow by 0.75 percentage point per annum up to 3.0% in 2019. The 9.5% CET1 requirement for 2016 includes the capital conservation buffer. ABN AMRO is comfortably above the 10.25% minimum, with phase-in CET1 at 15.5% at 31 December 2015. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 241 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Tier 2 capital Further information on share capital The fully-loaded total capital ratio increased by and dividend v Strategic Report 0.2 percentage points compared with 31 December 2014. Share capital Over 2015, profit accumulation, capital issuances The share capital remained unchanged in 2015. At (EUR 1.5 billion T2 issuance and USD 1.5 billion T2 31 December 2015, the authorised share capital amounted issuance) and a slightly lower RWA level more than to EUR 4,700 million distributed over 4,500 million class A compensated for the fact that certain Tier 2 instruments ordinary shares and 200 million class B ordinary shares. were excluded from the Total Capital calculation. The The class A and B ordinary shares both have a nominal exclusion applies to Tier 2 instruments that had been value of EUR 1.00 each. Business Report issued after year-end 2011 (the CRR cut-off date) and before revocation of the 403 liability statement of At 31 December 2014, issued and paid-up capital ABN AMRO Group (on 1 June 2015) that had been issued amounted to EUR 940 million and consisted of 940 million on behalf of ABN AMRO Bank. These Tier 2 instruments no class A ordinary shares. Further information is provided in longer meet the requirements of the Capital Requirements note 31 to the Annual Financial Statements. Regulation (CRR). Furthermore, three other instruments became subject to the grandfathering regime and their Dividend Risk, funding & capital information Tier 2 eligibility amortises annually. ABN AMRO proposes a final cash dividend of EUR 414 million, or EUR 0.44 per share. Together with the Risk-weighted assets interim cash dividend of EUR 350 million paid in August The introduction of the CRD IV/CRR transitional rules on 2015, this will bring the total dividend to EUR 764 million, 1 January 2014 resulted in a considerable increase in RWA or EUR 0.81 per share, and the payout ratio to 40%1, (REA) with an adverse impact on the capital ratios. The in line with the target payout ratio for 2015. increase in RWA (REA) was mainly driven by additional capital requirements for potential mark-to-market A payout ratio of 40% over 2015 is in line with the counterparty credit risk losses (credit valuation adjustment), communicated dividend policy of ABN AMRO. exposure to central counterparties, the deferred tax assets ABN AMRO anticipates an increase in the dividend payout Governance Report related to temporary differences, along with the riskratio to 50% in 2017, while remaining well positioned to weighting of participations in financial institutions. meet fully-loaded Basel III/CRD IV requirements and upcoming regulatory requirements. Capital ratios are supported by a decrease in group level RWA (REA) compared with December 2014. Total RWA (REA) decreased by EUR 1.6 billion, amounting to EUR 108.0 billion at 31 December 2015, compared with Annual Financial Statements EUR 109.6 billion at 31 December 2014. This decrease was primarily driven by lower credit risk. More information on RWA (REA) is provided in the Risk sections of this report. Other 1 This is based on reported net profit excluding net reserved coupons for AT1 capital securities and net profit attributable to non-controlling interests. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 242 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Capital instruments Capital instruments b Strategic Report 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Maturity First possible Nominal Carrying Nominal Carrying Nominal Carrying (in millions) ISIN/CUSIP date call date amount amount amount amount amount amount Tier 1 EUR 1,000 million 4.31% per annum1 XS0246487457 Perpetual March 2016 1,000 1,042 1,000 1,077 1,000 1,103 EUR 1,000 million 5.75% September Business Report per annum XS1278718686 Perpetual 2020 1,000 993 Total Tier 1 capital instruments 2,000 2,035 1,000 1,077 1,000 1,103 Tier 2 GBP 150 million (originally GBP 750 million) 5.00% February per annum2 XS0244754254 Perpetual 2016 204 213 192 208 179 200 Risk, funding & capital information EUR 1,650 million (originally October October EUR 2,000 million) 2017 2012 1,650 1,654 1,650 1,654 EUR 1,228 million 6.375% per annum XS0619548216 April 2021 1,228 1,489 1,228 1,524 1,228 1,443 USD 595 million 6.250% per annum XS0619547838 April 2022 546 606 489 543 432 462 USD 113 million 7.75% 00080QAD7/ per annum N0028HAP0 May 2023 93 101 93 82 82 83 EUR 1,000 million 7.125% per annum XS0802995166 July 2022 1,000 1,121 1,000 1,128 1,000 1,024 USD 1,500 million 6.25% September September per annum XS0827817650 2022 2017 1,377 1,392 1,234 1,246 1,090 1,094 SGD 1,000 million 4.7% October October Governance Report per annum XS0848055991 2022 2017 649 640 623 617 575 569 EUR 1,500 million 2.875% per annum XS1253955469 June 2025 June 2020 1,500 1,537 USD 1,500 million 4.75% per annum US00080QAF28 July 2025 1,204 1,250 EUR various smaller instruments 2015 2020 313 316 226 250 281 285 Total Tier 2 capital instruments 8,113 8,666 6,735 7,251 6,517 6,814 Annual Financial Statements Of which eligible for regulatory capital: Basel III, Tier 1 800 800 Basel III, Tier 2 4,938 5,502 5,607 Basel III, Excess Tier 1 instrument recognised as Tier 2 capital 2,000 200 1 The EUR 1,000 million instrument will be redeemed in full on 10 March 2016. 2 The GBP 150 million instrument will be redeemed in full on 17 February 2016. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 243 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Movements in subordinated liabilities b 2015 2014 2013 Strategic Report (in millions) Carrying amount Carrying amount Carrying amount Balance as at 1 January 8,328 7,917 9,736 Issuance 2,839 Redemption -1,740 -51 -1,497 Foreign exchange differences 271 277 -114 Other 11 185 -209 Balance as at 31 December 9,708 8,328 7,917 Minimum capital requirement Business Report bv9r The Pillar 1 capital requirement is the absolute minimum amount of capital required to cover the three major risk types that a bank faces: credit risk, operational risk and Risk, funding & capital information market risk as determined in the CRD IV Pillar 1 framework. The following table provides an overview of RWA (REA) and minimum capital requirements per risk type, category of exposure and regulatory approach. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 244 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Minimum capital requirements bv9r Basel III Basel II Strategic Report 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Capital Capital Capital (in millions) requirement RWA (REA) requirement RWA (REA) requirement RWA (REA) Credit risk IRB Central governments and central banks 78 978 162 2,020 42 528 Institutions1 231 2,887 398 4,972 336 4,201 Corporates 3,247 40,592 2,927 36,586 3,122 39,020 Business Report Retail 2,130 26,631 2,292 28,646 2,177 27,212 of which secured by immovable property/retail mortgages 1,622 20,269 1,722 21,521 1,546 19,326 of which qualifying revolving exposures 240 3,005 296 3,702 296 3,700 of which other retail 269 3,357 274 3,423 335 4,186 Equities not held for trading 415 5,185 401 5,009 219 2,733 Securitisation positions 7 84 19 237 23 286 Credit valuation adjustment2 88 1,105 101 1,264 Risk, funding & capital information Other3 119 1,491 88 1,099 119 1,490 Total credit risk IRB 6,316 78,953 6,387 79,833 6,038 75,470 Credit risk SA Central governments and central banks 11 132 12 154 6 80 Institutions1 12 153 28 344 34 425 Corporates 283 3,535 301 3,758 474 5,930 Retail 63 793 78 974 109 1,364 Secured by mortgages on immovable property 41 510 43 541 Exposures in default 7 88 13 156 Other3 152 1,900 153 1,907 235 2,932 Governance Report Total credit risk SA 569 7,110 627 7,834 858 10,731 Other risks Market risk 457 5,710 465 5,811 512 6,396 of which Standardised Approach 457 5,710 465 5,811 512 6,396 of which Internal Model Approach Operational risk 1,298 16,227 1,293 16,168 1,313 16,415 of which Standardised Approach 1,298 16,227 1,293 16,168 1,313 16,415 Annual Financial Statements Total other risks 1,755 21,938 1,758 21,979 1,825 22,811 Total 8,640 108,001 8,772 109,647 8,721 109,012 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment companies, regional and local governments and pension funds. 2 The 2014 Capital requirement on Credit valuation adjustment has been restated. 3 Other includes non-credit obligations. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 245 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Main regulatory developments BRRD The Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) Strategic Report Basel III/CRD IV 9 provides authorities with more comprehensive and The Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV) and the effective measures to deal with failing banks. Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) set the framework Implementation of BRRD in the European Union began in for the implementation of Basel III in the European Union. 2015 and the bail-in framework will be applicable as from CRD IV and CRR were phased in on 1 January 2014 January 2016. Implementation of the bail-in framework and are expected to be fully effective by January 2019. has led to the introduction of additional loss-absorbing ABN AMRO is already managing its regulatory capital measures, such as the Minimum Requirement for own Business Report adequacy position in anticipation of Basel III fully-loaded funds and Eligible Liabilities (MREL). requirements. ABN AMRO is compliant with the more restrictive fully-loaded capital requirements. The Group is monitoring pending regulatory requirements in relation to MREL and aims for at least 8% MREL by Basel IV year-end 2018 (through subordinated debt and profit Also commonly referred to as Basel IV, the Basel retention). The final regulatory requirements for MREL will Committee on Banking Supervision has presented two determine the precise measures to be undertaken to Risk, funding & capital information consultative documents on a revision of the Standardised achieve the MREL requirement. At 31 December 2015, Approach and the design of a capital floor framework the Group had a 6.8% MREL (based on Own Funds and based on this revised Standardised Approach. This Other subordinated liabilities). framework will replace the current transitional floor based on the Basel I standard. The aim of the revised capital floor ABN AMRO will continue to issue new capital instruments framework is to enhance the reliability and comparability to further enhance its buffer of loss-absorbing instruments of risk-weighted capital ratios. The revision of the in view of scheduled amortisations, MREL and any other Standardised Approach for Residential Real Estate and regulatory changes. SMEs in combination with the revision of the capital floors could lead to a significant risk-weighted assets inflation ​Although TLAC is currently not applicable to the bank, Governance Report risk for ABN AMRO. ABN AMRO continues to monitor TLAC requirements following the publication of the final terms in November Regulatory developments, such as the Basel proposal 2015.The final terms for TLAC are considered to be in line (especially with respect to the risk-weighting of mortgages with the current ambition to steer MREL to 8%, while and corporate loans) and increasing capital requirements further convergence between TLAC and MREL set by the regulators, could have a significant impact on requirements is anticipated. the bank’s capital position going forward. Hence, Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO will continue to focus on capital efficiency and further strengthen its capital position. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 246 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction Impact of CRD IV/CRR fully-loaded rules on capital ratios Basel III Strategic Report Phase-in fully-loaded 31 December 2015 Common Equity Tier 1 capital 16,768 16,695 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 15.5% 15.5% Tier 1 capital 18,226 17,688 Tier 1 ratio 16.9% 16.4% Total regulatory capital 23,431 20,624 Business Report Total capital ratio 21.7% 19.1% RWA (REA) 108,001 108,001 Leverage ratio (CDR) 3.9% 3.8% Under the CRD IV/CRR fully-loaded rules for capital ÅÅ Total capital is expected to decrease by EUR 2.8 billion, deductions, prudential filters and RWA (REA), the impact resulting in a decline in the total capital ratio of Risk, funding & capital information on the capital ratios is as follows: 2.6 percentage points, from 21.7% to 19.1%. This is primarily due to the loss of eligibility of non-CRR ÅÅ RWA (REA) are equivalent to those under phase-in rules; compliant Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments. ÅÅ The amount of Common Equity Tier 1 capital is approximately equal to the amount under the phase-in The CRR fully-loaded Common Equity Tier 1 ratio at rules since the fully-loaded impact on Common Equity 31 December 2015 was equivalent to the CRR phase-in Tier 1 capital deductions is largely neutral; Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of 15.5%. Leverage ratio 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Governance Report (in millions) Phase-in Fully-loaded Fully-loaded Fully-loaded Tier 1 capital 18,226 17,688 15,435 14,087 Exposure measure (CDR) On-balance sheet exposures 390,317 390,317 386,867 372,022 Off-balance sheet items 29,183 29,183 26,702 25,704 On-balance sheet netting 26,621 26,621 37,709 54,336 Derivative exposure 31,541 31,541 -11,783 -2,667 Annual Financial Statements Securities financing exposures 1,317 1,317 1,078 3,746 Other regulatory measures -14,443 -14,322 -19,262 -11,197 Exposure measure 464,536 464,657 421,311 441,944 Leverage ratio (CDR) 3.9% 3.8% 3.7% 3.2% Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 247 Risk, funding & capital Report / Risk, funding & capital review / Capital Introduction The CRR introduced a non-risk based leverage ratio to be The fully-loaded CDR leverage ratio at 31 December 2015 monitored until 2017 and to be further refined and increased by 0.1 percentage point compared with the Strategic Report calibrated before becoming a binding measure as from 2014 year-end level of 3.7%. A revised method for 2018. The Commission Delegated Regulation (CDR), calculating the exposure measure for clearing services applicable since 1 January 2015, amended the leverage was implemented in Q2 2015. This revised method led to ratio definition to enhance comparability of leverage ratio an exposure measure add-on at 31 December 2015 of disclosures. The Group aims for at least a 4% leverage approximately EUR 43 billion. If the fully-loaded leverage ratio by year-end 2018, to be achieved by profit ratio had been calculated consistently using this revised retention, issuance of AT1 instruments and the calculation method (assuming clearing guarantees Business Report management of the balance sheet. positions of EUR 43 billion), the leverage ratio would have amounted to 3.3% at 31 December 2014. It is anticipated At 31 December 2015, the Group had a CDR fully-loaded that BCBS will issue a consultation to revise the leverage ratio of 3.8%, up from 3.5% at 30 September methodology (SA-CCR instead of CEM), which might 2015. The leverage ratio benefited from an increase in reduce the exposure measure for clearing guarantees Tier 1 capital through profit accumulation. In addition, the again. Adoption of this method is still under discussion. exposure measure fell significantly over the fourth quarter, Risk, funding & capital information predominantly due to a decrease in total assets and in clearing guarantees positions. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 248 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Strategic Report The following section includes additional disclosures on risk, funding and capital. This information is provided according to EU IFRS, Pillar 3, EDTF and market discipline. Business Report This required information is a supplement to the core analysis provided in the Risk, funding & capital review section and provides additional or more detailed information. Credit risk exposure b The following table presents the EU IFRS view on Risk, funding & capital information maximum exposure to credit risk. The financial instruments subject to credit risk are presented in accordance with EU IFRS at carrying amounts, without consideration of collateral or other credit enhancements. As such, the table does not represent the Group’s risk management view. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 249 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maximum exposure to credit risk EU IFRS b (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Strategic Report Cash and balances at central banks 26,195 706 9,523 Financial assets held for trading 1,706 9,017 12,019 Less: equity securities 19 4,946 6,471 Financial assets held for trading 1,687 4,071 5,548 Derivatives 19,138 25,285 14,271 Business Report Financial investments 40,542 41,466 28,111 Less: equity instruments 367 225 209 Less: private equities and venture capital 577 246 121 Less: Equity securities 54 78 182 Financial investments 39,543 40,918 27,599 Securities financing 20,062 18,511 18,362 Loans and receivables banks 15,680 21,680 23,967 Risk, funding & capital information Loans and receivables customers 259,319 261,910 257,028 Other assets 4,925 4,986 5,128 Less: Unit-linked investments 2,543 2,453 2,171 Less: Assets held for sale 32 25 29 Less: Other 452 582 746 Other assets 1,899 1,926 2,182 On-balance sheet maximum exposure to credit risk 383,522 375,007 358,480 Off-balance sheet Governance Report Committed credit facilities 21,559 16,164 13,764 Guarantees and other commitments 13,868 15,335 16,103 Revocable credit facilities1 82,865 78,508 71,657 Off-balance sheet credit facilities and guarantees 118,292 110,007 101,524 Maximum exposure to credit risk 501,814 485,014 460,004 1 Although not committed, ABN AMRO has the opinion that revocable credit facilities give rise to credit risk. These are not included as committed credit facilities in note 33. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 250 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maturity distribution by exposure class v 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Less than Between one year More than (in millions, Exposure at Default) one year and five years five years Total Central governments and central banks 34,315 9,635 14,942 58,892 Institutions1 8,583 2,108 3,486 14,177 Corporates 45,375 35,347 18,406 99,128 Retail 10,025 5,152 158,952 174,129 of which secured by immovable property 1,525 4,028 153,753 159,306 Business Report of which qualifying revolving exposures 3,593 3,185 6,778 of which other retail 4,907 1,124 2,014 8,045 Securitisation positions 1,125 1,125 Total IRB 2 98,298 52,242 196,912 347,452 Total SA3 3,103 1,352 11,113 15,568 Total 101,401 53,594 208,025 363,020 Percentage of total 28% 15% 57% 100% Risk, funding & capital information 31 December 2014 Less than Between one year More than (in millions, Exposure at Default) one year and five years five years Total Central governments and central banks 15,478 8,393 18,214 42,085 Institutions1 9,152 2,174 6,965 18,291 Corporates 45,729 29,635 14,487 89,851 Retail 10,698 3,978 158,935 173,611 of which retail mortgages 1,278 2,942 153,365 157,585 of which qualifying revolving exposures 3,972 3,162 7,134 of which other retail 5,448 1,036 2,408 8,892 Securitisation positions 978 1,456 2,434 Governance Report Total IRB2 82,035 44,180 200,058 326,273 Total SA3 3,726 1,429 13,656 18,811 Total 85,761 45,609 213,714 345,084 Percentage of total 25% 13% 62% 100% 31 December 2013 Less than Between one year More than (in millions, Exposure at Default) one year and five years five years Total Annual Financial Statements Central governments and central banks 22,540 8,359 14,121 45,020 Institutions1 11,044 3,992 3,546 18,582 Corporates 41,369 28,186 17,924 87,479 Retail 10,797 3,881 159,520 174,198 of which retail mortgages 1,225 2,831 153,847 157,903 of which qualifying revolving exposures 4,262 3,012 7,274 of which other retail 5,310 1,050 2,661 9,021 Securitisation positions 1,198 1,313 2,511 Total IRB2 85,750 45,616 196,424 327,790 Total SA3 3,657 1,904 7,182 12,743 Total 89,407 47,520 203,606 340,533 Other Percentage of total 26% 14% 60% 100% 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. 3 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 251 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Regulatory gross and net exposure by riskweight under the Standardised Approach Strategic Report These tables provide a breakdown of the regulatory gross and net credit exposure by risk weight for our credit portfolio exposures treated under the Standardised Approach, according to Basel-defined exposure classes. SA approach: regulatory gross and net credit exposure by risk-weight v Business Report 31 December 2015 Other (in millions, Risk risk Total Exposure at Default) weight 0% 2% 10% 20% 35% 50% 75% 100% 150% weights EAD Regulatory gross exposure Central governments and central banks 2,786 114 78 2,979 Risk, funding & capital information Institutions1 4,094 255 136 4,485 Corporates 3 6,085 1 865 6,953 Retail 5,041 576 5,617 Covered bonds Secured by real estate 418 6 2,434 2,858 Exposures in default 602 66 668 Other 621 728 3,305 4,654 Total2 3,407 4,094 255 418 5,043 7,534 66 7,395 28,213 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. Governance Report 31 December 2015 Other Total (in millions, Risk risk Total RWA Exposure at Default) weight 0% 2% 10% 20% 35% 50% 75% 100% 150% weights EAD (REA) Regulatory net exposure Central governments and central banks 2,805 114 39 2,958 132 Institutions1 4,094 254 45 4,393 153 Annual Financial Statements Corporates 19 2 3,076 865 3,962 3,535 Retail 818 540 1,358 793 Covered bonds Secured by real estate 393 5 2,434 2,832 510 Exposures in default 19 46 65 88 Other 621 728 2,307 3,655 1,900 Total SA2 3,426 4,094 254 413 820 3,942 46 6,228 19,223 7,110 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 252 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction SA approach: regulatory gross and net credit exposure by risk-weight v 31 December 2014 Strategic Report (in millions, Risk Total Exposure at Default) weight 0% 10% 20% 35% 50% 75% 100% 150% 200% EAD Regulatory gross exposure Central governments and central banks 2,414 60 144 2,618 Institutions1 5,280 826 91 54 6 1 6,259 Corporates 290 308 590 5,272 6,459 Business Report Retail 418 27 5,479 68 5,993 Covered bonds Secured by real estate 581 5 587 Exposures in default 595 95 690 Other 488 239 620 415 3,556 53 5,371 Total2 8,182 1,125 2,001 804 6,076 9,639 149 27,976 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. Risk, funding & capital information 31 December 2014 (in millions, Risk Total Total RWA Exposure at Default) weight 0% 10% 20% 35% 50% 75% 100% 150% 200% EAD (REA) Regulatory net exposure Central governments and central banks 2,413 48 144 2,606 154 Institutions1 5,282 2 853 90 52 6 1 6,286 344 Corporates 44 21 44 401 894 392 2,810 1 4,606 3,758 Retail 820 226 389 300 755 1 2,490 974 Covered bonds Secured by real estate 1,296 843 562 5 2,706 541 Governance Report Exposures in default 38 79 117 156 Other -230 1,044 233 774 737 617 53 3,228 1,907 Total SA2 7,509 3,183 2,248 2,215 1,982 1,153 3,614 134 22,039 7,834 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 253 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction 31 December 2013 (in millions, Risk Total Exposure at Default) weight 0% 10% 20% 35% 50% 75% 100% 150% 200% EAD Strategic Report Regulatory gross exposure Central governments and central banks 119 118 65 302 Institutions1 889 749 77 3 1,718 Corporates 51 25 346 1,005 111 8,636 75 1 10,250 Retail 687 1,014 716 422 5,899 97 14 8,849 of which retail mortgages 687 838 716 24 48 1 2,314 Business Report of which qualifying revolving exposures of which other retail 176 398 5,899 49 13 6,535 Securitisation positions Total2 119 1,745 1,788 1,062 1,504 6,010 8,801 89 1 21,119 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. Risk, funding & capital information 31 December 2013 (in millions, Risk Total Total RWA Exposure at Default) weight 0% 10% 20% 35% 50% 75% 100% 150% 200% EAD (REA) Regulatory net exposure Central governments and central banks 155 120 65 340 80 Institutions1 936 879 94 187 12 8 2,116 425 Corporates 51 25 299 1,062 111 5,034 55 1 6,638 5,930 Retail 687 1,062 688 395 781 26 10 3,649 1,364 of which retail mortgages 687 886 688 1 2,262 497 Governance Report of which qualifying revolving exposures of which other retail 176 395 781 25 10 1,387 867 Securitisation positions Other 190 975 312 1,029 2,843 53 895 2 6,299 2,932 Total SA2 345 2,769 2,278 2,110 4,487 957 6,028 65 3 19,042 10,731 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for other non-credit obligations. Annual Financial Statements Credit quality by exposure class under the Internal Ratings-Based approach vt The following tables provide an overview of EAD, REA and LGD buckets by exposure class and grade category. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 254 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction IRB approach: credit quality by exposure class vt 31 December 2015 Strategic Report LGD 0% LGD 20% Total 20% 50% LGD >50% RWA (REA)/ (in millions) EAD RWA (REA) EAD EAD (%) EAD (%) EAD (%) Exposure class Grade category Central governments and Investment grade 58,769 746 1% 41% 54% 5% central banks Sub-investment grade 123 232 189% 75% 25% Business Report Default without provision Default with provision Total 58,892 978 2% 41% 54% 5% Institutions1 Investment grade 13,804 2,337 17% 19% 77% 4% Sub-investment grade 351 548 156% 8% 81% 11% Default without provision 11 2 18% 100% Default with provision 10 1% 53% 47% Risk, funding & capital information Total 14,177 2,887 20% 19% 77% 4% Corporates Investment grade 37,131 9,147 25% 39% 57% 4% Sub-investment grade 56,787 25,674 45% 78% 22% Default without provision 961 486 51% 99% 1% Default with provision 4,250 5,285 124% 2% 53% 45% Total 99,128 40,592 41% 60% 36% 3% Retail Investment grade 140,275 8,986 6% 81% 17% 2% Sub-investment grade 31,295 13,469 43% 57% 31% 12% Default without provision Default with provision 2,559 4,175 163% 5% 76% 19% Total 174,129 26,631 15% 76% 20% 4% Governance Report Securitisation positions Investment grade 1,125 84 7% 100% Sub-investment grade Default without provision Default with provision Total 1,125 84 7% 100% 0% 0% Credit valuation adjustment Investment grade 318 Sub-investment grade 787 Annual Financial Statements Default without provision Default with provision Total 1,105 Total Investment grade 251,105 21,618 9% 62% 35% 3% Sub-investment grade 88,556 40,710 46% 70% 26% 4% Default without provision 972 488 50% 99% 1% 0% Default with provision 6,819 9,460 139% 3% 62% 35% Total2 347,452 72,277 21% 63% 33% 4% 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. Other 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 255 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction IRB approach: credit quality by exposure class vt 31 December 2014 Strategic Report LGD 0% LGD 20% Total 20% 50% LGD >50% RWA (REA)/ (in millions) EAD REA EAD EAD (%) EAD (%) EAD (%) Exposure class Grade category Central governments and Investment grade 41,815 1,946 5% 63% 37% central banks Sub-investment grade 270 63 23% 98% 2% Business Report Default without provision Default with provision 11 Total 42,085 2,020 5% 63% 37% 0% Institutions1 Investment grade 17,867 4,584 26% 37% 55% 8% Sub-investment grade 418 388 93% 66% 34% Default without provision 7 0% 100% Default with provision Risk, funding & capital information Total 18,291 4,972 27% 36% 55% 9% Corporates Investment grade 33,899 7,437 22% 43% 54% 3% Sub-investment grade 50,658 24,575 49% 72% 28% Default without provision 1,070 467 44% 100% Default with provision 4,224 4,107 97% 17% 35% 48% Total 89,851 36,586 41% 18% 63% 19% Retail Investment grade 135,157 10,991 8% 78% 20% 2% Sub-investment grade 35,258 13,222 38% 64% 23% 13% Default without provision Default with provision 3,196 4,434 139% 5% 77% 18% Total Governance Report 173,611 28,646 17% 74% 22% 5% Securitisation positions Investment grade 2,434 237 10% 100% Sub-investment grade Default without provision Default with provision Total 2,434 237 10% 100% 0% 0% Credit valuation adjustment Investment grade Sub-investment grade 1,264 Annual Financial Statements Default without provision Default with provision Total 1,264 Total Investment grade 231,172 25,196 11% 67% 31% 2% Sub-investment grade 86,604 39,512 46% 26% 52% 22% Default without provision 1,077 467 43% 100% 0% 0% Default with provision 7,420 8,552 115% 12% 53% 35% Total2 326,273 73,726 23% 55% 37% 8% 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. Other 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 256 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction 31 December 2013 LGD 0% LGD 20% Total 20% 50% LGD > 50% Strategic Report RWA (REA)/ (in millions) EAD RWA EAD EAD (%) EAD (%) EAD (%) Exposure class Grade category Central governments and Investment grade 44,998 474 1% 76% 24% central banks Sub-investment grade 22 54 245% 100% Default without provision Default with provision Business Report Total 45,020 528 1% 76% 24% 0% Institutions1 Investment grade 17,811 3,521 20% 7% 79% 14% Sub-investment grade 763 673 88% 3% 76% 21% Default without provision Default with provision 8 7 88% 100% Total 18,582 4,201 23% 7% 79% 14% Corporates Investment grade 28,999 7,820 27% 26% 70% 4% Risk, funding & capital information Sub-investment grade 52,775 26,949 51% 57% 43% Default without provision 1,290 2,567 199% 75% 25% Default with provision 4,415 1,684 38% 14% 86% Total 87,479 39,020 45% 45% 54% 1% Retail Investment grade 135,764 8,050 6% 78% 21% 1% Sub-investment grade 35,202 14,742 42% 59% 28% 13% Default without provision Default with provision 3,232 4,420 137% 72% 28% Total 174,198 27,212 16% 74% 23% 3% Securitisation positions Investment grade 2,511 286 11% 100% Governance Report Sub-investment grade Default without provision Default with provision Total 2,511 286 11% 100% 0% 0% Total Investment grade 230,083 20,151 9% 66% 32% 2% Sub-investment grade 88,762 42,418 48% 57% 37% 6% Default without provision 1,290 2,567 199% 75% 25% 0% Default with provision 7,655 6,111 80% 38% 62% 0% Annual Financial Statements Total 2 327,790 71,247 22% 63% 34% 3% 1 Institutions include exposures to banks and investment undertakings, regional governments and local authorities, and pension funds. 2 Exposure at Default does not include EAD calculated for equities not held for trading and other non-credit obligations. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 257 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction European exposures European government and government-guaranteed exposures b Strategic Report 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Gross Gross Gross Government carrying Government carrying Government carrying (in billions) Government guaranteed amount Government guaranteed amount Government guaranteed amount Netherlands 8.5 8.5 10.5 10.5 11.2 11.2 France 4.7 4.7 4.9 4.9 5.1 5.1 Germany 4.5 4.5 4.5 4.5 2.4 2.4 Business Report Austria 1.8 1.8 2.0 2.0 1.6 1.6 Belgium 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 2.6 2.6 European Union 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.3 1.3 Finland 2.1 2.1 2.2 2.2 1.1 1.1 Italy 0.4 0.4 1.0 1.0 0.5 0.5 Denmark 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Poland 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 United Kingdom 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 Risk, funding & capital information Spain 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.2 0.2 Luxembourg 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Sweden 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 Switzerland 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.3 Total 29.0 29.0 32.6 32.6 27.2 27.2 Specific products and types of financing v Exposure at Default for equities not held for trading v 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 (in millions, Exposure at Default) EAD RWA (REA) EAD RWA (REA) EAD RWA (REA) Governance Report IRB Private equity (190%) 645 1,226 588 1,118 329 625 IRB Equity exposures subjected to risk weighting (250%) 1,949 1,985 IRB Exchanged traded (290%) 98 287 95 275 243 705 IRB Other equity (370%) 465 1,723 441 1,631 379 1,403 Total 1,208 5,185 1,124 5,009 951 2,733 Annual Financial Statements Exposure at Default for OTC derivatives v (in millions, Exposure at Default) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Gross positive fair value 1 45,135 52,974 13,642 Add: Potential future exposure add-on 11,369 11,607 5,187 Gross Exposure at Default 56,504 64,581 18,829 Less: Netting benefits 45,541 51,079 9,689 Less: Collateral held 3,950 138 Net Exposure at Default 7,012 13,502 9,002 1 Due to the implementation of CRD IV/CRR derivative exposures to central counterparties (CCP) are included as from 2014. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 258 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Additional information on forborne, past due and impaired loans Forbearance credit quality b Strategic Report 31 December 2015 Forborne Forborne Total assets not assets past Impaired forborne past due and due but not forborne Specific Collective Total (in millions) assets not impaired impaired assets allowance allowance allowance Loans and receivables banks Loans and receivables customers Business Report Residential mortgages 1,757 1,101 394 263 27 36 63 Consumer loans 648 419 106 123 31 27 57 Corporate loans 6,276 4,159 337 1,780 764 73 837 Other loans and receivables customers 383 168 60 156 36 36 Total Loans and receivables customers 9,065 5,847 897 2,321 857 136 993 Total 9,065 5,847 897 2,321 857 136 993 Risk, funding & capital information Forbearance credit quality b 31 December 2014 Forborne Forborne Total assets not assets past Impaired forborne past due and due but not forborne Specific Collective Total (in millions) assets not impaired impaired assets allowance allowance allowance Loans and receivables banks Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages 1,814 872 490 453 28 81 109 Governance Report Other consumer loans 470 270 65 135 23 41 64 Corporate loans 6,698 4,295 500 1,903 824 59 883 Other loans and receivables customers 92 30 33 29 8 8 Total Loans and receivables customers 9,074 5,466 1,088 2,520 884 181 1,065 Total 9,074 5,466 1,088 2,520 884 181 1,065 Annual Financial Statements Forbearance credit quality b 31 December 2013 Forborne Forborne Total assets not assets past Impaired forborne past due and due but not forborne Specific Collective Total (in millions) assets not impaired impaired assets allowance allowance allowance Loans and receivables banks Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages 2,421 589 401 1,431 20 430 450 Other consumer loans 337 244 6 87 9 26 35 Corporate loans 6,273 4,433 194 1,646 754 57 811 Other Other loans and receivables customers 160 25 135 Total Loans and receivables customers 9,191 5,291 736 3,164 783 513 1,296 Total 9,191 5,291 736 3,164 783 513 1,296 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 259 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Forborne assets by geography b 31 December 2015 Strategic Report The Rest of Rest of (in millions) Netherlands Europe USA Asia the world Total Loans and receivables banks Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages 1,722 32 2 1,757 Consumer loans 603 43 1 1 648 Business Report Corporate loans 5,167 402 72 188 447 6,276 Other loans and receivables customers 361 23 383 Total Loans and receivables customers 7,853 500 72 189 451 9,065 Total 7,853 500 72 189 451 9,065 Forborne assets by geography b Risk, funding & capital information 31 December 2014 The Rest of Rest of (in millions) Netherlands Europe USA Asia the world Total Loans and receivables banks Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages 1,770 30 14 1,814 Other consumer loans 456 13 470 Corporate loans 5,812 464 17 104 300 6,698 Other loans and receivables customers 81 11 92 Total Loans and receivables Governance Report customers 8,120 518 17 104 314 9,074 Total 8,120 518 17 104 314 9,074 Forborne assets by geography b 31 December 2013 The Rest of Rest of Annual Financial Statements (in millions) Netherlands Europe USA Asia the world Total Loans and receivables banks Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages 2,331 90 2,421 Other consumer loans 316 20 1 337 Corporate loans 5,380 516 15 46 316 6,273 Other loans and receivables customers 138 22 160 Total Loans and receivables customers 8,165 648 15 46 317 9,191 Other Total 8,165 648 15 46 317 9,191 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 260 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Forborne assets by business segment b (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Strategic Report Retail Banking 2,157 2,092 2,536 Private Banking 375 276 311 Corporate Banking 6,533 6,706 6,344 Total 9,065 9,074 9,191 Maturity of impaired exposures Business Report 31 December 2015 >one year & Gross carrying Impaired <= one year <= five years > five years (in millions) amount exposures impaired impaired impaired Securities financing 20,073 11 11 Loans and receivables banks 15,682 2 2 Risk, funding & capital information Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1 146,932 1,031 732 288 12 Consumer loans2 15,147 860 243 586 31 Corporate loans1 84,864 4,872 1,301 2,740 831 Other loans and receivables customers1, 3 11,881 210 57 138 14 Total Loans and receivables customers 258,824 6,973 2,334 3,752 887 Other assets 1,903 9 4 4 1 Total on-balance sheet 296,482 6,994 2,338 3,757 898 Governance Report Total off-balance sheet 118,300 22 21 1 Total 414,782 7,016 2,358 3,759 899 1 Carrying amount excludes fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 Consumer loans in the programme lending portfolio that are more than 90 days due are immediately impaired. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consist of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and factoring. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 261 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maturity of impaired exposures 31 December 2014 Strategic Report >one year & Gross carrying Impaired <= one year <= five years > five years (in millions) amount exposures impaired impaired impaired Securities financing 18,521 10 10 Loans and receivables banks 21,680 Loans and receivables customers Business Report Residential mortgages1 148,402 1,478 1,038 426 13 Consumer loans2 16,052 868 320 490 57 Corporate loans1 84,694 4,989 1,515 2,666 809 Other loans and receivables customers1, 3 11,799 265 67 184 14 Total Loans and receivables customers 260,947 7,601 2,941 3,766 894 Other assets 1,932 12 12 Risk, funding & capital information Total on-balance sheet 303,080 7,622 2,952 3,766 904 Total off-balance sheet 110,011 9 9 Total 413,092 7,632 2,962 3,766 904 1 Carrying amount excludes fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 Consumer loans in the programme lending portfolio that are more than 90 days due are immediately impaired. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consist of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and factoring. 31 December 2013 >one year & Gross carrying Impaired <= one year <= five years > five years (in millions) amount exposures impaired impaired impaired Governance Report Securities financing 18,386 23 23 Loans and receivables banks 23,967 Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1 150,493 1,739 1,273 451 15 Consumer loans2 16,241 887 449 415 23 Corporate loans1 83,462 5,038 1,729 2,745 564 Annual Financial Statements Other loans and receivables customers 1, 3 7,408 137 57 71 9 Total Loans and receivables customers 257,604 7,801 3,508 3,682 611 Other assets 2,187 13 13 Total on-balance sheet 302,144 7,837 3,521 3,705 611 Total off-balance sheet 101,525 8 8 Total 403,669 7,845 3,529 3,705 611 1 Carrying amount excludes fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 Consumer loans in the programme lending portfolio that are more than 90 days due are immediately impaired. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consist of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and factoring. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 262 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maturity of allowances for impairments for identified credit risk 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Allowances for Impairments >one year & Impaired for identified <= one year <= five years > five years (in millions) exposures credit risk impaired impaired impaired Securities financing 11 -11 -11 Loans and receivables banks 2 -2 -2 Business Report Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1 1,031 -245 -160 -78 -7 Consumer loans2 860 -471 -140 -312 -19 Corporate loans1 4,872 -3,098 -625 -1,708 -764 Other loans and receivables customers1, 3 210 -78 -21 -49 -9 Total Loans and receivables customers 6,973 -3,892 -946 -2,147 -800 Risk, funding & capital information Other assets 9 -4 -2 -1 -1 Total on-balance sheet 6,994 -3,908 -948 -2,150 -811 Total off-balance sheet 22 Total 7,016 -3,909 -948 -2,150 -811 1 Carrying amount excludes fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 Consumer loans in the programme lending portfolio that are more than 90 days due are immediately impaired. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consist of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and factoring. Maturity of allowances for impairments for identified credit risk 31 December 2014 Governance Report Allowances for Impairments >one year & Impaired for identified <= one year <= five years > five years (in millions) exposures credit risk impaired impaired impaired Securities financing 10 -10 -10 Loans and receivables banks Loans and receivables customers Annual Financial Statements Residential mortgages1 1,478 -408 -266 -132 -10 Consumer loans2 868 -533 -158 -338 -37 Corporate loans1 4,989 -3,017 -711 -1,611 -696 Other loans and receivables customers 1, 3 265 -115 -48 -56 -11 Total Loans and receivables customers 7,601 -4,073 -1,184 -2,136 -753 Other assets 12 -5 -5 Total on-balance sheet 7,622 -4,088 -1,189 -2,136 -763 Total off-balance sheet 9 Total 7,632 -4,089 -1,189 -2,136 -763 Other 1 Carrying amount excludes fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 Consumer loans in the programme lending portfolio that are more than 90 days due are immediately impaired. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consist of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and factoring. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 263 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction 31 December 2013 Allowances for Impairments >one year & Strategic Report Impaired for identified <= one year <= five years > five years (in millions) exposures credit risk impaired impaired impaired Securities financing 23 -23 -23 Loans and receivables banks Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages1 1,739 -472 -316 -147 -9 Consumer loans2 887 -512 -216 -283 -13 Business Report Corporate loans1 5,038 -3,237 -906 -1,779 -552 Other loans and receivables customers1, 3 137 -86 -22 -57 -7 Total Loans and receivables customers 7,801 -4,307 -1,460 -2,266 -581 Other assets 13 -5 -5 Total on-balance sheet 7,837 -4,335 -1,465 -2,289 -581 Risk, funding & capital information Total off-balance sheet 8 Total 7,845 -4,335 -1,465 -2,289 -581 1 Carrying amount excludes fair value adjustment from hedge accounting. 2 Consumer loans in the programme lending portfolio that are more than 90 days due are immediately impaired. 3 Other loans and receivables customers consist of Government and official institutions, Financial lease receivables and factoring. Maturity overview of assets and liabilities this table does not reflect prepayment of mortgages bp and other loans and the fact that the behavioural The following table shows the financial assets and maturities of client deposits are not in line with the liabilities arranged by the earliest possible contractual contractual maturities. Financial investments relate to Governance Report maturity. This picture is not consistent with how we view the liquidity buffer and can be liquidated quickly despite and manage liquidity, as it does not take expected client the longer contractual maturity. behaviour and other factors into account. Most notably, Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 264 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities bp 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Between Between Between Up to one and three and six and Between Between More Maturity one three six twelve one and two and than five not (in millions) month months months months two years five years years applicable Total Assets Cash and balances at central banks 26,195 26,195 Financial assets held for trading 1 1,706 1,706 Business Report Derivatives 720 845 349 409 1,192 3,847 11,777 19,138 Financial investments 980 3,898 1,924 1,028 3,050 9,039 19,641 981 40,542 Securities financing 17,006 2,335 96 625 20,062 Loans and receivables banks2 5,192 2,151 198 205 413 291 7,229 15,680 Loans and receivables customers2 27,306 6,645 2,623 7,362 29,267 21,090 165,026 259,319 Other assets1 3,463 44 6 33 350 211 1,116 2,454 7,676 Total assets 82,568 15,918 5,195 9,037 34,272 35,104 204,789 3,435 390,317 Liabilities Risk, funding & capital information Financial liabilities held for trading1 459 459 Derivatives 743 793 423 387 1,175 3,291 15,613 22,425 Securities financing 10,252 79 1 1,028 11 11,372 Due to banks2 4,342 1,077 541 401 32 4,446 3,790 14,630 Due to customers2 203,662 16,514 1,751 2,240 924 1,495 3,710 230,297 Issued debt 4,745 6,045 4,340 4,472 11,015 21,570 24,020 76,207 of which senior secured 135 439 2,282 6,664 16,436 25,956 of which senior unsecured 1,325 649 3,331 3,301 7,628 13,607 7,563 37,404 of which securitisation 600 1,100 1,250 18 2,968 of which other 3,420 5,396 874 132 5 49 3 9,879 Subordinated liabilities 5 82 114 9,507 9,708 Governance Report Other liabilities1 2,581 681 287 525 663 7 181 2,710 7,635 Total liabilities 226,784 25,190 7,348 8,025 14,919 30,934 56,822 2,710 372,733 Total equity 17,584 17,584 Total liablities and equity 226,784 25,190 7,348 8,025 14,919 30,934 56,822 20,295 390,317 Off-balance sheet liabilities Committed credit facilities 21,559 21,559 Annual Financial Statements Guarantees 2,440 2,440 Irrevocable facilities 5,737 5,737 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 5,691 5,691 Total off-balance sheet liablities 35,427 35,427 1 Excluding Derivatives. 2 Excluding Securities financing. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 265 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities bp 31 December 2014 Strategic Report Between Between Between Between Between Up to one and three and six and one and two and More Maturity one three six twelve two five than five not (in millions) month months months months years years years applicable Total Assets Cash and balances at central banks 706 706 Financial assets held for trading1 9,017 9,017 Derivatives Business Report 19,826 11 34 293 167 959 3,995 25,285 Financial investments 637 1,336 4,119 3,399 2,510 8,305 20,628 531 41,466 Securities financing 14,856 2,316 628 96 615 18,511 Loans and receivables banks2 10,672 556 262 402 154 331 9,303 21,680 Loans and receivables customers2 18,218 13,324 3,788 14,468 20,952 21,307 169,851 261,910 Other assets1 2,978 199 1,585 596 223 205 1,393 1,112 8,292 Total assets 76,911 17,742 10,417 19,158 24,101 31,723 205,171 1,643 386,867 Liabilities Risk, funding & capital information Financial liabilities held for trading1 3,759 3,759 Derivatives 18,262 20 71 145 387 1,813 9,750 30,449 Securities financing 11,285 1,551 82 1,000 13,918 Due to banks2 5,910 925 441 258 105 4,372 3,732 15,744 Due to customers2 193,014 11,564 1,957 2,314 1,577 1,681 3,904 216,011 Issued debt 3,499 8,195 3,688 4,995 11,554 21,340 23,859 77,131 of which senior secured 2,961 558 6,387 17,171 27,077 of which senior unsecured 1,139 2,172 473 782 8,396 12,603 6,687 32,252 of which securitisation 3,171 378 500 2,600 2,350 9,000 of which other 2,360 2,852 2,837 753 8,802 Subordinated liabilities 3 1,304 3,605 3,415 8,328 Governance Report Other liabilities1 1,969 150 439 479 580 5 335 2,695 6,652 Total liabilities 237,701 22,405 6,679 8,191 15,508 33,816 44,995 2,695 371,990 Total equity 14,877 14,877 Total liabilities and equity 237,701 22,405 6,679 8,191 15,508 33,816 44,995 17,572 386,867 Off-balance sheet liabilities Committed credit facilities 16,164 16,164 Annual Financial Statements Guarantees 2,592 2,592 Irrevocable facilities 5,499 5,499 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 7,243 7,243 Total off-balance sheet liablities 31,498 31,498 1 Excluding Derivatives. 2 Excluding Securities financing. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 266 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities bp 31 December 2013 Strategic Report Between Between Between Between Between Up to one and three and six and one and two and More Maturity one three six twelve two five than five not (in millions) month months months months years years years applicable Total Assets Cash and balances at central banks 9,523 9,523 Financial assets held for trading1 12,019 12,019 Derivatives 11,880 11 19 48 354 631 1,328 14,271 Business Report Financial investments 455 935 610 1,302 2,173 6,761 15,374 501 28,111 Securities financing 14,593 1,959 869 301 98 542 18,362 Loans and receivables banks2 16,448 491 227 133 18 137 6,513 23,967 Loans and receivables customers2 21,809 7,790 1,799 12,809 24,799 20,324 167,698 257,028 Other assets1 2,335 79 109 583 51 176 1,687 3,721 8,741 Total assets 89,062 11,265 3,633 15,176 27,395 28,127 193,142 4,222 372,022 Liabilities Risk, funding & capital information Financial liabilities held for trading1 4,399 4,399 Derivatives 9,863 15 33 47 318 1,710 5,241 17,227 Securities financing 9,449 321 1,460 1 25 1,002 8 12,266 Due to banks 2 6,035 2,576 390 180 251 166 2,028 11,626 Due to customers2 182,749 13,606 2,176 1,684 884 2,250 4,235 207,584 Issued debt 6,974 7,720 7,156 8,869 11,715 22,007 24,241 88,682 of which senior secured 75 2,071 3,006 5,016 15,745 25,913 of which senior unsecured 3,918 350 2,309 4,103 4,477 12,050 7,306 34,513 of which securitisation 2,040 40 80 4,221 4,930 982 12,293 of which other 3,056 5,330 4,732 2,615 11 11 208 15,963 Subordinated liabilities 51 3 3,053 4,810 7,917 Governance Report Other liabilities 1 1,017 2,489 881 795 4 5 698 2,864 8,753 Total liabilities 220,486 26,778 12,096 11,576 13,200 30,193 41,261 2,864 358,454 Total equity 13,568 13,568 Total liabilities and equity 220,486 26,778 12,096 11,576 13,200 30,193 41,261 16,432 372,022 Off-balance sheet liabilities Committed credit facilities 13,764 13,764 Guarantees Annual Financial Statements 3,534 3,534 Irrevocable facilities 5,415 5,415 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 7,154 7,154 Total off-balance sheet liablities 29,867 29,867 1 Excluding Derivatives. 2 Excluding Securities financing. The following table provides a maturity analysis of the We believe this best represents the short-term nature and earliest contractual undiscounted cash flows for financial the cash flows of these activities. The contractual maturity assets and liabilities. Financial assets and liabilities held of the instruments may be extended over significantly for trading are recorded under On demand, at fair value. longer periods. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 267 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maturity based on contractual undiscounted cash flows b 31 December 2015 Strategic Report TradBetween Between Between Between Between ing Up to one and three six and one and two and More No On derivone three and six twelve two five than five matu(in millions) demand atives month months months months years years years rity Total Assets: Cash and balances at central banks 26,195 26,195 Financial assets held for trading1 1,706 1,706 Derivatives 223 275 393 541 889 1,923 4,184 4,083 77 12,588 Business Report Financial investments 50 957 4,003 2,157 1,448 3,769 10,613 20,810 981 44,789 Securities financing 12,781 4,227 2,339 98 4 8 639 20,097 Loans and receivables banks2 2,859 2,340 2,174 246 294 571 657 7,591 16,731 Loans and receivables customers2 13,885 13,798 8,062 6,067 13,697 39,657 44,637 186,843 326,644 Other assets 2,570 894 46 11 43 365 245 1,147 2,377 7,698 Total undiscounted assets 60,046 223 22,491 17,016 9,120 16,376 46,292 60,975 220,473 3,435 456,446 Gross settled derivatives not held for trading: Risk, funding & capital information Contractual amounts receivable 33 41 41 107 190 355 184 951 Contractual amounts payable 3 9 6 15 26 50 10 120 Total undiscounted gross settled derivatives not held for trading 30 32 35 92 165 305 174 832 Net settled derivatives not held for trading 245 362 506 797 1,756 3,878 3,836 11,379 Liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading1 459 459 Derivatives 249 258 203 507 902 1,698 3,465 8,230 1,313 16,824 Securities financing 9,521 732 81 5 6 1,029 11 11,385 Due to banks2 1,979 2,371 1,100 590 490 197 4,795 3,972 15,493 Governance Report Due to customers2 147,728 55,963 16,546 1,784 2,285 992 1,643 3,824 230,765 Issued debt 2,082 2,726 6,284 4,879 5,403 12,430 24,553 25,775 84,132 Subordinated liabilities 20 79 201 374 784 1,749 11,165 14,372 Other liabilities 1,218 1,364 682 288 527 664 8 182 2,710 7,642 Total liabilities 162,987 249 63,433 24,974 8,256 9,986 17,794 36,223 53,148 4,023 381,073 Gross settled derivatives not held for trading: Contractual amounts receivable 1 3 1 6 Contractual amounts payable 10 3 11 68 88 66 16 260 Annual Financial Statements Total undiscounted gross settled derivatives not held for trading 10 2 11 67 86 63 15 254 Net settled derivatives not held for trading 248 201 481 794 1,547 3,340 7,084 13,695 Net liquidity gap -102,941 -26 -40,941 -7,958 864 6,390 28,498 24,751 167,325 -588 75,373 Off balance sheet liabilities Committed credit facilities 21,559 21,559 Guarantees 2,440 2,440 Irrevocable facilities 5,737 5,737 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 5,691 5,691 Other Total off-balance sheet liabilities 35,427 35,427 1 Excluding Derivatives. 2 Excluding Securities financing. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 268 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maturity based on contractual undiscounted cash flows b 31 December 2014 Strategic Report TradBetween Between Between Between Between ing Up to one and three six and one and two and More No On derivone three and six twelve two five than five matu(in millions) demand atives month months months months years years years rity Total Assets: Cash and balances at central banks 611 95 706 Financial assets held for trading1 9,017 9,017 Derivatives 19,730 84 219 83 582 786 1,857 2,195 25,535 Business Report Financial investments 668 1,456 4,395 3,857 3,294 10,036 22,499 46,205 Securities financing 126 14,740 2,323 634 8 109 639 18,579 Loans and receivables banks2 8,372 2,305 574 304 479 296 660 9,630 22,620 Loans and receivables customers2 315 18,331 14,899 7,530 21,165 32,294 47,090 193,785 335,411 Other assets 352 2,627 203 1,592 604 235 234 1,419 1,113 8,380 Total undiscounted assets 18,794 19,730 38,851 19,674 14,539 26,694 37,014 60,515 229,529 1,113 466,453 Gross settled derivatives not held for trading: Risk, funding & capital information Contractual amounts receivable 25 42 29 77 142 301 174 790 Contractual amounts payable 6 13 17 28 57 110 29 260 Total undiscounted gross settled derivatives not held for trading 19 28 12 49 85 191 145 530 Net settled derivatives not held for trading 65 191 58 529 693 1,653 1,990 5,178 Liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading1 3,759 3,759 Derivatives 18,203 115 162 475 593 1,163 2,562 6,323 29,597 Securities financing 49 11,243 1,555 88 10 19 1,036 13,999 Due to banks2 1,974 3,943 946 489 345 267 4,712 3,910 16,586 Due to customers2 Governance Report 64,330 128,752 11,600 2,003 2,378 1,668 1,878 4,053 216,662 Issued debt 63 3,512 8,477 4,312 6,072 13,169 24,741 25,864 86,210 Subordinated liabilities 19 62 156 296 1,781 4,602 3,949 10,864 Other liabilities 1,341 629 151 442 482 582 9 339 2,696 6,670 Total liabilities 71,517 18,203 148,212 22,954 7,965 10,176 18,648 39,540 44,439 2,696 384,348 Gross settled derivatives not held for trading: Contractual amounts receivable 8 1 8 17 31 30 5 100 Contractual amounts payable 4 2 2 30 34 34 7 112 Annual Financial Statements Total undiscounted gross settled derivatives not held for trading -4 -6 14 3 4 1 12 Net settled derivatives not held for trading 119 158 455 548 1,098 2,459 5,270 10,106 Net liquidity gap -52,723 1,527 -109,361 -3,280 6,574 16,518 18,367 20,975 185,090 -1,583 82,105 Off balance sheet liabilities Committed credit facilities 16,164 16,164 Guarantees 2,592 2,592 Irrevocable facilities 5,499 5,499 Recourse risks arising Other from discounted bills 7,243 7,243 Total off-balance sheet liabilities 31,498 31,498 1 Excluding Derivatives. 2 Excluding Securities financing. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 269 Risk, funding & capital Report / Additional risk, funding & capital disclosures Introduction Maturity based on contractual undiscounted cash flows b 31 December 2013 Strategic Report TradBetween Between Between Between Between ing Up to one and three six and one and two and More No On derivone three and six twelve two five than five matu(in millions) demand atives month months months months years years years rity Total Assets: Cash and balances at central banks 9,523 9,523 Financial assets held for trading1 11,840 20 11,860 Derivatives 11,998 59 178 73 491 932 2,146 1,959 17,836 Business Report Financial investments 464 971 696 1,457 2,438 7,343 15,771 542 29,682 Securities financing 7,021 7,579 1,967 878 310 15 131 596 18,497 Loans and receivables banks2 3,751 12,704 502 257 171 124 384 6,757 24,650 Loans and receivables customers2 2 22,240 9,335 5,532 19,573 36,035 45,848 191,451 330,016 Other assets 389 1,980 148 214 790 245 115 1,658 3,730 9,269 Total undiscounted assets 32,526 11,998 45,046 13,101 7,650 22,792 39,789 55,967 218,192 4,272 451,333 Gross settled derivatives not held for trading: Risk, funding & capital information Contractual amounts receivable 8 21 34 57 117 299 165 701 Contractual amounts payable 5 5 11 20 40 119 29 229 Total undiscounted gross settled derivatives not held for trading 3 16 23 37 77 180 136 472 Net settled derivatives not held for trading 32 154 33 447 622 1,895 1,650 4,833 Liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading1 4,378 21 4,399 Derivatives 9,849 117 199 483 554 1,306 4,001 6,587 23,096 Securities financing 3,064 6,391 328 1,471 13 47 1,044 8 12,366 Due to banks2 1,942 4,102 2,597 422 230 336 357 2,189 12,175 Due to customers2 60,916 121,913 13,653 2,231 1,763 1,012 2,527 4,434 208,449 Governance Report Issued debt 7,020 7,886 7,523 9,463 12,597 23,862 25,330 93,681 Subordinated liabilities 12 101 125 238 453 4,030 5,467 10,426 Other liabilities 639 393 2,511 1,029 1,106 32 44 482 2,744 8,980 Total liabilities 70,939 9,849 139,969 27,275 13,284 13,367 15,783 35,865 44,497 2,744 373,572 Gross settled derivatives not held for trading: Contractual amounts receivable 3 3 16 21 40 72 8 163 Contractual amounts payable 11 4 13 29 54 97 12 220 Annual Financial Statements Total undiscounted gross settled derivatives not held for trading 8 1 -3 8 14 25 4 57 Net settled derivatives not held for trading 97 182 454 525 1,235 3,687 6,099 12,279 Net liquidity gap -38,413 2,149 -94,923 -14,174 -5,634 9,425 24,006 20,102 173,695 1,528 77,761 Off balance sheet liabilities Committed credit facilities 13,764 13,764 Guarantees 3,534 3,534 Irrevocable facilities 5,415 5,415 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 7,154 7,154 Total off-balance Other sheet liabilities 29,867 29,867 1 Excluding Derivatives. 2 Excluding Securities financing. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Investor Relations Introduction Our relationship with investors during the bank’s IPO Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements “We were in close contact with investors throughout the IPO process. During the 8-day roadshow in Europe and the US, Other we held more than 100 meetings and talked to over 250 institutional investors.” Introduction Our investors gave us valuable input as Who we mapped out the bank’s future and set Dies Donker, our financial targets. Head of Investor Relations Strategic Report ABN AMRO “It took us several years to prepare for the Initial Public Offering (IPO). During this time, we met with many institutional investors on a regular basis to put our bank on their radar and hear their views. They gave us valuable input as we set the bank’s financial targets and mapped out its future. Investors were looking forward to seeing us listed and were Business Report pleased with how the IPO went. Employees, too, were proud about the listing. Afterwards, my colleagues and I watched a video of ABN AMRO teams around the world as they watched the listing ceremony and cheered. Staff all the way from Hong Kong to São Paulo to Chicago and Amsterdam, and at every office in the Netherlands, were dressed in green and Risk, funding & capital Report yellow to celebrate the big event. All of us had been working towards a common goal, and that was to become a listed bank.” Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other 272 Introduction Governance Report Strategic Report This report presents an overview of the Group’s corporate governance framework, including the Supervisory Board report and the Remuneration report. Business Report 274 312 Risk, funding & capital Report Corporate governance Remuneration report General Meeting and shareholder structure 276 Details of Remuneration 321 Supervisory Board 281 323 Managing Board 289 Corporate governance codes and regulations 294 Legal structure 298 300 Employee representation Supervisory Board report Supervisory Board Committees Philosophy, policies and principles 308 312 325 Senior Managing Directors Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other 274 Governance Report / Corporate governance Introduction Corporate governance Strategic Report This section provides an overview of corporate governance at ABN AMRO Group, including the composition of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. Overview Business Report Good corporate governance is critical for us to realise our Financial Markets Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel strategic ambition of being a trusted and professional toezicht) and other regulatory principles. Moreover, the partner for all our stakeholders, including customers, Articles of Association of ABN AMRO Group have been savers and deposit holders, investors, holders of amended, also in connection with implementation of depositary receipts, employees and the society in which the full structure regime (volledige structuurregime). We we carry out our activities. Corporate governance gives have changed the risk governance and related decision meaning to who we are, what we stand for, what we framework by adopting an updated Risk Governance Risk, funding & capital Report aim for, how we make and implement decisions, and Charter and other policies (see for more information on how we connect with each other and the world around us. ABN AMRO’s risk governance, the Risk, Funding & Capital The Managing Board and Supervisory Board underpin the Report). We also took significant steps towards integrated importance of good corporate governance and exert every reporting, of which this Annual Report is the result. In effort to be a frontrunner in this area. preparation of the IPO, we entered into a Relationship Agreement with NLFI and made other arrangements, In 2015 we launched a number of initiatives to further and adopted policies for bilateral communication with strengthen our corporate governance ahead of the IPO. shareholders and holders of depositary receipts. We Among other things, we updated the Rules of Procedure also implemented a defence mechanism whereby the for both the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board independent foundation STAK AAG is the holder of shares Governance Report to implement and comply with the Dutch Corporate in ABN AMRO Group’s capital sold by NLFI and has issued Governance Code, Banking Code, CRD IV, the Dutch depositary receipts (certificaten) representing such shares. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 275 Governance Report / Corporate governance Introduction Corporate structure ABN AMRO Group is a public company with limited of the Dutch Civil Code, the full structure regime applies Strategic Report liability incorporated on 18 December 2009 under to ABN AMRO Group as from the listing of depositary Dutch law. The company has a two-tier board consisting receipts for shares in the capital of ABN AMRO Group of a Managing Board and a Supervisory Board. on Euronext Amsterdam. The main consequence of The composition of the Supervisory Boards of application of the mandatory full structure regime lies ABN AMRO Group and ABN AMRO Bank is identical, in the authority to appoint and dismiss members of the as is the composition of the Managing Boards of Managing Board, which has shifted from the General ABN AMRO Group and ABN AMRO Bank and the Meeting of Shareholders (the General Meeting) to the Business Report committees of these boards. Pursuant to section 2:154 Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board Risk, funding & capital Report Remuneration, Selection & Risk & Capital Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Managing Board Asset & Group Transition Governance Report Group Risk Central Credit Regulatory Liability Disclosure Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 276 Governance Report / Corporate governance / General Meeting and shareholder structure Introduction General Meeting and shareholder structure Strategic Report General Meeting The most recent annual General Meeting of The annual General Meeting is held each year, on 30 June ABN AMRO Group was held on 2 April 2015. Agenda at the latest. The agenda for the annual General Meeting items included the adoption of the 2014 Annual Financial must contain certain matters as specified in ABN AMRO’s Statements, the adoption of the dividend policy and of the Business Report Articles of Association and under Dutch law, including the proposed dividend for the year 2014, the reappointment adoption of the Annual Financial Statements. The General of Mr De Haan as a member of the Supervisory Board, Meeting is also entitled to approve important decisions discharge of the members of the Managing Board and of regarding the identity or character of ABN AMRO, the Supervisory Board for the performance of their duties including major acquisitions and divestments. in 2014, and the appointment of KPMG as external auditor for the financial year ending 31 December 2015 and EY The Supervisory Board, the Managing Board, shareholders as external auditor for the financial years ending Risk, funding & capital Report or (subject to the conditions set out in the Dutch Civil 31 December 2016, 2017 and 2018. In addition, the Code) holders of depositary receipts issued with the shareholder was informed of key developments in Retail cooperation of ABN AMRO Group representing at least Banking. In 2015, the General Meeting passed a number 10% of the issued share capital may convene additional of resolutions related to the IPO outside a meeting. extraordinary General Meetings at any time. Pursuant to These resolutions were, among other things, to appoint (and subject to certain conditions set forth in) the ABN AMRO Bank as underwriter in the IPO, to approve Relationship Agreement, in the event that NLFI requests the amendment of the Articles of Association of the Managing Board or Supervisory Board to convene a ABN AMRO Group, to authorise the Managing Board until General Meeting, the Managing Board or the Supervisory 24 May 2017, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board (as the case may be) need to ensure that such Board, to issue shares, restrict or exclude pre-emptive Governance Report meeting will be convened within 60 calendar days of rights and to repurchase shares and depositary receipts NLFI’s request. Shareholders or holders of depositary up to specified maximum numbers, to allow submission receipts who alone or together represent at least three of information to shareholders by electronic means and to percent of the issued share capital of ABN AMRO Group approve the amendments to the Supervisory Board Rules are entitled to have items added to the agenda of the of Procedure. General Meeting, provided that ABN AMRO Group receives the request, including the reasons, no later Annual Financial Statements than 60 days prior to the General Meeting. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 277 Governance Report / Corporate governance / General Meeting and shareholder structure Introduction Shareholder structure Strategic Report The State of the Netherlands Institutional and private investors (Represented by the Ministry of Finance) Depositary receipts Depositary receipts (Not Stock exchange listed) (Stock exchange listed (AEX)) Stichting Administratiekantoor beheer Stichting Administratiekantoor Business Report financiële instellingen (NLFI) Continuiteit ABN AMRO Group 77% 23% ABN AMRO Group N.V. Risk, funding & capital Report ABN AMRO Bank N.V. ABN AMRO Bank is a wholly-owned subsidiary of In addition to serving as a defence measure, STAK AAG ABN AMRO Group. At 31 December 2015, all shares in also aims to promote the exchange of information the capital of ABN AMRO Group were held by two between ABN AMRO Group on the one hand and foundations: NLFI and STAK AAG. On that date, NLFI held holders of depositary receipts and shareholders on 77% and STAK AAG held 23% of the shares in the issued the other hand, for example, by organising a meeting of Governance Report capital of ABN AMRO Group. Both foundations have depositary receipt holders prior to ABN AMRO Group’s issued depositary receipts for shares in ABN AMRO Group. General Meeting. STAK AAG will also report on its Only STAK AAG’s depositary receipts are issued with activities periodically, at least once a year. This report will the cooperation of ABN AMRO Group and traded on be published by the board of STAK AAG for the first time Euronext Amsterdam. in 2016. In addition, through STAK AAG (and in the form of depositary receipts) further selldowns of NLFI’s shareholding in ABN AMRO Group will take place. STAK AAG Annual Financial Statements STAK AAG is independent from ABN AMRO and the The STAK AAG website (stichtingadministratiekantoor­ holder of shares in ABN AMRO Group’s issued share abnamro.com) provides more information on the activities capital. STAK AAG has acquired such shares for the of STAK AAG, the Articles of Association (including purpose of administration (ten titel van beheer) in STAK AAG’s objects), the trust conditions and any exchange for depositary receipts. The manner in which meetings of depositary receipt holders. this structure can serve as a defence measure and STAK AAG’s role in this is further described in the Anti-takeover measures section of this chapter. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 278 Governance Report / Corporate governance / General Meeting and shareholder structure Introduction NLFI ÅÅ NLFI’s right of prior approval of: The Dutch State holds an interest in ABN AMRO Group ÅÅ any issuance of (or granting of rights to acquire) Strategic Report through NLFI. NLFI was set up as a means to avoid shares in ABN AMRO Group or ABN AMRO Bank for potential conflicting responsibilities that the Dutch as long as NLFI holds at least 33 1/3% of the shares Minister of Finance might otherwise face, as a in ABN AMRO Group; shareholder and as a regulator, and to avoid undesired ÅÅ (a) for as long as NLFI holds more than 50% of political influence being exerted. NLFI issued the shares in ABN AMRO Group: any investments exchangeable depositary receipts for shares in the capital or divestments by ABN AMRO Group or any of its of ABN AMRO Group to the Dutch State. NLFI is subsidiaries with a value of more than 5% of the Business Report responsible for managing these shares and exercising equity of ABN AMRO Group, and all rights associated with these shares under Dutch law, (b) for as long as NLFI holds 50% or less but including voting rights. NLFI acts as a standalone 33 1/3% or more of the shares in shareholder independently from the Dutch State, including ABN AMRO Group: any investment or divestments the Dutch Ministry of Finance. Material and principal by ABN AMRO Group or any of its subsidiaries with decisions taken by NLFI require the prior approval of a value of more than 10% of the equity of the Dutch Minister of Finance, who can also give binding ABN AMRO Group; Risk, funding & capital Report voting instructions to NLFI with respect to such decisions. ÅÅ the obligation for ABN AMRO Group to convene NLFI is not permitted to dispose of or encumber the a General Meeting within 60 calendar days of NLFI’s ordinary shares in the capital of ABN AMRO Group, request and the right of NLFI to put items on the except pursuant to an authorisation from and on behalf agenda for a General Meeting subject to the relevant of the Dutch Minister of Finance. provisions of the Articles of Association; ÅÅ the obligation for NLFI to sell down through STAK AAG; NLFI entered into a Relationship Agreement with ÅÅ certain orderly market arrangements; and ABN AMRO Group with respect to their mutual ÅÅ certain information rights for NLFI as long as it holds at relationship after the IPO. Upon the IPO, the Relationship least 33 1/3% of the shares in ABN AMRO Group. Agreement replaced an earlier memorandum of Governance Report understanding between NLFI and ABN AMRO Group. The full text of the Relationship Agreement is available The Relationship Agreement will terminate if and when on abnamro.com. NLFI (directly or indirectly) holds less than 10% of ABN AMRO Group’s issued share capital, except for a On 3 December 2015 a periodic information meeting limited number of clauses, which will not terminate under was held with NLFI, in accordance with the terms of any circumstances. The Relationship Agreement includes, the Relationship Agreement. Among other things, the among other things, and subject to certain conditions as following topics were discussed: a review of the IPO Annual Financial Statements set forth therein: process, a discussion on the risk appetite for 2016, a ÅÅ the right of NLFI to advise (i) the Supervisory Board on preview of the annual General Meeting 2016 and of the the appointment or reappointment of members of the meeting of holders of depositary receipts, and intended Managing Board and of the Chairman of the Managing disclosures by ABN AMRO about the Relationship Board or the Supervisory Board, and (ii) the Managing Agreement. No effect has otherwise been given (or was Board on a proposal for the appointment of the requested to be given) to information rights of NLFI under external auditor; the Relationship Agreement until 31 December 2015. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 279 Governance Report / Corporate governance / General Meeting and shareholder structure Introduction Policy for bilateral contacts Pursuant to the articles of association of STAK AAG, if with shareholders STAK AAG exercises the rights attached to those shares Strategic Report ABN AMRO recognises the importance of bilateral it should, in normal circumstances, exercise the rights communication with its shareholders and potential attached to the shares in such a way to ensure that shareholders and holders of depositary receipts. In order the interests of the depositary receipt holders of to facilitate such bilateral communication, the Managing ABN AMRO Group and of the enterprises maintained Board of ABN AMRO Group has adopted, with the by ABN AMRO Group and the companies affiliated to it approval of its Supervisory Board, a policy on bilateral in a group are optimally safeguarded. STAK AAG shall contacts with shareholders in accordance with best deter any influence that could affect the independence, Business Report practice provision IV.3.13 of the Dutch corporate continuity or identity of ABN AMRO Group, of the governance code. enterprises maintained by ABN AMRO Group and of the companies affiliated to it in a group, in conflict with the In the policy on bilateral contacts with shareholders, interests of ABN AMRO Group and those enterprises to ABN AMRO Group expresses its commitment to the maximum of its abilities. maintaining an open and constructive dialogue with its (potential) shareholders and holders of depositary In principal, STAK AAG each time will grant a power of Risk, funding & capital Report receipts. This outline policy also describes circumstances attorney to the holders of depositary receipts to exercise in which ABN AMRO Group may have bilateral contacts the voting rights attached to the underlying shares and will or share information with its (potential) shareholders and not exercise voting rights on the shares, unless holders of holders of depositary receipts. Moreover, the policy depositary receipts have requested STAK AAG to do summarises the special position and purpose of STAK so. The foregoing may be different in certain (hostile) AAG and situations in which ABN AMRO Group may have circumstances as described in section 2:118a of the Dutch bilateral conversations and share information with it. Civil Code. In such case, STAK AAG may refuse or revoke The policy, however, does not apply to the contacts powers of attorney for up to two years (whereby NLFI between ABN AMRO Group and NLFI as that relationship needs to approve such refusal of revocation as long as is governed, among other things, by the Relationship NLFI holds at least 33 1/3% of the shares in Governance Report Agreement (see above). ABN AMRO Group’s policy ABN AMRO Group). STAK AAG will vote in such event on bilateral contacts with shareholders is published itself and should then, pursuant to the trust conditions on abnamro.com. and the objects clause of STAK AAG as laid down in the articles of association of STAK AAG, primarily focus on the interests of ABN AMRO Group and of the businesses Anti-takeover measures maintained by ABN AMRO Group and by companies ABN AMRO has implemented a structure whereby STAK associated with ABN AMRO Group in a group. In doing so, Annual Financial Statements AAG is the holder of shares in ABN AMRO’s issued share STAK AAG will always take into account the legitimate capital and has issued depositary receipts representing interests of the customers, savers and deposit holders, such shares with the cooperation of ABN AMRO Group. shareholders, holders of depositary receipts, employees The purpose of creating the depositary receipts and and the society in which ABN AMRO Group performs having STAK AAG be the legal owner of the underlying its activities. shares is that this structure can serve as a defence measure against circumstances or actions which threaten the continuity of ABN AMRO Group or its businesses or which are in conflict with the interests of ABN AMRO Group or its business, taking into account the interests of the relevant stakeholders Other (which circumstances or actions may include hostile public offer situations and shareholder activism). ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 280 Governance Report / Corporate governance / General Meeting and shareholder structure Introduction Employee Council (Raad van Medewerkers) Civil Code in the event of a ‘hostile situation’. The Works ABN AMRO’s employees are represented by works Council Covenant qualifies the following situations as Strategic Report councils (ondernemingsraden) at all levels of its group. hostile: (i) a public offer has been announced or is made Under Dutch law, the managing board of any company in respect of shares in the capital of ABN AMRO Group running an enterprise where a works council has been (or in respect of depositary receipts representing such established must seek the non-binding advice of the works shares) or there is a justified expectation that this will take council before taking certain decisions with respect to the place, without agreement first having been reached enterprise, such as those related to a major restructuring, between the bidder and ABN AMRO Group, (ii) the a change of control, or the appointment or dismissal of a exercise of the voting rights by a depositary receipt holder Business Report member of the managing board. Certain other decisions or shareholder would effectively be in conflict with the directly involving employment matters that apply either to interest of ABN AMRO Group and its business, or all employees or certain groups of employees may only be (iii) any other situation in which the independence, taken with the works council’s consent. continuity or identity of ABN AMRO Group and the enterprises associated with ABN AMRO Group could The Employee Council deals primarily with topics that be harmed. Other situations can be qualified as hostile affect all parts of the group’s organisation and meets by agreement between the Employee Council and Risk, funding & capital Report regularly with members of the Managing Board and ABN AMRO Group. Furthermore, when NLFI requests Supervisory Board on various other occasions throughout the consent, cooperation and/or a position statement the year. The Employee Council and ABN AMRO Group of ABN AMRO Group in the event of a subsequent have entered into an agreement pursuant to which the placement or a private sale of shares or depositary Employee Council has been granted certain additional receipts, the Employee Council will be requested by rights (the Works Council Covenant). Pursuant to the Works ABN AMRO Group to provide advice within the meaning Council Covenant, the Employee Council has the right of of articles 25 and 26 of the Works Councils Act (Wet op inquiry within the meaning of Section 2:346 of the Dutch de Ondernemingsraden). Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Supervisory Board Introduction Supervisory Board Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other Supervisory Board Hans de Haan, Annemieke Roobeek, Bert Meerstadt, Rik van Slingelandt, Olga Zoutendijk, Steven ten Have. 282 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Supervisory Board Introduction Composition The suitability and integrity screening procedure by DNB The Supervisory Board determines the minimum number and the ECB has been completed for three candidates to Strategic Report of its members, which must in any case be at least three fill current vacancies on the Supervisory Board following people. The Supervisory Board has drawn up a profile for the resignations of Mr Wakkie and Ms Oudeman and its size, its composition and, taking into account the because Mr De Haan has indicated that he will not apply nature of its business, its activities and the desired for re-appointment at the end of his current term at the expertise and background of its members. This profile General Meeting in May 2016. The Supervisory Board has was discussed in the General Meeting and with granted the General Meeting and the Employee Council ABN AMRO Group’s central works council (also referred the opportunity to recommend people to the Supervisory Business Report to the Employee Council). The full profile of the Supervisory Board for nomination. The Supervisory Board will Board is available on abnamro.com, as an annex to the nominate Mr Arjen Dorland, Ms Frederieke Leeflang and Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board. Mr Tjalling Tiemstra for appointment to the Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Group for a period of four years. In accordance with the best practice provisions of the The General Meeting will decide on their nominations on Dutch Corporate Governance Code, Supervisory Board 18 May 2016. The Employee Council has confirmed its members at ABN AMRO are appointed for a maximum support for all nominations. Risk, funding & capital Report of three 4-year terms (which terms end at the close of the first General Meeting that is held after four years have Mr De Haan will resign from the Supervisory Board on passed since his or her last appointment). Mr De Haan 18 May 2016, in accordance with the rotation schedule. was reappointed in 2015 until the General Meeting of In addition, Mr Van Slingelandt has announced that he 2016. To allow for more diversity in the expiry dates of will not be available for reappointment at the end of his the appointments, Ms Roobeek and Mr Wakkie were current term at the General Meeting in May 2016. The reappointed in 2014 until the General Meeting of 2017 Chairman to be appointed by the Supervisory Board as and Mr Ten Have, Mr Meerstadt and Ms Oudeman until of the General Meeting will be announced prior to that the General Meeting of 2018, respectively. Mr Wakkie meeting as soon as all regulatory approvals have been resigned from his position as a member of the obtained. In addition, ABN AMRO is in the regulatory Governance Report Supervisory Board in March 2015 and Ms Oudeman approval process to add further banking expertise to resigned in September 2015. Mr Van Slingelandt was the Supervisory Board. reappointed in 2014 as a member of the Supervisory Board until the General Meeting of 2016 and was appointed as Chair of the Supervisory Board for the same period. Ms Zoutendijk was appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board, effective as from 1 July 2014, and as Annual Financial Statements Vice-Chair as from 20 August 2015. The Supervisory Board has adopted a retirement and reappointment schedule, which is published on abnamro.com. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 283 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Supervisory Board Introduction The Supervisory Board evaluates its own functioning and The Supervisory Board has at its disposal expertise that of its individual members on an annual basis and is relating to strategy, management and organisation, cost Strategic Report of the opinion that its composition, including the management, accountancy and business economics, abovementioned appointments, matches the Supervisory the Dutch and international banking sectors, risk Board profile in terms of combined experience and management, remuneration and human resources expertise, independence and variety of ages and genders. management, sustainability and corporate social The Supervisory Board carried out a review of its own responsibility, international issues, the development of performance and that of its members over 2015 which products and services, and the markets in which the bank was completed in the first quarter of 2016. The selfis active. The Supervisory Board has at least one financial Business Report assessments include an evaluation of the effectiveness expert. The appointments of Mr Dorland, Ms Leeflang of the introductory and lifelong learning programmes. and Mr Tiemstra will increase the IT, financial and legal expertise, respectively, of the Supervisory Board. Important topics covered in the evaluation are the An overview of the current composition of the Supervisory Board’s role with respect to strategy, risk Supervisory Board, including key information on the management and internal control, culture and behaviour backgrounds and the terms of office of each Board within the organisation, the dynamics between the member, is provided below and on abnamro.com. Risk, funding & capital Report Supervisory Board members, the composition and expertise of the Supervisory Board, the functioning of All members of the Supervisory Board passed the fit and the members of the Supervisory Board and of the proper test under the Dutch Financial Supervision Act. Committees and their members and the search process The Supervisory Board confirms that all members of the used for new members to the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board are independent within the meaning of effectiveness of the procedures for the meetings of provision III.2.2 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. the Supervisory Board are also part of the evaluation. The self-assessments are supported by an independent corporate advisory firm. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 284 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Supervisory Board Introduction CV Supervisory Board Strategic Report Rik van Slingelandt (Dutch, male, 1946) Rik van Slingelandt was appointed Chairman Chairman of the Supervisory Board as from the General Rik van Slingelandt was appointed to the Meeting of 10 April 2014. His present term Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Group and expires in 2016. ABN AMRO Bank on 27 October 2010 and was Last executive position held: Member of then appointed Vice-Chairman with effect from Managing Board of Rabobank. Business Report 1 January 2011. Supervisory Positions: Chairman Supervisory Board, Kahn Holding B.V; Member Supervisory Board, Anthos Bank B.V. Olga Zoutendijk (Dutch, female, 1961) Last executive position held: Senior Managing Vice-Chair Director and Group Head of Wholesale Banking, Risk, funding & capital Report Olga Zoutendijk was appointed to the Supervisory Asia and member of the Wholesale Banking Boards of ABN AMRO Group and Global Executive Committee, Standard ABN AMRO Bank on 1 July 2014. Olga Zoutendijk Chartered Bank. was appointed Vice-Chair as from 20 August 2015. Her present term expires in 2018. Hans de Haan (Dutch, male, 1944) Last executive position held: Chartered accountant Member and partnerwith Ernst & Young Accountants. Governance Report Hans de Haan was appointed to the Supervisory Other Positions: Board Member, Stichting Trustee Board of ABN AMRO Group on 18 December 2009 Achmea Hypotheekbank (until June 2015); and, as from 1 April 2010, to the Supervisory Boards Chairman of Board, Stichting Lehman Brothers of ABN AMRO Bank and Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. Treasury Co. (as from 1 July 2010 merged with ABN AMRO Bank). His present term expires in 2016. Annual Financial Statements Steven ten Have (Dutch, male, 1967) Change Management/Director of the MSc. Member Change Management programme at Steven ten Have was appointed to the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Group on Supervisory positions: Chairman Supervisory 30 March 2010 and, as from 1 April 2010, to the Board, Software Improvement Group (SIG) B.V. Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Bank and Supervisory positions: Member of the Education Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. (as from 1 July 2010 Council of the Netherlands (Onderwijsraad); merged with ABN AMRO Bank). His present term Board Member, Dutch Quality Institute expires in 2018. (Stichting Instituut Nederlandse Kwaliteit, or Current positions: Partner with Ten Have Change INK, until March 2016); Chairman, Stichting Other Management; full professor of Strategy & Center for Evidence-Based Management. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 285 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Supervisory Board Introduction Strategic Report Bert Meerstadt (Dutch, male, 1961) Member Other positions: Chairman of Board, Vereniging Bert Meerstadt was appointed to the Friends of Concertgebouw and Royal Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Group on Concertgebouw Orchestra; Board Member, 30 March 2010 and, as from 1 April 2010, to Stichting Maatschappij tot Redding van the Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Bank Drenkelingen (Society for Prevention and Business Report and Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. (as from Saving of Drowning Victims); Chairman of 1 July 2010 merged with ABN AMRO Bank). Board, Stichting Blinden Penning (Foundation His present term expires in 2018. for the Blind and Visually Impaired). Current position: Board advisor. Supervisory Positions: Vice-Chairman Supervisory Board, Lucas Bols Holding N.V.; Non-executive director, Talgo. Risk, funding & capital Report Annemieke Roobeek (Dutch, female, 1958) Supervisory Positions: Member Supervisory Member Board, Abbott Healthcare Products B.V.; Annemieke Roobeek was appointed to the Member Supervisory Board, KLM N.V. Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Group on Other positions: Board Member, Vereniging 30 March 2010 and, as from 1 April 2010, to REFILL (until September 2015); Member the Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Bank Advisory Board, Vereniging Koninklijke Horeca and Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. (as from Nederland; Chairperson, PGGM Advisory Board 1 July 2010 merged with ABN AMRO Bank). for Responsible Investment; Chairperson, Governance Report Her present term expires in 2017. Stichting INSID, Institute for Sustainable Current positions: Professor of Strategy and Innovation & Development directed by His Royal Transformation Management at Nyenrode Highness Prince Carlos de Bourbon Parme; Business Universiteit; Director and owner Member, “Raad van Eigen Wijzen” (Advisory of MeetingMoreMinds B.V.; Owner of Board), CPI Governance; Member, International Open Dialogue B.V.; Co-owner of XL Labs B.V. Advisory Board of Howaldt & Co, Hamburg, Germany. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 286 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Supervisory Board Introduction Responsibilities not appoint the person nominated and does not resolve to The Supervisory Board supervises the Managing Board as reject the nomination, the Supervisory Board will appoint Strategic Report well as ABN AMRO Group’s general course of affairs and the person nominated. its business. In addition, it supports the Managing Board by providing advice. In performing their duties, the The General Meeting and the Employee Council may members of the Supervisory Board are guided by the recommend candidates to the Supervisory Board to be interests of ABN AMRO Group, which include the interests nominated as members of the Supervisory Board. The of the business associated with it (including but not limited Supervisory Board is required to nominate a candidate to the legitimate interests of all of ABN AMRO Group’s recommended by the Employee Council in respect of Business Report stakeholders, such as its customers, savers and deposit one-third of the members of the Supervisory Board. holders, shareholders, holders of depositary receipts, The Supervisory Board must accept such recommendation employees and the society in which ABN AMRO Group of the Employee Council, unless it is of the opinion that carries out its activities). Specific powers are vested in the candidate recommended is expected to be unsuitable the Supervisory Board, including the approval of certain to fulfil the duties of a member of the Supervisory Board decisions taken by the Managing Board. or that the Supervisory Board would not be properly composed if the appointment were made as recommended. Risk, funding & capital Report More information on the activities of the Supervisory Board in 2015 is provided in the Supervisory Board Report The Supervisory Board may suspend any of its members included in this Annual Report. at all times. The suspension shall lapse by law if ABN AMRO Group, represented by the Supervisory The Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board are Board, has not requested the Enterprise Court within one available on abnamro.com. month after commencement of the suspension to dismiss the suspended member of the Supervisory Board on the grounds mentioned by law. The General Meeting can Appointment, suspension and dismissal dismiss the Supervisory Board in its entirety for reasons The members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by of lack of confidence, by an absolute majority of the votes Governance Report the General Meeting. Only candidates who have passed cast, representing at least one-third of the issued share the fit and proper test under the Dutch Financial Markets capital (whereby the possibility to hold a second General Supervision Act are eligible for appointment. Such Meeting in which no quorum applies is excluded). The appointment is based on a nomination by the Supervisory resolution to dismiss the Supervisory Board shall have Board. The Supervisory Board must notify the General immediate effect and the Managing Board is required to Meeting and the Employee Council simultaneously of its request the Enterprise Court without delay to appoint nomination. The General Meeting may reject the one or more members to the Supervisory Board on Annual Financial Statements nomination with an absolute majority of the votes cast, a temporary basis. which majority represents at least one-third of the issued share capital. If an absolute majority has rejected the ABN AMRO Group and NLFI have agreed in the nomination, but the majority did not represent at least Relationship Agreement that, as long as NLFI directly one-third of the issued share capital, a new meeting can or indirectly holds 10% or more of ABN AMRO Group’s be convened to vote on the nomination, whereby the issued share capital, it will be given the opportunity to nomination can be rejected by an absolute majority of the advise on the decision of the Supervisory Board to appoint votes cast (irrespective of the issued share capital present the Chair of the Supervisory Board, while any amendment or represented at the meeting and irrespective of the to the profile for the Supervisory Board is subject to the percentage of the issued share capital which that majority prior approval of NLFI. represents). In the event that the General Meeting does Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 287 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Supervisory Board Introduction Supervisory Board committees chairman of the Remuneration, Selection & Nomination Committee. Mr Meerstadt and Mr Van Slingelandt were Strategic Report Composition members on 31 December 2015. There is currently one The Supervisory Board has established three regular open position in the Remuneration, Selection & committees to prepare its decision-making and to advise Nomination Committee, which will be filled when the the Supervisory Board on certain matters: the Audit nominated candidates for the Supervisory Board have Committee, the Remuneration, Selection & Nomination been appointed by the General Meeting. Until that time, Committee and the Risk & Capital Committee. The Rules all decisions on the aforementioned topics will be adopted of Procedure of the Supervisory Board include the terms by the complete Supervisory Board, since the quorum for Business Report of reference of these committees of the Supervisory the Remuneration, Selection & Nomination Committee Board and are available on abnamro.com. Furthermore, meetings is not met. the Supervisory Board installed a special committee relating to the preparations for the IPO. Risk & Capital Committee The Risk & Capital Committee is responsible for Audit Committee supervising and advising the complete Supervisory Board The Audit Committee is tasked with the direct supervision with respect to, among other things, (i) risk management Risk, funding & capital Report of all matters relating to financial reporting and controlling. and risk control, including pricing policies, (ii) compliance, In doing so, it is responsible for supervising (and advising (iii) the allocation of capital and liquidity, (iv) the bank’s risk the complete Supervisory Board) in respect of, among appetite, (v) compliance with applicable laws and other things, (i) the assessment of the principles of regulations (including codes of conduct and internal valuation and determination of results for the financial procedures), (vi) risk awareness within the bank, statements, (ii) internal control and financial reporting (vii) sound remuneration policies and practices in light functions, (iii) internal and external audit, (iv) risk of risk, capital, liquidity and expected earnings, assessment of issues that could impact the financial (viii) proposing corrective and/or disciplinary measures reporting, (v) compliance with applicable laws and against members of the Managing Board in the event of regulations, (vi) mediation between internal or external breach of applicable laws and regulations and (ix) periodic Governance Report auditors and/or management, and (vii) reporting to the review of the Group’s actual risk profile. Ms Zoutendijk Supervisory Board. The Audit Committee is chaired by is the Chair of the Risk & Capital Committee. Mr De Haan, Mr De Haan. Mr Meerstadt, Mr Van Slingelandt and Ms Roobeek and Mr Van Slingelandt were members on Ms Zoutendijk were members on 31 December 2015. 31 December 2015. Remuneration, Selection & Nomination IPO Special Committee Committee In order to advise the complete Supervisory Board on Annual Financial Statements The Remuneration, Selection & Nomination Committee is recurring topics regarding the IPO and to prepare related responsible for supervising (and advising the complete decisions, the Supervisory Board established an additional Supervisory Board) with regard to, among other things, (i) committee chaired by Mr Van Slingelandt and of which remuneration policies and execution thereof for members Mr De Haan, Mr Ten Have and, until his resignation, of the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board and Mr Wakkie were members. This committee ceased selected members of senior management, (ii) the to exist after the IPO was launched. selection, appointments and reappointments regarding the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board, (iii) succession plans for the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board, (iv) the knowledge, skills, experience, performance, size, composition and profile of both boards, Other (v) the performance of the members of both boards, and (vi) reporting on the execution of the remuneration policies through a remuneration report. Mr Ten Have is the ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 288 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Supervisory Board Introduction Maximum number of positions of members of Introductory programme and lifelong learning the Managing Board and Supervisory Board programme Strategic Report Under CRD IV, all members of the management body of a bank (including non-executive members or supervisory Introductory programme board members acting in their role of overseeing and Upon their appointment, all members of the Supervisory monitoring management decision-making) must commit Board follow an introductory programme designed to sufficient time to allow them to perform their duties and to ensure that they have the relevant knowledge to fulfil their be able to understand the bank’s business. In respect of duties, including thorough knowledge of ABN AMRO. significant banks, such as ABN AMRO Bank, Article 91 of The programme provides the information needed for Business Report CRD IV contains a specific regulation for the limitation of the participation in the lifelong learning programme. As the number of executive and non-executive directorships such knowledge, background and experience of newly members may hold (which rules have been implemented appointed members of the Supervisory Board differ, the in Dutch law through Section 3:8-3 Dutch Financial Markets curriculum of the introductory programme is tailor-made. Supervision Act). The rules in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code are also applicable to ABN AMRO Group, Lifelong learning programme but are not as strict as the rules under CRD IV. A lifelong learning programme for the Supervisory Board Risk, funding & capital Report and the Managing Board has been put in place at All members of the Managing Board and Supervisory ABN AMRO and is designed to keep the members’ Board currently comply with the aforementioned rules expertise up to date and to broaden and deepen their under CRD IV and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. knowledge where necessary. In most cases, members of It is noted that with respect to Supervisory Board member the Supervisory Board and Managing Board participate in Ms Roobeek and nominated Supervisory Board member the same courses to foster knowledge-sharing between Mr Tiemstra, requests for authorisation of one additional the boards. non-executive directorship that each of them currently holds have been approved by the ECB. The curriculum is being developed and updated continuously to ensure a balanced programme which covers all relevant Governance Report aspects of the bank’s performance and takes into account current developments in the financial industry. Topics covered in 2015 include a workshop on IPO valuation (including the various valuation methods generally used for banks, the main drivers in valuation, the market context and the manner in which a purchase price range for a (soon to be listed) company is determined). Other workshops Annual Financial Statements included detailed sessions on information security and data management, including an explanation on relevant developments in cloud computing and a visit to ABN AMRO’s data centre, interest rate swaps (including an explanation of a bank’s duty of care, re-evaluations of interest rate swaps and lessons learned) and the ECT Clients market (including its clients, market developments and the related risk management). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Managing Board Introduction Managing Board Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other Managing Board Joop Wijn, Kees van Dijkhuizen, Chris Vogelzang, Caroline Princen, Johan van Hall, Gerrit Zalm, Wietze Reehoorn. 290 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Managing Board Introduction Composition In line with the group’s diversity policy, ABN AMRO The Supervisory Board determines the number of strives to meet the gender target of 30% for both Strategic Report members of the Managing Board, the minimum being the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board. two people. As at 31 December 2015, the Managing ABN AMRO Group currently meets the requirements for Board consists of seven members. the Supervisory Board. For the Managing Board, where 14% (1 out of 7) of its members is female, the diversity With the exception of Mr Van Dijkhuizen, who was target was not met in 2015. Since all current Managing appointed in 2013 for a period of four years, all members Board members were either appointed in 2013 or of the Managing Board were reappointed at the General reappointed in 2014 for a four-year period, the percentage Business Report Meeting, held on 10 April 2014. The Managing Board of female Managing Board members will likely remain members were reappointed, taking into due consideration unaffected until any member of the Managing Board their performance during the previous four-year term and resigns or any appointment period expires. Upon such the strategic goals of ABN AMRO in the upcoming years. resignation or expiration, ABN AMRO Group will give due Each reappointment was for a term which ends at the consideration to any then applicable gender requirements close of the first General Meeting that is held after four when seeking to find suitable new members for those years have passed since his or her last appointment, open positions who meet the fit and proper requirements Risk, funding & capital Report which is the maximum period for appointments and under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act. reappointments according to the best practice provision In addition, ABN AMRO continues to encourage greater II.1.1 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. diversity at other levels of the group. See also the Our people section of the Business Report. ​An overview of the current composition of the Managing Board, including key information on the backgrounds and terms of office of each Board member, is provided in the Responsibilities Composition of the Managing Board section of this report The members of the Managing Board collectively manage and on abnamro.com. ABN AMRO Group and are responsible for its strategy, structure and performance. In carrying out their duties, Governance Report The composition of the Managing Board matches the the members of the Managing Board are guided by the Managing Board profile in terms of combined experience interests and continuity of ABN AMRO Group, which and expertise, and mixture of age. The members of the include the interests of the business associated with it Managing Board have thorough knowledge of the financial (including but not limited to the legitimate interests of all sector in general and the banking sector in particular, and of ABN AMRO Group’s stakeholders, such as its they collectively have broad experience in the fields of customers, savers and deposit holders, shareholders, governance, regulatory affairs, organisation and holders of depositary receipts (certificaten), employees Annual Financial Statements communication, products, services and markets within and the society in which ABN AMRO Group carries out its ABN AMRO’s scope of activities. They also have profound activities). To support the members in carrying out these knowledge of sound and controlled operational policies responsibilities, the Managing Board holds weekly Board and processes, enabling them to make balanced and meetings. The Managing Board is accountable for the consistent decisions. performance of its duties to the Supervisory Board and to the General Meeting. The Rules of Procedure of the Managing Board are available on abnamro.com. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 291 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Managing Board Introduction Appointment, suspension and dismissal Managing Board committees Managing Board members are appointed by the The Managing Board has established a number of Strategic Report Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board notifies the committees that are responsible for decision-making on General Meeting of a contemplated appointment of a certain subjects and for advising the Managing Board on member of the Managing Board. Only candidates found certain matters. These committees include three riskto meet the fit and proper test under the Dutch Financial related committees: the Group Risk Committee, the Markets Supervision Act are eligible for appointment. The Group Asset & Liability Committee and the Central Credit Supervisory Board may appoint one of the members of Committee. More information on the delegated authority the Managing Board as chairman. of these risk-related committees is provided in the Risk, Business Report funding & capital Report. In addition, the Managing Board ABN AMRO Group and NLFI have agreed in the has installed a Group Disclosure Committee, a Group Relationship Agreement (which is published on abnamro. Transition Management Committee and a Group com) that, as long as NLFI directly or indirectly holds 10% Regulatory Committee. The Group Disclosure Committee or more of ABN AMRO Group’s issued share capital, it will is responsible for, among other things, advising and be given the opportunity to advise on the decision of the supporting the Managing Board in relation to (i) Supervisory Board to appoint or reappoint any member of supervision on the accuracy and timeliness of public Risk, funding & capital Report the Managing Board and on the appointment of the disclosures by the group and (ii) integrity with regard to Chairman of the Managing Board. the financial statements and other public disclosures. The Group Transition Management Committee has been The Supervisory Board may at all times suspend a attributed responsibility for, among other things, tactical member of the Managing Board. If the Supervisory Board management of the Group-wide transition programmes. fails to adopt a resolution on his or her dismissal or The Group Regulatory Committee is responsible for, extension of the suspension within three months after among other things, (i) ensuring a good understanding and suspension of a member of the Managing Board, the an adequate overview of, (ii) regularly informing and suspension will be terminated. The suspension may only consulting the Managing Board about, and (iii) making be extended once for a maximum term of three months. strategic choices and taking decisions on, matters relating Governance Report The suspended member will be given the opportunity to changing national and international laws and regulations to account for his or her actions at the General Meeting, affecting the Group. As part of the preparations for the in which the General Meeting will be given the opportunity IPO, the Managing Board installed the IPO Steering to advise on the intended dismissal. The suspendend Committee, which was mandated to monitor, assess and member may arrange for an adviser to be present for manage the progress, overall planning and timelines for assistance in that meeting. the preparation and execution of the IPO. This committee ceased to exist following the IPO. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 292 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Managing Board Introduction CV Managing Board Strategic Report Gerrit Zalm (Dutch, male, 1952) Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. (as from 1 July Chairman 2010 merged with ABN AMRO Bank) since Gerrit Zalm was appointed to the Managing 1 April 2010. His present term expires in 2018. Board of the former ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Supervisory positions: Non-executive Director, (later renamed RBS N.V.) on 1 December 2008 Royal Dutch Shell; Member Supervisory Council, in the role of Vice-Chairman, and on 28 February Stichting VUmc Fonds (as of January 2016). Business Report 2009 he became Chairman until 1 April 2010. Other positions: Chairman Advisory Additionally, from 28 February 2009 to 1 April Council, ‘Wigo-4it’, a cooperative effort of the 2010, he was Chairman of the Managing Board social assistance organisations of the four of ABN AMRO Holding N.V. He was Chairman largest cities in the Netherlands; Board Member, of the Managing Board of ABN AMRO Bank Dutch Banking Association; Chairman, Board on 9 April 2009. He has been Chairman of the of Governors National Academy for Finance Managing Boards of ABN AMRO Group and and Economics. Risk, funding & capital Report Johan van Hall (Dutch, male, 1960) Supervisory positions: Member Supervisory Chief Operating Officer/Vice-Chairman Board, Equens SE (pan-European Payment Johan van Hall was appointed to the Managing Processor); Vice-Chairman, Central Committee Board of ABN AMRO Bank on 9 April 2009, to for Statistics (CCS); Member Supervisory the Managing Board of ABN AMRO Group on Council, Christelijk Voortgezet Onderwijs 18 December 2009 and to the Managing Board of Baarn/Soest. Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. (as from 1 July 2010 Other positions: Board Member, Nyenrode merged with ABN AMRO Bank) on 1 April 2010. International Advisory Board; Member, Governance Report Johan van Hall is the Chief Operating Officer NBA Signaleringsraad (Dutch professional responsible for Technology, Operations & Property organisation for accountants); Chairman, Services (TOPS). He has been Vice-Chairman Stichting ABN AMRO Support for SUPPORT. of the Managing Board since 1 June 2013. His present term expires in 2018. Chris Vogelzang (Dutch, male, 1962) Annual Financial Statements Supervisory positions: Member Supervisory Retail Banking and Private Banking Board, Hespri Holding B.V; Member Supervisory Chris Vogelzang was appointed to the Managing Council, Stichting Prins Bernhard Board of ABN AMRO Bank on 9 April 2009. Cultuurfonds; Member Supervisory Council, He was appointed to the Managing Boards of Rijksmuseum. ABN AMRO Group and Fortis Bank (Nederland) Other positions: Board Member, Dutch Banking N.V. (as from 1 July 2010 merged with Association; Board Member, Alumnifonds ABN AMRO Bank) on 1 April 2010. Chris (Ubbo Emmius Fonds) Rijksuniversiteit Vogelzang is responsible for Retail Banking Groningen; Treasurer, Stichting Aanwending and Private Banking. His present term expires Loterijgelden Nederland (until February 2016). in 2018. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 293 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Managing Board Introduction Strategic Report Joop Wijn (Dutch, male, 1969) Jaarbeurs Utrecht (Congress and Meeting Corporate Banking Centre, Fairs and Events); Member Supervisory Joop Wijn was appointed to the Managing Boards Board, Stadsherstel Amsterdam N.V. of ABN AMRO Group, ABN AMRO Bank and Other positions: Chairman of the Board, Stichting Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. (as from 1 July 2010 Oranje Fonds; Member Executive Board, merged with ABN AMRO Bank) on 1 April 2010 Vereniging VNO-NCW (Confederation of Business Report and is responsible for Corporate Banking. Netherlands Industry and Employers); Chairman, His present term expires in 2018. Stichting Kunst & Historisch Bezit ABN AMRO Supervisory positions: Member Supervisory Board, (Art & History Foundation). Schiphol Group; Member Supervisory Board, Kees van Dijkhuizen (Dutch, male, 1955) Other positions: Chairman, Government Risk, funding & capital Report Chief Financial Officer Committee on Export, Import and Investment Kees van Dijkhuizen was appointed to the Guarantees; Chairman, Committee on Managing Boards of ABN AMRO Group and Supervision of Dutch Banking Association; ABN AMRO Bank on 1 May 2013. Kees van Board Member, Stichting Duisenberg School Dijkhuizen has been Chief Financial Officer since of Finance; Board Member, Stichting Bewind 1 June 2013. His present term expires in 2017. (Protector and administrator, testamentary Supervisory positions: Member Supervisory duties, regarding separated capital for part of Council, Museum Meermanno. the House of Oranje-Nassau); Member, AFM Capital Market Committee. Governance Report Caroline Princen (Dutch, female, 1966) Council, UMC (Universitair Medisch Centrum People, Regulations & Identity Utrecht); Member Supervisory Board, Koninklijke Caroline Princen was appointed to the Managing Coöperatieve Bloemenveiling FloraHolland U.A. Boards of ABN AMRO Group, ABN AMRO Bank and Other positions: Member Executive Board, Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. (as from 1 July 2010 Stichting Steun Alzheimercentrum VUmc; merged with ABN AMRO Bank) on 1 April 2010. Chairperson, Stichting ABN AMRO Foundation; Annual Financial Statements Caroline Princen is responsible for People, RegulaMember IMD Foundation Board; Chairperson, tions & Identity. Her present term expires in 2018. Commissie Monitoring Talent naar de Top Supervisory positions: Member Supervisory (as from February 2016). Council, EYE Film Institute; Member Supervisory Wietze Reehoorn (Dutch, male, 1962) His present term expires in 2018. Chief Risk Officer Supervisory positions: Member Supervisory Wietze Reehoorn was appointed to the Managing Council, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen; Member Boards of ABN AMRO Group, ABN AMRO Bank Supervisory Board, Stichting Amsterdam and Fortis Bank Nederland N.V. (as from 1 July 2010 Institute of Finance (AIF); Member Supervisory Other merged with ABN AMRO Bank) on 1 April 2010. Council, Stichting Topsport Community. As Chief Risk Officer, Wietze Reehoorn is responOther positions: Board Member, sible for Risk Management & Group Strategy. Abe Bonnema Stichting. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 294 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Corporate governance codes and regulations Introduction Corporate governance codes and regulations Strategic Report ABN AMRO Group is required to comply with a wide The only exception to this practice is that the Managing variety of governance codes and regulations. This includes Board and the Supervisory Board may decide to place the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Banking Code certain topics on the agenda under one agenda item if and CRD IV. This section explains how ABN AMRO Group this is justified because of the interrelation between the Business Report complies with these codes and regulations. More topics. ABN AMRO Group considers this a further comprehensive overviews of ABN AMRO Group’s substantiation of this best practice provision, which may compliance with such codes and regulations are published be necessary due to the fact that in practice there can be under the Corporate Governance section of abnamro.com. a situation in which proposals to amend the Articles of Association or the corporate governance structure of ABN AMRO Group are interrelated in such a way that Dutch Corporate Governance Code separate votes on each of those proposals could lead Risk, funding & capital Report We believe that corporate governance that meets high to an imbalanced voting result and, as a consequence, international standards significantly boosts confidence in to imbalance in the corporate governance structure. companies. As such, compliance with the applicable corporate governance codes by financial institutions ABN AMRO Group applies principle II.3, best practice contributes significantly to restoring trust in the financial provisions II.3.2 – II.3.4, principle III.6 and best practice sector as a whole. As of the listing of the depositary provisions III.6.1 – III.6.3, which deal with actual and receipts on Euronext Amsterdam, ABN AMRO Group is apparent conflicts of interest. However, required to adhere to the Dutch Corporate Governance ABN AMRO Group makes an exception with respect Code. ABN AMRO Group complies with all principles and to conflicts of interest that are exclusively the result of best practices of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code the identical composition of the Managing Boards of Governance Report that are applicable to it, except for the deviations and ABN AMRO Bank and ABN AMRO Group and the nuances which are described below. Additionally, Supervisory Boards of the respective entities. Moreover, ABN AMRO publishes under the Corporate Governance ABN AMRO entered into an agreement on 3 November section of its website a detailed comply or explain list that 2015 with Worldline in respect of its shareholding in also specifies which principles or best practices are not Equens SE, where Managing Board member Mr Van Hall applicable to ABN AMRO Group. is a supervisory director. That transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2016. The procedure as imposed Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO Group applies best practice provisions I.2 and by the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the Rules IV.3.9, which provide that (a) each substantial change in the of Procedure of the Managing Board, respectively, in case corporate governance structure of ABN AMRO Group and of a conflict of interest has been strictly adhered to and in compliance with the Code and (b) material changes in the accordingly Mr Van Hall has not and will not participate in Articles of Association and proposals to appoint members the related Managing Board deliberations and decisions. of the Supervisory Board (and members of the Managing Board, but this is not applicable to ABN AMRO Group), ABN AMRO Group does not fully apply principle III.5. should be presented to the General Meeting as a separate Instead of having a separate remuneration committee and discussion item or voting item, as applicable. a selection and nomination committee, these committees are combined into one committee. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 295 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Corporate governance codes and regulations Introduction ABN AMRO Group applies best practice provision III.5.4, Compliance with best practice provisions IV.2.1 – IV.2.7 is which provides for the responsibilities of the audit a responsibility of the board of STAK AAG. With respect to Strategic Report committee. However, in deviation from this provision, best practice provisions IV.2.5 and IV.2.8, the following ABN AMRO Group has decided to assign responsibility applies. Under normal circumstances, STAK AAG will be for supervising the functioning of the internal risk guided by the interests of the holders of depositary management system and compliance with codes of receipts and will take into account the interests of conduct to the Risk & Capital Committee, instead of ABN AMRO Group and the enterprises associated with it. to the Audit Committee, as ABN AMRO Group has a In principle, STAK AAG each time has the obligation to separate Risk & Capital Committee. grant a power of attorney to depositary receipt holders Business Report to exercise the voting rights attached to the underlying Principle III.8 and best practice provision III.8.1 – III.8.4 shares and will not exercise voting rights on the shares are not applicable because ABN AMRO Group has a in ABN AMRO Group (unless depositary receipt holders two-tier board. have requested STAK AAG to do so). The foregoing could be different in hostile situations as described in Article ABN AMRO Group does not apply principle IV.2 (and best 2:118a of the Dutch Civil Code. In this case, pursuant to practice provision IV.2.8). In contradiction to this principle the depositary receipt terms (administratievoorwaarden), Risk, funding & capital Report and provision, the issuing of depositary receipts by STAK AAG should, when exercising the voting rights in STAK AAG is primarily used as a protective measure and accordance with the objects clause of STAK AAG as laid not to prevent a situation in which, as a result of down in the articles of association of STAK AAG, primarily shareholder absenteeism, a minority of shareholders can focus on the interests of ABN AMRO Group and control the decision-making process at a General Meeting. its business. Regulatory considerations have been decisive in choosing a structure with depositary receipts as a protective ABN AMRO Group applies principle IV.3, which deals measure. Declarations of No Objection could be obtained with equal and simultaneous provision of information up front only by means of a structure with depositary to shareholders, however with the understanding that receipts. These Declarations of No Objection are required ABN AMRO Group will observe the Relationship Governance Report in connection with the (indirect) acquisition of a qualified Agreement with NLFI and the special position of holding in ABN AMRO Bank, and certain other regulated STAK AAG. In this respect, reference is made to entities in which ABN AMRO Group holds an interest. ABN AMRO Group’s policy on bilateral contacts with Therefore, this structure provided the greatest possible shareholders, which is further described above and can certainty of adequate protection of ABN AMRO Group be found on abnamro.com. against a hostile takeover. Although the issuing of depositary receipts has been primarily set up as a Annual Financial Statements protective measure and not to prevent absenteeism, STAK AAG does aim to promote the exchange of information between ABN AMRO Group on the one hand and holders of depositary receipts and shareholders on the other hand, for example, by organising a meeting of depositary receipt holders prior to every General Meeting. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 296 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Corporate governance codes and regulations Introduction Dutch Banking Code All members of the Supervisory Board and Managing The Dutch Banking Code was introduced in 2010 to ensure Board of ABN AMRO Group took the Banker’s Oath on Strategic Report that banks commit to and account for treating their 4 July 2013. Taking the oath has been required by law customers with care while balancing the interests of since 1 January 2013. The oath is a confirmation of various stakeholders. An updated Dutch Banking Code ABN AMRO’s existing policy, which is fully in line with came into effect on 1 January 2015, along with the Social the bank’s business principles and core values. Along with Charter (Maatschappelijk Statuut) which is complementary the introduction of a Social Charter and the update of the to the Dutch Banking Code. The updated Dutch Banking Dutch Banking Code, the Dutch banking industry has Code takes into account the recommendations of the taken the initiative to have all employees take the Banker’s Business Report Banking Code Monitoring Commission, the report of the Oath. Employees take the oath so that they will be Committee on the Structure of Banks, the government’s personally responsible for complying with these rules of view on the Dutch banking industry and the vision of the conduct and may be held accountable for non-compliance Dutch Banking Association (of which ABN AMRO Group is in the near future. At 31 December 2015, over 97% of our a member). The new Dutch Banking Code, along with the employees had taken the Banker’s Oath. All employees of introduction of the Social Charter and the implementation a bank in the Netherlands must have taken the Banker’s of the Banker’s Oath (together with the associated rules of Oath by 1 April 2016. Risk, funding & capital Report conduct and disciplinary rules), is applicable to all employees of financial institutions in the Netherlands and emphasises the social role of banks and their commitment to meeting Subsidiaries of ABN AMRO Bank and the expectations of society at large. The updated Dutch the Dutch Banking Code Banking Code sets out principles that banks with a corporate On 31 December 2015, ABN AMRO Bank had four Dutch seat in the Netherlands should observe in terms of subsidiaries with a banking licence: ABN AMRO Clearing corporate governance, risk management, audit and Bank N.V., ABN AMRO Groenbank B.V., ABN AMRO remuneration. Although ABN AMRO Group does not have Hypotheken Groep B.V. and International Card Services a banking licence itself, the Dutch Banking Code does B.V. ABN AMRO applies the principles of the Dutch apply to ABN AMRO Bank as the main entity within the Banking Code to all of these Dutch bank subsidiaries Governance Report group that holds a banking licence. on a consolidated basis. An explanation of the manner in which the Dutch bank subsidiaries comply with the We are committed to complying with the Dutch Banking Dutch Banking Code is published on abnamro.com. Code and devote a great deal of effort to ensuring that the spirit of the code is reflected in the behaviour of employees and in the culture of the bank. As such, we are pleased to CRD IV confirm that ABN AMRO Group complies with the principles Article 96 of CRD IV requires financial institutions to Annual Financial Statements of the Dutch Banking Code 2015. explain on their website how they comply with the requirements of Articles 88 through 95 of CRD IV. These A principle-by-principle overview of the manner in which Articles set out governance, disclosure, remuneration and ABN AMRO Bank complies with the Dutch Banking Code nomination requirements for financial institutions. The 2015 is published on abnamro.com. Throughout 2015, we obligation to publish such an overview was implemented continued to improve the manner in which we apply the in Dutch law by Article 134b of the Decree on prudential principles of the Dutch Banking Code, taking into account measures FMSA (Besluit prudentiële regels Wft). the focus areas indicated by the Dutch Banking Code ABN AMRO has published on abnamro.com an overview Monitoring Committee. of how ABN AMRO Group and ABN AMRO Bank comply with Article 134b of the Prudential Measures Decree and Article 96 of CRD IV. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 297 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Corporate governance codes and regulations Introduction Subsidiaries and international governance ABN AMRO has designed group-wide policies and Strategic Report standards to ensure that all relevant parts of the organisation adhere to governance principles and requirements. Considering the varying business activities, local regulatory requirements, organisations and risk frameworks of subsidiaries and branches, actual implementation of the group-wide policies and standards may differ between the subsidiaries and branches. Business Report All entities in the international network adhere to ABN AMRO’s principles of risk governance and a moderate risk profile. International governance is in place which meets the requirements of our international organisation and both the home and host regulators. An annual review was Risk, funding & capital Report performed in 2015 to ensure alignment with the international growth plans and changes in the regulatory environment, and measures have been implemented to further improve such alignment. These measures include changes to the second line of defence reporting lines and budget approval processes for ABN AMRO’s international branches and subsidiaries (which became effective on 1 January 2016). The primary objective is to strengthen the reporting lines between Group Functions at the head office and Functions in the international branches Governance Report and subsidiaries. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 298 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Legal structure Introduction Legal structure Strategic Report Global structure of ABN AMRO Group The full list of subsidiaries and participating interests as referred to in Article 414, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been filed with the Trade Register. ABN AMRO Group N.V. Business Report ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Retail Banking Private Banking Corporate Banking Group Functions Risk, funding & capital Report ABN AMRO ABN AMRO Banque Neuflize ABN AMRO Hypotheken Commercial OBC S.A. Funding USA LLC Groep B.V. Finance Holding B.V. ALFAM Neuflize Vie S.A. ABN AMRO Stater N.V. Holding N.V. (60%) Clearing Bank N.V. International Bethmann ABN AMRO Card Services B.V. Bank A.G. Lease N.V. MoneYou B.V. Governance Report Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Verzekeringen Annual Financial Statements Holding B.V. (49%) APG-ABN AMRO The Netherlands Pensioeninstelling N.V. (70%) Abroad Indirect subsidiary An overview of ABN AMRO’s main operating companies provided below. A more comprehensive overview of (other than ABN AMRO Bank, for which a separate annual ABN AMRO’s subsidiaries is provided in the Other report is issued) and a description of their activities is Information section of the Annual Financial Statements. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 299 Governance Report / Corporate governance / Legal structure Introduction Retail Banking Corporate Banking The Retail Banking business of ABN AMRO is supported The Corporate Banking business of ABN AMRO is Strategic Report by the following subsidiaries (this list is not exhaustive): supported by the following subsidiaries (this list is ABN AMRO Hypotheken Groep B.V. offers all ABN AMRO not exhaustive): labelled residential mortgage products, including ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V. is a global leader in Direktbank, Florius and MoneYou brands. derivatives and equity clearing. It is one of the few players ALFAM Holding N.V. provides consumer loans via currently able to offer global market access and clearing intermediaries under four different labels: Alpha Credit services on more than 85 of the world’s leading exchanges Nederland, Credivance, Defam and GreenLoans. and operates from several locations across the globe. Business Report International Card Services B.V. (ICS) issues, promotes, ABN AMRO Commercial Finance Holding B.V. is active via manages and processes more than 25 different credit subsidiaries in the Netherlands, France, Germany and cards in partnership with companies, including credit card the United Kingdom, providing working capital funding transactions and offers other financial services, such as on debtors and inventory. revolving credit facilities. ABN AMRO Lease N.V. delivers asset-based solutions MoneYou B.V. operates as an internet bank offering savings (equipment lease and finance) and is active in the accounts and mortgages and is active in the Netherlands, Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and the United Kingdom. Risk, funding & capital Report Belgium, Germany and Austria. Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Verzekeringen Holding B.V. (ABN AMRO Group Functions Verzekeringen) is an associate of ABN AMRO Bank N.V The Functions business of ABN AMRO is supported by (49%). Delta Lloyd N.V. holds a 51% interest. ABN AMRO the following subsidiaries (this list is not exhaustive): Verzekeringen offers life and non-life insurance products ABN AMRO Funding USA LLC is active in the US market, under the ABN AMRO brand. issuing ABN AMRO’s US Dollar Commercial Paper funding APG-ABN AMRO Pensioeninstelling N.V. (ABN AMRO Pensions) for clients operating in the US and for clients with is a joint venture of ABN AMRO (70%) and APG (30%), US dollar loans. the largest pension institution in the Netherlands. Stater N.V. offers administrative services related to ABN AMRO Pensions is a premium pension institution mortgage loans. Stater works for ABN AMRO and other Governance Report (PPI) which offers pension schemes without insurance parties supplying mortgage loans. based on long life or death. Private Banking The Private Banking business of ABN AMRO is supported in France and Germany by the following subsidiaries (this list is not exhaustive): Annual Financial Statements Banque Neuflize OBC S.A. offers a private banking model based on an integrated approach to private and commercial wealth articulated around dedicated advisory and product offers. Bethmann Bank AG is a private bank and enjoys a strong local heritage and brand recognition in the German market. Bethmann covers all major regions of Germany and offers all Private Banking and Private Wealth Management related services. Neuflize Vie S.A. is a joint venture of Banque Neuflize OBC (60%) and AXA (40%). Neuflize Vie is a life insurance Other company that offers life insurance products to (ultra) high net-worth individuals and has developed customised solutions with a focus on unit-linked contracts. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 300 Governance Report / Supervisory Board report Introduction Supervisory Board report Strategic Report The Supervisory Board is pleased to present the Supervisory Board report for 2015. In this report, the Supervisory Board provides an overview of the focus areas and the most important activities covered in 2015, including those of its committees. Business Report Overview The Supervisory Board held seven plenary meetings, A description of the duties, responsibilities and current four executive meetings, four additional meetings and composition of the Supervisory Board as well as the conferred twice by conference call in 2015. Focus areas procedures for appointment, suspension and dismissal included the composition and succession planning of the of its members is provided in the Corporate Governance Supervisory Board, the impact of laws and regulations on section of this Annual Report. The same applies to the the organisation, contacts with regulators, the public gender, age, profession, nationality, principal position, Risk, funding & capital Report debate on remuneration, and the preparations for the IPO, other positions insofar they are relevant to the resulting in the listing of the first tranche of depositary performance of their duties, the date of initial appointment receipts for shares on the Amsterdam stock exchange on and the current term of office of the members of the 20 November 2015. The committees of the Supervisory Supervisory Board, as well as to the current composition Board discussed various topics in order to prepare the of its committees. The principal points of the remuneration decision-making process of the Supervisory Board, such report concerning the bank’s remuneration policy are as ABN AMRO’s capital structure and funding strategy, the included in the Remuneration Report of this Annual effectiveness of risk management and control systems, Report. These subjects are deemed to be incorporated the appointment of the external auditor, topics with regard by reference into this Supervisory Board report. to remuneration, selection and appointment, and various Governance Report human resources-related topics. Supervisory Board meetings The Supervisory Board conferred twice by conference call. The Supervisory Board held seventeen meetings in 2015, Eleven resolutions of the Supervisory Board were adopted seven of which were scheduled plenary meetings. All of outside a meeting. Four additional meetings were Annual Financial Statements these scheduled plenary meetings were held in the scheduled in anticipation of the IPO in 2015, which were presence of members of the Managing Board (depending attended by members of the Supervisory Board and the on the agenda, either all members or only the relevant Managing Board, the Company Secretary and special members) and the Company Secretary. Other members of invitees. All Supervisory Board members were present the Management Group and the external accountant were at the scheduled plenary meetings held in 2015, with the regularly invited to present on specific topics. The exception of one member who was absent one meeting. Supervisory Board also held four scheduled plenary All Supervisory Board members were present at the internal meetings with only the members of the executive meetings held in 2015, with the exception of Supervisory Board and the Company Secretary being one member who was absent two meetings and one present (‘executive meetings’). The Chairman of the member who was absent one meeting. In 2015 four Managing Board attended some parts of these meetings. informal sessions were scheduled with members of the Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 301 Governance Report / Supervisory Board report Introduction Supervisory Board, Managing Board and the Managing On 2 April 2015 the General Meeting, following the Directors. All members of the Supervisory Board were nomination of the Supervisory Board, reappointed Strategic Report present at these sessions with the exception of one Mr De Haan as Supervisory Board member for a period member who was absent one session. This attendance of one year (until the General Meeting in 2016). rate illustrates the fact that the members of the Mr De Haan was also appointed to succeed Mr Wakkie Supervisory Board are highly engaged in ABN AMRO. as Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board with effect from 2 April 2015. The Employee Council rendered a Members of the Supervisory Board and the Managing positive advice regarding the nomination of Mr De Haan Board were also in contact on a regular basis outside of and the Dutch central bank indicated that the Business Report the Supervisory Board meetings. The Chairman of the reappointment of Mr De Haan as such did not necessitate Managing Board and Chairman of the Supervisory Board a reassessment of his suitability. met on a regular basis. Various formal consultation meetings and informal theme sessions between the Ms Zoutendijk succeeded Mr De Haan as Vice-Chairman Supervisory Board, the Managing Board and the Group’s of the Supervisory Board from 20 Augustus 2015. Employee Council attributed to a strong and substantive Ms Oudeman stepped down as a member of the relationship. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Supervisory Board with effect from 30 September 2015. Risk, funding & capital Report the Company Secretary prepared the agenda for all Her decision was related to other positions she held and meetings of the Supervisory Board in 2015. the time required to fulfil these positions, also taking into consideration the new phase the bank was entering. Focus areas in 2015 The Supervisory Board considers all of its members In performing its supervising and advising duties and to be independent pursuant to the Dutch Corporate related activities, the Supervisory Board, guided by Governance Code. the interests of the organisation and the undertaking connected with it, kept close track on the positioning and Succession planning of the Supervisory Board the performance of the bank also in 2015, taking into The composition and succession planning of the Governance Report account the fast-changing economic, regulatory and Supervisory Board were discussed extensively within the digitising environment in which the bank operates. Supervisory Board, with NLFI and with the Joint In addition to recurring topics, the Supervisory Board Supervisory Team of ABN AMRO in various meetings. devoted special attention to the following topics in 2015. Discussion subjects included the desired diversity of expertise and experience. The importance of having Composition of the Supervisory Board sufficient banking knowledge and expertise to ensure a On 31 March 2015, Mr Wakkie decided to resign as balanced composition of the Supervisory Board was Annual Financial Statements a member of the ABN AMRO Supervisory Board with acknowledged during these meetings. The Supervisory immediate effect. Mr Wakkie considered himself to be Board is pleased to nominate Mr Dorland, Ms Leeflang particularly responsible for the decision to pay out the and Mr Tiemstra for appointment to the Supervisory Board statutory temporary fixed allowance to six Managing of ABN AMRO for a period of four years. The Supervisory Board members and the public commotion that ensued Board considers their extensive knowledge and over that decision. experience in financial management, IT, digital innovation and legal affairs to be a great asset to the Supervisory Board in its supervision of ABN AMRO’s activities. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 302 Governance Report / Supervisory Board report Introduction The nominations of Mr Dorland, Ms Leeflang and Mr Tiemstra The Supervisory Board devoted detailed attention in its have been approved by the supervisory authorities. To meetings to the various findings and recommendations Strategic Report enable an efficient start as members of the Supervisory concerning its own functioning and the bank’s corporate Board, Mr Dorland, Ms Leeflang and Mr Tiemstra are governance in general. Follow-up on the recommendations participating in meetings as passive observers and are and the actions already taken were among the issues following a tailor-made introduction programme. discussed. The supervisory priorities and thematic reviews for 2016 were discussed during the semi-annual meeting Mr De Haan will resign from the Supervisory Board on held with the Joint Supervisory Team and a delegation of 18 May 2016, in accordance with the rotation schedule. the Supervisory Board on 12 November 2015. Business Report In addition, Mr Van Slingelandt has announced that he will not be available for reappointment at the end of his The Supervisory Board was regularly updated by the Risk current term at the General Meeting in May 2016. The & Capital Committee on developments relating to the Chairman to be appointed by the Supervisory Board as of preparations for the application for the Basel II the General Meeting will be announced prior to that programmes Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA), meeting as soon as all regulatory approvals have been an operational risk management and measurement obtained. In addition, ABN AMRO is in the regulatory methodology, and Internal Model Approach (IMA), Risk, funding & capital Report approval process to add further banking expertise to the a methodology for the measurement of market risk. Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board was informed of the IPO-critical functioning of the AMA framework and on the Regulators and regulations optimisation of the AMA controls. The Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board met with representatives of the was informed on a regular basis about the progress of the Dutch central bank and the European Central Bank on IMA application. The Supervisory Board critically examined several occasions in 2015. During a regular meeting in the progress of the various processes. The Supervisory April, the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) Board also recognised the importance of further Framework and approach to supervision were set out and strengthening the risk management organisation and a range of supervisory topics were discussed, such as the regularly discussed with the Managing Board the Governance Report SSM supervisory priorities for 2015. During one of these timelines and impact on the organisation of the timemeetings the European Central Bank’s feedback on the consuming preparations required for the applications for Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) was both programmes. considered and was subsequently discussed in-depth in the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board felt The Supervisory Board was notified by the Managing comfortable with the draft results, but at the same time Board of whistleblower reports on its Private Banking expressed its concerns about the significant impact of office in Dubai regarding violations of internal rules and Annual Financial Statements implementation of the various regulatory requirements the subsequent investigations started by both the bank on the organisation. In response to the draft SREP letter, and the regulators (the Dutch central bank and the Dubai the Supervisory Board welcomed the initiatives of various Financial Services Authority (DFSA)). The Supervisory business lines to further strengthen the second line of Board closely followed developments in the file. The defence functions. Supervisory Board expressed its concern and periodically monitored and assessed the effectiveness of the steps A delegation of the Dutch central bank and the European taken by the Managing Board. The Supervisory Board Central Bank discussed the major findings of the ascertained that the regulators were informed promptly European Central Bank on risk governance and risk and that a remediation programme covering the entire appetite, as set out in the Thematic Review on Risk portfolio was started without delay. The Supervisory Board Governance and Appetite (RIGA) with the Chairmen of welcomed further tightening of the client acceptance Other the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board. procedures and the Managing Board’s efforts to ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 303 Governance Report / Supervisory Board report Introduction strengthen reporting lines to head office of the second effectiveness of the options for defence measures against line of defence functions globally and to improve both hostile situations in combination with the required Strategic Report employee awareness and behaviour in order to get all files issuance of the Declaration of No Objection by the in order. The fines imposed by the Dutch central bank and European Central Bank. During the meetings on the IPO, DFSA after their investigations were completed were the Supervisory Board closely monitored and challenged discussed in its November meeting. The Supervisory the various consultations of, among others, the members Board appreciates that both regulators mitigated their of the Managing Board with NLFI on the adequate fines on account of ABN AMRO’s cooperative stance protection of defence mechanisms as from the date of during the investigations and the proactive measures the IPO. Particular attention was paid to the moment of Business Report the bank had already taken. activation of these mechanisms, which the Supervisory Board deemed to be of great importance to the Remuneration discussion continuity of ABN AMRO. In line with a decision in 2012 endorsed by the shareholder, it was decided to pay out as of 1 January 2014 the The Supervisory Board was kept closely abreast of statutory temporary fixed allowance to six Managing developments in the proposed amendments to the Board members. This resulted in a major commotion in Articles of Association of ABN AMRO Group as well as Risk, funding & capital Report March 2015, both within and outside the organisation, to other IPO-related governance documents in preparation after which the relevant Managing Board members for the IPO, including negotiations on the Relationship decided to waive their entitlement to the allowance. Agreement. With a view to the forthcoming IPO, the Supervisory Board was updated on ABN AMRO’s communication plan, and six members attended a IPO valuation workshop. The workshop provided insight into An important topic on the Supervisory Board’s agenda in the different valuation methods that are generally used 2015 was the preparation for the IPO, resulting in the for banks, the main drivers in valuation, the market context listing of the first tranche of depositary receipts for shares and the method of determining a price range for in ABN AMRO Group on the stock exchange on a company. Governance Report 20 November 2015. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board actively monitored On 22 May 2015, Dutch Parliament decided, based on developments in the issuance of the Declarations of the proposal of the Dutch Minister of Finance, to start No Objection by the Dutch central bank and the European preparations for an IPO. To prepare ABN AMRO for a Central Bank and was closely involved in preparations of possible IPO, the Managing Board and the IPO Office and developments relating to the drafting of the regularly briefed the Supervisory Board on the progress prospectus. Given the organisation’s ongoing focus on Annual Financial Statements of the preparatory activities during the seven regular the IPO, the Supervisory Board repeatedly emphasised Supervisory Board meetings. In 2015, four additional that execution of the bank’s long-term strategy should be meetings were held by the Supervisory Board in the the guiding principle in decision-making processes. presence of the Managing Board, the Company Secretary The Supervisory Board welcomed the fact that the Dutch and the head of the IPO Office in anticipation of the Parliament gave the IPO the green light and that the possible IPO in 2015 to monitor the progress made. regulators issued the Declarations of No Objection. The Supervisory Board was also pleased with the joint The IPO Special Committee, appointed in 2014 by the announcement of NLFI and ABN AMRO on 27 October Supervisory Board from amongst its members, advised 2015 of the intention to proceed with an initial public the Supervisory Board also in 2015 on recurring topics offering of ABN AMRO on Euronext Amsterdam. The regarding the IPO and prepared related decisions. The IPO Supervisory Board followed the IPO process very closely Other Special Committee, and in particular Mr Wakkie, played and, notwithstanding its critical role, experienced its an important and proactive role in challenging the involvement by the Managing Board in general as timely ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 304 Governance Report / Supervisory Board report Introduction and the cooperation as pleasant. Interactions with the The Supervisory Board was updated on the new Banking Employee Council in light of the possible IPO were also Code which came into force on 1 January 2015. On that Strategic Report conducted in an open and constructive manner in 2015. occasion, the Supervisory Board was satisfied with how ABN AMRO structured the introduction of the Banker’s Oath throughout the organisation. The Supervisory Board Monthly topics approved the results of the 2014 organisation-wide In addition to the important topics mentioned above, the financial and non-financial targets, in connection with the following topics were also discussed during the various review of the Managing Board member’s performances meetings held throughout the year. over 2014. Business Report In January the Supervisory Board discussed the Yearly The consolidated Annual Report 2014, the consolidated Strategic Review. The Supervisory Board recognises the Annual Financial Statements 2014 and all annexed importance not only of safeguarding clients’ ongoing information of ABN AMRO Group were reviewed and confidence in the bank’s services, and especially discussed in March with the Managing Board, Group Audit assurance of the value chain in the longer term, but also and KPMG and subsequently approved by the Supervisory acknowledges the importance of innovation and trends Board on 19 March 2015. The Supervisory Board approved Risk, funding & capital Report within the context of the rapidly changing technical and the issuing of these documents on 20 March 2015 and digital environment. The Supervisory Board values the took note of the Management Control Statement 2014, discussions it has with the Managing Board on strategic including the process followed for its preparation. issues, helping it to pursue clear strategic choices and to To ensure consistency to amendments in laws and establish priorities and conditions for the long term, and regulations in respect of remuneration, the Supervisory concluded that developments were still substantially in Board approved the revised Global Reward Policy and line with the bank’s long-term strategy. approved the targets and assessment standards for the organisation-wide 2015 financial and non-financial targets In its February meeting, the Supervisory Board extensively and for the Managing Board. Two members of the reviewed, discussed and subsequently agreed on the Supervisory Board visited the business of ABN AMRO Governance Report updated business plan and the proposed financials until Hypotheken Groep in Amersfoort (Netherlands), a 2018. The Supervisory Board evaluated and discussed subsidiary of the bank, to obtain sufficient insight into with KPMG (the independent external auditor) and the developments within mortgages, such as the interest rate Managing Board the independent auditor’s report that trend, volumes and margins, and their impact on the KPMG issued on the 2014 consolidated financial business. Also in March, the entire Supervisory Board statements. Furthermore, the proposal for the final adopted the rules of conduct for the banking sector. dividend over 2014 to the annual General Meeting and the Annual Financial Statements proposed dividend policy were discussed and approved by The Annual General Meeting took place in April and was the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board approved attended by all of the members of the Supervisory Board. the fourth-quarter 2014 results and the accompanying Important topics were the reappointment of Mr De Haan, press release and was informed of the draft agenda for the remuneration discussion and the update on the the Annual General Meeting. Following the advice of the whistleblowing files in Dubai. Apart from the Annual Managing Board, the Supervisory Board decided to General Meeting, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board nominate EY as its external auditor for the financial audit regularly met with the Board of Directors of NLFI, at the of ABN AMRO and its subsidiaries for the financial years time the sole shareholder of the bank. Also in April the 2016 to 2018. Supervisory Board visited TOPS IT Computer Centre in Amstelveen (Netherlands). The visit consisted of deep dives on information security and data management, an Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 305 Governance Report / Supervisory Board report Introduction explanation of cloud computing, related developments, In July, the yearly tripartite consultative meeting between and a visit to the data centre where the members of the the Supervisory Board, the Managing Board and the Strategic Report Supervisory Board experienced the different channels. Employee Council took place and was attended by Furthermore, three members of the Supervisory Board six members of the Supervisory Board. A diversified and shared views with four participants of the Employee open dialogue on remuneration affairs was conducted Council on the bank’s governance model. at this event. In May the Supervisory Board received a report on the In August, after a review and discussion with the review process of the files of SME clients who had Managing Board, the Supervisory Board approved the Business Report long-term interest rate derivatives with ABN AMRO. second-quarter 2015 results and the Interim Report 2015 To obtain an in-depth update on interest rate derivatives, for ABN AMRO Group, including the related press release, four members of the Supervisory Board attended an as well as the abbreviated financial report of educational session devoted to this topic in 2015. The ABN AMRO Bank. The Supervisory Board furthermore workshop covered interest derivatives in general, duty of agreed with the proposed adjustments to the Bank Risk care, the recent and ongoing re-evaluation of interest Appetite 2015 and the proposed Bank Risk Appetite for derivatives and lessons learned. The Supervisory Board 2016. In August the Supervisory Board approved Risk, funding & capital Report approved the first-quarter 2015 results and the related the proposal to declare an interim dividend to the sole press release. Also in May the Supervisory Board shareholder at that time. reviewed, discussed and subsequently approved the 2015-2018 financials and agreed to the proposed Internal To ensure compliance with the risk governance Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and requirements of the CRD IV regulation and to follow up on Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP). Also, SREP recommendations, the Supervisory Board discussed several IPO-related draft governance documents in in detail, challenged, and subsequently approved the preparation for the IPO were brought to the attention of proposals for amending the risk policy governance the Supervisory Board, and the Supervisory Board structure, the list containing the critical risk policies and challenged the bank’s external communication strategy ABN AMRO’s charters, and the blueprint model for Governance Report with the Managing Board. international governance of compliance. The Supervisory Board also agreed with the proposed amendments to the Due to a vacancy (and therefore the lack of quorum) in rules of procedure of the Supervisory Board and the the Remuneration, Selection & Nomination Committee, Managing Board, including incorporation of the procedure the Supervisory Board decided in June outside of a for the appointment and resignation of the Global Head of meeting to approve, among other things, the expansion Compliance & Conduct. of the list of Identified Staff 2015, a ‘good leaver request’ Annual Financial Statements as part of the ABN AMRO Variable Compensation Plan, In September the Supervisory Board extensively the non-cash instrument to be awarded following the discussed and approved the Managing Board’s proposals IPO pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Variable on international governance of the second line of defense Compensation Plan, and the establishment of the updated functions at ABN AMRO. mandate of the Remuneration, Selection & Nomination Committee in consideration of amendments in laws and regulations. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 306 Governance Report / Supervisory Board report Introduction In October the Supervisory Board adopted, outside a Also in December the Supervisory Board approved the meeting, a proposal to adjust the Variable Compensation framework of the financial and non-financial targets for Strategic Report Plan regarding replacement of the non-cash instrument 2016 for the Managing Board and members of the to be awarded following the IPO. Furthermore, the Management Group with a direct reporting line to the Supervisory Board paid special and extensive attention to Supervisory Board, the revised Global Reward Policy and the application of the Act on the Remuneration Policy for the Global Reward Governance Matrix, as well as the Financial Undertakings (Wet beloningsbeleid financiële Managing Board’s proposed approach to application of the ondernemingen, Wbfo) with regard to the 20% variable Act on the Remuneration Policy for Financial Undertakings compensation limit as proposed by the Managing Board. (Wet beloningsbeleid financiële ondernemingen, Wbfo) Business Report for the year 2015. In November, the Supervisory Board approved the third-quarter 2015 results and the related press release. A deep dive with regard to developments at ECT Clients, Other topics presented by both the first and second line of defence, The Supervisory Board received quarterly updates in 2015 provided more insight into the ECT Clients market, its on material compliance matters and the effectiveness of clients, relevant market developments and the way risk compliance procedures, the main legal files and Risk, funding & capital Report management is performed. The yearly meeting of proceedings, and the handling of claims. These are members of the Supervisory Board and trainees of the recurring topics on the agenda. Furthermore, the Next Generation Network, the bank’s trainee network, Supervisory Board reviewed the Enterprise Risk also took place in November. Topics such as the role of Management Reports regularly. In these reports the actual the Supervisory Board in restoring trust in the bank, and and forecasted risk profile is benchmarked against the the contribution of the Banker’s Oath to rebuilding trust bank’s risk appetite. The Supervisory Board reviewed and in the financial sector, were discussed in an interactive discussed the correspondence with the Dutch central session. In November the Chairman of the Supervisory bank, the European Central Bank and the Netherlands Board attended a recurring annual meeting organised by Authority for the Financial Markets on a regular basis and the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets for was frequently updated on pending regulatory topics by Governance Report chairmen of supervisory boards of large banks, during Group Audit and the Compliance & Conduct department. which the subject of client centricity was discussed. The Supervisory Board was updated quarterly on important topics within the organisation by the Chairman In its December meeting, the Supervisory Board approved of the Managing Board and informed of the corporate, the bank’s Risk Governance Charter. It discussed the private and retail banking activities and the developments outcome of the annual Employee Engagement Survey, in the field of information technology, digital innovation which revealed that 76% of the bank’s employees feel and business process change by the members of the Annual Financial Statements engaged with ABN AMRO. The Supervisory Board was Managing Board responsible for these activities. pleased with the outcome and with the response rate of 83%. The Managing Board presented an action plan to In 2015 the Supervisory Board was also kept closely the Supervisory Board relating to the evaluation of the abreast of ABN AMRO’s capital structure and funding long-term strategy. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board strategy and periodically approved the bank’s most recent extensively discussed the proposed policy regarding Capital and Funding Plans. The Supervisory Board regularly transactions in the bank’s financial instruments by received detailed updates from the Chief Financial Officer members of the Managing Board. of the Managing Board on the current figures and projections of the bank’s financial results, including developments regarding loan impairments. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 307 Governance Report / Supervisory Board report Introduction The Supervisory Board used the Quarterly Execution Annual accounts 2015 and dividend Monitoring tool to discuss with the Managing Board on a The Supervisory Board reviewed the Annual Report 2015, Strategic Report quarterly basis the main results with respect to realisation the Annual Financial Statements 2015 and all annexed of the strategic objectives, the progress of activities, information of ABN AMRO Group. These documents were initiatives and guiding principles, and the progress made evaluated and discussed with the Managing Board, Group on the long-term strategic goals, performance targets and Audit and KPMG (the independent external auditor) and alignment of the strategic priorities with the bank’s the Supervisory Board took note of the independent long-term strategy. auditor’s report that KPMG issued on the Annual Financial Statements 2015. The Supervisory Board was provided Business Report Performance evaluation with sufficient assurance regarding the information provided The Supervisory Board reviews its performance and that by the Managing Board in the annual Management Control of the Supervisory Board committees on an ongoing Statement. The Supervisory Board is satisfied that the basis. The self-assessment for 2014 was completed in Annual Report and the Annual Financial Statements 2015 the first quarter of 2015 and action points were defined. comply with all relevant requirements. The Annual Report The Supervisory Board carried out a review of its own 2015, the Annual Financial Statements 2015 and all annexed performance, the performance of its committees and information of ABN AMRO Group were approved by the Risk, funding & capital Report of its individual members over full-year 2015, which Supervisory Board on 15 March 2016. The Supervisory was completed in the first quarter of 2016. The selfBoard furthermore approved the Managing Board’s assessments include an evaluation of the effectiveness proposal to the Annual General Meeting on the final of the introductory and lifelong learning programmes. dividend over 2015. Important topics covered in the evaluation are the Supervisory Board’s role with respect to strategy, risk management and internal control, culture and behaviour within the organisation, the dynamics between the Supervisory Board members, the composition and expertise of the Supervisory Board, the functioning of Governance Report the members of the Supervisory Board and of the Committees and their members and the search process used for new members to the Supervisory Board. The effectiveness of the procedures for the meetings of the Supervisory Board are also part of the evaluation. The self-assessments are supported by an independent corporate advisory firm. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 308 Governance Report / Supervisory Board report / Supervisory Board Committees Introduction Supervisory Board Committees Strategic Report Remuneration, Selection & Board on its approach and kept track of the progress of Nomination Committee these negotiations. The Remuneration, Selection & Nomination Committee (the ‘Committee’) held four regular meetings in 2015. During the regular and extra meetings of the Committee, In addition, an extra meeting was scheduled in September a range of subjects were discussed and decided upon. to allow the Committee to discuss among other things In February, the Committee extensively discussed and Business Report the impact of the Act on the Remuneration Policy for approved the results of the 2014 organisation-wide Financial Undertakings (Wet beloningsbeleid financiële financial and non-financial targets and issued positive ondernemingen, Wbfo) on the organisation. All members advice to the Supervisory Board in connection with the attended the regular meetings and also the extra meeting review of the Managing Board’s performance over 2014. in September. The Chairman of the Managing Board, The Committee also agreed with the final list of Identified the Managing Board member responsible for People, Staff for 2014 and the proposed Net Asset Value growth Regulations & Identity, representatives of HR and the of the performance certificates for 2014. The Committee Risk, funding & capital Report Company Secretary also joined these meetings. furthermore discussed and approved the performance ratings, variable compensation and proposed salaries for Mr Wakkie stepped down as Chairman of the Committee the members of the Management Group with a direct with effect from 31 March 2015 and was succeeded in reporting line to the Supervisory Board, as well as the pool that capacity on 30 April 2015 by Mr Ten Have. Due to for variable compensation for 2014. Also in February the the departure of Mr Wakkie, the Committee consisted Committee approved three waivers under the Global of three Supervisory Board members for the remainder Reward Policy. of the year instead of the required number of four, which resulted in a lack of quorum. The Supervisory Board In March the Committee issued positive advice on the adopted the required decisions relying upon the adjustments to the Global Reward Policy in order to Governance Report Committee’s advice during that period. Mr Meerstadt ensure compliance with recent changes in laws and joined the Committee as a member with effect from regulations, such as the Wbfo and the Supervisory 1 October 2015 and filled in the vacancy created by Regulation on Sound Remuneration Policies 2014 the departure of Ms Oudeman as a member of the (Regeling Beheerst Beloningsbeleid 2014). The Committee Supervisory Board (and consequently as a member of issued positive advice on the targets and assessment the Committee) from 30 September 2015. standards for the organisation-wide 2015 financial and non-financial targets and consented to the provisional list Annual Financial Statements Important focus areas of the Committee in 2015 were, of Identified Staff for 2015. among other things, succession planning and the recruitment and selection procedure for the Chairman, The Committee consented in June to the proposal to Vice-Chairman and members of the Supervisory Board. expand the list of Identified Staff for 2015 and agreed The Committee, and in particular the Committee Chairman, to provide a positive advice on the proposal to the played a key role in the search processes, supported by Supervisory Board. The Committee also issued positive external executive search expertise. In addition, the advice on both a good leaver request as part of the Chairman maintained close contacts with the relevant ABN AMRO Variable Compensation Plan and a proposal stakeholders and closely involved the other members of on the treatment of the non-cash instrument to be the Committee and the Supervisory Board. Another focus awarded to Identified Staff members in case of the area concerned the changes and succession planning IPO pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Variable Other within the Management Group. The Committee was Compensation Plan. Furthermore, the Committee furthermore updated regularly on the negotiations for a extensively discussed the proposals related to the job new collective labour agreement, challenged the Managing market allowance policy. Due to the EBA guidelines and ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 309 Governance Report / Supervisory Board report / Supervisory Board Committees Introduction the entry into force of the Wbfo, the division of mandates Board were directly verbally reported in the next meeting including decision-making processes, between the of the Supervisory Board. The Chairman of the Audit Strategic Report Committee and the Supervisory Board, that had been in Committee met with the independent auditor four times place since March 2012 was subject to review. The related in 2015 focusing on the progress of the external audit proposal received the Committee’s positive advice in June and other subjects relevant to the meeting of the and was subsequently adopted by the Supervisory Board. Audit Committee. Directly after the meeting in which the annual accounts were discussed, the Audit Committee In September the Committee issued positive advice on the met with the independent external auditor to seek proposal to adjust the Variable Compensation Plan with confirmation that all relevant matters from the audit Business Report regard to the replacement of the non-cash instrument came to the attention of the Audit Committee. portion from performance certificates into depositary receipts representing shares in the capital of ABN AMRO The Committee held four executive meetings in 2015, Group following the IPO. Furthermore the Committee without members of the Managing Board or the external received information on the proposed application of the auditor being present, which took place immediately prior Wbfo regarding the 20% variable compensation limit and to the regular meeting of the Committee. In these on the organisation-wide impact and reputational executive meetings, the Committee reviewed, among Risk, funding & capital Report consequences. The Committee discussed the proposal, other things, the independence of the external auditor, which led to several amendments. status updates and updates on improvement programmes with regard to financial and regulatory reporting and data The Committee issued positive advice in November on quality, topics related to the IPO readiness of ABN AMRO, the framework of the financial and non-financial targets and the performance of Group Audit. The Chairman of the for 2016, including the organisation-wide KPIs as well as Audit Committee and other members of the Committee the KPIs for the members of the Management Group occasionally had contact with the Head of Group Audit with a direct reporting line to the Supervisory Board. to discuss the progress of the execution of the audit plan The Committee advised positively on the proposed update and audit issues. of the Global Reward Policy and the Managing Board’s Governance Report approach to the 20% variable compensation limit under In the meetings the Committee discussed, among other the Wbfo, following the decision in September. These things, financial reporting, internal controls over financial proposals were subsequently adopted by the Supervisory reporting, the role, performance and reports from Group Board. The Committee also actively discussed the results Audit, reports from the external auditor, the auditor’s of the Employee Engagement Survey 2015. independence, adherence to laws and regulations governing financial reporting, regulatory matters concerning financial and regulatory reporting, and signals Audit Committee Annual Financial Statements from clients suggesting possible internal control issues. In 2015, the Audit Committee (the ‘Committee’) held The Audit Committee closely monitored the financial and seven regular meetings to discuss the financial results, regulatory reporting improvement programmes in 2014, quarterly reports, the interim and annual accounts, and continued to do so in 2015. The Committee was quarterly press releases and key audit matters as reported regularly updated on the progress of these programmes by internal and external audit. All regular meetings of the by the Managing Board, Group Audit and the external Audit committees were attended by the chairman of the auditor. The Committee was informed on, and discussed, Managing Board, the CFO, the CRO, Head of Group Audit all letters from the ECB and DNB that were of interest and the independent external auditor. In addition to the to the Committee. Audit Committee meeting, the Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly held separate sessions with the In February the Committee received the report of the Other independent external auditor, the head of Group Audit and external auditor regarding the 2014 Consolidated Financial the CFO. All matters discussed in a meeting of the Audit Statements and subsequently discussed, approved, and Committee and which were relevant for the Supervisory advised the Supervisory Board to approve the quarterly ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 310 Governance Report / Supervisory Board report / Supervisory Board Committees Introduction report for Q4 2014. Furthermore, the dividend policy and concerning the Finance & Risk Alignment Architecture the 2014 dividend proposal, the financial projections up Initiative was discussed. In December, the Committee Strategic Report until 2018 and the correlated scenario and sensitivity received and discussed the yearly update from the analyses, the Group Audit medium-term audit plan and Group Tax department. modifications to the Auditor Independence Policy were approved. Also, the Audit Committee advised the The Committee discussed internal control, governance, Supervisory Board to nominate EY at the General Meeting risk and compliance, based on the quarterly internal and as the external auditor for the reporting years 2016 to external audit reports. A focus area in this respect is the 2018. Lastly, the Audit Committee discussed the Group procedures for financial reporting, including the procedure Business Report Audit Opinion Q4 and its performance in 2014 and the for the establishment of loan impairments and the focal points for the annual reporting and General timelines in which impairments are established. The Meeting highlighted by NLFI. Committee extensively discussed the performance and audit ratings of the bank’s first and second line In March 2015 the Committee took notice of the departments on a quarterly basis. During each meeting it Annual Reports 2014 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and devoted attention to the robustness and development of ABN AMRO Bank N.V., the Management Control the financial results and ratios, including the level of loan Risk, funding & capital Report Statement, and took note of the auditor independence impairments. The Committee also discussed financial assessment by Group Audit. Lastly, the Committee reports issued to supervisory authorities, such as the discussed the minutes of various audit committees abroad. COREP and FINREP reports. The Chairman met with the ECB and DNB two times in 2015. In May, and in addition to the regular agenda items, theAudit Committee discussed and made additional Furthermore, Committee members met managers of recommendations on the audit plan 2015 of the external different departments to remain well informed about the auditor. A proposal was discussed on making improvements subject to be supervised by the Audit Committee. Among to regulatory reporting. Furthermore, the Audit Committee other things, Committee members visited TOPS, mainly discussed the newly designed Group Audit Opinion discussing safety, data security and in-house cloud Governance Report reporting form, which provides a more transparent view developments. on the follow-up of audit issues. The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed the Annual In August the Committee discussed the status of the Report 2015 and the Annual Financial Statements 2015 of project ‘the calculation of impairments in line with EU IFRS’, ABN AMRO Group N.V. and all annexed information in the development of interest and fee income, core Tier 1, the March 2016. cost/income ratio and Basel IV developments. Furthermore, Annual Financial Statements the Committee discussed the SME Interest Derivatives provision. The Committee agreed an interim dividend and Risk & Capital Committee advised the Supervisory Board accordingly. Furthermore, The Risk & Capital Committee (the ‘Committee’) held four the Group Audit Performance Report was discussed. scheduled meetings in 2015. One extra meeting was used Lastly the plan for the transition of the external audit from to discuss a business deep dive and specific lessons KPMG to EY was discussed. The Audit Committee was learned. All Committee members were present at the kept updated on the progress of the transition. scheduled meetings held in 2015, with the exception of one member who was absent one meeting. All relevant The Committee meeting in November was primarily issues discussed in the Risk & Capital Committee were focused on the upcoming IPO. The Committee agreed on reported to the Supervisory Board. the Quarterly Report for the third quarter, after discussing Other the internal financial reporting and the Q3 report of the Mr Wakkie stepped down as a member of the Risk & independent external auditor. The Supervisory Board was Capital Committee with effect from 31 March 2015. advised accordingly. In addition, the progress report Ms Oudeman stepped down as a member of the ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 311 Governance Report / Supervisory Board report / Supervisory Board Committees Introduction Committee with effect from 30 September 2015. Another agenda item was the correspondence with Both vacancies are expected to be filled as of the the Dutch central bank, the ECB and other supervisory Strategic Report General Meeting at 18 May 2016. authorities. The Committee was informed on these matters in quarterly reports prepared by the internal A regular item on the Committee’s agenda is the auditor and Compliance & Conduct. The Committee also Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Report, which discussed letters and reports received from and sent to provides insight into the state of affairs of all risk types the Dutch central bank and the European Central Bank identified in the risk taxonomy. The ERM report aims to concerning risk and capital-related subjects.​ identify cross-risk type issues and/or effects and to Business Report provide a single integrated view on the bank’s risk profile, In addition to the abovementioned recurring agenda items, benchmarked against the bank’s risk appetite (which is in its meeting of February 2015 the Committee was defined annually by the Managing Board and approved by informed of a quick scan with regard to the oil and gas the Committee, the Supervisory Board and the General market, the impact of the strengthening Swiss franc Meeting) and its strategy. and the exposure regarding Russia and Ukraine. ​ Other important subjects included the bank’s top In May, the Committee was updated on the AQR lessons Risk, funding & capital Report individual exposures and lessons learned with regard to learned and approved the concept ILAAP and ICAAP. specific impairments. Based on the ERM Report, the Furthermore, the Committee was updated on the way Committee also held in-depth discussions on operational the business handles higher regulatory requirements. risks, market risks and credit concentration risks. The projects encourage a more proactive culture, higher Furthermore, in most meetings an update was provided risk awareness and discipline, and control acceptance and on the applications for the Advanced Measurement preparedness.​ Approach and the Internal Models Approach.​ In August, the Committee discussed the validation and Other recurring agenda items included the quarterly legal reassessment of the Bank Risk Appetite 2015 on the basis and compliance updates. Based on these reports the of current insights and subsequently agreed with the Governance Report Committee discussed major individual legal and proposed adjustments to the Bank Risk Appetite 2015. compliance files, the performance of the compliance and The proposed Bank Risk Appetite for 2016, as a coherent legal functions, compliance policies and procedures, an set of statements expressing the moderate risk profile, improvement programme with regard to the Compliance was also discussed, challenged and agreed upon. The & Conduct organisation, the relationship with the Committee advised the Supervisory Board to approve supervisory authorities, and the impact of national and both proposals. Furthermore, the preliminary SREP international laws and regulations.​ assessment by the ECB was discussed. A number of Annual Financial Statements changes to corporate governance, in anticipation of the The bank’s capital and funding plan was also a recurring IPO, were approved. item on the Commitee’s agenda. Each quarter the Committee approved the most recent capital and funding In November, in a non-scheduled meeting, a deep dive on plan and was updated on the bank’s capital and funding ECT Clients was presented and discussed. In December positions. The Committee discussed the bank’s target the Committee discussed changes to the Risk Governance capital ratios, also in view of the long-term strategy, and Charter and advised the Supervisory Board to approve these. the plans for raising capital and funding, including the timing. Particular attention was paid to the leverage ratio ​More information on the risk, capital, liquidity and fundingand the liquidity coverage ratio, including the exact related topics discussed in the Risk & Capital Committee regulatory definition of these ratios and the national and is provided in the Risk, funding & capital Report. Other international discussions in this respect. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 312 Governance Report / Remuneration report Introduction Remuneration report Strategic Report This report provides an overview of the remuneration principles at ABN AMRO, including those of the Managing Board and Identified Staff. Overview Business Report After various changes to the applicable guidelines for have been timely incorporated into ABN AMRO’s own financial institutions with respect to remuneration became policies and practices. This report sets out our effective in 2014, more changes followed in 2015. These remuneration philosophy and principles for all ABN AMRO new regulations specify more limitations to variable employees. The remuneration policy and practices for the remuneration for all employees in the Dutch financial Managing Board, Supervisory Board and so-called industry and an extension of the bonus prohibition for a Identified Staff are discussed in greater detail in the specific group of senior employees. All relevant guidelines subsequent sections of this report. Risk, funding & capital Report Philosophy, policies and principles Remuneration compass We offer meaningful work, a climate in which people As a bank with Dutch roots, we have an enterprising spirit can master their profession and personalised working Governance Report and a strong drive to succeed, while being prudent and conditions. pragmatic. We set high standards and expect our employees to be professional, passionate about their work ABN AMRO’s corporate strategy is based on five strategic and to have a strong moral compass. Reward is one of the priorities (see the Strategic Report in this Annual Report). instruments in a balanced set of instruments we use to Our reward philosophy centres around these priorities. attract, retain and develop the best people. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 313 Governance Report / Remuneration report Introduction Remuneration philosophy Strategic Report Strategic priorities... ...reflected in remuneration philosophy 1. Reflected in the type of KPIs that are being used Enhance client centricity (what type of performance is being rewarded?) Business Report 2. Being able to attract and retain the best people Invest in our future by being a Top Class Employer 3. Adhere to all applicable rules and regulations Moderate risk profile on compensation Risk, funding & capital Report 4. Remuneration policies should be in line with local International ambition market practice and ABN AMRO's international strategy 5. Reward performance against defined objectives Improve profitability while at the same time encouraging cost-conscious objectives Client centricity: We put our clients’ ensuring that the KPIs and performance assessments take interests centre stage in our performance into account not only financial and non-financial results, Governance Report management cycle but also how the results are achieved. This refers to the ABN AMRO wants to be a bank that creates sustainable employee’s behaviour, their alignment with business value and that puts its clients’ interests centre stage. principles and their leadership qualities. Mid-year and In pursuing this goal, we use a set of core values and end-of-year performance appraisals are held by managers business principles, which we include in our performance with their staff. management cycle in Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). We use both financial and non-financial targets, which are Invest in our future: We attract and retain the best people Annual Financial Statements always aligned with and serve to strengthen our strategy. One of the key elements of ABN AMRO’s long-term Our business principles guide us in how we engage corporate strategy is our ambition to become a Top Class with each other and with our clients. The principles are Employer. Our HR and Reward strategies are designed derived from our core values, our aim to put clients’ to help us attract and retain the best people over the interests centre stage and the competencies we require coming years. of our people. Moderate risk profile: We adhere to We use one appraisal philosophy based on a uniform applicable rules and regulations and model and process for all employees. Accountability use appropriate risk adjustments for performance is one of the starting points. This means ​We contribute to our bank’s moderate risk profile by Other that our employees take responsibility for, and commit complying with applicable rules and regulations that themselves to, the bank’s targets and the framework regulate remuneration in the financial sector. In the in which it operates. The bank devotes extra effort to Netherlands, these include: ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 314 Governance Report / Remuneration report Introduction ÅÅ the Dutch Banking Code; and regulations in the various countries in which we ÅÅ Guidelines on Remuneration Policies and Practices as operate. Our remuneration policy, while remaining Strategic Report formally adopted on 10 December 2010 by the constrained and sound, gives us enough flexibility to Committee of European Banking Supervisors operate effectively in each local market. (CEBS Guidelines); ÅÅ the fourth amended European Capital Requirements We aim to align our reward programmes across Directive (CRDIV), which replaced the former Directive organisational and country boundaries, while (CRD III) on 1 January 2014; acknowledging the need for variation to accommodate ÅÅ as a result of the implementation of CRD IV, the Dutch local differences. This provides flexibility to local business Business Report Regulation on Sound Remuneration Policies pursuant in adapting reward policies to local situations varying to the Financial Supervision Act 2011 was replaced by according to relative size, competitive positioning an updated Remuneration Policy Regulation (Regeling (dominant player, growth strategy, new entrant) and Beheerst Beloningsbeleid 2014 – RBB). Together with external market situations. the Remuneration Policy Decree (Besluit beheerst beloningsbeleid, Wft) these form the specific Dutch Improving profitability: We are cost conscious framework; Our annual performance management cycle creates a link Risk, funding & capital Report ÅÅ the Dutch act on limitation of liability DNB and AFM between performance (realistic, sustainable results) and and bonus prohibition for state-supported enterprises reward in such a way that costs change in line with (Wet aansprakelijkheidsbeperking DNB en AFM en employees’ and the bank’s performance. More information bonusverbod staatsgesteunde ondernemingen, or on this subject is provided in the Our People section of Bonus Prohibition Act); and this report. ÅÅ as from 7 February 2015, the Act on the Remuneration Policy for Financial Undertakings (Wet beloningsbeleid In principle, we position pay packages around the median financiële ondernemingen, Wbfo). of the relevant labour market. We focus strongly on keeping labour costs under control. Where relevant, we In addition, we adhere to rules and guidelines in other take account of remuneration benchmarks. These Governance Report countries where the bank is active, while always aiming to benchmarks are, however, only used to support decisions, strike a good balance between local market practice and not to determine them. This allows us to respond the bank’s international strategy. We also make sure that effectively to changes in the financial markets and we use appropriate risk adjustments in our remuneration economic circumstances. process, in part by: ÅÅ safeguarding an adequate focus on performance by means of our remuneration schemes; Remuneration policy Annual Financial Statements ÅÅ striking the right balance between financial and non-financial KPIs as well as qualitative and Global reward policy quantitative KPIs; The remuneration principles described above are ÅÅ including KPIs relating to risk mitigation measures; embedded in ABN AMRO’s Global Reward Policy. This ÅÅ following strict governance processes and setting policy is designed to support ABN AMRO’s business a cap on maximum remuneration. strategy, objectives, values and long-term interests. It provides a framework to effectively manage reward International ambition: We are flexible and performance across the bank. and in control Our strategic ambition to selectively grow our international The Supervisory Board approves the general remuneration business implies that we need to attract, motivate, principles laid down in the Global Reward Policy and Other develop and retain high-performing, engaged staff in assesses the general principles and exceptions that relate markets that differ from the Netherlands. Factors we take to the applicable governance and/or international into account include the labour market and applicable rules structures. As a result of the many changes in the ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 315 Governance Report / Remuneration report Introduction applicable guidelines and regulations within the financial to remuneration in the financial sector, such as the sector, the Global Reward Policy must be kept aligned introduction of a bonus maximum of 100% (or, under Strategic Report with all relevant developments. All changes in applicable certain conditions, 200%) of the annual fixed income. rules and regulations need to be implemented in the Global Reward Policy. The Supervisory Board therefore ​The Dutch government has introduced further restrictions reviews the policy regularly, considering the company’s on remuneration in the financial industry by means of the strategy, risk awareness, targets and corporate values as Act on the Remuneration Policy for Financial Undertakings well as relevant market practice. It also takes into account (Wet beloningsbeleid financiële ondernemingen, Wbfo), external requirements with respect to governance, which came into force on 7 February 2015 and which Business Report the international context and relevant market data. amended the Financial Markets Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel toezicht). These new restrictions include the The Global Reward Policy applies globally within introduction of a new maximum variable remuneration and ABN AMRO at all levels and in all countries (including an extension of the provisions and target group of the branch offices). The Global Reward Policy also specifies Bonus Prohibition Act for State-supported Enterprises. rules with respect to those staff whose professional The Wbfo has a broader scope than the European activities could have a material impact on the bank’s risk remuneration rules under CRD IV. For example, the bonus Risk, funding & capital Report profile. Within ABN AMRO this group is referred to as cap introduced by the Wbfo does not only apply to Identified Staff. A separate Reward Policy, adopted in 2010, Identified Staff, but to all people working at ABN AMRO. applies to members of the Managing Board as agreed by With respect to the maximum variable remuneration, the the Supervisory Board and the then shareholder. Wbfo is stricter than CRD IV in the Netherlands, where variable remuneration is limited to (an average of) 20%. Changes in 2015 Collective labour agreement We updated the Global Reward Policy in 2015 in response Following negotiations, the bank reached agreement to internal developments and the external remuneration with the trade unions on both a new collective labour restrictions described above. agreement and a new collective social plan (redundancy Governance Report scheme) on 17 December 2015 in the Netherlands. Both Expected changes in 2016 agreements focus more on employability. The new collective In alignment with the remuneration guidelines ABN AMRO’s labour agreement (effective from 1 January 2016 to Variable Compensation Plan for Identified Staff provides 1 January 2018) specifies a freeze on salaries during 2016 for a non-cash instrument portion in the form of and an increase on salaries of 1.5% on 1 January 2017. performance certificates. As from the 2016 performance The new collective social plan (effective from 1 January 2016 year and as a result of ABN AMRO being a listed company to 1 January 2020) specifies a reduction of time in the again, the Variable Compensation Plan will provide for Annual Financial Statements Redeployment Centre from twelve months to six months depositary receipts (DRs) instead of performance and a reduction in the level of redundancy pay, both with certificates in order to achieve shareholder alignment. effect from 1 January 2017. The use of the non-cash instrument portion in the form of performance certificates will be continued until 2016. New regulations All outstanding performance certificates will be phased European Remuneration Guidelines such as CRD IV out over time. became effective and relevant Dutch regulations such as the Remuneration Policy Decree (Besluit beheerst Further guidelines from supervisors such as the ECB and beloningsbeleid, Wft) and the Remuneration Policy DNB are expected. The EBA has issued an update of the Regulation (Regeling beheerst beloningsbeleid, Wft 2011Guidelines on Sound Remuneration policies that will RBB 2011) were updated with effect from 2014 (RBB become effective as from 1 January 2017. During 2016 Other 2014). CRD IV introduced further restrictions with respect we will amend our remuneration policies and practices to bring them in line with the new guidelines. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 316 Governance Report / Remuneration report Introduction Remuneration principles for Managing Board ABN AMRO. For the calendar years 2012 and 2013, and Identified Staff respectively, all eligible Managing Board members waived Strategic Report The following section provides details on the remuneration their entitlement to this allowance. In 2014 the Supervisory principles for the Managing Board and for employees that Board decided to pay out this allowance, effective from qualify as Identified Staff. 1 January 2014, to the six eligible Managing Board Members. On 29 March 2015 the members of the Managing Board remuneration policy Managing Board decided to waive their entitlement The Global Reward Policy principles apply to all employees to the allowance and the related pension contributions of the bank worldwide. A different governance applies to irrevocably for the year 2014 and beyond. Business Report the Managing Board. The Supervisory Board is responsible for proposing the policy and principles, which are subject Details on remuneration of Managing Board to shareholder approval. In addition to setting policy, the Details on the remuneration of the individual Managing Supervisory Board executes the remuneration policy for Board members are provided in note 35 to the Annual the Managing Board members. Financial Statements. For the Managing Board, ABN AMRO has always aimed Annual fixed remuneration 2015 Risk, funding & capital Report for a level of total compensation slightly below the median The annual base salary for the Managing Board follows of the relevant markets. ABN AMRO used to define a peer the developments in the collective labour agreement for group of companies, i.e. both financial and non-financial the banking industry (CAO Banken). This resulted in a companies in the Netherlands and Europe, against which 1% increase for 2015. The annual base salary in 2015 remuneration proposals for the Managing Board were amounted to EUR 613,575 for the members of the assessed. Developments in previous years, however, Managing Board and EUR 766,969 for the Chairman make it difficult to properly assess the Managing Board’s of the Managing Board. remuneration packages considering the many changes that have occurred in the banking industry in the Variable remuneration Netherlands. These changes have not necessarily ​Although the remuneration package for the members of Governance Report impacted companies in the general industry or financial the Managing Board provides for a variable compensation institutions outside the Netherlands. This currently makes component, the Bonus Prohibition Act, which became benchmark comparisons difficult, if not impossible. effective in 2011, does not allow such compensation for board members of financial institutions that fall under As mentioned in the 2012 Remuneration Report and the scope of this Act during the period of state support pursuant to the Bonus Prohibition Act that became through shareholding by the Dutch State. The members of effective as from 2011, remuneration restrictions for the the Managing Board are therefore not entitled to receive Annual Financial Statements members of the Managing Board have become applicable. variable compensation with respect to the 2015 As a result, Managing Board members would not be performance year. As a consequence, Board members eligible to receive the contractually agreed variable do not participate in the Variable Compensation Plan that remuneration during the period of government ownership. applies to all Identified Staff within ABN AMRO. After careful consideration and with due observance of Benefits the one-off transition arrangement included in the Bonus The Chairman and members of the Managing Board Prohibition Act, the Supervisory Board decided in 2012 to participate in the ABN AMRO pension schemes as award the members of the Managing Board, except for the applicable to all Dutch employees. The changes made Chairman, a temporary fixed allowance. This allowance of to the pension arrangement as agreed between the EUR 100,000 (gross) which represents 16.67% of the 2011 collective labour agreement partners in 2014 therefore Other annual salary, applies effectively as from 1 January 2012 also apply to all seven Managing Board members. The for as long as the Bonus Prohibition Act is applicable to pensionable salary includes frozen compensation for ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 317 Governance Report / Remuneration report Introduction pension contribution for all employees that were Details on remuneration of Identified Staff employed before 2011. For pensionable salary up to Remuneration restrictions apply not only to the Managing Strategic Report EUR 100,000, a collective defined contribution (CDC) Board, but also to those staff whose professional activities pension scheme applies. The standard retirement age is could have a material impact on the bank’s risk profile 67 years, the average income accrual is 1.875% and the (Identified Staff). Within ABN AMRO the group of employee pension contribution is 5.5%. For pensionable Identified Staff consists of: salary in excess of EUR 100,000, employees will receive ÅÅ Members of the Managing and Supervisory Boards; an allowance which can be used to build up a net pension ÅÅ Members of the Management Group; in a defined contribution (DC) plan. The allowance in 2015 ÅÅ Staff responsible for independent control functions; Business Report amounted to 30% and will be set annually using the ÅÅ Other risk takers. The definition of the group of other year-end interest of the preceding calendar year. risk takers follows from credit, market and liquidity risk analyses as undertaken annually by the Group Risk In addition to pension benefits, the Managing Board Management Team on the basis of RWA thresholds, members are eligible for benefits such as the use of membership of certain Risk Committees, the level of a company car and a chauffeur. P&L budget and responsibilities; ÅÅ Other employees whose total remuneration takes them Risk, funding & capital Report Severance into the same remuneration bracket as senior managers In the event of redundancy, a severance payment equal and risk takers; to one gross annual salary will apply. ÅÅ Employees who qualify on the basis of the additional qualitative and quantitative criteria as laid down in the Appointment period EBA Guideline that has applied since 1 January 2014. All Managing Board members, except for Kees van Dijkhuizen, who was appointed on 1 May 2013, Composition of remuneration package for Identified Staff were re-appointed for a four-year term with effect from In general, the remuneration packages for Identified Staff 10 April 2014. employees have have been structured in accordance with the various regulations and restrictions for the financial Governance Report Managing Board 2015 performance sector as described above. A typical remuneration ABN AMRO’s performance management framework package for Identified Staff consists of the following supports the performance of the Managing Board. In components: 2015, three company-wide financial and three non-financial ÅÅ Annual base salary; targets were set for all Managing Board members. ÅÅ Annual variable remuneration (with deferred payout); All six targets have an equal weight and form 80% of ÅÅ Benefits and other entitlements. the total target framework. The remaining 20% of KPIs Annual Financial Statements are linked to individual performance and are also divided ABN AMRO strives to position the level of total direct into financial and non-financial components relating to compensation for Management Group members just the Managing Board member’s area of responsibility, below market median levels. With effect from 2014, the their individual leadership and cooperation between variable compensation for Management Group members business lines. was capped at 20% of base salary in anticipation of the Act on the Remuneration Policy for Financial Undertakings The Supervisory Board assessed the Managing Board (Wbfo), which came into force in 2015. With effect from members’ performance and decided that all members 2015, the remuneration restrictions under the Bonus delivered on-target performance in 2015. As a consequence Prohibition Act were extended to senior management as of the Bonus Prohibition Act, the members of the defined in the Wbfo. Accordingly, these senior managers, Managing Board are not eligible to receive a variable being people who have leading positions immediately Other remuneration linked to their 2015 performance. below the echelon of the day-to-day policymakers and who are responsible for natural persons whose work may have a material impact on the risk profile of the bank in ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 318 Governance Report / Remuneration report Introduction the period in which support is or was received, may also takes the relevant business dynamics (e.g. market not be granted any variable compensation. For the conditions, local labour and tax legislation) into account Strategic Report Managing Board members and the senior management when deciding on the composition of the reward described above, the prohibition on payment of variable packages. For the last two categories of employees, the remuneration will apply until the Dutch State no longer total direct compensation is aimed to be positioned has an interest in ABN AMRO. around market median levels. ABN AMRO’s collective labour agreement governs the Performance is measured during a one-year performance remuneration packages for Identified Staff based in the period at three levels: group, business unit and individual Business Report Netherlands who are not Management Group members. level, and by means of (partly) risk-adjusted financial and For Identified Staff outside the Netherlands, ABN AMRO non-financial performance indicators. Performance indicators Identified Staff Weight Weight Weight Weight Weight Management Management non-Management non-Management Managing Group (Commercial Group (Group Group (Commercial Group (Group Risk, funding & capital Report Board business lines1) Functions) business lines1) Functions) Financial: RARORAC, C/I ratio, Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 40% 10% 10% 10% 10% Non-financial: Net Promoter Score, Enhance Client Centricity, Employee engagement 40% 10% 10% 10% 10% Personal financial: Financial performance business line 10% Personal financial: RARORAC business line 5% 5% Personal financial: Cost ceiling business line 5% 10% 5% 10% Personal non-financial: Governance Report No specific KPIs prescribed 10% 10% 10% 10% Individual: No specific KPIs prescribed, individual leadership2 10% 60% 60% 60% 60% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 1 Commercial business segments consist of Retail Banking, Private Banking and Corporate Banking. 2 For all categories with the exception of the Managing Board: minimum weight individual leadership 30% Annual Financial Statements All variable remuneration awards for Identified Staff are to the Identified Staff member concerned. The Managing subject to, and structured in accordance with, the Variable Board’s decision must be formally approved by the Compensation Plan. Before any variable remuneration is Supervisory Board based on the advice by the granted, ABN AMRO applies an ex-ante risk assessment Remuneration, Selection & Nomination Committee. consisting of collective quantitative risk adjustment Furthermore, the variable remuneration is awarded over mechanisms (such as the solvability check) and a time and split between an up-front portion (60%) and qualitative individual check (the gatekeeper). The a deferred portion (40%), with all portions equally divided gatekeeper procedure forms part of the performance between a cash and a non-cash instrument as shown in management framework and provides for an assessment the following scheme. of each individual Identified Staff member by the Control Functions (Risk, Compliance and Audit) on the basis of Other several behavioural elements. This assessment results in advice to the Managing Board, which ultimately decides on whether variable compensation can indeed be granted ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 319 Governance Report / Remuneration report Introduction Variable remuneration Ex post risk adjustment tools (in %) ABN AMRO also makes use of several ex post riskStrategic Report 100 adjustment tools, which are described below. 100 20 80 20 Malus 60 The malus assessment is conducted by the control 30 functions Risk, Compliance, HR, Finance and Audit and 40 any outcome is subject to the approval of the Managing 30 20 Board and Supervisory Board. During the malus Business Report assessment, it is determined whether any new t=1 t=2 t=3 t=4 t=5 t=6 Total information is available which should prevent the vesting Up-front cash1 Deferred non-cash 2, 3 of deferred parts, e.g. relating to: Up-front non-cash1, 3 Deferred cash 2 ÅÅ Evidence of misconduct or serious error by the staff 1 The up-front payment (60% in total) is awarded in March following the relevant member (e.g. breach of code of conduct or other performance year. internal rules, especially concerning risks); 2 The deferred award (40% in total) vests in three separate tranches respectively 1, 2 and 3 years after the end of the relevant performance year. ÅÅ The institution and/or the business unit subsequently Risk, funding & capital Report 3 All non-cash awards are subject to a two year retention period. suffers a significant downturn in its financial performance (specific indicators are to be used); Up-front variable remuneration is awarded in the first ÅÅ The institution and/or the business unit in which quarter of the year following the relevant performance year. the staff member works suffers a significant failure of risk management; Deferred variable remuneration vests in equal instalments ÅÅ Significant changes in the institution’s economic in the three years following the first payment. or regulatory capital base. Furthermore, this remuneration will only vest after an explicit ex post risk-assessment: the ‘malus assessment’ The Supervisory Board decided that on the basis of the (see the Malus paragraph). reassessment as performed by the Control Functions Governance Report there was no reason to apply a collective or individual Specific conditions are attached to the non-cash malus with respect to the vesting of: instrument. Firstly, it fluctuates in line with the net asset ÅÅ The third tranche of deferred variable compensation value of ABN AMRO. Secondly, a two-year retention with respect to the 2012 performance period; period is applied to the non-cash instrument, so that any ÅÅ The second tranche of the deferred variable unconditional instrument will need to be retained for an compensation with respect to the 2013 performance additional two years. For a specific group of Identified period; Annual Financial Statements Staff, the settlement in cash of the non-cash instruments ÅÅ The first tranche of the deferred variable compensation can be capped. with respect to the 2014 performance period. As from 2016, as a consequence of ABN AMRO being This means that one-third of each of the deferred variable a listed company, the non-cash instrument portion will be compensation awards with respect to the three expressed in the form of DRs. The value then fluctuates performance years mentioned above will now be granted with the market price of the DRs and its use will result to the relevant Identified Staff members. in an increased alignment between remuneration and shareholder value for all participants in the Variable Compensation Plan. The applicable retention periods will continue to apply. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 320 Governance Report / Remuneration report Introduction Clawback Remuneration of Supervisory Board members The Supervisory Board has discretionary power to adjust The remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board is Strategic Report any variable compensation downwards to a suitable set by the General Meeting of Shareholders based on a amount if, in its opinion, payment of the compensation proposal of the Supervisory Board. The remuneration of would be unacceptable under the principle of Supervisory Board members is proportional to the time reasonableness and fairness. The Supervisory Board is also required to perform their duties linked to the membership authorised to reclaim any variable remuneration over any of the Supervisory Board and the relevant Board performance period if the award, calculation or payment committees and is independent of ABN AMRO’s financial was based on incorrect data or if the performance results. ABN AMRO does not grant any variable Business Report conditions were not achieved in hindsight. The recipient remuneration or shares or options to Supervisory Board will then be obliged to repay the amount to the bank. members in lieu of remuneration. The remuneration has not changed since 2010. Since 10 April 2014, remuneration Personal hedging or insurance for Supervisory Board committee memberships is limited Personal hedging or insurance linked to remuneration and to two such memberships. D ​ etails on the remuneration of liability in order to circumvent the risk control effects that members of the Supervisory Board in 2015 are provided in have been embedded in the variable compensation plan note 35 to the Annual Financial Statements. Risk, funding & capital Report are not permitted. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 321 Governance Report / Remuneration report / Details of Remuneration Introduction Details of Remuneration Strategic Report The following tables provide more information on the remuneration over 2015. Aggregated total compensation over 2015 per business segment as at 31 December 2015 This table applies to all Identified Staff. Business Report 2015 2014 Number of FTEs Aggregated Number of FTEs Aggregated (in thousands) (Identified Staff) compensation1 (Identified Staff) compensation1 Retail Banking 13 3,687 13 3,575 Private Banking 45 19,317 48 19,376 Corporate Banking 143 42,552 94 28,739 Risk, funding & capital Report Group Functions2 128 30,314 123 29,434 Total 329 95,871 278 81,124 1 Compensation comprises fixed and variable compensation, sign-on bonus and severance pay over 2015. 2 Managing and Supervisory Board members are reported under Group Functions. Details of aggregated total compensation over 2015 The following table applies to all Identified Staff. Number of FTEs (Identified Staff) Non-Management Aggregated (in thousands) Management Group Group compensation1 Governance Report Fixed compensation over 2015 126 203 75,654 Variable compensation over 2015 94 196 20,217 of which in cash 6,507 of which in performance certificates 5,876 of which unconditional (up-front payment) 12,383 of which conditional (deferred payment) 7,834 Sign-on bonus over 20152 1 Severance pay over 20152 1 Highest severance pay over 20152 Annual Financial Statements 1 Compensation comprises fixed and variable compensation, sign-on bonus and severance pay over 2015. 2 Sign on bonus/severance pay not disclosed for confidentiality reasons. Amounts are included in the aggregated amount of fixed compensation 2015. For certain employees, variable compensation comprises Variable compensation over 2015 as awarded to all a component that is not subject to deferral and which, employees, including Identified Staff, amounted to based on the ‘EBA opinion on remuneration and EUR 180 million. allowance’, was discontinued in the course of 2015. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 322 Governance Report / Remuneration report / Details of Remuneration Introduction Employees with total remuneration higher than EUR 1 million per business segment as at 31 December 2015 Strategic Report The following table applies to all employees. Remuneration in millions1 (in FTE) 1-1.5 1.5-2 2-2.5 2.5-3 3-3.5 3.5-4 4.5-5 >5 Retail Banking Private Banking Corporate Banking 1 Business Report Group Functions 1 1 Remuneration comprises fixed and variable compensation, sign-on bonus, severance pay and pension contribution over 2015. Details of total remuneration higher than EUR 1 million over 2015 ​The following table applies to all employees. Risk, funding & capital Report Remuneration in millions1 (in FTE) 1-1.5 1.5-2 2-2.5 2.5-3 3-3.5 3.5-4 4.5-5 >5 Managing Board 1 Management Group Non-Management Group Identified Staff 1 1 Remuneration comprises fixed and variable compensation, sign-on bonus, severance pay and pension contribution over 2015. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 323 Governance Report / Employee representation Introduction Employee representation Strategic Report Listening and connecting ABN AMRO’s employees are represented by work on the organisation. The fact that ABN AMRO was listed councils at all levels of its group. Under Dutch law, the just seven years after being nationalised is an important managing board of any company running an enterprise first step towards full independence. Many employees Business Report where a works council has been established must seek across the organisation worked hard in the past few years the non-binding advice of the works council before taking to achieve this milestone. certain decisions with respect to the enterprise. Decisions in this respect are related to a major restructuring, For the Employee Council, the most important condition a change of control, or the appointment or dismissal of for an IPO had always been an adequate protective a member of the managing board. Certain other decisions structure from the moment of listing. And while the involving employment matters that apply either to all details of this structure changed during the years of Risk, funding & capital Report employees or certain groups of employees may only be preparation, we held on to this condition. This led to an taken with the works council’s consent. The Works intensive and interesting period of consultations and Councils Act provides the legal foundation for how negotiations with all parties involved. The result was that ABN AMRO’s employee representation is organised. in October 2015, the Employee Council finalised its advice to proceed with an IPO. At ABN AMRO, employee representation is all about employees doing their part to help build the bank. Equally The IPO was a success and we would like to congratulate important, however, is the ability to listen. Listening to one the Managing Board on this achievement. The Employee another allows us to connect, formulate well-informed Council is very pleased with the right of inquiry granted opinions and take decisions more effectively. to us, giving employees a voice in assessing whether Governance Report a given event is undesirable or in conflict with ABN AMRO’s interests. Employee Council election campaign Elections for the new bank’s employee participation Other issues this year included the views of the employee councils were held in November 2015. A campaign representation councils on the corporate governance designed to encourage staff to stand as candidates structure, the bank’s identity in relation to sustainability, challenged them to get involved, to use their talents and innovation, optimisation of the mortgage chain, restoring Annual Financial Statements network, and to develop and grow as members of the trust in the bank and, of course, the bank’s social policy. councils. The campaign was a huge success, with almost 80 people running for 46 council seats. Almost half of The employee representation councils of the different the elected members are new, the average age is sharply businesses were occupied with a large number of lower and the make-up of the council is more diverse. restructurings which placed – and continue to place – Together with participants – employees who participate heavy demands on staff. Among the developments that in the council on a project basis – the new councils are took place in 2015 are the comprehensive reorganisation a more accurate representation of the bank’s workforce, of the branch network whereby, under the SPRING project, equipping them even better to listen and connect. a large number of jobs were reduced; the reorganisation of Corporate Banking, transforming this business into a sector-based bank; the changing IT landscape to which Other Main subjects discussed in 2015 TOPS must respond; and the dynamic legal and regulatory The IPO was one of the main topics on the Employee environment, which requires a good deal of flexibility from Council’s agenda in 2015, an event that had a big impact the Group Functions departments. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 324 Governance Report / Employee representation Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Signing the Works Council Covenant granting the right at enquiry. Constructive consultations with the Employee representation in 2016 Managing Board and Supervisory Board In the year ahead, we will continue to dialogue with the The Employee Council meets with members of the Managing Board on developments within and outside the Managing Board and Supervisory Board on various bank. We see challenges for the bank in its market occasions throughout the year. Besides these formal position and earnings model. We also believe we need to Governance Report meetings, there were numerous occasions on which work together to enhance the bank’s agility and innovative members of the Managing Board, Supervisory Board and HR policy. It is more important than ever for the bank to Employee Council informally met to discuss topics, thereby innovate in a wide range of areas in order to increase its enhancing each other’s knowledge and understanding. market share and retain the best people. We found both boards to be interested in our opinions on the IPO, on alternatives for the bank’s governance, and on We will impress upon the new councils that we need to the issue of restoring trust. By participating in this manner, continue to secure a good balance between the interests Annual Financial Statements we were able to make a constructive and meaningful of the bank’s various stakeholders. If we succeed in contribution to the bank’s strategic descision-making. striking the right balance, and if we keep listening to one another and making connections, we believe we will be The Employee Council experienced its collaboration with able to help move the bank forward in the coming year. the Supervisory Board in 2015 as extremely constructive and open. Our impression is that the Supervisory Board has Margot van Kempen greatly enhanced its insight into the organisation’s strengths Chair of the Employee Council and weaknesses – a highly important development. Our relationship with the Managing Board was once again good in 2015. We conducted meaningful and respectful Other discussions together. As one member of the Board said, ‘It is the Employee Council’s job to say things we’d rather not hear.’ ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 325 Governance Report / Senior Managing Directors Introduction Senior Managing Directors Strategic Report The following provides an overview of the Senior Managing Directors at 31 December 2015. Name Responsibility Frans Woelders Retail Banking Business Report Jos ter Avest Private Banking Netherlands Jeroen Rijpkema Private Banking International Ruut Meijer Commercial Clients Rutger van Nouhuijs International Clients Rutger Schellens Capital Markets Solutions Risk, funding & capital Report Pieter van Mierlo Central Risk Management Daphne de Kluis Financial Restructuring & Recovery Fred Bos IPO, Strategy & Corporate Development Frans van der Horst IT Gert-Jan Meppelink Business Services Hilde Garssen Human Resources Company Secretary Ruud van Outersterp Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Society at large Introduction Investigating our total impact on society Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report “Financial and social capital creation Annual Financial Statements are the key elements that impact the bank as a whole. This varies from ABN AMRO’s own income to enabling clients to make profit, to accumulate Other wealth, to buy a home or to save without worries.” Introduction ABN  AMRO’s main contribution to society Who consists of creating financial and social capital. Adrian de Groot Ruiz, True Price Strategic Report One way that ABN AMRO understands the scope and complexity of its impact on society is by analysing the Integrated Profit & Loss (IP&L) account. The IP&L attributes a financial value to non-financial effects, such as carbon emissions, a sense of community and well-being. The IP&L Business Report recognises the six capitals as defined by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). This is in line with ABN AMRO’s current reporting approach. Together with True Price, a social enterprise that helps companies quantify and improve their societal impact, we started three IP&L Financial capital pilot projects in 2015. True Price supported us in our first attempt Human capital Risk, funding & capital Report to measure the impact of our mortgage services, our investments Intellectual capital in the cocoa chain and the bank as a whole. The pilot projects Social and relationship capital Natural capital produced a first indication of key value drivers, risks, opportunities Technological capital and actions that could improve our impact on society. For more information on our cooperation with True Price, see our website Insight in integrated profit and loss abnamro.com/en/sustainable-banking/policy-and-reporting/publications Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other 328 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 ﻿ Introduction Annual Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Consolidated income statement 330 18 Fair value of financial instruments carried Business Report at fair value392 19 Loans and receivables banks 403 Consolidated statement 20 Loans and receivables customers 404 of comprehensive income331 21 Fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value406 22 Group structure 408 Consolidated statement 23 Property and equipment, goodwill Risk, funding & capital Report of financial position332 and other intangible assets418 24 Other assets 424 25 Due to banks 425 Consolidated statement 26 Due to customers 425 of changes in equity333 27 Issued debt and subordinated liabilities 426 28 Provisions 428 29 Pension and other post-retirement benefits 432 Consolidated statement of cash flows 336 30 Other liabilities 437 31 Equity attributable to shareholders and other components of equity437 Governance Report Notes to the 32 Transferred, pledged, encumbered Annual Financial Statements338 and restricted assets439 1 Accounting policies 338 33 Commitments and contingent liabilities 443 2 Segment reporting 346 34 Related parties 452 3 Overview of financial assets and liabilities by 35 Remuneration of Managing Board measurement base 360 and Supervisory Board455 4 Net interest income 362 36 Employee share option and share purchase plans 457 Annual Financial Statements 5 Net fee and commission income 364 37 Statutory financial statements of 6 Net trading income 365 ABN AMRO Group N.V.457 7 Other income 366 38 Post balance sheet events 461 8 Personnel expenses 367 9 General and administrative expenses 367 10 Income tax expense, tax assets and tax liabilities 368 Other information 462 11 Earnings per share 376 Provisions of the Articles of Association concerning 12 Cash and balances at central banks 377 profit appropriation 464 13 Financial assets and liabilities held for trading 377 14 Derivatives 379 15 Hedge accounting 381 Independent auditor’s report Other 16 Financial investments 387 on financial statements465 17 Securities financing 391 Certain IFRS disclosures in the Risk, funding & capital information section are labelled as ‘Audited’ in the respective headings. These disclosures are an integral part of these Annual Financial Statements and are covered by the Audit opinion. 330 Annual Financial Statements 2015 Introduction Consolidated income statement (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Strategic Report Note Income Interest income 13,207 13,376 13,383 Interest expense 7,130 7,353 8,003 Net interest income 4 6,076 6,023 5,380 Fee and commission income 3,061 2,693 2,639 Fee and commission expense 1,233 1,002 996 Business Report Net fee and commission income 5 1,829 1,691 1,643 Net trading income 6 99 174 106 Share of result in equity accounted investments 1 51 46 Other operating income 7 450 117 149 Operating income 8,455 8,055 7,324 Expenses Risk, funding & capital Report Personnel expenses 8 2,492 2,684 2,357 General and administrative expenses 9 2,559 2,450 2,171 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 23 177 204 242 Operating expenses 5,228 5,338 4,770 Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 505 1,171 983 Total expenses 5,734 6,509 5,753 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 2,722 1,546 1,571 Income tax expense 10 798 412 411 Profit/(loss) for the year 1,924 1,134 1,160 Attributable to: Governance Report Owners of the company 1,919 1,134 1,162 Of which available for AT 1 capital securities 11 Non-controlling interests 5 -2 Earnings per share (in euros) 11 Basic earnings per ordinary share 1 2.03 1.21 1.24 1 Earnings per share consist of Profit for the period excluding coupons attributable to AT 1 Capital securities and results attributable to non-controlling interests divided by the average outstanding and paid-up ordinary shares. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 331 Annual Financial Statements 2015 Introduction Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Strategic Report Profit/(loss) for the year 1,924 1,134 1,160 Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans -6 -179 -291 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement before taxation -6 -179 -291 Business Report Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to the income statement -4 -44 -73 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement after taxation -2 -135 -218 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Currency translation reserve 101 96 -68 Available-for-sale reserve 189 360 45 Cash flow hedge reserve Risk, funding & capital Report 222 326 541 Share of other comprehensive income of associates 11 17 4 Other changes -4 5 -4 Other comprehensive income for the period before taxation 519 804 518 Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 101 168 146 Other comprehensive income for the period after taxation 418 636 372 Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the period after taxation1 2,340 1,635 1,314 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the company 2,335 1,635 1,316 Of which available for AT 1 capital securities 11 Governance Report Non-controlling interests 5 -2 1 Including EUR -4 million related to Other reserves in 2015 (2014: EUR 5 million; 2013: EUR -4 million). Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 332 Annual Financial Statements 2015 Introduction Consolidated statement of financial position (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Strategic Report Note Assets Cash and balances at central banks 12 26,195 706 9,523 Financial assets held for trading 13 1,706 9,017 12,019 Derivatives 14 19,138 25,285 14,271 Financial investments 16 40,542 41,466 28,111 Securities financing 17 20,062 18,511 18,362 Loans and receivables banks 19 15,680 21,680 23,967 Business Report Residential mortgages 20 150,009 151,998 153,439 Consumer loans 20 14,587 15,398 15,629 Corporate loans 20 88,367 87,866 85,268 Other loans and receivables customers 20 6,357 6,648 2,692 Equity accounted investments 22 778 1,136 1,082 Property and equipment 23 1,366 1,412 1,426 Goodwill and other intangible assets 23 263 255 195 Risk, funding & capital Report Tax assets 10 345 504 910 Other assets 24 4,925 4,986 5,128 Total assets 390,317 386,867 372,022 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 13 459 3,759 4,399 Derivatives 14 22,425 30,449 17,227 Securities financing 17 11,372 13,918 12,266 Due to banks 25 14,630 15,744 11,626 Demand deposits 26 119,109 109,753 100,151 Saving deposits 26 92,472 88,655 87,448 Time deposits 26 18,555 17,459 19,638 Governance Report Other due to customers 26 160 144 347 Issued debt 27 76,207 77,131 88,682 Subordinated liabilities 27 9,708 8,328 7,917 Provisions 28 1,256 1,003 1,550 Tax liabilities 10 650 175 90 Other liabilities 30 5,729 5,473 7,113 Total liabilities 372,733 371,990 358,454 Equity Annual Financial Statements Share capital 940 940 940 Share premium 12,970 12,970 12,970 Other reserves (incl. retained earnings/profit for the period) 3,059 1,769 4,554 Other comprehensive income -394 -814 -4,909 Equity attributable to owners of the parent company 31 16,575 14,865 13,555 Capital securities 993 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 17 12 13 Total equity 17,584 14,877 13,568 Total liabilities and equity 390,317 386,867 372,022 Committed credit facilities 33 21,559 16,164 13,764 Other Guarantees and other commitments 33 13,868 15,335 16,103 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 333 Annual Financial Statements 2015 Introduction Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other Strategic Report reserves Other Net profit/ Share including compre(loss) NonconShare premium retained hensive attributable to Capital trolling Total (in millions) capital reserve earnings income shareholders Total securities interests equity Balance at 1 January 2013 1,015 13,105 2,658 -5,067 1,153 12,864 19 12,883 Total comprehensive income1 -4 158 1,162 1,316 -2 1,314 Business Report Transfer 1,153 -1,153 Dividend -412 -412 -412 Increase/(decrease) of capital -75 -135 -3 -213 -213 Other changes in equity -4 -4 Balance at 31 December 2013 940 12,970 3,392 -4,909 1,162 13,555 13 13,568 Risk, funding & capital Report Total comprehensive income1 5 496 1,134 1,635 1,635 Transfer 1,162 -1,162 Dividend -325 -325 -325 Reclassification post-employment benefit plan2 -3,599 3,599 Other changes in equity Balance at 31 December 2014 940 12,970 635 -814 1,134 14,865 12 14,877 Total comprehensive income1 -4 420 1,919 2,335 5 2,340 Governance Report Transfer 1,134 -1,134 Dividend -625 -625 -625 Increase/(decrease) of capital 993 993 Other changes in equity -1 -1 Balance at 31 December 2015 940 12,970 1,140 -394 1,919 16,575 993 17 17,584 1 Including EUR -4 million related to Other reserves in 2015 (2014: EUR 5 million; 2013: EUR -4 million). 2 Reclassification of EUR 3,599 million (EUR 4,799 million gross and EUR 1,200 tax) from Remeasurement gains/(losses) to Other reserves including retained earnings following the change Annual Financial Statements of pension scheme. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 334 Annual Financial Statements 2015 Introduction Other comprehensive income is specified as follows: Strategic Report Remeasurement gains/ Share of OCI (losses) on Currency Availableof associates post-retirement translation for-sale Cash flow and joint (in millions) benefit plans reserve reserve hedge reserve ventures Total Balance at 1 January 2013 -3,284 5 24 -1,873 61 -5,067 Net gains/(losses) arising during the period -291 -68 88 416 4 149 Business Report Less: Net realised gains/(losses) included in income statement 43 -125 -82 Net gains/(losses) in equity -291 -68 45 541 4 231 Related income tax -73 1 10 135 73 Balance at 31 December 2013 -3,502 -64 59 -1,467 65 -4,909 Reclassification post-employment benefit plan1 3,599 3,599 Risk, funding & capital Report Net gains/(losses) arising during the period -179 96 357 274 17 566 Less: Net realised gains/(losses) included in income statement -2 -52 -54 Net gains/(losses) in equity -179 96 360 326 17 620 Related income tax -44 -3 89 81 124 Balance at 31 December 2014 -38 36 329 -1,223 82 -814 Net gains/(losses) arising during the period -6 101 206 190 11 502 Less: Net realised gains/(losses) Governance Report included in income statement 17 -32 -15 Net gains/(losses) in equity -6 101 189 222 11 517 Related income tax -4 45 55 97 Balance at 31 December 2015 -41 137 473 -1,056 93 -394 1 Reclassification of EUR 3,599 million (EUR 4,799 million gross and EUR 1,200 tax) from Remeasurement gains/(losses) to Other reserves including retained earnings following the change of pension scheme. 2015 Annual Financial Statements Total comprehensive income includes EUR 1,924 million profit for 2015. Transfer includes the allocation of the profit/loss of the prior period to the other reserves. A final dividend of EUR 275 million was paid out to ordinary shareholders, bringing the total dividend for full-year 2014 to EUR 400 million. An interim dividend of EUR 350 million was paid to ordinary shareholders in August 2015. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 335 Annual Financial Statements 2015 Introduction 2014 Total comprehensive income includes EUR 1,134 million profit for 2014. Strategic Report Transfer includes allocation of the profit/loss of the prior period to the other reserves. A final dividend of EUR 200 million was paid out to the shareholder, bringing the total dividend for full-year 2013 to EUR 350 million. An interim dividend of EUR 125 million was paid to the shareholder in November 2014. Business Report 2013 In 2013, a final dividend of EUR 250 million for the year 2012 was paid to the shareholder and EUR 12 million to holders of preference shares A. An interim dividend of EUR 150 million was paid to the shareholder in 2013. In the first half of 2013, EUR 210 million of class A non-cumulative preference shares were repurchased and cancelled, resulting in a decline in share capital and share premium of Risk, funding & capital Report EUR 75 million and EUR 135 million respectively. In addition, EUR 3 million was paid to preference share A holders for accrued rights in the first half of 2013 due to the repurchase of the preference shares. Share of Other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures is related to the movement in Other comprehensive income of the associates and joint ventures of ABN AMRO. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 336 Annual Financial Statements 2015 Introduction Consolidated statement of cash flows (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Strategic Report Profit/(loss) for the period 1,924 1,134 1,160 Adjustments on non-cash items included in profit: (Un)realised gains/(losses) -101 152 -591 Share of profits in associates and joint ventures -29 -73 -55 Depreciation, amortisation and accretion 314 357 372 Provisions and impairment losses 993 1,334 1,128 Business Report Income tax expense 798 412 411 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Assets held for trading 7,409 3,150 -4,995 Derivatives assets 6,053 -10,994 7,072 Securities financing assets -159 1,258 9,940 Loans and receivables banks 6,880 -1 9,715 Residential mortgages 2,032 1,310 4,833 Risk, funding & capital Report Consumer loans 926 326 158 Corporate loans 214 -1,361 -118 Other loans and receivables customers 664 -3,721 -1,596 Other assets 15 -17 872 Liabilities held for trading -3,490 -872 747 Derivatives liabilities -8,014 13,209 -10,276 Securities financing liabilities -3,359 818 -6,963 Due to banks -1,220 4,018 -5,007 Demand deposits 8,462 7,844 6,864 Saving deposits 3,765 1,147 6,085 Time deposits 806 -2,575 -6,394 Other due to customers 17 -210 21 Governance Report Liabilities arising from insurance and investment contracts -142 -140 -263 Net changes in all other operational assets and liabilities 849 -1,428 1,795 Dividend received from associates 56 104 58 Income tax paid -268 -56 73 Cash flow from operating activities 25,395 15,121 15,046 continued > Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 337 Annual Financial Statements 2015 Introduction (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Strategic Report Investing activities: Purchases of financial investments -17,123 -22,986 -14,308 Proceeds from sales and redemptions of financial investments 18,446 12,206 7,150 Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired), associates and joint ventures -25 241 -95 Divestments of subsidiaries (net of cash sold), associates and joint ventures 132 82 -187 Purchases of property and equipment -282 -258 -238 Business Report Proceeds from sales of property and equipment 127 73 110 Purchases of intangible assets -42 -120 -21 Cash flow from investing activities 1,233 -10,762 -7,589 Financing activities: Proceeds from the issuance of debt 35,244 23,890 43,881 Repayment of issued debt -37,126 -39,108 -47,919 Proceeds from subordinated liabilities issued 2,839 Risk, funding & capital Report Repayment of subordinated liabilities issued -1,740 -51 -1,497 Proceeds from capital securities 993 Preference shares settlement -210 Dividends paid to the owners of the parent company -625 -325 -412 Repayment of capital (including non-controlling interests) -1 -3 Cash flow from financing activities -416 -15,595 -6,160 Net increase/(decrease) of cash and cash equivalents 26,212 -11,235 1,297 Cash and cash equivalents as at 1 January 4,212 15,319 14,091 Effect of exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents 127 128 -69 Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 30,551 4,212 15,319 Governance Report Supplementary disclosure of operating cash flow information Interest paid 6,904 7,519 7,697 Interest received 14,024 13,259 12,466 Dividend received from investments 55 71 38 The following table shows the determination of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Annual Financial Statements Cash and balances at central banks 26,195 706 9,523 Loans and receivables banks (less than 3 months) 1 4,357 3,506 5,796 Total cash and cash equivalents 30,551 4,212 15,319 1 Loans and receivables banks with an original maturity less than 3 months is included in Loans and receivables banks. See note 19 Loans and receivables banks. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 338 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Strategic Report 1 Accounting policies Business Report The notes to the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements, including the audited sections in the Risk, funding & capital Report, are an integral part of these Annual Financial Statements. This section describes ABN AMRO Bank’s significant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates or judgements relating to the Annual Financial Statements. If an accounting policy or a critical accounting estimate relates to a specific note, it is included within the relevant note. Risk, funding & capital Report Corporate information ABN AMRO Group N.V. (referred to as ABN AMRO Group) is the parent company of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and a related consolidated group of companies (referred to as the Group or ABN AMRO). ABN AMRO Group is a public limited liability company, incorporated under Dutch law on 18 December 2009, and registered at Gustav Mahlerlaan 10, 1082 PP Amsterdam, the Netherlands. As at 31 December 2015, all shares in the capital of ABN AMRO Group are held by two foundations: NLFI and STAK AAG. On that date, NLFI held 77% and STAK AAG held 23% of the shares in the issued capital of ABN AMRO Group. Both foundations have issued depositary receipts for shares Governance Report in ABN AMRO Group. Only STAK AAG’s depositary receipts are issued with the cooperation of ABN AMRO Group and traded on Euronext Amsterdam. ABN AMRO provides a broad range of financial services to retail, private and corporate banking clients. These activities are conducted primarily in the Netherlands and selectively abroad. The Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of ABN AMRO Group for the annual period ended Annual Financial Statements 31 December 2015 incorporate financial information of ABN AMRO Group N.V., its controlled entities, interests in associates and joint ventures. The Annual Financial Statements were prepared by the Managing Board and authorised for issue by the Supervisory Board and Managing Board on 15 March 2016. Statement of compliance The Consolidated Annual Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as endorsed by the European Union (EU). They also comply with the financial reporting requirements included in Title 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, as far as applicable. Other Basis of preparation The Consolidated Annual Financial Statements are prepared on the basis of a mixed valuation model as follows: ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 339 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction ÅÅ Derivative financial instruments; ÅÅ Financial assets and liabilities held for trading or designated as measured at fair value through Strategic Report profit or loss; ÅÅ Available-for-sale financial assets and investments in associates of a private equity nature are valued at fair value; ÅÅ Other financial assets (including loans and receivables) and liabilities are valued at amortised cost less any impairment, if applicable; ÅÅ The carrying value of assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost included in a fair value hedge relationship is adjusted with respect to fair value changes resulting from the hedged risk; Business Report ÅÅ Non-financial assets and liabilities are generally stated at historical cost; ÅÅ Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the net equity method. The Annual Financial Statements are prepared under the going concern assumption. The Annual Financial Statements are presented in euros, which is the reporting currency of ABN AMRO, rounded to the nearest million (unless otherwise stated). Risk, funding & capital Report Disclosures To combine disclosures where possible and to reduce duplication, we have integrated some IFRS disclosures into our Managing Board report. These are: ÅÅ IFRS 7 Risk disclosures of financial instruments. These are disclosed in the Risk, funding and capital section; ÅÅ IAS 1 Risk and financial instrument disclosures. These are part of the Risk, funding and capital section. IFRS disclosures in the Risk, funding and capital section on pages 123-269 are labelled as ‘audited’. These disclosures are an integral part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements and are Governance Report covered by the Audit opinion. Changes in accounting policies In 2015 ABN AMRO adopted the following amendments to IFRS: IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions. The amendments apply to contributions from employees or third parties to defined benefit plans. The objective of the amendment is to simplify Annual Financial Statements the accounting for these contributions. The standard became effective on 1 July 2014 and was adopted by the EU on 1 February 2015. The amendments have no significant impact on the Annual Financial Statements. Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle. This cycle of annual improvements comprises a total of eight amendments related to seven standards. The amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations: Accounting for Contingent Consideration in a Business Combination, IFRS 8 Operating Segments: Aggregation of Operating Segments. Reconciliation of the total of reportable segments’ assets to the entity’s assets, and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: Short-term Receivables and Payables, are the most relevant for ABN AMRO. These amendments have no significant impact on the Annual Financial Statements. The requirements of this set of amendments Other are to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014 and were endorsed by the EU on 1 February 2015. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 340 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle. This cycle of annual improvements consists of amendments to four standards. Two of these are relevant for ABN AMRO. These are the Strategic Report amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations: Scope Exceptions for Joint Ventures and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: Scope of Paragraph 52 (portfolio exception). None of these amendments has a significant impact on the Annual Financial Statements. The effective date of this cycle of improvements is 1 July 2014 and the improvements were endorsed by the EU on 1 January 2015. New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective The following amendments to IFRSs are issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU, but are not yet Business Report effective. The amendments are required to be applied from 1 January 2016. Note that only the amendments to IFRSs that are relevant for ABN AMRO are discussed below. IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements. The objective of this amendment is to include the option to use the equity method of accounting in separate financial statements. Since ABN AMRO values participating interests in group companies at net asset value in accordance with Book 2, title 9 of the Dutch Civil Code option 3 in the statutory Risk, funding & capital Report financial statements, this amendment has no impact. IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Disclosure Initiative. This amendment is part of the Disclosure Initiative of the IASB. A portfolio of projects with the objective to improve the effectiveness of disclosures in financial statements. The amendments to IAS 1 are a further clarification of concepts such as aggregation, materiality, and understandability and comparability of information. The amendment does not have a significant impact on the Annual Financial Statements. IFRS 11 Joint arrangements: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations. The amendments add new guidance on how to account for the acquisition of an interest in a joint Governance Report operation that constitutes a business. The amendment does not have a significant impact on the Annual Financial Statements. Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle. This cycle of improvements contains amendments to four standards of which two are relevant for ABN AMRO. These are IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: ‘Continuing Involvement’ for Servicing Contracts and Offsetting Disclosures in Condensed Interim Financial Statements, IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting: Disclosure of Annual Financial Statements Information ‘Elsewhere in the Interim Financial Report’. None of these amendments has a significant impact on the Annual Financial Statements. New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet endorsed The following new or revised standards and amendments have been issued by the IASB, but are not yet endorsed by the European Union and are therefore not open for early adoption. Note that only the amendments to IFRSs that are relevant for ABN AMRO are discussed below. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: In July 2014 the IASB published the final version of the new standard that replaces IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The mandatory effective date of IFRS 9 will be for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. IFRS 9 has changed Other requirements for Classification and measurement, Impairment and Hedge accounting, in addition to containing extensive new disclosure requirements. During the year 2015 ABN AMRO put considerable effort into interpreting and implementing IFRS 9. A project was established with work ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 341 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction streams that focus on the three areas of IFRS 9 (Classification & Measurement, Impairment and Hedge Accounting). Although significant steps have been taken in implementing IFRS 9, ABN AMRO Strategic Report still has several key steps to take. ABN AMRO expects that the main impact of implementing IFRS 9 arises from the significant changes to the impairment model. IFRS 9 replaces the ‘incurred loss’ model with the ‘expected credit loss model’. The main difference is that IFRS 9 requires entities to recognise expected credit losses in profit and loss for all financial assets not measured at fair value through profit and loss, even for those that are newly originated or acquired. IAS 39 only allows the recognition of a loss if a loss event has occurred. The main impact of implementing this new impairment model is that credit risk losses will be recognised earlier and that forward-looking Business Report information will be incorporated in the loss calculation. This difference in approach will result in higher loan loss impairments and corresponding lower equity. IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers. This new standard establishes a comprehensive framework for determining when to recognise revenue and how much revenue to recognise. It is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. ABN AMRO is currently assessing the impact of the new standard. Risk, funding & capital Report IFRS 16 Leases. The new standard on leases was issued by the IASB in January 2016 and will become effective on 1 January 2019. IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 Leases and removes the distinction between ‘Operational’ and ‘Financial’ lease for lessees. The requirements for lessor accounting remain largely unchanged. ABN AMRO will start its impact assessment in 2016. IAS 12 Income taxes: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised losses. The amendment clarifies how to account for deferred tax assets related to debt instruments measured at fair value. ABN AMRO will start its impact assessment in 2016. Governance Report IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: Disclosure Initiative. The objective of the amendment is to improve information provided about financing activities and disclosure that help to understand the liquidity of an entity. The amendment does not have a significant impact on the Annual Financial Statements. Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying ABN AMRO’s accounting policies and to make estimates and assumptions Annual Financial Statements concerning the future. Actual results may differ from those estimates and assumptions. Accounting policies for most significant areas requiring management to make judgements and estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures are made in the following sections: Impairment losses on loans and receivables Risk, funding & capital Report Fair value of financial instruments note 18 Income tax expense, tax assets and tax liabilities note 10 Impairment of available-for-sale instruments note 16 Provisions note 28 Assessment of risk and rewards Whenever ABN AMRO is required to assess risks and rewards, when considering the recognition Other and derecognition of assets or liabilities and the consolidation and deconsolidation of subsidiaries, ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 342 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction ABN AMRO may sometimes be required to use judgement. Although management uses its best knowledge of current events and actions in making assessments of expected risk and rewards, Strategic Report actual risks and rewards may ultimately differ. Significant accounting policies Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements of ABN AMRO Group N.V. include the financial statements Business Report of the parent company and its controlled entities. It incorporates the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and its subsidiaries. Non‑controlling interests (held by third parties) in both equity and results of group companies are presented separately in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsidiaries are included using the same reporting period and consistent accounting policies. Intercompany balances and transactions, and any related unrealised gains and losses, are eliminated Risk, funding & capital Report in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of ABN AMRO’s interest in the entities. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment in the asset transferred. Foreign currency The Consolidated Financial Statements are stated in euros, which is the presentation and functional currency of ABN AMRO. Governance Report Foreign currency differences ABN AMRO applies IAS 21 The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into euros at the rate prevailing on the transaction date. Foreign currency balances of monetary items are translated into euros at the period end exchange rates. Exchange gains and losses on such balances are recognised in the income statement. The Group’s foreign operations may have different functional currencies. The functional currency is the currency that best reflects the economic substance of the underlying event and circumstances relevant to that entity. Annual Financial Statements Prior to consolidation (or equity accounting), the assets and liabilities of non-euro operations are translated at the closing rate and items of the income statement and other comprehensive income are translated into euros at the rate prevailing on the transaction dates. Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign operations are included in the currency translation reserve within equity. These are transferred to the income statement when the Group loses control, joint control or significant influence over the foreign operation. Financial assets and liabilities ABN AMRO classifies financial assets and liabilities based on the business purpose of entering into these transactions. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 343 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Classification of financial assets Financial assets are classified as assets held for trading, financial investments or loans and Strategic Report receivables and are based on the criteria in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement. Their measurement and income recognition depends on the classification of the financial assets. The following four groups are identified: ÅÅ Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They generally arise when money or services are directly Business Report provided to a customer with no intention of trading or selling the loan. They are initially measured at fair value (including transaction costs) and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with the periodic amortisation recorded in the income statement. ÅÅ Held-to-maturity investments are non‑derivative financial assets that consist of instruments quoted on an active market with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity for which the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity is demonstrated. They are initially measured at fair value (including transaction costs) and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Risk, funding & capital Report effective interest method, with the periodic amortisation recorded in the income statement. ÅÅ Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include: ÅÅ financial assets held for trading; ÅÅ financial assets that ABN AMRO irrevocably designated at initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss when the instruments are held to reduce an accounting mismatch, are managed on the basis of its fair value or include terms that have substantive derivative characteristics in nature. ÅÅ Available-for-sale financial assets are those assets that are otherwise not classified as loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss. They are initially measured at fair value with subsequent changes recognised in other Governance Report comprehensive income. If ABN AMRO reclassifies a financial asset out of held for trading, the financial asset is reclassified at its fair value and this fair value becomes the new amortised cost. On the same date a new effective interest is calculated. Classification of financial liabilities Annual Financial Statements Financial liabilities are classified as liabilities held for trading, due to banks, due to customers, debt certificates, subordinated liabilities and other borrowings. Their measurement and recognition in the income statement depends on the classification of the financial liabilities. ÅÅ Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include: ÅÅ financial liabilities held for trading; ÅÅ financial liabilities that ABN AMRO has irrevocably designated at initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss when the instruments are held to reduce an accounting mismatch are managed on the basis of its fair value or include terms that have substantive derivative characteristics in nature. Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value (including transaction costs). Subsequent Other changes are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method with the periodic amortisation recorded in the income statement. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 344 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Classification of assets and liabilities held for trading A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for trading if it is: Strategic Report ÅÅ acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the near term; ÅÅ part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent actual pattern of short-term profit taking; ÅÅ a trading derivative (except for a derivative that is a designated and effective hedging instrument). Recognition and derecognition Traded instruments are recognised on the trade date, defined as the date on which ABN AMRO Business Report commits to purchase or sell the underlying instrument. In the event that settlement terms are non-standard, the commitment is accounted for as a derivative between trade and settlement date. Loans and receivables are recognised when they are acquired or funded by ABN AMRO and derecognised when settled. Issued debt is recognised when issued and deposits are recognised when the cash is deposited with ABN AMRO. Other financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives, are recognised in the Statement of financial position when ABN AMRO becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the asset or liability. Risk, funding & capital Report Financial assets are generally derecognised when ABN AMRO loses control and the ability to obtain benefits over the contractual rights that comprise that asset. This occurs when the rights are realised, expire or substantially all risk and rewards are transferred. Financial assets are also derecognised in the case that the bank has neither transferred nor retained substantially all risks and rewards of ownership but control has passed to the transferee. Financial instruments continue to be recognised in the balance sheet, and a liability recognised for the proceeds of any related funding transaction, unless a fully proportional share of all or specifically identified cash flows are transferred to the lender without material delay and the lender’s claim is Governance Report limited to those cash flows and substantially all the risks and rewards and control associated with the financial instruments have been transferred, in which case that proportion of the asset is derecognised. On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement. Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO has protected assets through synthetic securitisations. Through a synthetic securitisation a substantial part of the credit risk related to these assets is transferred, while actual ownership of the assets remains with ABN AMRO. A restructuring of a financial asset with the same lender on substantially different terms, qualitative and quantitative generally a 10% difference in the present value of the cash flows is accounted for as an expiration of the financial asset and recognition of a new financial asset. The difference between the former carrying amount and the carrying amount of the new financial asset is included is recognised in the income statement. Other Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability has been settled, has expired or has been extinguished. An exchange of an existing financial liability for a new liability with the same lender on substantially different terms, qualitative and quantitative generally a 10% difference in the present ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 345 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction value of the cash flows is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and recognition of a new financial liability. The difference between the former carrying amount and the Strategic Report consideration paid is recognised in the income statement. Any subsequent resale is treated as a new issuance. Client Clearing As a general clearing member, ABN AMRO provides clearing and settlement services to its clients. During 2015, ABN AMRO reconfirmed its accounting treatment of exchange traded derivatives cleared on behalf of clients. A comprehensive analysis was performed focusing on the extent to Business Report which ABN AMRO becomes party to one or more derivative instrument(s) and to the specific legal and economic facts and circumstances around its clearing operations in different jurisdictions. In its capacity as clearing member, ABN AMRO guarantees the fulfilment of obligations towards CCPs of clients’ transactions. ABN AMRO is not liable to clients for the non-performance of the CCP. In the event of a client defaulting, ABN AMRO has the legal obligation to settle all the clients’ positions with the relevant CCPs, possibly at a loss. Possible losses arising from this guarantee Risk, funding & capital Report might relate not only to the clients’ current positions but also to the future trades of the client. Unlike a financial guarantee contract as defined in IAS 39 Financial Instruments, the guarantee provided by ABN AMRO does not relate to specific debt instruments. Therefore, we consider this guarantee to be in the scope of IAS 37 Provisions since the possible outflow of resources stem from the clearing arrangement with the CCP. ABN AMRO receives and collects (cash) margins from clients, and remits these margins to the relevant CCP in whole or in part. Given the stringent margin requirements set by the CCPs, possible future outflows of resources for new clearing transactions are considered close to zero. As a consequence, ABN AMRO does not reflect the exchange traded derivatives cleared on behalf Governance Report of clients in its financial statements. Under normal circumstances, the guarantee has no fair value and is not recognised in the financial statements. The loss recognition in case of non-performance of a client will be in the scope of IAS 37 including disclosures. Offsetting Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported on the Statement of financial position if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an Annual Financial Statements intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Statement of cash flows For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, freely available balances with central banks and other banks, net credit balances on current accounts with other banks, with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition. The Statement of cash flows, based on the indirect method of calculating operating cash flows, gives details of the source of cash and cash equivalents which became available during the year and the application of these cash and cash equivalents over the course of the year. The cash flows are analysed into cash flows from operations, including banking activities, investment activities and financing activities. Movements in loans and receivables and interbank deposits are included in the cash flow from Other operating activities. Investment activities are comprised of acquisitions, sales and redemptions in respect of financial investments, as well as investments in, and sales of, subsidiaries and associates, ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 346 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction property and equipment. The issuing of shares and the borrowing and repayment of long-term funds are treated as financing activities. Cash flows arise from foreign currency transactions are translated Strategic Report into euros using the exchange rates at the date of the cash flows. 2 Segment reporting Accounting policy for segment reporting The segment reporting is in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments. The segments are Business Report reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Managing Board, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance and has been identified as chief operating decision-maker. All transactions between segments are eliminated as intersegment revenues and expenses in Group Functions. Geographical data is presented according to management view. Risk, funding & capital Report In 2014 ABN AMRO has made a number of changes to its client segmentation in order to better cater to clients’ needs, resulting in four reporting segments: Retail Banking, Private Banking, Corporate Banking and Group Functions. The comparative figures of 2013 have been adjusted accordingly. Segment assets, liabilities, income and results are measured based on our accounting policies. Segment assets, liabilities, income and results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Transactions between segments are conducted at arm’s length. Governance Report Interest income is reported as net interest income as management primarily relies on net interest income as a performance measure, not gross income and expense. There was no revenue from transactions with a single external client or counterparty exceeding 10% of the bank’s total revenue in 2015, 2014 or 2013. Retail Banking Annual Financial Statements Retail Banking serves Mass Retail, Preferred Banking and YourBusiness Banking clients (SME clients with turnover up to EUR 1 million) and offers a wide variety of banking and insurance products and services through our branch network, online, via contact centres and through subsidiaries. In addition, ABN AMRO Hypotheken Groep, Alfam, ICS and MoneYou are part of Retail Banking. Private Banking Private Banking provides total solutions to its clients’ global wealth management needs and offers a rich array of products and services designed to address their individual requirements. Private Banking operates under the brand name ABN AMRO MeesPierson in the Netherlands and internationally under ABN AMRO Private Banking, as well as local brands such as Banque Neuflize OBC in France Other and Bethmann Bank in Germany. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 347 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Corporate Banking Corporate Banking consists of the sub-segments Commercial Clients, International Clients and Strategic Report Capital Markets Solutions. ÅÅ Commercial Clients serves business clients with revenues from EUR 1 million up to EUR 250 million, and clients active in Commercial Real Estate (excluding publicly listed companies, which are served by the International Clients sub-segment). Our Lease and Commercial Finance activities are also part of this sub-segment; ÅÅ International Clients serves business clients with revenues exceeding EUR 250 million, as well as Energy, Commodities & Transportation (ECT) Clients, Diamond & Jewellery Clients, Financial Business Report Institutions and Listed Commercial Real Estate clients; ÅÅ Capital Markets Solutions serves clients by providing products and services related to financial markets. This sub-segment includes ABN AMRO Clearing. Group Functions Group Functions supports the business segments and consists of Technology, Operations & Property Services (TOPS), Finance, Risk Management & Strategy, People, Regulations & Identity (PR&I), Risk, funding & capital Report Group Audit and the Corporate Office. The majority of the Group Functions costs are allocated to the businesses. Group Functions’ results include those of ALM/Treasury and the Securities financing activities. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 348 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Segment income statement for the year 2015 Strategic Report 2015 Special items and Retail Private Corporate Group divest(in millions) Banking Banking Banking Functions ments Total Net interest income 3,302 589 2,142 44 6,076 Net fee and commission income 527 619 751 -68 1,829 Net trading income 7 58 127 -92 99 Business Report Share of result in equity accounted investments 21 17 -40 3 1 Other operating income -3 27 141 286 450 Operating income 3,853 1,310 3,120 172 8,455 Personnel expenses 487 501 676 828 2,492 General and administrative expenses 445 287 408 1,420 2,559 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 7 24 19 127 177 Risk, funding & capital Report Intersegment revenues/expenses 1,167 238 837 -2,242 Operating expenses 2,106 1,050 1,940 133 5,228 Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 99 -4 419 -8 505 Total expenses 2,205 1,046 2,358 125 5,734 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 1,649 264 762 48 2,722 Income tax expense 423 49 165 160 798 Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 1,226 214 596 -112 Special items and divestments Profit/(loss) for the year 1,226 214 596 -112 1,924 Attributable to: Governance Report Owners of the company 1,226 214 592 -113 1,919 Non-controlling interests 5 5 Retail Banking Net interest income, at EUR 3,302 million, declined by EUR 77 million compared with 2014. This was largely driven by provisions related to legal claims (including Euribor mortgages) and inconsistencies in interest calculations between the bank and its business partners with respect to one of the Annual Financial Statements mortgage products in 2015 and positive one-off results in 2014. Margins on residential mortgages improved as a result of the gradual repricing of the mortgage book. This was partly offset by lower average residential mortgages volumes. Consumer lending volumes and margins decreased in 2015. Interest income on deposits remained stable. Higher average savings volumes were offset by lower margins as market rates declined at a faster pace than client savings rates. Net fee and commission, at EUR 527 million in 2015, was marginally higher than in the previous year. Personnel expenses decreased by EUR 73 million or 13% due mainly to a restructuring provision of Other EUR 60 million in 2014. Excluding this provision, personnel expenses were EUR 13 million lower due to lower average FTE levels following a further reduction of the number of branches. This was partly offset by higher pension expenses. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 349 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction General and administrative expenses rose EUR 49 million, due mainly to EUR 48 million higher regulatory levies. Strategic Report Intersegment revenues/expenses rose by EUR 96 million, which is mainly attributable to higher external staffing costs due to increased mortgage production and higher allocation of project costs related to enhancing client centricity and continuous improvement of products, services and IT processes (including the TOPS 2020 and Retail Digitalisation programmes). Impairment charges on loans and other receivables fell by EUR 361 million, compared with 2014, to Business Report EUR 99 million in 2015. The decline in impairments is visible in both the consumer loan portfolio and the mortgage portfolio. Mortgage impairments decreased on the back of improved conditions in the housing market, and the recovery of the Dutch economy contributed to a lower inflow of mortgages in the impaired portfolio, increased outflow and an improvement of the portfolio’s risk profile. Consumer loans also benefited from improved economic conditions and active risk management of the portfolio of clients in arrears, leading to sharply lower loan impairments. In addition, impairment charges benefited from releases of the IBNI allowances (EUR 85 million in 2015). Included in 2014 Risk, funding & capital Report were EUR 50 million of IBNI additions. Private Banking Net fee and commission increased by EUR 75 million, or 14%, to EUR 619 million in 2015. Net fees increased due to higher average client assets, almost fully attributable to the stock market performance. Private Banking also generated additional fee income in 2015 from the full-year contribution of the acquired German activities. Personnel expenses increased by EUR 41 million to EUR 501 million in 2015. The increase in the international entities was mainly attributable to the acquired German activities, the restructuring Governance Report provision for the announced integration of Jersey into ABN AMRO Guernsey and FTE growth. Impairment charges on loans and other receivables showed a net release of EUR 4 million, versus EUR 23 million impairment additions in 2014. The release in impairments is partially explained by a EUR 12 million IBNI release in 2015. Corporate Banking Annual Financial Statements Net interest income increased by EUR 123 million to EUR 2,142 million. Commercial Clients posted a modest rise in net interest income of EUR 30 million to EUR 1,305 million. Margins on loans and average deposit volumes increased, while deposit margins decreased compared with 2014. Average loan volumes decreased partly due to the reallocation of a portfolio to Group Functions. Net interest income in International Clients increased by EUR 61 million to EUR 709 million, benefiting from growth in the ECT Clients loan portfolio which was partly due to the depreciation of the euro. This was partly offset by lower margins on deposits. Other Net interest income in Capital Markets Solutions improved by EUR 31 million to EUR 127 million, mainly in Clearing. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 350 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Net fee and commission increased by EUR 105 million compared with the same period in 2014 to EUR 751 million. Fee growth was mainly driven by higher transaction volumes in Capital Markets Strategic Report Solutions and higher fees received from Group Functions related to Securities Financing activities. Net trading income went up by EUR 10 million. The increase was driven by a EUR 116 million higher CVA/DVA/FVA impact compared with 2014 (EUR 49 million positive in 2015 versus EUR 67 million negative in 2014), which included first-time application of the FVA. This was largely offset by a provision for possible derivative-related issues for a group of SMEs. Business Report Other operating income went up by EUR 54 million due largely to increased tax-exempt results on the Equity Participations portfolio on the back of improved market conditions in 2015. Clearing recorded a EUR 40 million gain in 2014 on the partial sale of the share in Holland Clearing House. Personnel expenses amounted to EUR 676 million in 2015, up by EUR 58 million compared with 2014. Personnel expenses increased due to pension expenses, restructuring provisions and increased personnel expenses for our international activities driven by growth in the number of FTEs Risk, funding & capital Report and the depreciation of the euro. General and administrative expenses were up EUR 110 million due partly to EUR 73 million higher regulatory levies. Intersegment revenues/expenses grew by EUR 37 million mainly due to higher project costs for continuous improvement of products, services and IT processes (including TOPS 2020). Impairment charges amounted to EUR 419 million, down by EUR 298 million compared with 2014. The decrease of impairment charges at Commercial Clients in 2015 was partly offset by the increase at International Clients. In 2015 an IBNI release of EUR 125 million was included for Corporate Banking, compared with a EUR 25 million release in 2014. Governance Report Group Functions Net interest income increased by EUR 16 million compared with 2014. The increase was mainly driven by lower funding costs due to lower spread levels paid on funding. This was partly offset by a higher cash level in the liquidity buffer, higher client funding volumes and a tax-exempt non-recurring provision related to the part of the Securities Financing activities discontinued in 2009. Personnel expenses, at EUR 828 million in 2015, went up by EUR 70 million compared with 2014. Annual Financial Statements This increase was driven by an increase in the number of FTEs and higher additions to restructuring provisions, and the fact that 2014 was positively impacted by adjustments to employee benefits. General and administrative expenses increased by EUR 117 million. This was due to higher project costs related to enhancing client centricity and continuous improvement of products, services and IT processes (including the TOPS 2020 and Retail Digitalisation programmes). In addition, a lower release related to the Deposit Guarantee Scheme provision for DSB was recorded in 2015 compared with 2014 (EUR 35 million release in 2015 versus EUR 66 million release in 2014). Expenses in 2015 were also impacted by a considerable VAT refund, which was the result of discussions with the tax authorities related to the period 2007-2014. This was partly offset by the EUR 55 million settlement with Vestia. These costs were, however, largely allocated to the commercial segments. Other Special items and divestments In 2015 there were no special items or divestments. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 351 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Segment income statement for the year 2014 Strategic Report 2014 Special Retail Private Corporate Group items and (in millions) Banking Banking Banking Functions divestments Total Net interest income 3,379 597 2,019 28 6,023 Net fee and commission income 522 544 646 -21 1,691 Net trading income 7 40 117 10 174 Share of result in equity accounted investments 51 19 -30 11 51 Business Report Other operating income -16 -8 87 54 117 Operating income 3,942 1,193 2,839 82 8,055 Personnel expenses 560 460 618 758 288 2,684 General and administrative expenses 396 251 298 1,303 201 2,450 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 8 48 18 131 204 Intersegment revenues/expenses 1,071 205 800 -2,075 Operating expenses Risk, funding & capital Report 2,035 964 1,734 117 489 5,338 Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 460 23 717 -28 1,171 Total expenses 2,495 986 2,450 89 489 6,509 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 1,447 206 388 -7 -489 1,546 Income tax expense 368 46 91 -21 -72 412 Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 1,079 160 298 14 -417 Special items and divestments -417 417 Profit/(loss) for the year 1,079 160 298 -402 1,134 Attributable to: Owners of the company 1,079 160 298 -402 1,134 Governance Report Non-controlling interests Retail Banking Net interest income increased by EUR 264 million to EUR 3,379 million driven by margins on deposits and, to a lesser extent, increased deposit volumes. Net interest income on mortgages improved due to gradual repricing of the mortgage book at higher margins as mortgages originated pre-crisis had lower margins. In addition, 2013 was negatively impacted by a correction for interest Annual Financial Statements accruals. Net interest income on consumer lending decreased as lower average lending volumes more than offset the higher margins. Net fee and commission showed a limited decline of EUR 25 million to EUR 522 million. The decline was largely attributable to the switch to an all-in fee model for investment products in the Netherlands. Personnel expenses increased by EUR 44 million to EUR 560 million due to a restructuring provision of EUR 60 million. Excluding the restructuring provision, personnel expenses decreased modestly resulting from a decline in the number of FTEs following a further reduction in the number of branches in the Netherlands. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 352 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Intersegment revenues/expenses rose by EUR 44 million, which is mainly attributable to higher allocation of IT project costs incurred for the planned improvement of core IT systems and processes Strategic Report in the coming years. Impairment charges on loans and other receivables were considerably lower, dropping EUR 219 million to EUR 460 million. The decline was driven by lower impairments on mortgages and, to a lesser extent, lower impairments on the consumer lending portfolio. The improved conditions in the housing market and recovery of the Dutch economy contributed to lower inflow of clients in the impaired portfolio, increased outflow of clients to the performing portfolio and more final settlements Business Report of impaired exposures, all of which had a positive impact on the impairment level of mortgages in 2014. Private Banking Net interest income amounted to EUR 597 million, up by 13%. This increase was largely driven by higher volume and improved margins on deposits in the Netherlands. Margins of the international activities improved as well. Risk, funding & capital Report Net fee and commission rose by 2% to EUR 544 million. Net fees internationally increased mainly as a result of the acquisition of private banking activities in Germany and higher assets under management. Net fees in the Netherlands declined primarily due to the switch to an all-in fee model for investment products, despite the growth in assets under management. Personnel expenses increased by EUR 18 million and general and administrative expenses increased by EUR 30 million. The increase was mainly related to the integration of the private banking activities in Germany. Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets rose by EUR 28 million, mainly due to a goodwill impairment of EUR 28 million. Intersegment revenues/expenses increased by EUR 30 million, partly due to higher allocation of IT costs incurred for the improvement of the Governance Report core IT systems and processes in the coming years. Impairment charges at EUR 23 million improved sharply compared with 2013. In 2013, the international portfolio was impacted by several large impairment charges. Corporate Banking Net interest income showed a marked increase of EUR 167 million to EUR 2,019 million. Commercial Annual Financial Statements Clients grew due to margin improvements from repricing abilities on both loans and deposits. Average lending volumes showed a limited decline, while average deposit volumes were virtually flat. International Clients benefited from growth in the ECT Clients loan portfolio. Capital Markets Solutions grew, among other things, at Clearing. Net fee and commission increased by EUR 46 million to EUR 646 million mainly due to higher commitment fees at ECT Clients and Commercial Clients as well as higher M&A fees at Corporate Finance. Net trading income decreased to EUR 117 million. The FVA impact, recorded for the first time this year, amounted to EUR 52 million negative. CVA/DVA results were EUR 18 million lower compared Other with 2013 (EUR 3 million positive in 2013 and EUR 15 million negative in 2014). Other operating income increased to EUR 87 million driven by Clearing recording a gain of EUR 40 million resulting from the partial sale of its share in Holland Clearing House. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 353 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Personnel expenses came to EUR 618 million, rising by EUR 18 million mainly due to a restructuring provision following the strategic review of Capital Markets Solutions. Intersegment revenues/ Strategic Report expenses showed an increase of EUR 57 million mainly due to higher allocated IT project costs. Impairment charges on loans and other receivables amounted to EUR 717 million, a significant decrease of 16%, or EUR 134 million. Commercial Clients recorded substantially lower loan impairments at small clients (turnover of EUR 1 million to EUR 30 million), while loan impairments on medium-sized and large clients (turnover of EUR 30 million to EUR 250 million) increased. Loan impairments at International Clients increased and loan impairments at Capital Markets Solutions Business Report remain negligible. Group Functions Net interest income increased sharply by EUR 143 million compared with 2013. The rise was largely attributable to the improved ALM interest result, in part as a result of reallocation of the liquidity buffer costs (approximately EUR 80 million mainly allocated to Corporate Banking and for a small part to Retail Banking). Risk, funding & capital Report Personnel expenses remained virtually stable compared with 2013. General and administrative expenses increased by EUR 17 million partly due to expenses incurred in connection with the Asset Quality Review. This was offset by a higher release related to the DSB deposit guarantee scheme (EUR 66 million release in 2014 versus EUR 31 million release in 2013). Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets decreased by EUR 64 million, mainly due to accelerated depreciations in 2013 of EUR 52 million. Intersegment revenues grew by EUR 129 million. The increase was mainly driven by a change in allocation method of IT costs, as all IT costs are now allocated to the business segments (approximately EUR 100 million, of which 50% Governance Report is allocated to Retail Banking, 40% to Corporate Banking and 10% to Private Banking). Special items and divestments Special items in 2014 included a EUR 288 million charge for the transition to a new pension scheme, and the levy for the nationalisation of SNS Reaal amounted to a total of EUR 201 million in operating expenses. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 354 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Segment income statement for the year 2013 2013 Strategic Report Special Retail Private Corporate Group items and Total (in millions) Banking Banking Banking Functions divestments reported Net interest income 3,115 529 1,852 -115 5,380 Net fee and commission income 547 532 600 -37 1,643 Net trading income 30 219 -21 -122 106 Share of result in equity accounted investments 39 14 -9 3 46 Other operating income Business Report -10 13 68 77 149 Operating income 3,691 1,118 2,730 -93 -122 7,324 Personnel expenses 516 442 600 762 37 2,357 General and administrative expenses 376 221 288 1,286 2,171 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 9 20 18 195 242 Intersegment revenues/expenses 1,027 175 743 -1,946 Operating expenses 1,929 858 1,649 297 37 4,770 Risk, funding & capital Report Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 679 141 851 -4 -684 983 Total expenses 2,608 998 2,500 293 -647 5,753 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 1,082 119 230 -386 525 1,571 Income tax expense 282 16 83 -87 117 411 Underlying profit/(loss) for the period 800 104 147 -299 408 Special items and divestments -109 517 -408 Profit/(loss) for the year 800 104 38 218 1,160 Attributable to: Owners of the company 800 104 40 218 1,162 Governance Report Non-controlling interests -2 -2 Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 355 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Selected assets and liabilities by segment 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Retail Private Corporate Group (in millions) Banking Banking Banking Functions Total Assets Financial assets held for trading 1,706 1,706 Derivatives 94 15,340 3,704 19,138 Securities financing 20 4,591 15,451 20,062 Residential mortgages 143,525 3,072 12 3,401 150,009 Business Report Consumer loans 8,105 5,858 624 14,587 Corporate loans 2,615 7,671 73,816 4,265 88,367 Other loans and receivables customers -1 6,143 215 6,357 Other 1,553 7,457 15,125 65,958 90,092 Total assets 155,797 24,171 117,355 92,994 390,317 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 459 459 Risk, funding & capital Report Derivatives 85 13,560 8,780 22,425 Securities financing 8 1,155 10,209 11,372 Demand deposits 23,579 41,435 53,784 311 119,109 Saving deposits 69,952 18,498 4,022 92,472 Time deposits 5,142 6,533 4,884 1,996 18,555 Other due to customers 160 160 Other 57,123 -42,387 39,331 54,112 108,180 Total liabilities 155,797 24,171 117,355 75,410 372,733 31 December 2014 Governance Report Retail Private Corporate Group (in millions) Banking Banking Banking Functions Total Assets Financial assets held for trading 9,115 -98 9,017 Derivatives 90 20,543 4,652 25,285 Securities financing 8 3,981 14,522 18,511 Residential mortgages 144,424 3,426 14 4,134 151,998 Consumer loans 8,795 5,830 773 15,398 Corporate loans Annual Financial Statements 2,758 7,460 77,625 22 87,866 Other loans and receivables customers 9 6,630 9 6,648 Other 1,638 6,112 14,897 49,498 72,145 Total assets 157,614 22,935 133,579 72,739 386,867 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 3,759 3,759 Derivatives 70 20,493 9,886 30,449 Securities financing 16 1,302 12,600 13,918 Demand deposits 22,619 38,338 48,479 317 109,753 Saving deposits 68,638 17,957 2,060 88,655 Time deposits 4,658 6,606 4,057 2,137 17,459 Other Other due to customers 144 144 Other 61,699 -40,053 53,285 32,922 107,854 Total liabilities 157,614 22,935 133,579 57,862 371,990 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 356 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2013 Retail Private Corporate Group (in millions) Banking Banking Banking Functions Total Strategic Report Assets Financial assets held for trading 12,138 -119 12,019 Derivatives 39 171 11,710 2,351 14,271 Securities financing 8 3,024 15,330 18,362 Residential mortgages 146,670 3,221 17 3,531 153,439 Consumer loans 9,437 5,291 901 15,629 Corporate loans 2,851 6,975 75,290 152 85,268 Business Report Other loans and receivables customers 9 2,678 5 2,692 Other 1,633 4,942 12,051 51,716 70,342 Total assets 160,630 20,617 117,809 72,966 372,022 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 4,399 4,399 Derivatives 38 130 10,636 6,423 17,227 Securities financing 3 1,176 11,087 12,266 Risk, funding & capital Report Demand deposits 20,933 33,888 44,894 436 100,151 Saving deposits 68,802 17,331 1,315 87,448 Time deposits 3,669 8,245 5,111 2,613 19,638 Other due to customers 346 1 347 Other 67,188 -38,980 49,932 38,838 116,978 Total liabilities 160,630 20,617 117,809 59,398 358,454 Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 357 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Geographical segments 2015 Strategic Report Rest of (in millions) The Netherlands Rest of Europe USA Asia the world Total Net interest income 5,109 577 156 178 57 6,076 Net fee and commission income 1,186 363 104 163 13 1,829 Net trading income 105 -30 5 20 -1 99 Share of result in equity accounted investments -16 17 1 Business Report Other operating income 417 26 6 450 Operating income 6,801 953 265 367 69 8,455 Personnel expenses 1,905 354 85 129 19 2,492 General and administrative expenses 2,195 248 41 61 14 2,559 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 138 27 5 5 2 177 Intercountry revenues/expenses -20 -3 8 21 -6 Operating expenses Risk, funding & capital Report 4,217 626 139 217 29 5,228 Impairment charges on loans and other receivables 383 29 11 47 35 505 Total expenses 4,600 656 150 264 64 5,734 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 2,201 298 115 102 5 2,722 Income tax expense 665 88 34 11 -1 798 Profit/(loss) for the year 1,536 210 81 91 7 1,924 Attributable to: Owners of the company 1,531 210 81 91 7 1,919 Non-controlling interests 5 5 Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 358 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 2014 Rest of (in millions) The Netherlands Rest of Europe USA Asia the world Total Strategic Report Net interest income 5,162 568 103 157 33 6,023 Net fee and commission income 1,115 321 87 153 14 1,691 Net trading income 135 17 3 18 174 Share of result in equity accounted investments 32 17 2 51 Other operating income 112 1 3 117 Operating income 6,556 925 194 331 48 8,055 Business Report Personnel expenses 2,157 338 61 109 19 2,684 General and administrative expenses 2,112 243 31 49 14 2,450 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 143 49 4 4 4 204 Intercountry revenues/expenses -8 -8 4 19 -8 Operating expenses 4,405 623 99 181 30 5,338 Impairment charges on loans and other Risk, funding & capital Report receivables 1,085 65 9 8 3 1,171 Total expenses 5,490 688 109 190 33 6,509 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 1,066 237 86 141 16 1,546 Income tax expense 286 73 28 20 6 412 Profit/(loss) for the year 780 165 58 121 10 1,134 Attributable to: Owners of the company 781 165 58 121 10 1,134 Non-controlling interests Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 359 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 2013 Rest of (in millions) The Netherlands Rest of Europe USA Asia the world Total Strategic Report Net interest income 4,639 511 72 132 26 5,380 Net fee and commission income 1,109 306 83 131 14 1,643 Net trading income 138 -55 3 20 106 Share of result in equity accounted investments 31 13 2 46 Other operating income 119 22 1 1 6 149 Operating income 6,036 797 159 286 46 7,324 Business Report Personnel expenses 1,856 328 54 96 23 2,357 General and administrative expenses 1,855 233 29 43 11 2,171 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 208 23 4 5 2 242 Intercountry revenues/expenses -1 -18 4 19 -4 Operating expenses 3,918 566 91 163 32 4,770 Impairment charges on loans and other Risk, funding & capital Report receivables 981 -5 -1 6 2 983 Total expenses 4,899 561 90 169 34 5,753 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 1,137 236 69 117 12 1,571 Income tax expense 291 81 18 17 4 411 Profit/(loss) for the year 846 155 51 100 8 1,160 Attributable to: Owners of the company 848 155 51 100 8 1,162 Non-controlling interests -2 -2 Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 360 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 3 Overview of financial assets and liabilities by measurement base 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Fair value through Fair value through profit or loss profit or loss Available for sale (in millions) Amortised cost Trading Other financial assets Total Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 26,195 26,195 Financial assets held for trading 1,706 1,706 Derivatives 15,495 3,644 19,138 Business Report Financial investments 770 39,772 40,542 Securities financing 20,062 20,062 Loans and receivables banks 15,680 15,680 Loans and receivables customers 259,319 259,319 Other assets 2,543 2,543 Total financial assets 321,255 17,200 6,956 39,772 385,183 Financial Liabilities Risk, funding & capital Report Financial liabilities held for trading 459 459 Derivatives 13,725 8,700 22,425 Securities financing 11,372 11,372 Due to banks 14,630 14,630 Due to customers 230,297 230,297 Issued debt 74,492 1,715 76,207 Subordinated liabilities 9,708 9,708 Other liabilities 2,543 2,543 Total financial liabilities 340,499 14,184 12,958 367,641 Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 361 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2014 Fair value through Fair value through profit or loss profit or loss Available for sale Strategic Report (in millions) Amortised cost Trading Other financial assets Total Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 706 706 Financial assets held for trading 9,017 9,017 Derivatives 20,243 5,043 25,285 Financial investments 589 40,877 41,466 Securities financing 18,511 18,511 Loans and receivables banks Business Report 21,680 21,680 Loans and receivables customers 261,910 261,910 Other assets 2,453 2,453 Total financial assets 302,807 29,259 8,084 40,877 381,028 Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 3,759 3,759 Derivatives 18,891 11,558 30,449 Risk, funding & capital Report Securities financing 13,918 13,918 Due to banks 15,744 15,744 Due to customers 216,011 216,011 Issued debt 75,150 1,981 77,131 Subordinated liabilities 8,328 8,328 Other liabilities 2,453 2,453 Total financial liabilities 329,150 22,650 15,991 367,791 31 December 2013 Fair value through Fair value through profit or loss profit or loss Available for sale (in millions) Amortised cost Trading Other financial assets Total Governance Report Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 9,523 9,523 Financial assets held for trading 12,019 12,019 Derivatives 12,208 2,063 14,271 Financial investments 530 27,581 28,111 Securities financing 18,362 18,362 Loans and receivables banks 23,967 23,967 Loans and receivables customers 257,028 257,028 Annual Financial Statements Other assets 2,171 2,171 Total financial assets 308,880 24,227 4,764 27,581 365,452 Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 4,399 4,399 Derivatives 10,436 6,791 17,227 Securities financing 12,266 12,266 Due to banks 11,626 11,626 Due to customers 207,584 207,584 Issued debt 86,611 2,071 88,682 Other Subordinated liabilities 7,917 7,917 Other liabilities 2,171 2,171 Total financial liabilities 326,004 14,835 11,033 351,872 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 362 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 4 Net interest income Strategic Report Accounting policy for net interest income and expense ABN AMRO applies IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. Interest income and expenses are recognised in the income statement on an accrual basis for all financial instruments using the effective interest rate method except for those financial instruments held for trading. The effective interest rate method allocates interest, amortisation of any discount or premium or other differences, including transaction costs and qualifying fees and commissions over the expected lives of the assets and liabilities. The effective interest method requires the Business Report Group to estimate future cash flows, in some cases based on its experience of customer behaviour, considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument, as well as expected lives of the assets and liabilities. Due to the large number of products, there are no individual estimates that are material to the results or financial position. Interest income and expenses of trading balances are included in net trading income. Risk, funding & capital Report (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Interest income 13,207 13,376 13,383 Interest expense 7,130 7,353 8,003 Net interest income 6,076 6,023 5,380 Net interest income ABN AMRO applies fair value hedge accounting on individual hedged items (micro fair value hedging). As from 2014 these hedged items are based on gross amounts. Net interest income for full-year 2015 amounted to EUR 6,076 million, an increase of EUR 53 million Governance Report compared with EUR 6,023 million in 2014. The underlying increase was primarily driven by improved margins on loans (mainly mortgages and, to a lesser extent, corporate loans) and higher average corporate loan volumes. The average volume of residential mortgages, however, was lower. In addition, lower funding costs due to lower credit spreads were partly offset by higher liquidity buffer costs. Annual Financial Statements Interest income The breakdown of Interest income by type of product for the years ended 31 December is shown in the following table. (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Interest income from: Financial investments available-for-sale 692 734 693 Securities financing 295 256 270 Loans and receivables banks 263 212 194 Loans and receivables customers 9,770 10,281 10,490 Other 2,186 1,893 1,736 Other Total interest income 13,207 13,376 13,383 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 363 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Interest income amounted to EUR 13,207 million in 2015, a decrease of EUR 169 million compared with EUR 13,376 million in 2014, mainly due to lower interest income in Loans and Strategic Report receivables customers. The decrease in Interest income from Loans and receivables customers was mainly due to lower interest revenues as a result of a slight decrease in the volume of the mortgage portfolio. In addition, the decrease resulted from several non-recurring interest provisions recorded in 2015. Other includes interest income on hedging instruments for an amount of EUR 1,855 million Business Report (in 2014: EUR 1,621 million). Interest expense The breakdown of Interest expenses by type of product for the years ended 31 December is shown in the following table. (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Risk, funding & capital Report Interest expenses from: Securities financing 187 173 181 Due to banks 242 209 263 Due to customers 1,940 2,328 2,726 Issued debt 1,646 1,819 1,903 Subordinated liabilities 451 374 422 Other 2,664 2,450 2,508 Total interest expense 7,130 7,353 8,003 Interest expense for the full year 2015 amounted to EUR 7,130 million, a decrease of EUR 223 million, or 3.0%, compared with EUR 7,353 million in 2014. This decrease was caused by Governance Report the lower Interest expense related to Due to customers (EUR 388 million) and to Issued debt (EUR 173 million). This was partly offset by higher Interest expense Other (EUR 214 million). The decrease in Interest expense from Due to customers resulted from lower interest paid for client savings following a decrease in the market interest rate in 2015. Interest expense from Issued debt was lower in 2015 compared with 2014 as a result of lower Annual Financial Statements funding costs determined by lower credit spreads. Other includes interest expense on hedging instruments for an amount of EUR 2,120 million (in 2014: EUR 1,977 million). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 364 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 5 Net fee and commission income Strategic Report Accounting policy for net fee and commission income ABN AMRO applies IAS 18 Revenue. Fees and commissions are recognised as the services are provided. The following fee types are identified: ÅÅ Service fees are recognised on a straight-line basis over the service contract period; portfolio and other management advisory and service fees are recognised based on the applicable service contracts; ÅÅ Fees arising from negotiating or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third party Business Report are recognised upon completion of the underlying transaction. Commission revenue is recognised when the performance obligation is complete. Loan syndication fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has been completed. Fees and commissions dependent on the outcome of a particular event or contingent upon performance are recognised when the relevant criteria have been met. Risk, funding & capital Report (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Fee and commission income 3,061 2,693 2,639 Fee and commission expense 1,233 1,002 996 Net fee and commission income 1,829 1,691 1,643 Net fee and commission income increased by EUR 138 million in 2015 compared with 2014. The increase was primarily recorded in Private Banking due to favourable stock market performance, and in Corporate Banking as a result of higher transaction volumes at Clearing. Governance Report Fee and commission income Fee and commission income for the years ended 31 December is specified in the following table. (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Fee and commission income from: Securities and custodian services 1,344 1,100 1,144 Payment services 691 667 680 Portfolio management and trust fees 586 521 452 Annual Financial Statements Guarantees and commitment fees 179 171 142 Insurance and investment fees 86 80 79 Other service fees 174 153 142 Total fee and commission income 3,061 2,693 2,639 Securities and custodian services fee income was higher due to market volatility in 2015 resulting in more transactions within the Clearing business (EUR 255 million, or 33%, compared with year-end 2014). Payment services fees were slightly higher within Retail Banking and Commercial Clients (EUR 25 million). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 365 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Portfolio management and trust fee income increased mainly following higher client assets volume in the Private Banking business in the Netherlands and France (EUR 34 million). Moreover, this Strategic Report increase was driven by the acquisition of German activities from Credit Suisse in Q3 2014 (EUR 20 million). Fee and commission expense The components of Fee and commission expenses for the years ended 31 December are as follows: (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Business Report Fee and commission expenses from: Securities and custodian services 953 757 705 Payment services 150 153 162 Portfolio management and trust fees 74 58 68 Guarantees and commitment fees 8 8 8 Insurance and investment fees 28 25 23 Other service fees 20 2 30 Total fee and commission expense Risk, funding & capital Report 1,233 1,002 996 Securities and custodian services fee expenses were higher due to market volatility in 2015, resulting in more transactions in the Clearing business (EUR 196 million, or 25.9%, compared with 31 December 2014). Portfolio management and trust fee expenses increased due to an increase in transactions volume in 2015 in the Private Banking business in France (EUR 15 million). 6 Net trading income Governance Report Accounting policy for net trading income In accordance with IAS 39, trading positions are held at fair value and Net trading income includes gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities held for trading, interest income and expenses related to trading balances, the change in fair value of derivatives used for risk management purposes that do not meet the requirements of IAS 39 for hedge accounting, dividends received from trading instruments and related funding costs. Annual Financial Statements Dividend income from trading instruments is recognised when entitlement is established. Net trading income also includes changes in fair value arising from changes in counterparty credit spreads and changes in own credit spreads where these impact the value of our trading liabilities. The Funding Value Adjustment incorporates the incremental cost of funding into the valuation of uncollateralised and partly collateralised derivatives. The charge related to the write-off of trading instruments is included in Net trading income. (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Interest instruments trading -99 26 148 Equity trading -84 -9 -200 Other Foreign exchange transaction results 319 272 239 Other -37 -116 -81 Total net trading income 99 174 106 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 366 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Net trading income decreased by EUR 75 million at EUR 99 million in 2015 compared with EUR 174 million in 2014. Strategic Report Interest instruments trading income decreased by EUR 127 million in 2015 compared with 2014 because of higher losses related to the IRS portfolio which was used to hedge the interest component of the cross currency swap positions. Moreover, the decrease was driven by a provision in Corporate Banking for an identified group of SMEs with possible interest rate derivatives-related issues. This was partly offset by the favourable effect of CVA and DVA results (EUR 69 million positive in 2015 versus EUR 6 million negative in the previous year). Business Report Equity trading income was lower in 2015 compared with the previous year mainly as a result of a one-off tax-exempt provision in Group Functions and by the termination of part of the Capital Markets Solutions activities following the strategic review in 2014. Foreign exchange transaction results increased by EUR 47 million to EUR 319 million in 2015 compared with 2014. This increase was due to higher valuation of cross-currency swaps as a result Risk, funding & capital Report of the rise in the long-term market interest rate, which positively impacted the interest component of these contracts. Other trading increased due to improved FVA results in Capital Markets Solutions in 2015 compared with 2014 (EUR 7 million positive in 2015 versus EUR 52 million negative in the previous year). Moreover, realised and unrealised gains on trading book loans were higher in 2015 compared with 2014. 7 Other income Governance Report Accounting policy for other income Other income includes all other banking activities such as leasing activities and results on the disposal of assets. It also includes gains and losses on the sale of non-trading financial assets and liabilities, ineffectiveness of hedging programmes, fair value changes relating to assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, and changes in the value of any related derivatives. For liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, it includes changes in Annual Financial Statements own credit spreads. Dividend income from non-trading equity investments is recognised when entitlement is established. (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Leasing activities 22 22 21 Disposal of operating activities and equity accounted investments 28 60 28 Result from financial transactions 286 -41 -12 Other 114 76 112 Total other income 450 117 149 Other Total other income increased by EUR 333 million to EUR 450 million in 2015 compared with the previous year, mainly due to a higher Result from financial transactions. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 367 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Result from financial transactions increased by EUR 327 million in 2015 compared with 2014 mainly due to favourable hedge accounting-related results at Group Functions. In addition, the increase Strategic Report resulted from gains on Private Investments Products and the revaluation and divestments results at Equity Participations. 8 Personnel expenses Accounting policy for personnel expenses Salaries and wages, social security charges and other salary-related costs are recognised over the Business Report period in which the employees provide the services to which the payments relate. The accounting policies for pensions and other post-retirement benefits are included in note 29. (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Salaries and wages 1,717 1,661 1,661 Social security charges 244 240 227 Risk, funding & capital Report Pension expenses relating to defined benefit plans 3 405 224 Defined contribution plan expenses 322 170 33 Other 206 208 212 Total personnel expenses 2,492 2,684 2,357 Total personnel expenses for 2015 amounted to EUR 2,492 million, a decrease of EUR 192 million, or 7.1%, compared with EUR 2,684 million in 2014. The total Pension expenses, without taking into consideration the one-off settlement cost in 2014 of EUR 297 million, increased by EUR 46 million, mainly due to a decrease of the discount rate in 2015 compared with 2014 which resulted in higher interest cost. Governance Report Other personnel expenses consist mainly of additions and settlements of restructuring staff provisions and a release from the provision for employee benefits. 9 General and administrative expenses Accounting policy for general and administrative expenses Annual Financial Statements Costs are recognised in the period in which services have been provided and to which the payment relates. (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Agency staff, contractors and consultancy costs 764 643 537 Staff related costs 90 87 81 Information technology costs 950 879 848 Housing 199 199 200 Other Post, telephone and transport 66 68 77 Marketing and public relations costs 127 130 123 Regulatory charges 241 317 120 Other 123 126 185 Total general and administrative expenses 2,559 2,450 2,171 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 368 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction General and administrative expenses for full-year 2015 grew by EUR 109 million, or 4.5%, to EUR 2,559 million, compared with 2014. Strategic Report This increase was mainly due to higher Agency staff, contractors and consultancy costs, and an increase in IT expenses related to projects and IT expenses. Regulatory charges were lower in 2015 compared with the previous year primarily due to the SNS levy recorded in 2014 (EUR 201 million). This decline was partly offset by the contribution to the National Resolution Fund in 2015 (EUR 119 million). Business Report Other was mainly impacted by a VAT refund related to the period 2007-2014. This was partly offset by a lower release with respect to DSB and the settlement of a legal claim with Vestia in the third quarter of 2015. A specification of the regulatory charges is as follows: Risk, funding & capital Report (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Bank tax 98 91 106 Deposit Guarantee Scheme 3 SNS Levy 201 National resolution funds 119 Other regulatory charges 20 25 14 Total regulatory charges 241 317 120 Fees paid to KPMG are included under Agency staff, contractors and consultancy costs. These fees are specified in the following table. Governance Report (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Financial statements audit fees 7 7 6 Audit related fees 4 4 4 Total auditor's fee 11 11 10 10 Income tax expense, tax assets and tax liabilities Annual Financial Statements Accounting policy for income tax expense, tax assets and tax liabilities ABN AMRO applies IAS 12 Income Taxes in accounting for taxes on income. ABN AMRO is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Income tax expense consists of current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement in the period in which profits arise. Income tax recoverable on tax allowable losses is recognised as a current tax asset only to the extent that it is regarded as recoverable by offsetting against taxable profits arising in the current or prior period. Current tax is measured using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 369 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Deferred tax is recognised for qualifying temporary differences. Temporary differences represent the difference between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes Strategic Report and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset when there is both a legal right to offset and an intention to settle on a net basis. (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Business Report Recognised in income statement: Current tax expenses for the current period 737 282 11 Adjustments recognised in the period for current tax of prior periods -7 -24 7 Previously unrecognised tax losses, tax credits and temporary differences Risk, funding & capital Report increasing (reducing) current tax expenses -5 2 Total current tax expense 725 257 20 Deferred tax arising from the current period 49 151 399 Impact of changes in tax rates on deferred taxes -4 Deferred tax arising from the write-down or reversal of a write-down of a deferred tax asset -16 14 -6 Previously unrecognised tax losses, tax credits and temporary differences reducing deferred tax expense 45 -10 -2 Total deferred tax expense 73 155 391 Total income tax expense 798 412 411 Governance Report Reconciliation of the total tax charge The effective tax rate was 29.3% in 2015 (2014: 26.7%; 2013: 26.2%) and differs from the theoretical rate that would arise using the statutory tax rate of the Netherlands. This difference is explained as follows: (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Profit/(loss) before taxation 2,722 1,546 1,571 Applicable tax rate Annual Financial Statements 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% Expected income tax expense 680 386 393 Increase/(decrease) in taxes resulting from: Tax exempt income 26 -43 -37 Share in result of associates and joint ventures -24 -13 -6 Non deductable Dutch bank tax 25 23 26 Other non deductable expenses 4 53 4 Previously unrecognised tax losses and temporary differences 95 -8 4 Write-down and reversal of write-down of deferred tax assets -12 11 -6 Impact of changes in tax rates on temporary differences -4 Foreign tax rate differential 9 18 25 Other Adjustments for current tax of prior years -7 -24 7 Other 6 9 1 Actual income tax expense 798 412 411 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 370 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The effective tax rate in 2015 was mainly affected by our reassessment of our tax position, a significant amount of non-deductible bank tax, non-taxable gains and losses, and adjustments Strategic Report to prior years due to the fact that we continued to settle open issues with the tax authorities. Tax assets and liabilities The most significant temporary differences arise from the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative contracts, allowances for loan impairment, provisions for pensions and business combinations and investments. Business Report The following table summarises the tax position at 31 December. 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 (in millions) Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Current tax 36 627 30 156 165 69 Deferred tax 309 23 473 19 745 21 Total tax assets and liabilities 345 650 504 175 910 90 Risk, funding & capital Report The significant components and annual movements of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at 31 December are shown in the following tables. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 371 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction As at As at (in millions) 1 January 2015 Income statement Equity Other 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Deferred tax assets: Assets held for trading and derivatives 410 -55 356 Investments (Available-for-sale) 14 1 1 -1 16 Property and equipment 20 1 1 22 Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 2 2 Insurance policy and claim reserves -2 -1 -2 Loans and receivables customers 4 -1 3 Impairments on loans 22 10 33 Business Report Provisions for pensions and postretirement benefits 34 -15 5 24 Accrued expenses and deferred income 54 12 1 68 Unused tax losses and unused tax credits 11 1 -1 11 Other 36 16 -1 50 Total deferred tax assets before offsetting 605 26 -50 1 581 Risk, funding & capital Report Offsetting DTA 132 272 Total deferred tax assets 473 309 Deferred tax liabilities related to: Assets held for trading and derivatives 3 -3 Investments (Available-for-sale) 121 92 47 1 261 Property and equipment 1 -1 2 2 Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 2 2 Loans and receivables customers 10 -2 8 Impairments on loans Issued debt and subordinated liabilities Deferred policy acquisition costs 1 1 Governance Report Other 13 8 -1 20 Total deferred tax liabilities before offsetting 151 98 46 295 Offsetting DTL 132 272 Total deferred tax liabilities 19 23 Net deferred tax 454 286 Deferred tax through income Annual Financial Statements statement and equity 73 97 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 372 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction As at As at (in millions) 1 January 2014 Income statement Equity Other 31 December 2014 Strategic Report Deferred tax assets: Assets held for trading and derivatives 501 -81 -9 410 Investments (Available-for-sale) 26 1 -24 11 14 Property and equipment 19 1 1 20 Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 1 1 2 Insurance policy and claim reserves -2 -2 Loans and receivables customers 4 4 Impairments on loans 25 -3 22 Business Report Issued debt and subordinated liabilities 1 Provisions for pensions and postretirement benefits 118 -132 48 34 Accrued expenses and deferred income 43 9 2 54 Unused tax losses and unused tax credits 37 -26 -1 11 Other 31 -4 2 6 36 Total deferred tax assets before Risk, funding & capital Report offsetting 807 -155 -57 10 605 Offsetting DTA 62 132 Total deferred tax assets 745 473 Deferred tax liabilities related to: Assets held for trading and derivatives 3 3 Investments (Available-for-sale) 50 2 65 5 121 Property and equipment 3 -1 -1 1 Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 3 -1 2 Loans and receivables customers 11 -4 2 10 Issued debt and subordinated liabilities 1 Deferred policy acquisition costs 1 1 Governance Report Other 10 5 2 -5 13 Total deferred tax liabilities before offsetting 83 67 1 151 Offsetting DTL 62 132 Total deferred tax liabilities 21 19 Net deferred tax 724 454 Deferred tax through income Annual Financial Statements statement and equity 155 124 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 373 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction As at As at (in millions) 1 January 2013 Income statement Equity Other 31 December 2013 Strategic Report Deferred tax assets: Assets held for trading and derivatives 643 1 -143 501 Investments (Available-for-sale) 43 -16 -1 26 Property and equipment 18 1 19 Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 1 1 Loans and receivables customers 2 1 1 4 Impairments on loans 66 -41 25 Provisions for pensions and postBusiness Report retirement benefits 396 -352 73 1 118 Accrued expenses and deferred income 77 -34 43 Unused tax losses and unused tax credits 271 -237 4 38 Other 38 -11 5 -1 31 Total deferred tax assets before offsetting 1,555 -671 -81 4 807 Offsetting DTA 314 62 Risk, funding & capital Report Total deferred tax assets 1,241 745 Deferred tax liabilities related to: Assets held for trading and derivatives 2 1 3 Investments (Available-for-sale) 49 1 50 Property and equipment 3 3 Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 3 3 Loans and receivables customers 11 11 Issued debt and subordinated liabilities 16 -15 1 Provisions for pensions and postretirement benefits 225 -225 Deferred policy acquisition costs 1 1 -1 1 Governance Report Other 54 -44 1 11 Total deferred tax liabilities before offsetting 361 -280 2 83 Offsetting DTL 314 62 Total deferred tax liabilities 47 21 Net deferred tax 1,194 724 Deferred tax through income Annual Financial Statements statement and equity 391 81 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. This is based on estimates of sufficient taxable income by jurisdiction in which ABN AMRO operates, available tax planning opportunities, and the period over which deferred tax assets are recoverable. Management considers this more likely than not. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates in future periods, and depending on the tax strategies that ABN AMRO may be able to implement, changes to the recognition of deferred tax assets could be required, which could impact our financial position and net profit. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 374 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Tax losses The total accumulated losses available for carry-forward at 31 December 2015 amounted to Strategic Report EUR 1,542 million (2014: EUR 1,415 million), of which EUR 32 million (2014: EUR 32 million) could be recognised for future tax benefits. The recorded deferred tax asset for tax losses carried forward amounted to EUR 11 million (2014: EUR 11 million). Unrecognised tax assets Deferred tax assets of EUR 278 million (2014: EUR 258 million) have not been recognised in respect of gross tax losses of EUR 1,510 million (2014: EUR 1,383 million) because future taxable profits are Business Report not considered probable. These deferred tax assets are mainly related to positions outside the Netherlands. Tax credits and unrecognised tax credits ABN AMRO had carry-forward tax credits of EUR 3 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: EUR 4 million) which have not been recognised because offset to future tax benefits is not expected. Risk, funding & capital Report The following tables show when the operating losses and tax credits as at 31 December 2015 will expire. Loss carry-forward 2015: After No (in millions) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 5 years expiration Total Loss carry-forward recognised 32 32 Loss carry-forward not recognised 29 12 1,469 1,510 Total tax losses carry Governance Report forward (gross) 29 12 1,501 1,542 Tax credits 2015: After No (in millions) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 5 years expiration Total Tax credits recognised Tax credits not recognised 2 1 3 Annual Financial Statements Total tax credits carry forward (gross) 2 1 3 As from 31 December 2015, ABN AMRO recognised net deferred tax assets of EUR 13 million (2014: EUR 43 million) that exceed deferred tax liabilities in entities which have suffered a loss in either 2015 or 2014. Tax related to each component of other comprehensive income and tax related to equity can be found in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and in the Consolidated statements of changes in equity. As a result of the amended pension accounting standard IAS 19 in 2014, the total deferred tax impact on equity is not equal to the tax impact on Other comprehensive income Other as shown in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income. More information is provided in note 29 Pension and other post-retirement employee benefits. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 375 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Income tax consequences of dividend The Managing Board proposes, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, a final dividend Strategic Report of EUR 414 million for the ordinary shares. The dividend will be subject to a withholding tax of EUR 62 million. Country-by-country reporting The following table provides an overview of total operating income, average number of FTEs, net profit/(loss) for the year, income tax expense and received government grants per country. In addition, the following table shows the principal subsidiary and main activity for each country. The full Business Report list of participating interests as referred to in Article 414, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been filed with the Trade Register. As this regulation is only applicable as from 1 January 2014, no previous reporting dates are shown in this table. 31 December 2015 Risk, funding & capital Report Total Operating operating Average profit/(loss) Income tax income number of before taxation expense Principal subsidiary Main activity (in millions) FTEs (in millions) (in millions) Netherlands ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Retail Banking 6,896 18,112 2,227 671 of which international activities 95 23 25 6 France Banque Neuflize OBC S.A. Private Banking 332 966 77 27 Germany Bethmann Bank AG Private Banking 293 730 100 15 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Belgium Branch Belgium Private Banking 90 230 17 11 Governance Report ABN AMRO Commercial Great Brittain Finance Plc Corporate Banking 76 373 44 10 ABN AMRO Bank Luxembourg (Luxembourg) S.A. Private Banking 47 166 6 1 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Oslo Norway Branch Corporate Banking 59 28 41 12 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Jersey Jersey Branch Private Banking 43 61 30 2 Guernsey ABN AMRO (Guernsey) Ltd. Private Banking 34 93 13 1 Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO Clearing United States Chicago LLC Corporate Banking 265 381 115 34 ABN AMRO Brasil Brasil Participações Corporate Banking 24 80 -12 -6 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Singapore Branch Singapore Corporate Banking 178 465 87 12 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Hong Kong Branch Hong Kong Private Banking 127 295 31 4 ABN AMRO Clearing Tokyo Japan Co. Ltd. Corporate Banking 17 14 10 2 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. United Arab Emirates Branch UAE/DIFC Private Banking 29 92 3 ABN AMRO Clearing Sydney Other Australia Pty Ltd. Corporate Banking 16 54 6 2 Other -72 2 -72 Total 8,455 22,142 2,722 798 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 376 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2014 Total operating Average Net profit/(loss) Income tax Strategic Report income number of for the year expense Principal subsidiary Main activity (in millions) FTEs (in millions) (in millions) Netherlands ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Retail Banking 6,622 18,371 1,111 297 of which international activities 66 159 45 11 France Banque Neuflize OBC S.A. Private Banking 316 972 68 20 Germany Bethmann Bank AG Private Banking 264 590 82 11 Business Report ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Branch Belgium Belgium ID&JG Private Banking 84 236 9 19 ABN AMRO Commercial Great Brittain Finance Plc Corporate Banking 61 364 -1 ABN AMRO Bank Luxembourg (Luxembourg) S.A. Private Banking 52 158 10 5 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Oslo Norway Branch Corporate Banking 50 22 39 11 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Jersey Risk, funding & capital Report Jersey Branch Private Banking 44 63 24 Guernsey ABN AMRO (Guernsey) Ltd. Private Banking 24 93 -17 ABN AMRO Clearing Chicago United States LLC Corporate Banking 194 352 86 28 ABN AMRO Brasil Brazil Participações Corporate Banking 13 66 6 3 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Branch Singapore Singapore Corporate Banking 149 430 72 10 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Branch Hong Kong Hong Kong Private Banking 114 294 37 6 ABN AMRO Clearing Tokyo Co. Japan Ltd. Corporate Banking 13 13 6 1 Governance Report ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Branch United Arab Emirates UAE/DIFC Private Banking 35 85 14 ABN AMRO Clearing Sydney Australia Pty Ltd. Corporate Banking 16 49 8 3 Other 2 22 -6 -1 Total 8,055 22,179 1,546 412 No material government grants were received in 2015. Annual Financial Statements 11 Earnings per share The following table shows the composition of Basic earnings per share at 31 December. 2015 2014 2013 Profit/ Earnings Profit/(loss) Earnings Profit/(loss) Earnings (loss) for Number of per share for the Number of per share for the Number of per share (in millions) the period1 shares (in euros) period1 shares (in euros) period1 shares (in euros) Basic earnings1 1,908 940 2.03 1,134 940 1.21 1,162 940 1.24 Other 1 Earnings consist of reported profit excluding reserved payments for AT 1 Capital securities and results attributable to non-controlling interests. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 377 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction ABN AMRO does not have any dilutive potential ordinary shares. Therefore, only basic earnings per ordinary shares is disclosed. Basic earnings per ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the profit Strategic Report attributable to the shareholders of ABN AMRO Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding. The earnings per share in 2015 was EUR 2.03. This is an increase of EUR 0.82 or 69.4% compared with the earnings per share of EUR 1.21 in 2014. The final proposed dividend 2015 will be EUR 0.44 per share. Together with an interim dividend in Business Report August 2015, the total dividend will be EUR 0.81 per share. 12 Cash and balances at central banks This item includes cash on hand and available demand balances with central banks in countries in which the bank has a presence. Mandatory reserve deposits are disclosed in note 19 Loans and Risk, funding & capital Report receivables banks. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Cash on hand and other cash equivalents 535 617 596 Balances with central banks readily convertible in cash other than mandatory reserve deposits 25,660 89 8,927 Total cash and balances at central banks 26,195 706 9,523 Cash and balances at central banks increased by EUR 25.5 billion to EUR 26.2 billion in December Governance Report 2015 compared with EUR 706 million in 2014 due to higher outstanding of overnight positions placed at DNB. 13 Financial assets and liabilities held for trading Accounting policy for financial assets and liabilities held for trading Annual Financial Statements In accordance with IAS 39, all assets and liabilities held for trading are held at fair value with gains and losses in the changes of the fair value taken to Net trading income in the income statement. Financial assets held for trading The following table shows the composition of assets held for trading. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 378 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Trading securities: Strategic Report Government bonds 1,333 2,326 2,906 Corporate debt securities 335 924 873 Equity securities 19 4,946 6,471 Total trading securities 1,686 8,196 10,250 Trading book loans 19 821 1,032 Commodities 737 Total assets held for trading 1,706 9,017 12,019 Business Report Financial assets held for trading as at 31 December 2015 amounted to EUR 1.7 billion, down by EUR 7.3 billion compared with 31 December 2014. This decrease was mainly due to the discontinuation of the equity derivatives activities (EUR 4.9 billion), lower Government bonds (EUR 1.0 billion) and a decline in Trading book loans (EUR 0.8 billion). The decrease in Government bonds was mainly related to Dutch, Belgian and German positions. Risk, funding & capital Report These portfolios are mainly a result of primary dealership in these countries and for the purpose of client facilitation. Most of these contracts are hedged with short positions in Government bonds (see also decrease in Government bonds in Financial liabilities held for trading). As a result of the wind-down of activities resulting from the strategic review of Capital Markets Solutions, significant equity security portfolios were sold in 2014 (EUR 4.9 billion). The main portfolios sold were FTSE equities (EUR 2.1 billion) in equities relating to the EURO STOXX 50 index derivatives basket (EUR 1.2 billion) and in equities relating to the closure of the equity derivatives desk in the US (EUR 1.0 billion). Governance Report Contracts related to the Trading book loans have been reassessed and reclassified to Corporate loans in 2015. Financial liabilities held for trading The following table shows the composition of liabilities held for trading. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Annual Financial Statements Bonds 417 1,710 1,988 Equity securities 19 2,016 1,787 Total short security positions 435 3,725 3,775 Other liabilities held for trading 24 34 624 Total liabilities held for trading 459 3,759 4,399 Financial liabilities held for trading amounted to EUR 0.5 billion at 31 December 2015, a decrease of EUR 3.3 billion compared with 31 December 2014. This decline was mainly due to the wind-down of the equity derivatives portfolio (EUR 2.0 billion) in the US resulting from the strategic review of Capital Markets Solutions. The decrease also resulted from lower short positions in Bonds (EUR 1.3 billion), mainly related to Dutch, Belgian, German and French Government bonds and Other Corporate debt securities. The fair value of assets pledged as security is shown in note 32. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 379 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 14 Derivatives Strategic Report Accounting policy for Derivatives Derivatives comprise derivatives held for trading and derivatives held for risk management purposes. Derivatives held for trading are closely related to facilitating the needs of our clients. A significant part of the derivatives in the trading portfolio is related to serving clients in their risk management to hedge, for example, currency or interest rate exposures. Furthermore, ABN AMRO offers products that are traded on the financial markets to institutional and individual clients and governments. Derivatives held for risk management purposes include the fair value of all Business Report derivatives qualifying as hedging instruments in fair value hedges and in cash flow hedges, hedge accounting derivatives, as well as the fair value of derivatives related to assets and liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss, economic hedges. A hedging instrument, for hedge accounting purposes, is a designated derivative whose fair value or cash flows are expected to offset changes in the fair value or cash flows of a designated hedged item. From a risk perspective, the gross amount of trading assets must be associated together with the gross amount of trading liabilities, which are presented separately on the statement of financial position. Risk, funding & capital Report However, IFRS does not allow netting of these positions in the statement of financial position. Derivatives comprise the following: 31 December 2015 Total Derivatives held for trading Economic hedges Hedge accounting derivatives Interest Interest Interest (in millions) rate Currency Other rate Currency Other rate Currency Other Exchange traded Governance Report Fair value assets 1 7 1 9 Fair value liabilities 13 13 Notionals 255 9 191 1,315 1,770 Over-the-counter Central counterparties Fair value assets Fair value liabilities Annual Financial Statements Notionals 690,195 584 73,128 763,907 Other bilateral Fair value assets 12,413 2,073 240 242 499 19 3,339 304 19,129 Fair value liabilities 10,570 2,096 279 136 604 27 8,673 26 22,412 Notionals 194,759 181,503 2,038 3,430 26,356 1,434 74,961 560 485,042 Total Fair value assets 12,414 2,073 248 242 499 19 3,339 304 19,138 Fair value liabilities 10,570 2,096 292 136 604 27 8,673 26 22,425 Notionals 885,209 181,512 2,230 4,014 26,356 2,749 148,089 560 1,250,719 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 380 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2014 Total Derivatives held for trading Economic hedges Hedge accounting derivatives Strategic Report Interest Interest Interest (in millions) rate Currency Other rate Currency Other rate Currency Other Exchange traded Fair value assets 13 2 21 36 Fair value liabilities 14 5 10 30 Notionals 163 8 205 2,396 2,773 Business Report Over-the-counter Central counterparties Fair value assets Fair value liabilities Notionals 544,841 40,372 585,213 Other bilateral Fair value assets 15,998 3,346 370 254 215 23 4,591 452 25,249 Risk, funding & capital Report Fair value liabilities 14,383 3,456 344 191 469 18 11,543 15 30,419 Notionals 213,089 163,334 8,719 3,853 27,794 116 93,890 1,399 512,193 Total Fair value assets 16,011 3,346 373 254 215 43 4,591 452 25,285 Fair value liabilities 14,398 3,457 348 191 469 28 11,543 15 30,449 Notionals 758,093 163,342 8,923 3,853 27,794 2,512 134,262 1,399 1,100,179 31 December 2013 Total Derivatives held for trading Economic hedges Hedge accounting derivatives Interest Interest Interest Governance Report (in millions) rate Currency Other rate Currency Other rate Currency Other Exchange traded Fair value assets 2 144 23 169 Fair value liabilities 2 1 143 30 176 Notionals 115 16 212 391 734 Over-the-counter Central counterparties Annual Financial Statements Fair value assets Fair value liabilities Notionals 505,461 946 25 506,432 Other bilateral Fair value assets 10,628 920 154 217 83 37 1,693 370 14,102 Fair value liabilities 8,713 767 223 152 381 24 6,787 4 17,051 Notionals 191,621 79,638 10,489 4,143 12,474 341 123,004 1,534 423,244 Total Fair value assets 10,630 920 298 217 83 60 1,693 370 14,271 Fair value liabilities 8,715 768 366 152 381 54 6,787 4 17,227 Other Notionals 697,198 80,600 10,701 4,143 12,474 732 123,029 1,534 930,411 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 381 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Over-the-counter derivatives are cleared with a CCP and there is no value on our Statement of financial position. Strategic Report The notional amount of the interest derivatives held for trading as at 31 December 2015 amounted to EUR 885.2 billion, an increase of EUR 127.1 billion, or 16.8 %, compared with EUR 758.1 billion at 31 December 2014. This increase was chiefly due to higher client activity mainly within Financial institutions. As at 31 December 2015, the fair value of these interest rate derivatives decreased compared with year-end 2014, mainly due to the increase in long-term interest rates. Business Report The notional of currency derivatives held for trading at 31 December 2015 amounted to EUR 181.5 billion, an increase of EUR 18.2 billion, or 11.1%, compared with EUR 163.3 billion at 31 December 2014. This increase was mainly due to the growth in client activity caused by increased volatility of the foreign exchange market in anticipation of and following the ECB’s Quantitative Easing announcement. The total notional amount of Derivatives held for trading – other as at 31 December 2015 amounted Risk, funding & capital Report to EUR 2.2 billion, a decrease of EUR 6.7 billion compared with EUR 8.9 billion at 31 December 2014. This decrease was mainly due to the wind-down of the equity derivatives portfolio resulting from the strategic review of Capital Markets Solutions. The hedging strategies are explained in greater detail in note 15. 15 Hedge accounting Accounting policy for hedge accounting (IAS 39) Governance Report ABN AMRO enters into various derivative and non-derivative instrument transactions with external parties to hedge risks on assets, liabilities, forecasted cash flows and net investments. The accounting treatment of the hedged item and the hedging instrument depends on whether the hedge relationship qualifies for hedge accounting. Qualifying hedges may be designated as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments. A non-derivative financial asset or liability may be designated as a hedging Annual Financial Statements instrument for hedge accounting purposes only if it hedges the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The hedged item can be an asset, liability, highly probable forecasted transaction or net investment in a foreign operation that (a) exposes the entity to risk of changes in fair value or future cash flows and (b) is designated as being hedged. The risks being hedged (the hedged risks) are typically changes in interest rates or foreign currency rates. ABN AMRO may also enter into credit risk derivatives (sometimes referred to as credit default swaps) for managing portfolio credit risk. However, these are generally not included in hedge accounting relationships. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 382 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, ABN AMRO formally assesses whether the derivatives used in its hedging transactions have been highly effective in offsetting Strategic Report changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item, by assessing and measuring whether changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item are offset by the changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedging instrument. Hedge ineffectiveness and gains and losses on components of a derivative that are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recorded directly in Results from financial transactions as part of Other income. ABN AMRO discontinues hedge accounting when the hedge relationship Business Report has ceased to be effective or is no longer expected to be effective, or when the derivative or hedged item is sold or otherwise terminated. Adoption of EU carved out version IAS 39 Micro fair value hedges is hedging of separate hedged items which can be assets and liabilities. For micro fair value hedging, ABN AMRO uses the ‘carved out’ version of IAS 39 as adopted by the European Union, which means that negative credit spreads are excluded in the hedge relationship Risk, funding & capital Report for micro fair value hedging. Macro fair value hedging implies that a group of financial assets is reviewed in combination and jointly designated as the hedged item. However, the portfolio may, for risk management purposes, include assets and liabilities. In this context, the starting difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the hedged item at the designation of the hedging relationship is amortised over the remaining life of the hedged item. For macro fair value hedging, ABN AMRO uses the carved out version of IAS 39 as adopted by the European Union, which removes some of the limitations on fair value hedges and the strict requirements on the effectiveness of those hedges. In this context, the impact of changes in the estimates of the re-pricing dates is only considered Governance Report ineffective if it leads to over-hedging. Fair value hedges Where a derivative financial instrument hedges the exposure to changes in the fair value of the hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted in relation to the risk being hedged. Gains or losses on re-measurement of both the hedging instrument and the hedged item are recognised in the Income statement within Results from financial transactions as part of Other income. Hedge Annual Financial Statements effectiveness for fair value hedges is measured as the amount by which the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are different from changes in the fair value of the hedged item. When a fair value hedge of interest rate risk is terminated, any value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to profit or loss over the original designated hedging period, or taken directly to income if the hedged item is derecognised. Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument hedges the exposure to variability in the cash flows from a hedged item, the effective part of any gain or loss on re-measurement of the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity. Hedge effectiveness for cash flow hedges is measured as the amount by which the changes in the fair value of the derivative are in excess of changes in the fair Other value of the expected cash flow in the cash flow hedge. Any ineffective part of the cash flow ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 383 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction hedge is recognised in Other income immediately. When a cash flow hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain Strategic Report or loss recognised in equity remains in equity. The cumulative gains or losses recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement at the time when the hedged transaction affects net profit or loss and is included in the same line item as the hedged transaction. In the exceptional case that the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains or losses recognised in equity are recognised in the Income statement immediately. Business Report Forecasted transactions When the hedging instrument effectively hedges a forecasted transaction or firm commitment, the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument are recognised in equity. Amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the income statement and classified as profit or loss in the periods during which the hedged firm commitment or forecasted transaction affects the income statement. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or is otherwise discontinued, but the Risk, funding & capital Report hedged forecasted transactions or firm commitments are still expected to occur, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. Hedging of net investments in foreign operations ABN AMRO may enter into foreign currency derivatives and currency borrowings to hedge various net investments in foreign operations. For such hedges, currency translation differences arising on translation of the currency of these instruments to euros are recognised directly in the currency translation reserve in equity, insofar as they are effective. The cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Income statement on the disposal of the foreign operation. Governance Report Hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting The fair value changes of derivative transactions used to hedge against economic risk exposures that do not qualify for hedge accounting, or for which it is not cost beneficial to apply hedge accounting, are recognised directly through profit or loss. Derivatives designated and accounted for as hedging instruments Annual Financial Statements The following results from ineffectiveness are recognised in Other income: (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Fair value hedges 63 -62 -5 Cash flow hedges 6 1 9 Net investment hedging 1 1 Total hedging results 71 -62 5 The gain of EUR 63 million for the fair value hedges in 2015 was due to an increase of the hedge ineffectiveness as well as a refined methodology to measure this (in)effectiveness. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 384 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Overview of the fair value and notionals of hedging instruments Fair value hedges Cash flow hedges Economic hedges Strategic Report Notional Notional Notional amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value (in millions) Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 31 December 2015 Derivatives for risk management purposes Interest rate 94,377 2,265 7,234 53,712 1,074 1,440 4,014 242 136 Business Report Currency 560 304 26 26,356 499 604 Other 2,749 19 27 Total 94,937 2,569 7,260 53,712 1,074 1,440 33,118 760 767 31 December 2014 Derivatives for risk management purposes Interest rate 87,970 2,602 8,594 46,292 1,989 2,949 3,853 254 191 Risk, funding & capital Report Currency 1,399 452 15 27,794 215 469 Other 2,512 43 28 Total 89,369 3,054 8,609 46,292 1,989 2,949 34,159 513 688 31 December 2013 Derivatives for risk management purposes Interest rate 84,687 1,190 5,119 38,342 503 1,668 4,143 217 152 Currency 1,414 370 4 120 12,474 83 381 Other 732 60 54 Total 86,101 1,560 5,123 38,462 503 1,668 17,349 360 587 Governance Report The fair value hedges increased by EUR 5.6 billion to EUR 94.9 billion at 31 December 2015 compared with 2014 due to new funding (fixed), the cash flow hedges increased by EUR 7.4 billion to EUR 53.7 billion due to new steering actions. In 2015 the fair value of the economic hedges was influenced by changed interest rates, declining USD FX rates and CHF decoupling from the EUR. Fair value hedge accounting Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO applies fair value hedge accounting on individual hedged items (micro fair value hedging) as well as on a portfolio of hedged items (macro fair value hedging). Micro fair value hedge accounting Hedging instruments designated in individual fair value hedge relationships principally consist of interest rate swaps, interest rate options and cross-currency interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed rate assets and fixed rate liabilities due to changes in market interest rates. For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of Other the hedged item for the risk being hedged are recognised in the income statement. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 385 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Net effect of gains/(losses) arising from fair value hedge accounting: Strategic Report (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Gains/(losses) on the hedged assets attributable to the fair value hedged risk -704 1,859 -870 Gains/(losses) on hedging instruments used for the hedged assets 726 -1,947 848 Gains/(losses) on the hedged liabilities attributable to the fair value hedged risk 691 -2,210 1,427 Gains/(losses) on hedging instruments used for the hedged liabilities -728 2,252 -1,427 Net effect micro fair value hedge -15 -46 -22 Business Report Due to an increase in the long end of the interest curve (from the 5-year bucket and further), the gains and losses on hedged items and hedging instruments in 2015 are opposite to those reported in 2014. Macro fair value hedge accounting ABN AMRO hedges interest rate exposures of fixed-rate mortgages on a portfolio basis using interest rate swaps. ABN AMRO applies a portfolio fair value hedge (‘macro fair value hedge accounting’) in which it designates interest rate swaps as hedging instruments and fixed-rate Risk, funding & capital Report mortgages as hedged items. The hedge accounting relationship is reviewed and redesignated on a monthly basis. As a result of the hedge, changes in the hedged item’s fair value due to changes in the appropriate benchmark interest rate will be booked to the income statement and will be offset by changes in the fair value of the hedging derivative financial instrument. Hedged mortgages are fixed-rate mortgages with the following features: ÅÅ denominated in local currency (euro); ÅÅ fixed term to maturity or repricing; Governance Report ÅÅ pre-payable amortising or fixed principal amounts; ÅÅ fixed interest payment dates; ÅÅ no interest rate options; ÅÅ accounted for on an amortised cost basis. Mortgages with these features form a portfolio of which the hedged item is designated in a fair value hedge accounting relationship. More than one group (or portfolio) of mortgages can be identified as Annual Financial Statements the hedged item within the fixed-rate mortgage portfolio. Hedged items are designated on a monthly basis to maintain an effective hedge accounting relationship. Mortgage cash flows are allocated to monthly time buckets based on expected maturity dates. ABN AMRO models the maturity dates of mortgages taking into account a prepayment rate applied to the contractual cash flows and maturity dates of the mortgage portfolio. If the swap notional exceeds 95% of the expected mortgage notional in any given month, then mortgages that mature one month earlier or one month later are designated to the swaps. Changes in the fair value of mortgages which are attributable to the hedged interest rate risk are recorded under fair value adjustment from hedge accounting in order to adjust the carrying amount Other of the loan. The difference between the fair value attributable to the hedged interest rate risk and the carrying value of the hedged mortgages at de-designation of the hedge relationship is amortised over the remaining life of the hedged item. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 386 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Gains/(losses) on the hedged assets attributable to the fair value hedged Strategic Report risk -408 948 -1,200 Gains/(losses) on hedging instruments used for the hedged assets 487 -964 1,217 Net effect macro fair value hedge 79 -16 17 The net effect macro hedge fair value increased by EUR 94 million up to EUR 79 million in 2015 compared with 2014 mainly as a result of a refined methodology to measure the ineffectiveness. In addition the gains and losses on hedged items and hedging instruments in 2015 were opposite Business Report to those reported in 2014 due to the increase in the long end of the curve (from the 5-year bucket and further). Cash flow hedge accounting ABN AMRO applies macro cash flow hedge accounting by which it designates interest rate swaps as hedging instruments and future cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities as hedged items. The hedge accounting relationship is reviewed on a monthly basis and the hedging instruments and Risk, funding & capital Report hedged items are de-designated or re-designated if necessary to maintain an effective hedge accounting relationship. Future cash flows are derived from the projected balance sheet. This projected balance sheet is produced by Asset and Liability Management models and forms the basis for the management of interest rate risk. The model behind the projected balance sheet takes the contractual terms and conditions of financial assets and liabilities and combines these with estimated prepayments, growth rates and interest scenarios, based on statistical market and client data and an economic outlook. The primary interest-sensitive positions in the balance sheet stemming from the non-trading book are Loans and receivables, Liabilities due to banks and customers and Issued debt securities. Governance Report Within the projected balance sheet, new assets and liabilities and the future re-pricing of existing assets and liabilities are grouped based on their specific interest rate index on which they reprice (i.e. one month, three months, six months, one year). Per repricing index all assets and liabilities are allocated to monthly clusters in which they reprice up until their maturity. Interest rate swaps are designated to these clusters based on their repricing index and maturity. Annual Financial Statements The notional amounts of payor receive-floating swaps are designated to repricing all or a portion of current and forecasted assets and liabilities, respectively, in the clusters described above. These swap transactions are designated for hedge accounting purposes as a hedge of a gross position of a cluster of projected cash flows. In addition, the swap will only hedge the applicable floating swap rate portion of the interest repricing and reinvestment risk of the cluster. The availability of projected cash flows in the clusters is not constant over time and therefore evaluated on a monthly basis. Changes in cash flow projections could lead to revision of the designation. Furthermore, back testing is performed on the interest rate risk sensitivity models. Historical data are used to review the assumptions applied. Hedge accounting ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement related to cash flow hedging Other amounted to a profit of EUR 6 million in 2015 (2014: profit of EUR 1 million). ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 387 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The maturity profile of forecast principal balances designated in the cash flow hedge is as follows: Strategic Report More than More than More than 3 months but 1 year but 5 years but More than (in millions) Within 3 months within 1 year within 5 years within 10 years 10 years 31 December 2015 Assets 21,155 21,155 21,155 Liabilities 24,382 18,965 9,135 9,135 2,500 Net assets/liabilities -3,227 2,190 12,020 -9,135 -2,500 Business Report 31 December 2014 Assets 21,810 21,810 20,780 Liabilities 24,302 20,835 6,585 6,585 3,500 Net assets/liabilities -2,492 975 14,195 -6,585 -3,500 31 December 2013 Assets 15,860 15,860 15,830 Liabilities 22,482 22,482 6,585 6,585 3,500 Risk, funding & capital Report Net assets/liabilities -6,622 -6,622 9,245 -6,585 -3,500 Net gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges transferred from equity to the income statement is as follows: (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Interest income 493 344 134 Interest expense 525 396 259 Subtotal -32 -52 -125 Tax expense -8 -13 -31 Total gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges -24 -39 -94 Governance Report Hedges of net investments in foreign operations ABN AMRO limits its exposure to certain investments in foreign operations by hedging its net investment in its foreign operations with forward contracts. 16 Financial investments Financial investments are classified as Available-for-sale or as held at fair value through profit or loss. Annual Financial Statements Accounting policy for available for sale investments Available-for-sale assets are held at fair value with unrealised gains and losses recognised directly in Other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes. Interest earned, premiums, discounts and qualifying transaction costs of interest earning available-for-sale assets are amortised to income on an effective interest rate basis. When available-for-sale assets are sold, collected or impaired, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in Other comprehensive income is transferred to other income in the income statement. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 388 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Accounting policy for assets designated through profit and loss Financial investments managed on a fair value through profit or loss basis are designated at fair Strategic Report value through profit or loss when the instruments: ÅÅ are held to reduce an accounting mismatch; ÅÅ include terms that have substantive derivative characteristics in nature or; ÅÅ are investments to which the venture capital exemption applies. The composition of financial investments is as follows: Business Report (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Financial investments: Available-for-sale 39,795 40,898 27,596 Held at fair value through profit or loss 770 589 530 Total, gross 40,564 41,487 28,126 Less: Available-for-sale impairment allowance 23 21 15 Risk, funding & capital Report Total financial investments 40,542 41,466 28,111 Financial investments amounted to EUR 40.5 billion at 31 December 2015, a decrease of EUR 0.9 billion or 2.2% compared with EUR 41.5 billion at 31 December 2014. This decrease was mainly caused by redemptions and sales of securities issued by financial institutions (EUR 1.0 billion) and Mortgage and other asset-backed securities (EUR 0.8 billion). An amount of EUR 0.3 billion in venture capital investments was reclassified from Equity accounted associates to Financial investments in 2015. Since initial recognition, these investments are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss by use of the venture capital exemption for Governance Report investments that otherwise would be classified as associates. Investments available for sale The fair value of the Available-for-sale investments (including gross unrealised gains and losses) is specified as follows: (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Annual Financial Statements Interest-earning securities: Dutch government 6,540 6,884 5,666 US Treasury and US government 3,481 1,939 1,495 Other OECD government 20,265 20,779 13,449 Non OECD government 348 471 201 European Union 1,637 1,494 1,282 Mortgageand other asset-backed securities 2,318 3,243 3,544 Financial institutions 4,805 5,824 1,657 Non-financial institutions 28 37 89 Subtotal 39,422 40,670 27,383 Other Equity instruments 373 228 213 Total investments available-for-sale 39,795 40,898 27,596 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 389 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Most of these instruments are part of the liquidity buffer and are held for liquidity contingency purposes. More information on the liquidity buffer composition can be found in the Risk, funding and Strategic Report capital review section of this Annual Report The increase in equity instruments of EUR 145 million is mainly due to the revaluation of Visa Europe Ltd. Government bonds by country of origin 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Business Report Gross Gross Gross unrealised unrealised unrealised gains/(losses) gains/(losses) gains/(losses) and fair value and fair value and fair value hedges gains/ ImpairFair hedges gains/ ImpairFair hedges gains/ ImpairFair (in millions) (losses)1 ments value (losses)1 ments value (losses)1 ments value Dutch national government 760 6,540 869 6,884 369 5,666 French national government 334 4,273 402 4,420 184 4,734 German national government 468 4,246 553 4,016 208 1,654 Risk, funding & capital Report Belgian national government 326 3,077 364 2,672 110 2,006 Finnish national government 212 2,170 233 2,165 25 1,044 Austrian national government 340 1,771 477 1,994 251 1,562 USA national government -3 3,481 8 1,939 9 1,495 Japanese national government 1,968 1,880 519 European Union bonds 180 1,637 192 1,494 82 1,282 Italian national government 43 408 122 974 29 534 Swiss national government 643 245 Spanish national government 503 500 75 Polish national government 118 442 119 410 54 345 Swedish national government 5 356 6 314 93 Governance Report Great Britain national government 72 276 79 313 28 245 Danish national government 269 209 205 Hong Kong 60 194 76 Luxembourg national government 17 148 16 148 81 Brazil national government 109 143 64 Singapore national government 178 134 61 Canadian national government 2 356 8 120 107 Total government bonds 2,875 32,271 3,449 31,567 1,349 22,093 Annual Financial Statements 1 Of the total gross unrealised gains (losses), fair value hedge accounting was applied for an amount of EUR 2,5 billion as at 31 December 2015 (2014: EUR 3.1 billion; 2013: EUR 1.4 billion). Gains/losses of EUR 342 million (2014: gains EUR 288 million; 2013: losses EUR 61 million) were recognised in Equity. No impairment charges were recorded on these government bonds. More information on country risk positions is provided in the Credit risk section of this Annual Report. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 390 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Critical accounting estimates and judgements Interest-bearing securities and equities classified as available-for-sale investments are assessed Strategic Report at each reporting date to determine whether they are impaired. For equities this review considers factors such as the credit standing and prospects of the issuer, any reduction in fair value below cost, its direction and whether the reduction is significant or prolonged. In general, triggers used for a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below cost are 20% and 9 months respectively. An interest-bearing security is impaired and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence that an event since initial recognition of the asset has adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset. Business Report If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt security classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the profit and loss account, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement. Impairment losses recognised on equity instruments can never be reversed through the Risk, funding & capital Report income statement. The following table provides information on impairments on available-for-sale investments. (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Balance as at 1 January 21 15 19 Increase in impairments 2 3 Reversal on sale/disposal -1 -7 Foreign exchange differences and other adjustments 7 Balance as at 31 December 23 Governance Report 21 15 No material movements are recorded in impairments on available-for-sale investments. Investments designated at fair value through profit or loss The following table provides information at 31 December 2015 about the investments that are held at fair value and for which unrealised gains or losses are recorded through profit or loss. Annual Financial Statements (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Government bonds 134 263 214 Corporate debt securities 4 2 13 Private equities and venture capital 577 246 121 Equity securities 54 78 182 Total investments held at fair value through profit or loss 770 589 530 In Corporate Banking, some private equity investments are measured at fair value through profit or loss, reflecting the business of investing in financial assets to benefit from their total return in the form of interest or dividend and changes in fair value. Other The decrease in Government bonds is mainly related to Dutch government bonds, as a result of primary dealership in the Netherlands and of client facilitation. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 391 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction In 2015 an amount of EUR 280 million in investments in venture capital was reclassified to Financial investments from Equity accounted associates. See als note 22 Group structure. 17 Securities financing Strategic Report Accounting policy for securities financing Securities financing consists of securities borrowing and lending and sale and repurchase transactions. Securities borrowing and securities lending transactions are generally entered into on Business Report a collateralised basis, with securities usually advanced or received as collateral. The transfer of the securities themselves is not reflected in the statement of financial position unless the risks and rewards of ownership are also transferred. If cash is advanced or received, securities borrowing and lending activities are recorded at the amount of cash advanced (included in Loans and receivables) or received (Due to banks or customers). The market value of the securities borrowed or lent is monitored on a daily basis, and the collateral levels are adjusted in accordance with the underlying transactions. Fees and interest received or paid are recognised on an effective interest Risk, funding & capital Report basis and recorded as interest income or interest expense. Sale and repurchase transactions involve purchases (or sales) of investments with agreements to resell (or repurchase) substantially identical investments at a certain date in the future at a fixed price. Investments purchased subject to commitments to resell them at future dates are not recognised. The amounts paid are recognised in loans and receivables to either banks or customers and are shown as collateralised by the underlying security. Investments sold under repurchase agreements continue to be recognised in the Statement of financial position. The proceeds from the sale of the investments are reported as liabilities to either Governance Report banks or customers. The difference between the sale and repurchase price is recognised over the period of the transaction and recorded as interest income or interest expense, using the effective interest method. If borrowed securities are sold to third parties, the proceeds from the sale and a liability for the obligation to return the collateral are recorded at fair value. 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 (in millions) Banks Customers Banks Customers Banks Customers Annual Financial Statements Assets Reverse repurchase agreements 2,415 8,185 936 6,518 2,374 3,558 Securities borrowing transactions 4,445 3,970 3,363 6,116 4,570 5,710 Unsettled securities transactions 131 916 163 1,415 299 1,851 Total 6,991 13,071 4,462 14,049 7,243 11,119 Liabilities Repurchase agreements 1,877 6,153 1,736 7,457 3,032 5,500 Securities lending transactions 1,138 1,536 672 2,779 779 1,690 Unsettled securities transactions 117 552 256 1,018 396 869 Total 3,132 8,240 2,663 11,254 4,207 8,059 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 392 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Securities financing transactions include balances relating to reverse repurchase activities and cash collateral on securities borrowed. ABN AMRO controls credit risk associated with these activities by Strategic Report monitoring counterparty credit exposure and collateral values on a daily basis and requiring additional collateral to be deposited with or returned to ABN AMRO when deemed necessary. The increase in securities financing transactions was mainly related to the reverse repurchase agreements with banks as a result of the cyclicality of the business as clients build up their positions in the first quarter. Business Report Items of securities financing transactions which ABN AMRO can repledge or resell are included in note 32 Transferred, pledged, encumbered and restricted assets. 18 Fair value of financial instruments carried at fair value Accounting policy for fair value of financial instruments Risk, funding & capital Report The fair value is defined as the price that would be received when selling an asset or paid when transferring a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. For financial instruments that are actively traded and for which quoted market prices or market parameters are readily available, there is high objectivity in the determination of the fair value. However, when observable market prices and parameters do not exist, management judgement is necessary to estimate fair value. For financial instruments where no active liquid market exists, or quoted prices are unobtainable, recent market transactions are used or the fair value is estimated using a variety of valuation Governance Report techniques – including reference to similar instruments for which market prices do exist, or to valuation models such as discounted cash flow calculation or option pricing models (e.g. Black Scholes). If portfolios of financial assets and liabilities are measured on the basis of the net exposure to market risks, then judgements are applied in determining appropriate portfolio level adjustments such as bid-ask spreads. Such adjustments are derived from observable bid-ask spreads for similar Annual Financial Statements instruments and adjusted for factors specific to the portfolio. Similarly, when portfolios of financial assets and liabilities are measured on the basis of the net exposure to the credit risk of a particular counterparty, then any existing arrangements that mitigate the credit risk exposure (e.g. master netting agreements with the counterparty) are taken into account. Unobservable inputs are estimated using a combination of management judgement, historical data, market practice and benchmarking to other relevant observable market data. The difference between the transaction price and the internal valuation at inception, calculated using a model, is reserved and amortised to profit or loss at appropriate points over the life of the instrument, typically taking account of the ability to obtain reliable external data, the passage of time and the use of offsetting transactions. Where inputs to the valuation of a new transaction cannot be reliably sourced from Other external providers, the transaction is initially recognised at its transaction price. Subsequent changes in fair value as calculated by the valuation model are reported as profit or loss or in equity. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 393 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction In order to determine a reliable fair value, where appropriate, management applies valuation adjustments to the pricing information derived from the above sources. These adjustments reflect Strategic Report management’s assessment of factors that market participants would consider in setting a price, to the extent that these factors have not already been included in the information from the above sources. The main valuation adjustments required to arrive at a fair value are as follows: ÅÅ Bid-ask adjustments. Bid-ask prices are derived from market sources, such as broker data; ÅÅ Credit and debit valuation adjustments. In addition to credit valuation for loans valued as at fair value through profit or loss, credit valuation adjustments and debit valuation adjustments are incorporated into derivative valuations to reflect the impact on fair value of counterparty credit Business Report risk and own credit quality respectively; ÅÅ Funding Valuation Adjustment. The Funding Value Adjustment incorporates the incremental cost of funding into the valuation of uncollateralised and partially collateralised derivatives; ÅÅ Own credit adjustment. An own credit adjustment is applied to positions where it is believed that counterparties will consider ABN AMRO’s creditworthiness when pricing trades; ÅÅ Model valuation adjustments for any known limitations. Management assesses the appropriateness of any model used on an ongoing basis. To the extent that the price provided by Risk, funding & capital Report internal models does not represent the fair value of the instrument, for instance in highly stressed market conditions, management makes adjustments to the model valuation to calibrate to other available pricing sources. We believe our estimates of the fair value are adequate. However, the use of different models or assumptions could result in changes to our reported results. Internal controls over fair value ABN AMRO has designated controls and processes for determining the fair value of financial Governance Report instruments. A process has been designed to ensure there are formalised review protocols for independent review and validation of fair values separate from those businesses entering into the transactions. This includes specific controls to ensure consistent pricing policies and procedures, incorporating disciplined price verification for both market and counterparty risk trades. The business entering into the transaction is responsible for the initial determination and recording of the fair value of the transaction. There are daily controls over the profit or loss recorded by trading Annual Financial Statements and treasury front-office staff. A key element of the control environment, segregated from the recording of the transaction’s valuation, is the independent price verification process. Valuations are first calculated by the business. Such valuations may be current bid or offer prices in an active market, or may be derived using a model and variable model inputs. These valuations are reviewed, and if necessary amended, by the independent price verification process. This process involves a team independent of those trading the financial instruments performing a review of valuations in the light of available pricing evidence. Independent price verification is frequently performed by matching the business valuations with independent data sources. For liquid instruments the process is performed daily. The minimum frequency of review is monthly for trading positions, and six-monthly for non‑trading positions. The Other independent price verification control includes formalised reporting and escalation to management of any valuation differences in breach of defined thresholds. When models are used to value products, ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 394 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction those models are subject to a model review process. This process requires different levels of model documentation, testing and review, depending on the complexity of the model and the size of our Strategic Report exposure to the model. Valuation techniques A number of methodologies is used to determine the fair value of financial instruments for which observable prices in active markets for identical instruments are not available. Values between and beyond available data points are obtained by interpolation and/or extrapolation. Business Report When using valuation techniques, the fair value can be significantly impacted by the choice of valuation model and underlying assumptions made concerning factors such as the amount and timing of cash flows, discount rates and credit risk. The principal inputs to these valuation techniques are listed below: ÅÅ bond prices – quoted prices are generally available for government bonds, certain corporate securities and some mortgage-related products; ÅÅ credit spreads – where available, these are derived from prices of credit default swaps (CDS) or Risk, funding & capital Report other credit-based instruments, such as debt securities. For others, credit spreads are obtained from pricing services; ÅÅ interest rates – these are principally benchmark interest rates such as the interbank rates and quoted interest rates in the swap, bond and futures markets; ÅÅ foreign currency exchange rates – there are observable markets both for spot and forward contracts and futures in the world’s major currencies; ÅÅ equity and equity index prices – quoted prices are generally readily available for equity shares listed on the world’s major stock exchanges and for major indices on such shares; ÅÅ commodity prices – many commodities are actively traded in spot and forward contracts and futures on exchanges in London, New York and other commercial centres; Governance Report ÅÅ price volatilities and correlations – volatility is a measure of the tendency of a price to change with time. Correlation measures the degree to which two or more prices or other variables are observed to move together. If they move in the same direction there is positive correlation; if they move in opposite directions there is negative correlation. Volatility is a key input in valuing options and the valuation of certain products such as derivatives with more than one underlying variable that are correlation dependent. Volatility and correlation values are obtained from broker quotations, pricing services or derived from option prices; Annual Financial Statements ÅÅ prepayment rates – the fair value of a financial instrument that can be prepaid by the issuer or borrower differs from that of an instrument that cannot be prepaid. In valuing pre-payable instruments that are not quoted in active markets, ABN AMRO considers the value of the prepayment option; ÅÅ counterparty credit spreads – adjustments are made to market prices (or parameters) when the creditworthiness of the counterparty differs from that of the assumed counterparty in the market price (or parameters); ÅÅ recovery rates/loss given default -these are used as an input to valuation models and reserves for asset-backed securities as an indicator of severity of losses on default. Recovery rates are primarily sourced from market data providers or inferred from observable credit spreads. Other ABN AMRO refines and modifies its valuation techniques as markets and products develop and as the pricing for individual products becomes more or less readily available. While ABN AMRO believes ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 395 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction its valuation techniques are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions could result in different estimates of the fair value at the Strategic Report reporting date. Fair value hierarchy ABN AMRO analyses financial instruments held at fair value in the three categories as described below. Level 1 financial instruments are those that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. Business Report Level 2 financial instruments are those valued using techniques based primarily on observable market data. Instruments in this category are valued using quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active; or valuation techniques where all the inputs that have a significant effect on the valuation are directly or indirectly based on observable market data. Risk, funding & capital Report Level 3 financial instruments are those valued using a valuation technique where at least one input, which has a significant effect on the instrument’s valuation, is not based on observable market data. A significant effect on the instrument’s valuation is considered to be present when the unobservable input accounts for at least 10% of the total instrument’s fair value. The effect of fair value adjustments on the instrument’s valuation is included in the assessment. ABN AMRO recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as at the end of the reporting period during which the change occurred. The following table presents the valuation methods used in determining the fair value of financial Governance Report instruments carried at fair value. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 396 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2015 Valuation Strategic Report Quoted market techniques Valuation techprices in active -observable niques -significant (in millions) markets inputs unobservable inputs Total fair value Assets Financial assets held for trading 1,686 19 1,706 of which Government bonds and Corporate debt securities 1,667 1,667 of which Equity securities 19 19 Business Report of which Other financial assets held for trading 19 19 Derivatives held for trading 8 14,708 18 14,735 Derivatives not held for trading 1 4,363 39 4,403 Available-for-sale interest earning securities 37,061 1,086 1,275 39,422 Available-for-sale equities 110 160 79 350 Financial investments designated at fair value through profit or loss 192 577 770 Unit-linked investments 1,639 904 2,543 Risk, funding & capital Report Total financial assets 40,698 21,241 1,989 63,928 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 435 24 459 of which Bonds 417 417 of which Equity securities 19 19 of which Other financial liabilities held for trading 24 24 Derivatives held for trading 13 12,945 12,958 Derivatives not held for trading 14 9,414 39 9,466 Issued debt 1,715 1,715 Unit-linked for policyholders 1,639 904 2,543 Total financial liabilities 2,101 25,002 39 27,142 Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 397 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2014 Valuation Valuation Quoted market techniques techniques Strategic Report prices in active -observable -significant (in millions) markets inputs unobservable inputs Total fair value Assets Financial assets held for trading 8,196 821 9,017 of which Government bonds and Corporate debt securities 3,250 3,250 of which Equity securities 4,946 4,946 of which Other financial assets held for trading 821 821 Business Report Derivatives held for trading 15 19,715 19,730 Derivatives not held for trading 21 5,469 66 5,555 Available-for-sale interest earning securities 35,909 3,173 1,588 40,670 Available-for-sale equities 107 20 80 207 Financial investments designated at fair value through profit or loss 315 2 271 589 Unit-linked investments 1,711 741 2,453 Total financial assets 46,275 29,941 2,005 78,221 Risk, funding & capital Report Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 3,725 34 3,759 of which Bonds 1,710 1,710 of which Equity securities 2,016 2,016 of which Other financial liabilities held for trading 34 34 Derivatives held for trading 20 18,183 18,203 Derivatives not held for trading 10 12,171 64 12,246 Issued debt 1,981 1,981 Unit-linked for policyholders 1,711 741 2,453 Total financial liabilities 5,467 33,111 64 38,642 Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 398 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2013 Valuation Valuation Quoted market techniques techniques Strategic Report prices in active -observable -significant (in millions) markets inputs unobservable inputs Total fair value Assets Financial assets held for trading 10,987 1,032 12,019 of which Government bonds and Corporate debt securities 3,779 3,779 of which Equity securities 6,471 6,471 of which Other financial assets held for trading 737 1,032 1,769 Business Report Derivatives held for trading 146 11,702 11,848 Derivatives not held for trading 2,348 75 2,423 Available-for-sale interest earning securities 25,734 586 1,063 27,383 Available-for-sale equities 119 17 62 198 Financial investments designated at fair value through profit or loss 409 121 530 Unit-linked investments 1,557 614 2,171 Total financial assets 38,952 16,299 1,321 56,572 Risk, funding & capital Report Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 3,775 624 4,399 of which Bonds 1,988 1,988 of which Equity securities 1,787 1,787 of which Other financial liabilities held for trading 624 624 Derivatives held for trading 146 9,703 9,849 Derivatives not held for trading 7,305 73 7,378 Issued debt 2,071 2,071 Unit-linked for policyholders 1,557 614 2,171 Total financial liabilities 5,478 20,317 73 25,868 Governance Report Transfers between levels 1 and 2 There were no material transfers between levels 1 and 2. Transfers from levels 1 and 2 into 3 In 2015, EUR 40 million in OTC derivatives (Derivatives held for trading) were transferred from level 2 to level 3 (see the following table). This transfer took place because one of the unobservable Annual Financial Statements inputs to the fair value measurement became significant. Other transfers In 2015, EUR 781 million of loans originally classified as held for trading were reclassified to loans and receivables. As a result of this reclassification these loans are no longer measured at fair value but at amortised cost. For further details of the reclassification and its cause refer to note 20 Loans and receivables customers. Movements in level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value The following table shows a reconciliation of the opening and closing amounts of level 3 financial assets that are recorded at fair value. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 399 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Assets Liabilities Financial investments Strategic Report Financial designated at investments fair value available for through profit Derivatives Derivatives not Derivatives not (in millions) sale or loss held for trading held for trading held for trading Balance at 1 January 2013 1,078 134 103 100 Purchases 6 21 Sales -7 Redemptions -8 Business Report Unrealised gains/(losses) 26 -27 -28 -27 Other movements 23 Balance at 31 December 2013 1,125 121 75 73 Balance at 1 January 2014 1,125 121 75 73 Purchases 5 174 Sales -20 Redemptions -116 Risk, funding & capital Report Gains/(losses) recorded in profit and loss1 1 Unrealised gains/(losses) 6 -6 -9 -9 Other movements1 648 2 Balance at 31 December 2014 1,668 271 66 64 Purchases 1 68 Sales -104 -119 -9 Redemptions -204 -28 Gains/(losses) recorded in profit and loss 24 Unrealised gains/(losses) -13 59 -12 -26 -26 Transfer between levels 5 40 Other movements2 1 302 Governance Report Balance at 31 December 2015 1,354 577 18 39 39 1 During 2014 the interest earning securities were reassessed and consequently an amount of EUR 648 million was transferred from level 2 to level 3. 2 In 2015 an amount of EUR 280 million investments in venture capital was reclassified from Equity accounted associates to Financial investments. Level 3 sensitivity information The following table present the level 3 financial instruments carried at fair value as at the balance sheet date for which fair value is measured in full or in part using valuation techniques based Annual Financial Statements on assumptions that are not supported by market observable inputs. There may be uncertainty about a valuation resulting from the choice of the valuation technique or model used, the assumptions embedded in those models, the extent to which inputs are not market observable, or as a result of other elements affecting the valuation technique or model. At 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, ABN AMRO performed a sensitivity analysis to assess the range of reasonably possible alternative assumptions that would have a significant impact (i.e. increase or decrease) on the fair value of the instrument. Equity shares Equities designated at fair value through profit and loss classified as level 3 mainly comprise private Other equity investments. Private equity shares are designated at fair value, for which two calculation techniques apply: ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 400 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction ÅÅ Using comparable pricing in accordance with the European Private Equity and Venture Capitalist Association (EVCA) guidelines. This valuation technique is based on earnings Strategic Report multiples of comparable listed and unlisted companies. The fair value calculation of an investment is strongly linked with movements on the public (share) markets; ÅÅ Net Asset Value (NAV) for Fund Investments and asset backed investments. This is determined by using audited and unaudited company financial statements and any other information available, public or otherwise. As a consequence, the net asset value calculation of an investment is strongly linked with movements in the quarterly performance of the company. No other quantitative Business Report information (e.g. future cash flow information) is available and is therefore not included. New investments are valued at cost for the first year of investment. Thereafter, the fair value technique, either EVCA technique or NAV calculation, will be applied for direct investments. The sensitivity for using comparable pricing is determined by stressing the earnings multiples in a positive and negative market scenario, whereas sensitivity testing for the NAV calculation Risk, funding & capital Report based upon the quarterly performance cannot be applied. Interest earning securities Government bonds ABN AMRO has a position in a Polish bond, denominated in euros (in note 16 Financial investments part of Other OECD government), for which the market is relatively illiquid. The bond is valued using a discounted cash flow model. The main inputs are the interest rate curve, liquidity spread and credit spread. The valuation spread is determined using an internal model. The sensitivity analysis is performed by using a range of reasonable valuation spreads. Governance Report Other The debt securities consist of non-listed residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS). These are structured in such a way that prepayments on the underlying mortgage portfolio are used to repay the holder of the A-note. The fair value is determined using a discounted cash flow model based on inputs such as the interest rate curve, discount spread and prepayment rate. The prepayment rate is identified as a significant unobservable input. The sensitivity analysis is performed by stressing this rate. Annual Financial Statements Preferred shares are shares for which the dividend is fixed for a period of 10 years, after which the dividend is redetermined and the shares can also be redeemed. The position is valued using a discounted cash flow model for which the relevant inputs are the interest curve, liquidity spread and credit spread. The liquidity spread and credit spread are unobservable inputs and are derived from similar securities. The sensitivity of the preferred shares is determined by using a range of reasonable spreads and by considering the call option that is held by the issuer. Derivatives Securitisation swaps linked to the RMBS transactions are valued using a discounted cash flow model for which the behaviour of the underlying mortgage portfolio is also relevant. Inputs used to determine fair value are the interest rate curve and prepayment rate. The latter is the significant Other unobservable input that classifies these instruments as level 3. The sensitivity analysis is performed by stressing the prepayment rate. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 401 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Interest rate swaps related to RMBS transactions are valued based on assumptions about the behaviour of the underlying mortgage portfolio and the characteristics of the transaction. Cash flows Strategic Report are forecast and discounted using appropriate forward and discount curves. A credit valuation adjustment (CVA) reflects counterparty credit risk in the fair value measurement of uncollateralised and partially collateralised OTC derivatives. For counterparties that do not have an observable credit spread ABN AMRO applies a proxied credit spread extracted from counterparties of comparable credit quality that do have an observable credit spread. ABN AMRO performs a probability of default assessment for each counterparty and allocates an appropriate Business Report internal credit risk measure known as a Uniform Counterparty Rating (UCR). This UCR, which is significant to the entire fair value measurement of the derivative contracts included in the table of Level 3 sensitivity information shown below, is internally generated and is therefore an unobservable input. Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 402 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Reasonably Valuation Unobservable Carrying Weighted possible alternative technique data value average assumptions Strategic Report Increase Decrease Minimum Maximum in fair in fair (in millions) range range value value 31 December 2015 Private equityEBITDA Equity shares valuation multiples 47 5.0 6.5 5.9 12 -12 Private Business Report equityNet asset Equity shares valuation value 609 32 -32 Interest earning securities Discounted Liquidity and Government bonds cash flow credit spread 409 59 bps 90 bps 80 bps 13 -4 Discounted Prepayment Interest earning securities other cash flow rate 865 7.3% 10.1% 9.1% 7 -3 Discounted Probability of Derivatives held for trading cash flow default 18 0.6% 100.0% 52.1% -4 Risk, funding & capital Report Derivatives not held for trading Discounted Prepayment assets/liabilities (net) cash flow rate 1 7.3% 10.1% 9.1% 31 December 2014 Private equityEBITDA Equity shares valuation multiples 65 5.0 9.8 7.0 20 -20 Private equityNet asset Equity shares valuation value 286 Interest earning securities Discounted Liquidity and Government bonds cash flow credit spread 410 77 bps 145 bps 111 bps 17 -17 Governance Report Discounted Prepayment Interest earning securities other cash flow rate 1,178 0.0% 10.0% 8.0% 52 -9 Derivatives not held for trading Discounted Prepayment assets/liabilities (net) cash flow rate 2 0.0% 10.0% 8.0% 31 December 2013 Private equityEBITDA Equity shares valuation multiples 75 5.0 10.0 7.6 21 -21 Private Annual Financial Statements equityNet asset Equity shares valuation value 108 Discounted Prepayment Interest earnings securities cash flow rate 1,063 0.0% 10.0% 5.0% 34 -34 Derivatives not held for trading Discounted Prepayment assets/liabilities (net) cash flow rate 2 0.0% 10.0% 5.0% 2 -2 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 403 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 19 Loans and receivables banks Strategic Report Accounting policy for loans and receivables from banks and customers According to IAS 39 Financial Instruments, Loans and receivables from banks and customers are held at amortised cost, i.e. fair value at initial recognition adjusted for repayment and amortisation of coupon, fees and expenses to represent the effective interest rate of the asset or liability. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Business Report Interest-bearing deposits 4,841 3,560 15,971 Loans and advances 8,114 11,382 7,621 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 313 6,724 221 Other 2,414 15 154 Subtotal 15,682 21,680 23,967 Less: loan impairment allowance 2 Loans and receivables banks 15,680 21,680 23,967 Risk, funding & capital Report Loans and receivables banks decreased by EUR 6.0 billion to EUR 15.7 billion at 31 December 2015, mainly as a result of a decrease in the Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks. Interest-bearing deposits increased by EUR 1.3 billion to EUR 4.8 billion at 31 December 2015 mainly due to higher outstanding balances held by international financial institutions. Loans and advances decreased by EUR 3.3 billion to EUR 8.1 billion at 31 December 2015 mainly due to lower pledged cash collateral related to derivatives contracts. Governance Report Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks decreased by EUR 6.4 billion to EUR 0.3 billion at 31 December 2015. Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks are not available for use in the bank’s day-to-day operations. The excess balance on the Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks is included in Cash and balances at central banks. Other Loans and receivables banks increased by EUR 2.4 billion at 31 December 2015 mainly due to a reclassification of trade bills. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 404 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 20 Loans and receivables customers Strategic Report The accounting policy for loans and receivables is included in note 19. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Residential mortgages (excluding fair value adjustment) 146,932 148,402 150,493 Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting on residential mortgages 3,401 4,134 3,531 Residential mortgages, gross 150,333 152,536 154,024 Business Report Less: loan impairment allowances residential mortgage loans 324 538 585 Residential mortgages 150,009 151,998 153,439 Consumer loans, gross 15,147 16,052 16,241 Less: loan impairment allowances consumer loans 561 654 613 Consumer loans 14,587 15,398 15,628 Corporate loans 84,864 84,694 83,462 Fair value adjustment from hedge accounting on corporate loans 1,448 1,605 891 Risk, funding & capital Report Financial lease receivables 3,659 3,357 3,184 Factoring 1,866 1,648 1,403 Corporate loans, gross 91,837 91,305 88,940 Less: loan impairment allowances corporate loans 3,470 3,439 3,672 Corporate loans 88,367 87,866 85,268 Government and official institutions 1,558 1,971 768 Other loans 4,799 4,806 2,030 Other loans and receivables customers, gross 6,357 6,777 2,798 Less: loan impairment allowances other 1 129 105 Other loans and receivables customers 6,357 6,648 2,693 Governance Report Loans and receivables customers 259,319 261,910 257,028 ​Loans and receivables customers decreased by EUR 2.6 billion to EUR 259.3 billion at 31 December 2015. Residential mortgages (excluding fair value adjustment) decreased by EUR 1.5 billion to EUR 146.9 billion at 31 December 2015 as a result of mortgage redemptions and voluntary Annual Financial Statements repayments. This decrease was partly offset by a higher inflow of new Residential mortgages reflecting the improvement of the housing market in the Netherlands. Consumer loans, gross decreased by EUR 0.9 billion to EUR 15.1 billion, mainly driven by lower volumes held within Retail Banking (EUR 0.8 billion). Corporate loans increased slightly by EUR 0.5 billion to EUR 88.4 billion. The increase would have been EUR 3.1 billion if the reclassification of Trade bills portfolio to Loans and receivables banks had not been taken into account. The increase was mainly driven by higher volumes in term loans. Furthermore, part of the Trading book loans initially classified as assets held for trading were reclassified to Corporate loans in 2015. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 405 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The following table shows the reclassified financial assets and their carrying and fair values: Strategic Report 2015 Amounts (in millions) reclassified Carrying value Fair value Trading assets reclassified lo loans and receivables Trading book loans 781 780 770 There were no reclassifications of financial assets in previous reporting periods. Business Report ​Other loans and receivable customers decreased by EUR 0.3 billion to EUR 6.4 billion, mainly as a result of lower cash collateral pledged within Commercial Clients. Details on loan impairments are provided in the Risk Management section. See note 15 for details on fair value from hedge accounting. Risk, funding & capital Report The following table shows the profit or loss actually recognised in profit or loss for the year ended 31 December 2015 in respect of financial assets reclassified out of the trading category. It also sets out the fair value gains and losses in respect of financial assets reclassified out of the trading category that would have been recognised in profit or loss if no reclassification had taken place: 2015 Financial assets Financial assets reclassified (in millions) reclassified in 2015 prior to 2015 Fair value gains or losses recognised in Net trading income 26 Interest income recognised in Net interest income 3 Governance Report Fair value gains or losses that would have been recognised in Net trading income if the financial assets had not been reclassified 15 There were no reclassifications of financial assets in previous reporting periods. With effect from November 2015 the Group reclassified a portfolio of loans originally classified as Held for trading to the Loans and receivables category. The reclassification between both classification Annual Financial Statements categories took place at the fair value of the loans on the date of reclassification. Any gain or loss already recognised in profit or loss has not been reversed. The fair value of the loans on the date of reclassification has become the new amortized cost value. The reason for this reclassification was that these loans were no longer deemed to be held for trading as a result of a revised governance in which management of the loans has been transferred from the trading department to the central Treasury department. Subsequent to the reclassification of this portfolio to the Loans and receivables category, the Group has applied fair value hedge accounting to minimise the volatility in the income statement. ​Until the reclassification of this loan portfolio, ABN AMRO had no reclassifications from the Other Held for trading category to the Loans and receivables category. The Group does not expect to apply other reclassifications of financial assets from the Held for trading category to the Loans and receivables category. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 406 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 21 Fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value Strategic Report The classification of financial instruments is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 18. The following methods and significant assumptions have been applied to estimate the fair values for the disclosures of financial instruments carried at amortised cost: ÅÅ The fair value of variable rate financial instruments and financial instruments with a fixed rate Business Report maturing within six months of the reporting date are assumed to approximate their carrying amounts. The fair value estimate of these financial instruments does not reflect changes in credit quality, as the main impact of credit risk is already recognised separately through the deduction of the allowances for credit losses from the carrying amount. Neither does the fair value of these financial instruments reflect changes in liquidity spreads or bid-ask adjustments. The fair value of fixed-rate loans and mortgages carried at amortised cost is estimated by comparing market interest rates when the loans were granted with current market rates offered on similar loans. Risk, funding & capital Report The prepayment options are not included in the fair value; ÅÅ The fair value of demand deposits and savings accounts (both included under Due to customers) with no specific maturity is assumed to be the amount payable on demand at the reporting date; ÅÅ The fair value of the other loans to customers and loans to banks is estimated by comparing market interest rates when the loans were granted with current market rates offered on similar loans. The carrying amount equals the fair value; ÅÅ The fair value of issued debt securities and subordinated liabilities is based on quoted prices. If these are not available, the fair value is based on independent quotes from market participants for the debt issuance spreads above average interbank offered rates (at a range of tenors) which the market would demand when purchasing new senior or sub‑debt issuances from ABN AMRO. Governance Report Where necessary, these quotes are interpolated using a curve shape derived from CDS prices. The following table presents, on the one hand, the valuation methods used in determining the fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost and, on the other hand, the carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities recorded at amortised cost to their estimated fair value, based on the abovementioned assumptions. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 407 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2015 Carrying value Total fair value Difference Valuation Strategic Report Valuation techniques Quoted market techniques -significant prices in -observable unobservable (in millions) active markets inputs inputs Assets Cash and balances at central banks 26,195 26,195 26,195 Securities financing 20,062 20,062 20,062 Loans and receivables banks 15,680 15,679 15,679 Business Report Loans and receivables customers 259,319 5,570 263,104 268,674 9,355 Total 321,255 51,827 278,783 330,610 9,355 Liabilities Securities financing 11,372 11,372 11,372 Due to banks 14,630 14,630 14,630 Due to customers 230,297 230,297 230,297 Issued debt 74,492 31,638 43,810 75,448 -957 Risk, funding & capital Report Subordinated liabilities 9,708 5,285 4,789 10,074 -366 Total 340,499 36,923 59,972 244,926 341,821 -1,322 31 December 2014 Carrying value Total fair value Difference Valuation Valuation techniques Quoted market techniques -significant prices in active -observable unobservable (in millions) markets inputs inputs Assets Cash and balances at central banks 706 706 706 Governance Report Securities financing 18,511 18,511 18,511 Loans and receivables banks 21,680 21,680 21,680 Loans and receivables customers 261,910 2,346 266,819 269,164 7,254 Total 302,807 21,563 288,499 310,062 7,254 Liabilities Securities financing 13,918 13,918 13,918 Due to banks 15,744 15,744 15,744 Annual Financial Statements Due to customers 216,011 216,011 216,011 Issued debt 75,150 18,632 57,961 76,593 -1,443 Subordinated liabilities 8,328 6,588 2,232 8,820 -493 Total 329,150 25,220 74,111 231,754 331,085 -1,935 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 408 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2013 Carrying value Total fair value Difference Valuation Strategic Report Valuation techniques Quoted market techniques -significant prices in active -observable unobservable (in millions) markets inputs inputs Assets Cash and balances at central banks 9,523 9,523 9,523 Securities financing 18,362 18,362 18,362 Loans and receivables banks 23,967 23,967 23,967 Business Report Loans and receivables customers 257,028 260,931 260,931 3,903 Total 308,880 27,885 284,898 312,783 3,903 Liabilities Securities financing 12,266 12,266 12,266 Due to banks 11,626 11,626 11,626 Due to customers 207,584 207,584 207,584 Issued debt 86,611 38,475 48,811 87,286 -675 Risk, funding & capital Report Subordinated liabilities 7,917 6,023 2,418 8,441 -524 Total 326,004 44,498 63,495 219,210 327,203 -1,199 22 Group structure Accounting policy for business combinations The Group accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method when control is transferred to the Group. All items of consideration, including contingent consideration, transferred by ABN AMRO are measured and recognised at fair value as of the acquisition date. Transaction Governance Report costs incurred by ABN AMRO in connection with the business combination, other than those associated with the issuance of debt and equity securities, do not form part of the cost of the business combination transaction but are expensed as incurred. The excess of the purchase consideration over ABN AMRO’s share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired (including certain contingent liabilities) is recorded as goodwill. ABN AMRO measures the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the fair value at the date of acquisition. Annual Financial Statements In a step acquisition, where a business combination occurs in stages and control of the business is obtained in stages, the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree are recognised at fair value when control is obtained. A gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss for the difference between the fair value of the previously held equity interest in the acquiree and its carrying amount. Changes in interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a change of control are treated as transactions between equity holders and are reported in equity. Assets and liabilities of acquisitions and divestments The following table provides details on the assets and liabilities resulting from the acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries and equity-accounted investments at the date of acquisition or disposal. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 409 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 AcquisiDivestAcquisiDivestAcquisiDivestStrategic Report (in millions) tions ments tions ments tions ments Assets and liabilities of acquisitions and divestments Cash and balances at central banks -26 -4 Financial assets held for trading Derivatives Financial investments Securities financing 11 -22 Business Report Loans and receivables banks -22 2 -269 Loans and receivables customers 554 Equity accounted investments 25 -103 105 -58 85 -41 Goodwill and other intangible assets 1 Other assets 24 -3 Due to banks 24 180 Due to customers -900 12 -7 92 Risk, funding & capital Report Tax liabilities Other liabilities 1 -18 4 Non-controlling interests -1 5 Net assets acquired/Net assets divested 25 -103 -241 -70 97 -58 Result on divestments, gross 28 60 28 Cash used for acquisitions/received from divestments: Total purchase consideration/Proceeds from sale -25 132 241 130 -97 86 Cash and cash equivalents acquired/divested -48 2 -273 Cash used for acquisitions/received from divestments -25 132 241 82 -95 -187 Governance Report Acquisitions and divestments include increases and decreases in the investments in several equityaccounted investments for 2015, 2014 and 2013. Acquisitions in 2015 In 2015 no major assets and liabilities were acquired. Annual Financial Statements On 3 November 2015 Equens SE and Worldline SA announced that they had entered into an agreement with the aim to become one of the leading and most innovative payment service providers for financial institutions and corporates in Europe. Worldline is to contribute the main part of its Financial Processing & Software Licensing activities to Equens. As a result of the proposed transaction, Worldline will become a majority shareholder in the new combined entity. ABN AMRO’s participating interest in Equens is expected to be diluted from 18.4% to 7.0%. The transaction is expected to close during the first half of 2016, subject to works council consultation processes and the approval of regulatory and anti-trust authorities. Closing of this transaction could result in a solid positive financial impact for ABN AMRO, the size of which depends on a number of circumstances at the time of closing. Other Divestments in 2015 ABN AMRO no longer has an associate interest in RFS Holdings B.V., as the underlying assets and liabilities have been sold. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 410 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Acquisitions in 2014 On 27 March 2014 ABN AMRO obtained the beneficial title to certain assets and liabilities in Strategic Report RFS Holdings B.V. On 31 Augustus 2014 (the acquisition date), ABN AMRO completed the acquisition of the domestic private banking activities from Credit Suisse AG in Germany. The asset and liabilities purchase agreement between Bethmann Bank AG and Credit Suisse AG was signed in December 2013. With the acquisition of the assets and liabilities from Credit Suisse AG, ABN AMRO has further strengthened its private banking activities in Europe and positions Bethmann Bank, ABN AMRO’s private bank in Business Report Germany, as the third largest private bank in Germany. Following this transaction Bethmann Bank will serve about 20,000 clients with approximately EUR 34 billion in Assets under Management. The asset purchase consists of EUR 550 million of client receivables (loan book) and EUR 900 million of client liabilities (deposit and saving accounts). These assets and liabilities were settled in cash with Credit Suisse AG. On 31 Augustus 2014 ABN AMRO completed the acquisition of the domestic private banking activites from Credit Suisse AG in Germany. The integration of these activities was Risk, funding & capital Report finalised in 2015. Divestments in 2014 The sale of Alcover A.G. to Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. was completed on 1 July 2014. Divestments in 2014 consist of the decrease of ownership in Holland Clearing House B.V. from 100% to 25%. This divestment was completed on 3 December 2014. The remaining 25% interest in Holland Clearing House B.V. was accounted for as an associate. Acquisitions in 2013 ABN AMRO completed the acquisition of Banco CR2 S.A. in Brazil on 31 July 2013. Governance Report Divestments in 2013 Divestments in 2013 consist of the decrease of ownership of European Multilateral Clearing Facility from 78% to 25% due to equal ownership of Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation, BATS Chi-X, Nasdaq OMX and ABN AMRO Clearing Bank in European Multilateral Clearing Facility. This divestment was completed on 5 December 2013. Composition of the group Annual Financial Statements Accounting policy for subsidiaries ABN AMRO Group’s subsidiaries are those entities which it directly or indirectly controls. Control over an entity is evidenced by ABN AMRO’s ability to exercise its power in order to affect the variable returns that ABN AMRO is exposed to through its involvement with the entity. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account when assessing whether control exists. The assessment of control is based on the consideration of all facts and circumstances. The Group reassesses whether it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are Other changes to one or more of the three elements of control (power, exposure to variability in returns and a link between the two). ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 411 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction ABN AMRO sponsors entities, including certain special purpose entities, which may or may not be directly owned, for the purpose of asset securitisation transactions and other specific and well Strategic Report defined objectives. Particularly in the case of securitisations, these entities may acquire assets from ABN AMRO companies. Some of these entities hold assets that are not available to meet the claims of creditors of ABN AMRO or its subsidiaries. These entities are consolidated in ABN AMRO’s financial statements when the substance of the relationship between ABN AMRO and the entity indicates that control is held by ABN AMRO. ABN AMRO is mainly involved in securitisations of own originated assets such as various consumer Business Report and commercial financial assets. This process generally necessitates a sale of these assets to a special purpose entity (SPE), which in turn issues securities to investors. ABN AMRO’s interests in securitised assets may be retained in the form of senior or subordinated tranches, issued guarantees, interest-only strips or other residual interests, together referred to as retained interest. In many cases, these retained interests convey control such that the SPE is consolidated and the securitised assets continue to be recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Risk, funding & capital Report The financial statements of subsidiaries and special purpose entities are included in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases. Accounting policy for associates and joint ventures Associates are those entities in which ABN AMRO has significant influence, but no control or joint control, over the operating and financial policies. Significant influence is generally presumed when ABN AMRO holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are considered in assessing whether ABN AMRO has significant influence. Among other factors that are considered to determine significant influence, representation on the Governance Report board of directors, participation in the policy-making process and material transactions between the entity and the investee are considered. A joint venture is an investment in which two or more parties have contractually agreed to share the control over the investment. Joint control only exists when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The activities conducted through joint ventures include cash transfer, insurance, finance and leasing. Annual Financial Statements Investments in associates and joint ventures, including strategic investments, are accounted for using the equity method. Under this method the investment is initially recorded at cost and subsequently increased (or decreased) for post-acquisition net income (or loss), other movements impacting the equity of the investee and any adjustments required for impairment. ABN AMRO’s share of the profit or loss of the investee is recognised in Other income in the income statement. When ABN AMRO’s share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the investment, the carrying amount is reduced to zero, including any other unsecured receivables, and recognition of further losses is discontinued except if ABN AMRO has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee. Other Equity investments held without significant influence which are not held for trading or not designated at fair value through profit or loss are classified as Available-for-sale. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 412 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The following table provides an overview of the most significant investments in associates and joint ventures at 31 December. Strategic Report 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Equity Equity Equity Principle place Carrying interest Carrying interest Carrying interest (in millions) of business Business line amount (in %) amount (in %) amount (in %) Joint ventures: Neuflize Vie France Private banking 215 60% 212 60% 206 60% Business Report Richmond Preferente Aandelen C. B.V. The Netherlands Corporate banking 25 50% 25 50% 25 50% Car Carriers Management B.V. 1 The Netherlands Corporate banking 27 50% 37 50% Aline Holding S.A.1 Marshall Islands Corporate banking 35 50% 20 50% CM Bulk Ltd.1 Bahamas Corporate banking 15 50% 14 50% Associates: Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Verzekeringen Holding B.V. The Netherlands Retail banking 221 49% 235 49% 252 49% Equens S.E. The Netherlands Group functions 60 18% 63 18% 62 18% Risk, funding & capital Report Nederlandse Financieringsmaatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden N.V. The Netherlands Group functions 60 20% 48 20% 45 20% Corporate European Merchant Services B.V. The Netherlands banking2 20 49% 17 49% 15 49% RFS Holdings B.V. The Netherlands Group functions 77 0% Alma Maritime Ltd.1 Marshall Islands Corporate banking 71 39% 74 39% Safe Ship Inv. Comp. S.C.A. SICAR1 Luxembourg Corporate banking 24 48% 24 48% Poseidon Containers LLC1 Marshall Islands Corporate banking 24 6% 21 6% Edda Accomodations DIS1 Norway Corporate banking 29 20% 15 20% Alcover A.G. Switzerland Group functions 52 34% Private Equity Investments 116 116 128 Other 61 118 92 Governance Report Total equity accounted investments 778 1,136 1,082 1 Reclassification to financial investments. 2 Reclassification from Retail Banking. Neuflize Vie is a joint venture whereby the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the economic activity is subject to joint control. Annual Financial Statements Although ABN AMRO had no legal ownership, the contribution in RFS Holdings B.V. was identified as an associate resulting from the beneficial title to certain assets and liabilities in RFS Holdings B.V. obtained as per 27 March 2014. The underlying assets and liabilities were sold to Indusind Bank Limited in 2015. Although ABN AMRO has an 18% interest in Equens S.E., ABN AMRO has significant influence in Equens S.E. because of representation in the Supervisory Board. ABN AMRO therefore accounts for Equens S.E. as an associate. In 2015 an amount of EUR 280 million in investments in venture capital was reclassified from Equity accounted associates to Financial investments. Since initial recognition, these investments are Other accounted for at fair value through profit or loss by use of the venture capital exemption for investments that otherwise would be classified as associates. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 413 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Other investments in associates and joint ventures represents a large number of associates and joint ventures with an individual carrying amount of less than EUR 15 million. Strategic Report The combined financial information of the associates and joint ventures include the following assets and liabilities, income and expenses, and represent the proportionate share: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 AssociJoint Joint Joint (in millions) ates ventures Total Associates ventures Total Associates ventures Total Business Report Assets Financial assets held for trading 2,528 2,528 2,722 2,722 2,916 2,916 Financial investments 342 6,771 7,113 301 6,609 6,910 2,603 6,321 8,924 Loans and receivablesbanks and customers 1,473 235 1,708 1,853 172 2,025 932 166 1,098 Property and equipment 90 165 255 557 242 799 527 200 727 Other assets 420 326 745 584 89 673 528 98 626 Risk, funding & capital Report Total assets 4,852 7,497 12,349 6,017 7,112 13,129 7,506 6,785 14,291 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 33 33 24 24 48 Due to banks and customers 1,290 51 1,341 1,764 114 1,878 3,423 206 3,629 Provisions 2,424 3,624 6,048 2,637 3,578 6,215 2,652 3,407 6,059 Other Liabilities 258 3,575 3,833 469 3,069 3,538 596 2,864 3,460 Total liabilities 3,973 7,250 11,223 4,870 6,794 11,664 6,695 6,501 13,196 Total operating income 562 51 613 774 56 830 452 43 495 Operating expenses 503 26 529 677 38 715 395 28 423 Governance Report Operating profit/ (loss) 60 25 85 97 18 115 57 15 72 Income tax expense 19 9 28 31 11 42 10 9 19 Profit/(loss) for the period 41 16 57 66 7 73 47 6 53 The majority of all assets of associates is held by Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Verzekeringen Holding B.V. Annual Financial Statements (EUR 2,737 million compared with EUR 2,949 million in 2014) and by Nederlandse Financieringsmaatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden N.V. (EUR 1,418 million compared with EUR 1,213 million in 2014). Neuflize Vie holds the majority of assets under joint ventures (EUR 7,208 million compared with EUR 6,920 million in 2014). The profit for the period regarding the Associates decreased partly due to the reclassification of some investments and relates further mainly to the above mentioned associates. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 414 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Impairments on equity accounted investments The following table shows the changes in impairments on equity-accounted investments. Strategic Report (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Balance as at 1 January 16 11 Increase in impairments 28 24 7 Release of impairments -1 Reversal of impairment allowances -11 Other -41 -6 -7 Business Report Balance as at 31 December 4 16 The majority of the largest equity-accounted investments are regulated entities. Their ability to transfer funds to the Group is therefore subject to regulatory approval. Due to the reclassification from Equity accounted associates to Financial investments there has been a transfer between the lines Increase in impairments and Others. Risk, funding & capital Report The increase in impaired assets was due mainly to the fact that the carrying value of the primary assets of some of ABN AMRO’s associates was lower than their fair value. Structured entities Structured entities are entities that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements. A structured entity has some or all of the following features or attributes: Governance Report ÅÅ restricted activities; ÅÅ a narrow and well defined objective; ÅÅ insufficient equity to permit the structured entity to finance its activities without subordinated financial support; ÅÅ financing in the form of multiple contractually linked instruments to investors that create concentrations of credit or other risks; ÅÅ relevant activities are directed by contractual arrangements. Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO is mainly involved in one type of structured entities: securitisations. ABN AMRO uses securitisation transactions primarily to diversify its funding sources and to manage its liquidity profile. ABN AMRO is mainly involved in securitisation transactions of its own originated assets. Financial assets included in these transactions are residential mortgages and loans to small and medium-sized enterprises (SME). All securitised assets were originated in the Netherlands by ABN AMRO (or one of its predecessors). Consolidated structured entities The total amount of assets securitised in true sale securitisations decreased to EUR 52.2 billion at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: EUR 66.5 billion; 31 December 2013: EUR 71.4 billion). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 415 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The amount of notes sold to external parties totalled EUR 3.0 billion at 31 December 2015, compared with EUR 9.0 billion at year-end 2014 (year-end 2013: EUR 12.3 billion). The difference was Strategic Report primarily caused by the calling of several securitisation transactions including SMILE (SME loans). At 31 December 2015, there were no securitisations with SME loans (year-end 2014: EUR 1.0 billion; year-end 2013: EUR 1.2 billion). The securitisation transactions are primarily used for funding and liquidity. There was no RWA (REA) relief at year-end 2015 (year-end 2014: EUR 0.2 billion; year-end 2013: EUR 0.3 billion). Business Report The bank had only true sale (traditional) securitisation transactions outstanding in 2015. In a true sale securitisation transaction a foundation (stichting) incorporates a structured entity resulting in a bankruptcy remote structure. ABN AMRO sells a portfolio of receivables to the structured entity. The structured entity funds the purchase by issuing notes. In all securitisation transactions, ABN AMRO provides key ancillary roles such as swap counterparty. Risk, funding & capital Report Risks associated with the roles in the securitisation process Credit risk Credit risk relates to the risk of credit losses on securitised assets. ABN AMRO retains part of the credit risk by retaining notes and other securitisation positions such as liquidity facilities, swaps and first loss tranches. Regulatory capital is held for all retained securitisation positions in accordance with the applicable regulation. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk relates to the risk that ABN AMRO might incur additional cash outflows. Any potential Governance Report future cash outflows relating to these positions, including collateral requirements, are taken into account within stress tests and are integrated into the liquidity ratios where required. This includes the potential impact of the liquidity facilities or swap agreements which are part of a number of securitisation transactions, most of which relate to transactions for which ABN AMRO is the originator of the underlying assets. Approaches to calculating risk exposure amount Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO does not achieve significant risk transfers for any of the mortgage securitisations. Therefore, the look-through approach is used and REA reduction is not applied. Monitoring process ABN AMRO periodically monitors changes in credit risk relating to securitisation exposures. The significance of the amount of credit risk transferred to third parties by securitisation of own originated assets is assessed on a monthly basis in accordance with the regulatory significant risk transfer test. For investments in third-party securitisations, the risk is monitored by reviewing the investor reports of these transactions. Additionally, third-party securitisation positions are included in the firm-wide comprehensive stress tests in which downgrade and default risk under stressed market conditions is assessed. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 416 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Overview of securitisation positions and securitised assets The total amount of assets securitised in true sale securitisations decreased to EUR 52.2 billion Strategic Report (2014: EUR 66.5 billion; 2013: EUR 71.4 billion). Securitisation transactions for the purpose of capital relief were not originated in 2015. Securitisation overview of own originated assets (overall pool size) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 True sale True sale True sale securitisasecuritisasecuritisaBusiness Report tions Total tions Total tions Total Mortgage Mortgage Mortgage (in millions) loans SME loans loans SME loans loans SME loans Total assets securitised reported under the CRD framework 1,033 1,033 1,206 1,206 Total assets securitised not reported under the Risk, funding & capital Report CRD framework 52,177 52,177 65,467 65,467 70,203 70,203 Total assets securitised 52,177 52,177 65,467 1,033 66,499 70,203 1,206 71,409 Details on retained and purchased securitisation positions The tables in the following sections contain data of securitisation positions in which ABN AMRO acts as originator and/or investor. This table shows securitisations that are reported in accordance with the CRD framework; therefore, securitisations with own originated mortgages are not included. Amounts reported are based on the regulatory exposure values calculated in accordance with the regulatory guidelines. Note that this not only includes the notes issued under the securitisation, but also the credit equivalent of interest rate swaps and first loss positions. The following table outlines Governance Report the total amount of ABN AMRO’s exposure value on securitisation positions in which ABN AMRO acts as originator and/or investor. The total securitisation position decreased to EUR 1.1 billion at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: EUR 2.4 billion; 2013: EUR 2.5 billion). Overview of retained, transferred and purchased securitisation positions 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 True sale True sale True sale Annual Financial Statements securitisasecuritisasecuritisations Total tions Total tions Total (in millions, Mortgage Mortgage Mortgage Exposure at Default) loans SME loans loans SME loans loans SME loans Securitisation position in own originated transactions 1,150 1,150 1,369 1,369 Securitisation positions transferred -171 -171 -171 -171 Retained securitisation positions 979 979 1,198 1,198 Securitisation position Other in purchased securitisations 1,125 1,125 1,456 1,456 1,313 1,313 Total securitisation positions 1,125 1,125 1,456 979 2,434 1,313 1,198 2,511 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 417 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Of the EUR 1.1 billion purchased securitisation positions as per 31 December 2015, the full position is risk-weighted at 7%. Of the EUR 2.4 billion retained and purchased securitisation positions as Strategic Report per 31 December 2014, EUR 1.5 billion is risk-weighted at 7% and EUR 0.9 billion is risk-weighted at 20%. Of the EUR 2.5 billion retained and purchased securitisation positions as per 31 December 2013, EUR 1.3 billion is risk-weighted at 7%. Details on total notes outstanding per structured entity The following table provides details on the outstanding notes issued by consolidated structured entities which were established by ABN AMRO for securitisation purposes, exceeding 0.1% of Business Report the bank’s total assets. 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Total notes % of total Total notes % of total Total notes % of total (in millions) issued assets issued assets issued assets Category Dolphin Master Issuer B.V. 30,472 7.81% 30,472 7.88% 30,472 8.19% Risk, funding & capital Report Goldfish Master Issuer B.V. 12,407 3.18% 13,900 3.59% 15,000 4.03% Fishbowl Master Issuer B.V. 7,139 1.83% 7,139 1.85% 8,839 2.38% Beluga Master Issuer B.V. 3,136 0.80% 3,136 0.81% 3,136 0.84% SMILE Securitisation Company 2007 B.V. 18 0.00% 1,065 0.28% 1,270 0.34% Oceanarium Master Issuer B.V. 12,146 3.14% 12,146 3.26% European Mortgage Securities VIII B.V. 1,782 0.48% Total 53,172 67,857 72,645 At present, there are no material, consolidated structured entities – not related to securitisation activities – exceeding 0.1% of the bank’s total assets. Governance Report Support to consolidated structured entities ABN AMRO did not provide support, financial or otherwise, to a consolidated structured entity including when ABN AMRO was not contractually obligated to do so, nor does ABN AMRO intend to do so in the future. Unconsolidated structured entities ABN AMRO has invested EUR 0.8 billion in securitisations which were not set up by ABN AMRO Annual Financial Statements (2014: EUR 1.5 billion; 2013: EUR 1.3 billion). These securitisation notes are part of the liquidity buffer. ABN AMRO does not consolidate the structured entities as the bank does not have control over these entities. As ABN AMRO has not engaged in any additional contractual obligations with these entities, the maximum exposure to these structured entities is the same as the invested amount. To raise funding, ABN AMRO has interests in two structured entities: Simba Finance B.V. (Simba) and Pumbaa Finance B.V. (Pumbaa). Simba and Pumbaa are unconsolidated structured entities as ABN AMRO does not have the power to govern the variable returns of these entities. Although ABN AMRO is the main shareholder of these entities, it is not significantly exposed to the variability of these entities’ returns as this is contractually diverted to third-party investors. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 418 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Sponsoring of unconsolidated structured entities. An entity is considered a sponsor of an unconsolidated structured entity if it had a key role in Strategic Report establishing that entity so that the transaction, which is the purpose of the entity, could occur. No material sponsoring occurred in 2015. 23 Property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets Accounting policy for property and equipment Business Report In accordance with IAS 16, Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any amount for impairment. At each balance sheet date an assessment is performed to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. Subsequent costs are capitalised if these result in an enhancement to the asset. Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property and equipment, and of major components that are accounted for separately. ABN AMRO generally uses the following useful lives in calculating depreciation: Risk, funding & capital Report ÅÅ Land: not depreciated; ÅÅ Buildings: 30 years; ÅÅ Leasehold improvements: 10 years; ÅÅ Equipment: 5 years; ÅÅ Computer installations: 2 to 5 years. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement as a component of depreciation and amortisation expense. Impairment losses are reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had previously been recognised. Governance Report Depreciation rates and residual values are reviewed at least periodically to take into account any change in circumstances. Capitalised leasehold improvements are depreciated in a manner that takes into account the term and renewal conditions of the related lease. Assets for which the bank acts as a lessor in an operational lease contract are included in Property and equipment. The asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its useful life to its estimated Annual Financial Statements residual value. Accounting policy for intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is determined in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 36 Impairments of Assets. Goodwill is capitalised and stated at cost, being the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of ABN AMRO’s share of the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets at the date of acquisition, less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of calculating goodwill, the fair values of acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are determined by reference to market values or by discounting expected future cash flows to present value. Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that Other impairment may have occurred. In the test the carrying amount of goodwill is compared with the highest of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use, being the present value of the cash ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 419 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction flows discounted at a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the risk of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement as Strategic Report depreciation and amortisation expense and are irreversible. Software and other intangible assets The accounting policy for software and other intangible assets is determined by IAS 38 Intangible assets. Software is amortised over a period of three years unless the software is classified as core application software, which is depreciated over its estimated useful lifetime set at a maximum of seven years. Only the development phase is capitalised for own developed software. Business Report Other intangible assets include separately identifiable items arising from acquisition of subsidiaries, such as customer relationships, and certain purchased trademarks and similar items. In general, the estimated useful life does not exceed ten years. Amortisation rates and residual values are reviewed at least annually to take into account any change in circumstances. The following table shows the carrying amount for each category of Property and equipment at Risk, funding & capital Report 31 December. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Land and buildings held for own use 781 820 852 Leasehold improvements 43 38 38 Equipment 539 522 505 Other 3 32 31 Total property and equipment 1,366 1,412 1,426 Total Property and equipment decreased by EUR 46 million or 3% to EUR 1,366 million at Governance Report 31 December 2015 compared with EUR 1,412 million at 31 December 2014, mainly due to the sale of buildings in Guernsey during 2015 (EUR 54 million). The following table shows the carrying amount for Goodwill and other intangible assets at 31 December. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Annual Financial Statements Goodwill 149 147 138 Purchased software 54 41 39 Internally developed software 6 5 8 Other 54 62 10 Total goodwill and other intangible assets 263 255 195 The book value of Property, equipment, intangible assets and goodwill changed as follows for the years 2015, 2014 and 2013. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 420 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 2015 Total Land and Other Total goodwill Strategic Report Buildings Leasehold property property Other and other held for improveand and intangible intangible (in millions) own use ments Equipment equipment equipment Goodwill assets assets Acquisition costs as at 1 January 1,742 203 1,451 36 3,432 198 1,162 1,360 Additions 56 17 210 282 41 42 Reversal of cost due to disposals -86 -3 -198 -38 -324 -3 -3 Foreign exchange differences 3 2 7 3 14 4 2 7 Other -32 -6 2 -36 -1 -2 Business Report Acquisition costs as at 31 December 1,683 218 1,464 3 3,368 202 1,202 1,403 Accumulated depreciation/ amortisation as at 1 January -911 -165 -927 -4 -2,007 -1,034 -1,034 Depreciation/amortisation -51 -12 -154 -217 -34 -34 Reversal of depreciation/amortisation due to disposals 41 3 161 5 209 4 4 Risk, funding & capital Report Foreign exchange differences -1 -1 -4 -6 -2 -2 Other 30 29 Accumulated depreciation/ amortisation as at 31 December -891 -176 -924 -1,991 -1,066 -1,066 Impairments as at 1 January -11 -2 -13 -51 -21 -71 Increase of impairments charged to the income statement -4 -4 -1 -1 Reversal of impairments due to disposals 6 1 7 Foreign exchange differences -3 -3 Other -1 -1 1 1 Impairments as at 31 December -10 -1 -11 -53 -22 -75 Governance Report Total as at 31 December 781 43 539 3 1,366 149 114 263 Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 421 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 2014 Total Land and Other Total goodwill Strategic Report Buildings Leasehold property property Other and other held for improveand and intangible intangible (in millions) own use ments Equipment equipment equipment Goodwill assets assets Acquisition costs as at 1 January 1,759 201 1,394 34 3,388 164 1,079 1,243 Additions 43 10 205 258 35 85 120 Reversal of cost due to disposals -52 -11 -151 -6 -219 -3 -3 Foreign exchange differences 3 2 7 2 14 6 2 9 Other -12 -4 6 -10 -7 -1 -8 Business Report Acquisition costs as at 31 December 1,742 203 1,451 36 3,432 198 1,162 1,360 Accumulated depreciation/ amortisation as at 1 January -880 -163 -887 -3 -1,933 -1,003 -1,003 Depreciation/amortisation -52 -11 -148 -1 -212 -31 -31 Reversal of depreciation/amortisation due to disposals 31 11 108 150 3 3 Risk, funding & capital Report Foreign exchange differences -1 -1 -4 -6 -2 -2 Other -9 4 -5 -1 -1 Accumulated depreciation/ amortisation as at 31 December -911 -165 -927 -4 -2,007 -1,034 -1,034 Impairments as at 1 January -27 -2 -29 -26 -19 -45 Increase of impairments charged to the income statement -8 -8 -28 -2 -30 Reversal of impairments due to disposals 5 6 Foreign exchange differences -3 -3 Other 19 19 6 6 Impairments as at 31 December -11 -2 -13 -51 -21 -71 Governance Report Total as at 31 December 820 38 522 32 1,412 147 108 255 Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 422 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 2013 Total Land and Other Total goodwill Strategic Report Buildings Leasehold property property Other and other held for improveand and intangible intangible (in millions) own use ments Equipment equipment equipment Goodwill assets assets Acquisition costs as at 1 January 1,790 201 1,405 34 3,430 161 1,089 1,250 Acquisitions/divestments of subsidiaries -1 -1 1 -1 Additions 35 7 196 238 5 16 21 Business Report Reversal of cost due to disposals -88 -8 -200 -296 -24 -24 Foreign exchange differences -1 -1 -4 -6 -3 -1 -4 Other 23 2 -2 23 Acquisition costs as at 31 December 1,759 201 1,394 34 3,388 164 1,079 1,243 Accumulated depreciation/ amortisation as at 1 January -873 -131 -880 -3 -1,887 -981 -981 Risk, funding & capital Report Acquisitions/divestments of subsidiaries 1 1 1 1 Depreciation/amortisation -50 -40 -166 -1 -257 -48 -48 Reversal of depreciation/amortisation due to disposals 46 7 153 206 24 24 Foreign exchange differences 1 2 3 1 1 Other -3 3 1 1 Accumulated depreciation/ amortisation as at 31 December -880 -163 -887 -3 -1,933 -1,003 -1,003 Impairments as at 1 January -22 -2 -24 -27 -19 -46 Increase of impairments charged to the income statement -9 -9 Governance Report Reversal of impairments due to disposals 5 5 Foreign exchange differences 1 1 Other -1 -1 Impairments as at 31 December -27 -2 -29 -26 -19 -45 Total as at 31 December 852 38 505 31 1,426 138 57 195 Annual Financial Statements The fair value of Land and buildings held for own use is estimated at EUR 694 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: EUR 691 million; 2013: EUR 936 million). Of this fair value, 96% is based on external valuations performed in 2015 or 2014 and 4% is based on Dutch local government property tax valuations with a discount of 0% to reflect the current market situation. There are some properties that have a lower fair value than the recorded carrying value. No impairment is recorded because these properties are considered corporate assets. The value in use for the cash-generating units within ABN AMRO Group is sufficient to cover the total value of all these assets. Additions at property and equipment increased by EUR 24 million, due to higher investments in Land and buildings held for own use and Leasehold improvements. Lower additions at Goodwill and other intangible assets are mainly due to the acquisition of the German Private Banking activities Other from Credit Suisse (Deutschland) AG by Bethmann Bank in 2014. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 423 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Lessor In its capacity as lessor, ABN AMRO leases out various assets, included in Equipment, under Strategic Report operating leases. Future minimum lease receipts under non-cancellable operating lease are EUR 380 million (2014: EUR 357 miilion; 2013: EUR 277 million), of which EUR 338 million (2014: EUR 295 million; 2013: EUR 207 million) matures within five years. Impairment of goodwill Impairment testing on goodwill is performed at least annually by comparing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units (CGU) to their carrying amount. The CGU is the smallest identifiable Business Report group of assets that: ÅÅ generate cash inflows from continuing use; and ÅÅ are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. Identification of an asset’s cash-generating unit involves judgement. If the recoverable amount cannot be determined for an individual asset, an entity identifies the lowest aggregation of assets that generate largely independent cash inflows. The recoverable amount is determined by the Risk, funding & capital Report highest of the value in use or fair value less costs to sell. The type of the acquired entity determines the definition of the type of CGU. The value in use of a CGU is assessed through a discounted cash flow model of the anticipated future cash flows of the CGU. The discounted cash flow model uses assumptions which depend on various financial and economic variables, including the risk-free rate in a given country and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the entity being evaluated. The values assigned to each key assumption reflect past experience that was modified based on management’s expectation for the future and are consistent with external sources of information. Governance Report Besides the discount rates stated in the following table, calculation of the value in use was also based on cash flows, projected based on past experience, actual operating results and the 5-year budget plan. Cash flows for a further 5-year period were extrapolated using the long-term growth rate stated for the CGU. 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2013 Method Long Annual Financial Statements used for term recoverable Discount growth Impairment (in millions) Segment amount rate rate charges Goodwill Goodwill Goodwill Entity Private Value in Bethmann Bank Banking use 10.0% 1.0% 99 99 64 Private ABN AMRO (Guernsey) Banking Fair value 10.0% 1.0% 27 25 48 ABN AMRO Commercial Finance Corporate Value in Holding Banking use 10.0% 2.0% 11 10 10 Private Value in Banque Neuflize Banking use 10.0% 0.0% 6 6 6 Other Corporate Value in Banco ABN AMRO S.A. Banking use 10.0% 2.0% 3 4 4 Other 2 2 6 Total goodwill and impairment charges 149 147 138 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 424 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Depreciation on tangible assets Strategic Report Land and buildings held for own use 51 52 50 Leasehold improvements 12 11 40 Equipment 74 71 90 Other 1 1 Amortisation on intangible assets Purchased software 23 23 40 Internally developed software 3 3 5 Business Report Other intangible assets 8 5 3 Impairment losses on tangible assets Land and buildings held for own use (incl. held for sale) 4 8 13 Impairment losses on intangible assets Goodwill 28 Purchased software 1 2 Risk, funding & capital Report Total depreciation and amortisation 177 204 242 Total depreciation and amortisation decreased by EUR 27 million in 2015 (2014: decrease of EUR 38 million). Impairment losses on Land and buildings held for own use include an impairment amount of EUR 4 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: EUR 0 million; 2013: EUR 4 million) for assets held for sale. In 2015 no impairments charges on Goodwill were recorded, compared with a total of EUR 28 million in 2014. Governance Report 24 Other assets Accounting policy for non-current assets held for sale In accordance with IFRS 5, non-current assets and/or businesses are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction planned to occur Annual Financial Statements within 12 months, rather than through continuing use. Held-for-sale assets are not depreciated and are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Assets and liabilities of a business held for sale are presented separately. The following table shows the components of Other assets at 31 December. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Accrued other income 490 567 698 Prepaid expenses 24 21 24 Assets held for sale 32 25 29 Unit-linked investments 2,543 2,453 2,171 Other Reinsurers share, trade and other receivables 1,385 1,339 1,460 Other 452 582 746 Total other assets 4,925 4,986 5,128 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 425 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Unit-linked investments are investments on behalf of insurance contract policyholders who bear the investment risk. Minimum guaranteed rates are agreed for certain contracts. Strategic Report Reinsurers share, trade and other receivables include the amount of the receivables purchased by ABN AMRO (the factor) from its clients under contract of non–recourse factoring. Other assets in 2015 include a net receivable of EUR 204 million mainly related to the bankruptcy of DSB Bank (2014: EUR 168 million). Business Report 25 Due to banks Accounting policy for Due to banks and Due to customers According to IAS 39 Financial Instruments, amounts due to banks and customers are held at amortised cost. That is, fair value at initial recognition adjusted for repayment and amortisation of coupon, fees and expenses to represent the effective interest rate of the asset or liability. Risk, funding & capital Report This item is comprised of amounts due to banking institutions, including central banks and multilateral development banks. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Deposits from banks: Demand deposits 2,728 3,024 2,769 Time deposits 1,332 3,399 5,013 Other deposits 10,544 9,276 3,795 Total deposits 14,604 15,699 11,577 Governance Report Other Due to banks 26 45 49 Total due to banks 14,630 15,744 11,626 Due to banks decreased by EUR 1.1 billion to EUR 14.6 billion at 31 December 2015 mainly due to the decrease in Time deposits (EUR 2.1 billion), which is partly offset by the increase in Other deposits (EUR 1.3 billion). Annual Financial Statements 26 Due to customers The accounting policy for Due to customers in included in note 25. This item is comprised of amounts due to non‑banking customers. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Demand deposits 119,109 109,753 100,151 Saving deposits 92,472 88,655 87,448 Time deposits 18,555 17,459 19,638 Other Total deposits 230,136 215,867 207,237 Other due to customers 160 144 347 Total due to customers 230,297 216,011 207,584 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 426 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Due to customers rose by EUR 14.3 billion to EUR 230.3 billion at 31 December 2015, as a result of an increase in Demand deposits (EUR 9.4 billion), Saving accounts (EUR 3.8 billion) and Time Strategic Report deposits (EUR 1.1 billion), reflecting increased client demand for these products. Demand deposits increased by EUR 9.4 billion to EUR 119.1 billion at 31 December 2015 due to higher outstanding of positions related to Corporate Banking (EUR 5.3 billion), Private Banking (EUR 3.1 billion) and Retail Banking (EUR 1.0 billion). Saving deposits increased by EUR 3.8 billion to EUR 92.5 billion at 31 December 2015, mainly driven Business Report by higher volumes within Commercial Clients and Retail Banking. The increase in Retail Banking includes a growth in deposits at MoneYou outside the Netherlands. Time deposits increased by EUR 1.1 billion to EUR 18.6 billion at 31 December 2015, primarily due to higher outstanding deposits held by insurance companies and other financial institutions within Corporate Banking (EUR 0.8 billion). Risk, funding & capital Report 27 Issued debt and subordinated liabilities Accounting policy for issued debt and subordinated liabilities Issued debt securities and subordinated liabilities are recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, unless they are of a hybrid or structured nature and irrevocably designated at initial recognition to be held at fair value through profit or loss. The latter is applied when the instruments are held to reduce an accounting mismatch, are managed on the basis of its fair value or include terms that have substantive derivative characteristics in nature. Governance Report ABN AMRO applies IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation to determine whether funding is either a financial liability or equity. Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as financial liabilities where the substance of the contractual arrangement results in ABN AMRO having a present obligation to deliver either cash or another financial asset or to satisfy the obligation other than by the exchange of a fixed number of equity shares. Preference shares that carry a non‑discretionary coupon or are redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the holder are classified as liabilities. The dividends and fees on preference shares classified as a liability are Annual Financial Statements recognised as interest expense. Issued liabilities qualify as subordinated debt if claims by the holders are subordinated to all other current and future liabilities of ABN AMRO and its subsidiaries. The measurement of liabilities held at fair value includes the effect of changes in own credit spreads. The change in fair value applies to those financial liabilities designated at fair value where own credit risk would be considered by market participants. Exchange-traded own debt at fair value through profit or loss is valued against market prices. The fair value changes are calculated based on a yield curve generated from observed external Other pricing for funding and quoted CDS spreads. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 427 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The following table shows the types of debt certificates issued by ABN AMRO and the amounts outstanding at 31 December. Strategic Report (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Bonds and notes issued 64,613 66,349 70,649 Certificates of deposit and commercial paper 9,820 8,729 15,610 Saving certificates 59 72 352 Total at amortised cost 74,492 75,150 86,611 Designated at fair value through profit or loss 1,715 1,981 2,071 Business Report Total issued debt 76,207 77,131 88,682 of which matures within one year 25,844 20,347 30,719 Issued debt at 31 December 2015 amounted to 76.2 billion. This is a decline of EUR 0.9 billion or 1.2% compared with EUR 77.1 billion at 31 December 2014. This decline was due to a decrease of EUR 6.0 billion in external RMBS notes which were called and added to the liquidity buffer as retained. This was partly offset by EUR 1.1 billion higher Certificates of deposits and Risk, funding & capital Report Commercial paper, and EUR 4.0 billion higher Unsecured medium-term notes. Movements in these debt instruments are a continuous process of redemption and issuance of long-term and short-term funding. The amounts of issued debt issued and redeemed during the period are shown in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of cash flows. Further details of the funding programmes are provided in the Risk, funding & capital section. Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss Governance Report (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Cumulative change in fair value of the structured notes attributable to changes in credit risk 7 13 -3 Change during the year in fair value of the structured notes attributable to changes in credit risk -6 16 7 The cumulative change of the fair value of the structured notes attributable to change in credit risk Annual Financial Statements amounted to EUR 7 million (2014: EUR 13 million: 2013 EUR -3 million). For all financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, the amount that would contractually be required to pay at maturity was EUR 1.7 billion (2014: EUR 1.9 billion; 2013: EUR 2.2 billion). The following table specifies the issued and outstanding subordinated liabilities at 31 December. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Perpetual loans 1,255 1,285 1,303 Other subordinated liabilities 8,453 7,043 6,614 Other Total subordinated liabilities 9,708 8,328 7,917 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 428 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The subordinated liabilities at 31 December 2015 amounted to EUR 9.7 billion, up EUR 1.4 billion or 16.6% compared with EUR 8.3 billion at 31 December 2014. This increase was driven mainly by a Strategic Report newly issued EUR 1.5 billion 2.875% subordinated loan. The maturity date of this loan is June 2025. Furthermore, a new USD 1.5 billion 4.75% subordinated loan was issued. The maturity date of this loan is July 2025. A total of EUR 1.65 billion was redeemed in 2015. The issued and outstanding loans qualifying as subordinated liabilities are subordinated to all other current and future liabilities. Business Report Other subordinated liabilities Other subordinated liabilities comprise a loan held by the Dutch State. This loan (EUR 1.65 billion), which has an interest rate of 1.019% and matures in 2017, was called in the third quarter 2015. 28 Provisions Risk, funding & capital Report Accounting policy for provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when ABN AMRO has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is more likely than not that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. If the effect of time value is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market rates and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. A provision for restructuring is recognised when an obligation exists. An obligation exists when ABN AMRO has approved a detailed plan and has raised a valid expectation in those affected by Governance Report the plan by starting to implement the plan or by announcing its main features. Future operating costs are not provided for. Provisions for insurance risks are determined by actuarial methods, which include the use of statistics, interest rate data and settlement costs expectations. Provisions are established for certain guarantee contracts for which ABN AMRO is responsible to pay upon default of payment. Annual Financial Statements The following table shows the breakdown of provisions at 31 December. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Insurance fund liabilities 154 183 380 Provision for pension commitments 85 91 418 Restructuring 200 233 262 Other staff provision 144 182 174 Credit commitments 8 5 1 Legal provisions 292 112 78 Other Other 381 202 239 Total provisions 1,256 1,003 1,550 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 429 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Insurance fund liabilities Insurance fund liabilities include the insurance companies’ actuarial reserves, premium and claims Strategic Report reserves. The expected cash outflow for 2016 is approximately EUR 60 million and approximately EUR 130 million for the 2017-2020 period. Provision for pension commitments Provision for pension commitments includes early retirement benefits payable to non-active employees. In 2014 the pension scheme was changed from a defined benefit plan to a defined contribution plan. Further details are provided in note 29. Business Report Restructuring Restructuring provisions cover the costs of restructuring plans for which implementation has been formally announced. Restructuring provisions are related to the integration and to further streamlining of the organisation and infrastructure. Restructuring provisions include allowances for staff and other operating expenses. The pre-2014 restructuring programme is almost completed. The remaining balance relates to ongoing costs that are still payable based on the ABN AMRO Social Plan. In 2014 Risk, funding & capital Report ABN AMRO announced a new restructuring plan for Retail Banking which is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2019. The financial settlement may take up to five years after completion. Other staff provisions Other staff provisions relate in particular to disability and other post-employee benefits. Legal provisions Legal provisions are based on best estimates available at year-end and taking into account the opinion of legal specialists. The timing of the outflow of cash related to these provisions is by nature uncertain given the unpredictability of the outcome and the time involved in concluding litigations. Governance Report Any provision recognised does not constitute an admission of wrongdoing or legal liability. Interest rate derivatives to SME clients The bank has entered into interest rate derivatives with its SME clients in combination with floating interest rate loans. The bank has around 350,000 SME clients, of which around 4,500 have entered into one or more interest rate derivative transactions. The bank’s portfolio consists of around 6,000 interest rate derivatives transactions with SMEs, primarily consisting of interest rate swaps and Annual Financial Statements interest rate caps. The SME clients with a floating interest rate loan entered into an interest rate derivative with the purpose of fixing their interest rate. In most cases, the combination of a floating interest rate loan together with an interest rate derivative resulted in a lower fixed interest rate for the client than the alternative of a loan with a fixed interest rate. At the request of the AFM, a dedicated project team within the bank undertook a review of all SME client files containing interest rate derivatives. The review was aimed to determine whether the bank has acted in accordance with its duty of care obligations in connection with the sale of interest rate derivatives to its SME clients. The review of these files was completed in 2015, and all 4,500 SME client files have been reviewed. Other The outcome of the review is that in several instances ABN AMRO is unable to determine conclusively that it has fully complied with its duty of care obligations in connection with the sale of ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 430 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction interest rate derivatives to SME clients. In these cases it could not be fully established that clients were sufficiently informed about the risks of their particular combination of floating rate interest loan Strategic Report and interest rate derivative, specifically in the scenario of declining interest rates. The review revealed cases where a variable risk-based fee had been charged on the loans. Even though the provisions of the loans allow for such a risk-based fee (including an increase of the risk-based fee, in such cases the combination of the floating interest rate loan and interest rate derivative no longer resulted in a fixed interest rate for the client. The review also revealed cases of a mismatch between the loan and the interest rate derivative as a result of early prepayments of Business Report the loan or differences in tenor between the loan and the interest rate derivative. Such mismatches could lead to the relevant SME client being overhedged. To resolve an overhedge situation, the interest rate derivative has to be fully or partially unwound. However, as a result of the declining floating interest rates, the interest rate derivative has a negative mark-to-market value. Pursuant to the terms of the interest rate derivatives contract, the mark-to-market value has to be settled by the parties when unwinding interest rate derivatives. This settlement results in a payment obligation by the SME client, which is similar to the penalty paid upon early repayment of an equivalent fixed Risk, funding & capital Report interest rate loan. Following a case-by-case duty of care analysis, based on a framework as committed to the AFM, the bank has for a number of SME client files agreed to (i) fully or partially unwind the interest rate swap and/or (ii) partly compensate the SME client. ABN AMRO aims to provide an appropriate solution, if applicable, to all other relevant SME clients. ABN AMRO has recognised a provision for the anticipated compensation amounts based on the review of all relevant SME client files. A contingent liability is disclosed in note 33 Commitments and contingent liabilities for elements that are not included in the provision at year-end 2015. Recognition of these elements in the provision is Governance Report dependent on future events, such as a possible revision of the compensation framework as advised by the AFM on 1 March 2016. Further details are provided in note 33. Other duty of care matters Stichting Belangenbehartiging Gedupeerde Beleggers van den Berg represents victims of a large Ponzi scheme fraud set-up by Mr René van den Berg through his Fortis Bank Nederland accounts. Fortis Bank Nederland is one of the predecessors of ABN AMRO. The victims of this fraud are Annual Financial Statements claiming damages for ABN AMRO by reason of breaching a public duty of care. ABN AMRO has recognised a provision for partial compensation of the victims. In 2012, a class action was brought by Stichting Stop de Banken in relation to mortgage agreements with a floating interest rate based on EURIBOR, alleging that the Group was contractually not allowed to unilaterally increase the level of the applicable margin and violated its duty of care. On the same subject, the Group was found to have violated its duty of care with respect to an individual out of court settlement proceeding by the appeals commission of Kifid. For these proceedings a provision is recognised at year-end. In the meantime, multiple individual proceedings and an additional class action have been initiated Other against the Group. The uncertainties are likely to continue for some time. In those cases where the Group considers it probable that settlement of the claims will require a cash outflow, a provision is ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 431 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction recognised at year-end. A contingent liability is disclosed for all other cases in which a probable cash outflow is not considered remote. Further details are provided in note 33 Commitments and Strategic Report contingent liabilities. Other provisions Other provisions include provisions for tax purposes. The tax provisions are based on best estimates available at year-end and taking into account the opinion of tax specialists. The timing of the outflow of cash related to these provisions is by nature uncertain given the unpredictability of the outcome and the time involved. Business Report Discussions with tax authorities in Switzerland and Germany The tax treatment of certain transactions related to discontinued securities financing activities in the international offices, that date back to the time before ABN AMRO Group assumed control of Fortis Bank Nederland (FBN), are currently the subject of discussion with the Swiss and German tax authorities. Risk, funding & capital Report In Switzerland, the discussion regards the beneficial ownership of shares held by subsidiairies of FBN. These subsidiaries executed equity derivative trading transactions and held long positions in Swiss traded equities. The subsidiaries reclaimed dividend withholding tax based on the applicable tax treaties. According to the Swiss tax authorities, the transactions were not carried out for valid business reasons and therefore the subsidiaries were not considered beneficial owners of the respective underlying dividends. In May 2015, in a decision of the Swiss Supreme Court in a proceeding involving a similar transaction, beneficial ownership was denied to the taxpayer. This could lead to an unfavourable result for ABN AMRO in its discussions with the Swiss tax authorities and may have an impact on decisions of tax courts in other countries, for instance in Germany. Governance Report In 2012 the German tax authorities issued notices to a former German subsidiairy of FBN stipulating that they intend to reclaim dividend withholding tax amounts claimed by the German company in the years 2007 through 2009. The German company was engaged in derivative trading transactions. The German tax authorities claim that the German company has not acquired beneficial ownership in certain transactions where the German company claimed a refund of dividend withholding tax. The German company has filed objections against these notices. Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO has recognised a provision that it currently considers sufficient to cover its exposure in relation to claims made by the Swiss and German tax authorities. Mortgage administration inconsistencies There have been inconsistencies in the administration of the bank and business partners with respect to one of our mortgage products. The result of these inconsistencies is a shortfall between actual saving values and guaranteed saving values relating to those mortgage products. The best estimate of this shortfall is recognised as a provision. Credit commitments Provisions for credit commitments are provisions covering credit risk on credit commitments Other recorded in off-balance sheet items that have been identified individually or on a portfolio basis as impaired. The amount of the impairment is the present value of the cash flows which ABN AMRO expects to be required to settle its commitment. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 432 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Changes in provisions during the year are as follows: Strategic Report Provision Insurance for pension fund commitRestrucOther staff Legal (in millions) liabilities ments turing provision provisions Other Total At 1 January 2013 401 560 360 182 96 317 1,915 Increase of provisions 120 12 14 33 179 Reversal of unused provisions -58 -2 -2 -53 -115 Utilised during the year -3 -166 -16 -32 -91 -308 Business Report Accretion of interest 2 1 3 Foreign exchange differences -1 -1 Other -18 -142 4 -2 2 33 -123 At 31 December 2013 380 418 262 174 78 239 1,550 Increase of provisions 133 26 21 180 Reversal of unused provisions -41 -1 -2 -45 Utilised during the year -125 -5 -219 -349 Accretion of interest Risk, funding & capital Report 1 9 10 Foreign exchange differences 1 1 Other -197 -327 4 7 5 163 -344 At 31 December 2014 183 91 233 182 112 202 1,003 Increase of provisions 3 75 1 178 163 420 Reversal of unused provisions -1 -22 -1 -3 -20 -48 Utilised during the year -86 -8 -50 -144 Accretion of interest 1 16 34 50 Foreign exchange differences 4 5 Other -32 -7 -38 -1 48 -30 At 31 December 2015 154 85 200 144 292 381 1,256 Governance Report Other and Legal provisions were higher in 2015 compared with the previous year due mainly to the recording of a tax provision, a provision for interest rate derivatives for SME clients, a provision related to Euribor mortgages legal claim and a provision for mortgage administration inconsistencies. During the first half of 2015, ABN AMRO considered several developments around the tax treatment of transactions related to the discontinued part of the Securities Financing activities in 2009. It was Annual Financial Statements concluded that changes to the level of provisioning were required. 29 Pension and other post-retirement benefits Accounting policy for pension and other post-retirement benefits ABN AMRO sponsors a number of pension schemes in the Netherlands and abroad and IAS 19 applies to the accounting of these schemes. These schemes are mainly defined contribution plans. The majority of the beneficiaries of the plans are located in the Netherlands. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 433 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Defined contribution plans For defined contribution plans, ABN AMRO pays yearly contributions determined by a fixed method Strategic Report and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay any further contributions. Contributions are recognised directly in the income statement in the year to which they relate. Actuarial and investment risk are for the account of the participants in the plan. Defined benefit plans For defined benefit schemes, the net obligation of each plan is determined as the difference between the present value of the defined benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets. Business Report The actuarial assumptions used in calculating the present value of the defined benefit obligation include discount rates based on high-quality corporate bonds, inflation rate, future salary increases, employee contributions, mortality assumptions and rates of employee turnover. The assumptions are based on available market data and management expectations at the end of the reporting period. Plan assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date and are netted against the defined Risk, funding & capital Report benefit obligation. Pension costs recognised in the income statement for defined benefit plans consist of: ÅÅ service costs; ÅÅ net interest costs determined by multiplying the net defined benefit liability (asset) by the discount rate, both as determined at the start of the annual reporting period, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments; and ÅÅ curtailments or plan amendments. Governance Report Differences between the pension costs and the contributions payable are accounted for as provisions or prepayments. Remeasurement Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) are actuarial gains and losses resulting from changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments (i.e. unexpectedly high or low rates of employee turnover) and are recognised in Other comprehensive income and will not be Annual Financial Statements recycled to profit or loss in later periods. In determining the actual return on plan assets, the costs of managing the plan assets and any tax payable by the plan itself are deducted. Other post-retirement benefits Some group companies provide post-retirement benefits to their retirees such as long-term service benefits, and discounts on banking products. Entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit pension plans. These obligations are calculated annually. Other Plans in all countries comply with applicable local regulations concerning investments and minimum funding levels. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 434 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Pension and other post-retirement benefits Strategic Report Dutch defined contribution plan In 2014, ABN AMRO introduced a new pension scheme for its employees in the Netherlands. This is a collective defined contribution (CDC) plan. The Dutch CDC plan has an effective date of 12 June 2014 and is a defined contribution plan based on an average salary plan with a yearly accrual ambition of 1.875% as of 2015 (2.05% in 2014). The normal retirement age is set at 67 years. The contribution payable by pension fund participants is 5.5% as from 2015 (6.67% in 2014). The annual pension contributions are calculated according to a fixed contribution calculation Business Report mechanism. The annual pension contribution is maximised at 35% of the pensionable salary. Amounts recognised in the income statement for pensions and other post-retirement benefits (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Current service cost 6 91 228 Interest cost 4 294 616 Risk, funding & capital Report Interest income -2 -288 -608 Administrative expenses impacting defined benefit obligations Administrative expenses impacting plan assets 6 13 Past service cost -5 -18 Losses/(gains) on settlements and curtailment -1 297 -8 Impact on asset due to asset ceiling Other 1 5 1 Pension expenses relating to defined benefit plans 3 405 224 Defined contribution plans 322 170 33 Total Pension expenses 324 575 257 Governance Report The decrease in the total pension expenses of EUR 251 million in 2015 compared with 2014 was mainly due to the settlement of the Dutch pension plan. The increase excluding the settlement cost was EUR 46 million, mainly due to a decrease of the discount rate in 2015 compared with 2014 which resulted in higher interest cost. The remaining pension expenses relating to defined benefit plans consist mainly of several small defined benefit plans outside the Netherlands. Annual Financial Statements Since the introduction of the Dutch collective defined contribution plan the pension expenses for defined contribution plans consist mainly of the cash contributions. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 435 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Reconciliation to the statement of financial position and other comprehensive income (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Strategic Report Present value of defined benefit obligations funded 134 140 18,125 Fair value of plan assets 94 91 17,719 40 49 406 Present value of unfunded obligations 45 47 12 Other -5 Net recognised liabilities/(assets) at 31 December 85 91 418 Business Report Remeasurements arising from changes in demographic assumptions DBO 3 57 -159 Remeasurements arising from changes in financial assumptions DBO -1 -1,765 294 Remeasurements arising from changes in financial assumptions Plan assets 1 1,511 -392 Reclassification post-employment benefit plan1 3,599 Other -1 1 Remeasurements in Other comprehensive income 3 3,400 -256 1 Reclassification of EUR 3,599 million (EUR 4,799 million gross and EUR 1,200 tax) from Remeasurement gains/(losses) to Other reserves including retained earnings following the change of pension scheme. Risk, funding & capital Report Change in defined benefit obligation (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Defined benefit obligation as at 1 January 187 18,137 17,881 Current service cost 6 91 228 Interest cost 4 294 616 Past service cost -5 -18 Administrative expenses impacting defined benefit obligations Losses/(gains) on settlements and curtailment -4 -19,845 Participants' contributions -3 24 57 Governance Report Benefits paid -3 -217 -466 Remeasurements arising from changes in demographic assumptions defined benefit obligation -3 -57 159 Remeasurements arising from changes in financial assumptions defined benefit obligation 1 1,765 -294 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 2 -14 Foreign exchange differences 1 1 -1 Other -1 -9 -11 Defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 179 Annual Financial Statements 187 18,137 The net defined benefit liabilities/(asset) balance as per December 2015 consist of pensioners with a profit share, the indexation of benefits insured at an insurance company and several small defined benefit plans outside the Netherlands. The defined benefits obligation and fair value plan assets remained stable excluding the amounts related to the Dutch defined benefits pension plan compared with December 2014. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 436 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction The decline in the defined benefit obligation in 2014 was due mainly to the settlement of the Dutch pension plan. Due to the change in discount rate from 3.6% to 3.12% for the period until 12 June 2014, Strategic Report the defined benefit obligation increased in 2014 by EUR 1,765 million. Furthermore, an experience gain of EUR 65 million was recognised in 2014 due to lower than expected indexation (1.4% versus 1.8% expected). Change in fair value of plan assets (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Business Report Fair value of plan assets as at 1 January 91 17,719 17,281 Interest Income 2 288 608 Remeasurements arising from changes in financial assumptions plan assets 1 1,511 -392 Employer's contributions 6 173 649 Participants' contributions 25 60 Direct payments -1 Administrative expenses impacting defined plan assets -6 -13 Benefits paid -3 -217 -466 Risk, funding & capital Report Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries -9 Asset distributed on settlements -3 -19,404 Foreign exchange differences 1 1 -2 Other 1 4 Fair value of plan assets as at 31 December 94 91 17,719 In 2014 the fair value of plan assets mainly declined due to the settlement of the Dutch pension plan. The return on plan assets was higher than the discount rate, which resulted in a gain of EUR 1,511 million in 2014. Governance Report Plan participants’ contributions to the defined benefit plan in 2014 until 12 June 2014 amounted to EUR 25 million and is included in Salaries and wages. Principal actuarial assumptions 2015 2014 2013 Discount rate 2.2% 2.1% 3.6% Indexation rate 1.8% 1.8% 1.8% Annual Financial Statements Expected return on plan assets as at 31 December 2.2% 2.1% 3.6% Future salary increases 2.4% 2.5% 2.5% The assumptions above are weighted by defined benefit obligations. The discount rate consists of a risk-free rate and a credit spread on AA-rated corporate bonds. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 437 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 30 Other liabilities The following table shows the components of Accrued expenses and other liabilities Strategic Report at 31 December. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Accrued other expenses 1,204 1,196 1,303 Liability to unit-linked policyholders 2,543 2,453 2,171 Sundry liabilities and other payables 1,982 1,824 3,639 Total other liabilities 5,729 5,473 7,113 Business Report Obligations to policyholders whose return is dependent on the return of unit-linked investments recognised in the balance sheet are measured at fair value with changes through income. Sundry liabilities and other payables increased as a result of securities transactions that were to be settled as per 31 December 2015. Risk, funding & capital Report 31 Equity attributable to shareholders and other components of equity Share capital and other components of equity Ordinary shares and depositary receipts for ordinary shares As at 31 December 2015, all shares in the capital of ABN AMRO Group are held by two foundations: NLFI and STAK AAG. On that date, NLFI held 77% and STAK AAG held 23% of the shares in the issued capital of ABN AMRO Group. Both foundations have issued depositary receipts in ABN AMRO Group. Only STAK AAG’s depositary receipts are issued with the cooperation of ABN AMRO Group and traded on Euronext Amsterdam. For more information about Governance Report the STAK AAG and the depositary receipts, please refer to the Corporate Governance section of this report. More details on the shares are provided in the ABN AMRO Shares section. Preference shares Preference shares which are non-redeemable and upon which dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company are classified as equity. Annual Financial Statements Compound financial instruments Components of compound financial instruments (liability and equity parts) are classified in their respective areas of the Statement of financial position. Other reserves The other reserves mainly comprise retained earnings, profit for the period and legal reserves. Currency translation reserve The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, net of the effect of hedging. Other Available-for-sale reserve In this component, gains and losses arising from a change in the fair value of available‑for‑sale assets are recognised, net of taxes, excluding impairment losses recognised in the income ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 438 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction statement and gains and losses on hedged financial instruments. When the relevant assets are sold or otherwise disposed of, the related cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recycled Strategic Report to the income statement. Cash flow hedging reserve The cash flow hedging reserve is comprised of the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments, net of taxes, that will be recycled to the income statement when the hedged transactions affect profit or loss. Business Report Net investment hedging reserve The net investment hedging reserve is comprised of the currency translation differences arising on translation of the currency of these instruments to euros, insofar as they are effective. Dividends Dividends on ordinary shares and preference shares classified as equity are recognised as a distribution of equity in the period in which they are approved by shareholders. Risk, funding & capital Report The following table shows the composition of Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent company at 31 December 2015, 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Share capital 940 940 940 Share premium 12,970 12,970 12,970 Other reserves (incl. retained earnings/profit for the period) 3,059 1,769 4,554 Other components of equity -394 -814 -4,909 Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent company 16,575 Governance Report 14,865 13,555 Capital securities 993 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 17 12 13 Total equity 17,584 14,877 13,568 As at 31 December 2015, the authorised share capital of ABN AMRO Group N.V. amounted to EUR 4.7 million distributed over 4,500,000,000 ordinary shares and 200,000,000 class B ordinary shares. Annual Financial Statements All shares have a nominal value of EUR 1.00 each and each share entitles the shareholder to one vote per share. As at 31 December 2015, issued and paid-up capital by ABN AMRO Group N.V. consisted of 940,000,001 ordinary shares (EUR 940 million). In September 2015 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. issued EUR 1.0 billion in Capital securities including a premium discount of EUR 7 million. Capital securities qualify as Additional Tier 1 as described in CRD IV and CRR. The capital securities are perpetual, unsecured and deeply subordinated. Redemption is discretionary to ABN AMRO Bank N.V. on the interest reset date in year 5 subject to regulatory Other approval. The securities can be called on a yearly basis after year 5. There is a fixed interest coupon of 5.75%, payable semi-annually. Interest is non-cumulative and fully at the discretion of ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 439 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction ABN AMRO Bank N.V. No interest will be paid when there are insufficient distributable items and/or maximum distributable amount (MDA) restrictions are constraining. ABN AMRO Bank N.V. will give Strategic Report due consideration to the hierarchy of the instrument with regard to distribution. In 2015, a final dividend of EUR 275 million was paid out to ordinary shareholders, bringing the total dividend for 2014 to EUR 400 million. An interim dividend of EUR 350 million was paid to ordinary shareholders in August 2015. In 2014 a final dividend of EUR 200 million was paid out to ordinary shareholders, bringing the total Business Report dividend for 2013 to EUR 350 million. An interim dividend of EUR 125 million was paid to ordinary shareholders in November 2014. As described in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the 75,000,000 class A noncumulative preference shares were repurchased and cancelled in 2013, resulting in a decline in share capital and share premium of EUR 75 million and EUR 135 million respectively. Risk, funding & capital Report The following table shows the number of shares and paid-up and unpaid-up capital of the authorised, unissued and issued share capital at 31 December 2015, 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013. 2015 2014 2013 Class A Class B ordinary ordinary Class A Class B Class A Class B shares shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Number of shares Authorised share capital 4,500,000,000 200,000,000 3,750,000,000 100,000,000 3,750,000,000 100,000,000 Unissued share capital 3,559,999,999 200,000,000 2,809,999,999 100,000,000 2,809,999,999 100,000,000 Issued share capital 940,000,001 940,000,001 940,000,001 Governance Report Amount of shares Authorised share capital 4,500,000,000 200,000,000 3,750,000,000 1,000,000 3,750,000,000 1,000,000 Unissued share capital 3,559,999,999 200,000,000 2,809,999,999 1,000,000 2,809,999,999 1,000,000 Issued share capital 940,000,001 940,000,001 940,000,001 Par value 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.01 1.00 0.01 32 Transferred, pledged, encumbered and restricted assets Annual Financial Statements Accounting policy for transferred, pledged, encumbered and restricted assets Transferred financial assets are arrangements/transactions for which ABN AMRO has: ÅÅ transferred the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset to a third party, or; ÅÅ retained the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of that financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to a third party, or; ÅÅ alternatively, transferred a financial asset when the counterparty has the right to re-pledge or to re-sell the asset. Depending on the circumstances, these transfers may either result in financial assets that are not Other derecognised in their entirety or in assets that are derecognised in their entirety. More detailed information on our recognition and derecognition policy is provided in the paragraph Significant accounting policies under note 1 Accounting policies. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 440 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Pledged assets are assets pledged as collateral for liabilities or contingent liabilities and the terms and conditions relating to its pledge. Encumbered assets are those that are pledged or other Strategic Report assets which we believed to be restricted to secure, credit-enhance or collateralise a transaction. In principle, pledged assets are encumbered assets. The following differences apply to ABN AMRO: ÅÅ Encumbered assets include mandatory reserve requirements with central banks and unit-linked investments (see note 24 Other assets); ÅÅ Encumbered assets exclude assets pledged for unused credit facilities with central banks at the statement of financial position date, i.e. mainly retained mortgage-backed securities. Business Report Significant restrictions on assets may arise from statutory, contractual or regulatory requirements such as: ÅÅ those that restrict the ability of the parent or its subsidiaries to transfer cash or other financial assets to (or from) other entities within the Group; ÅÅ guarantees or other requirements that may restrict dividends and other capital distributions being paid, or loans and advances being made or repaid to other entities within the Group; Risk, funding & capital Report ÅÅ protective rights of noncontrolling interests might restrict the ability of the Group to access and transfer assets freely to or from other entities within the Group and to settle liabilities of the Group. Transferred financial assets This disclosure provides insight into the relationship between these transferred financial assets and associated financial liabilities in order to understand which risks the bank is exposed to when the assets are transferred. Governance Report If transferred financial assets continue to be recognised on the balance sheet, ABN AMRO Group is still exposed to changes in the fair value of the assets. Transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety The following table shows transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety. Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 441 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Financial Financial Financial assets assets Strategic Report Loans assets and held for Loans held for Loans held for and trading and trading receivatrading (at receiva(at fair receiva(at fair bles (at fair value bles (at value bles (at value amorthrough amorthrough amorthrough tised profit tised profit tised profit (in millions) cost) and loss) Total cost) and loss) Total cost) and loss) Total Securitisations Carrying amount Transferred assets 2,915 2,915 8,795 8,795 12,043 12,043 Business Report Carrying amount Associated liabilities 2,950 2,950 8,999 8,999 12,285 12,285 Fair value of assets 3,155 3,155 9,156 9,156 12,316 12,316 Fair value of associated liabilities 2,969 2,969 9,053 9,053 12,347 12,347 Net position 186 186 103 103 -31 -31 Securities financing Carrying amount Transferred assets 1,226 1,226 4,000 4,000 Carrying amount Associated liabilities 1,226 1,226 4,000 4,000 Risk, funding & capital Report Fair value of assets 1,226 1,226 4,000 4,000 Fair value of associated liabilities 1,226 1,226 4,000 4,000 Net position Other Carrying amount Transferred assets 221 221 442 442 382 382 Carrying amount Associated liabilities 133 133 494 494 383 383 Fair value of assets 221 221 442 442 382 382 Fair value of associated liabilities 133 133 494 494 383 383 Net position 88 88 -52 -52 -1 -1 Totals Carrying amount Transferred assets 2,915 221 3,136 8,795 1,668 10,463 12,043 4,382 16,425 Governance Report Carrying amount Associated liabilities 2,950 133 3,083 8,999 1,720 10,719 12,285 4,383 16,668 Fair value of assets 3,155 221 3,376 9,156 1,668 10,824 12,316 4,382 16,698 Fair value of associated liabilities 2,969 133 3,101 9,053 1,720 10,773 12,347 4,383 16,730 Net position 186 88 274 103 -52 51 -31 -1 -32 Securitisations The bank uses securitisations as a source of funding whereby the Special Purpose Entity (SPE) Annual Financial Statements issues debt securities. Pursuant to a securitisation transaction utilising true sale mechanics, the bank transfers the title of the assets to SPEs.When the cash flows are transferred to investors in the notes issued by consolidated securitisation vehicles, the assets (mainly residential mortgage loans) are considered to be transferred. Securities financing Securities financing transactions are entered into on a collateralised basis for mitigating the bank’s credit risk exposure. In repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions, ABN AMRO gets the securities returned at maturity. The counterparty in the transactions holds the securities as collateral, but has no recourse to other assets of ABN AMRO. ABN AMRO transfers the securities and, if the counterparty has the right to re-sell or re-pledge them, the bank considers these assets Other transferred assets. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 442 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Continuing involvement in transferred financial assets that are derecognised in their entirety The bank does not have any material transferred assets that are derecognised in their entirety, Strategic Report but where ABN AMRO has continuing involvement. Pledged and Encumbered assets Pledged and encumbered assets are no longer readily available to the Group to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce the funding requirement. The following activities conducted by ABN AMRO give rise to pledged assets: ÅÅ cash and securities provided as collateral to secure trading and other liabilities, mainly derivatives; Business Report ÅÅ mortgages and SME loans pledged to secure funding transactions such as covered bonds and securitisations; ÅÅ securities lent as part of repurchase and securities lending transactions. The following table provides an overview of assets pledged as security and encumbered assets. (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Risk, funding & capital Report Assets pledged Cash and balances at central banks 253 253 Financial assets held for trading 106 5,062 4,446 Financial investments available-for-sale 160 Financial investments held at fair value through profit or loss Financial investments held to maturity Loans and receivables banks Interest bearing deposits 7,164 9,817 7,193 Loans and receivables customers Residential mortgages 87,874 102,646 111,596 Commercial loans 5,298 5,644 6,208 Governance Report Total assets pledged as security 100,442 123,422 129,856 Differences between pledged and encumbered assets Financial investments available-for-sale 410 133 Loans and receivables banks1 863 498 221 Loans and receivables customers 2 -42,846 -52,928 -61,298 Other assets3 2,543 2,453 2,171 Total differences between pledged and encumbered assets -39,030 -49,844 -58,906 Annual Financial Statements Total encumbered assets 61,412 73,578 70,950 Total assets 390,317 386,867 372,022 Total encumbered assets as percentage of total assets 15.7% 19.0% 19.1% 1 Includes mandatory reserve deposits. 2 Excludes mainly mortgage-backed securities. 3 Includes unit-linked investments. We have aligned our definition for encumbered assets with the EBA, which provided guidance in 2014 stating that cash receivable in securities borrowing and reverse repurchase transactions are not encumbered. These are also no longer considered pledged. We have also adjusted the comparative figures to reflect the correct underlying trend. Other The total of encumbered assets decreased by EUR 12,166 million, mainly due the calling of several securitisation transactions. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 443 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Off-balance sheet collateral held as security for assets Mainly as part of professional securities transactions, ABN AMRO obtains securities on terms which Strategic Report permit it to repledge or resell the securities to others. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard professional securities transactions. ABN AMRO controls credit risk associated with these activities by monitoring counterparty credit exposure and collateral value on a daily basis and requiring additional collateral to be deposited with or returned to the Group when deemed necessary. Business Report (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Fair value of securities received which can be sold or repledged 56,300 54,929 59,039 of which: fair value of securities repledged/sold to others 33,894 27,988 28,463 ABN AMRO has an obligation to return the securities accepted as collateral to its counterparties. Significant restrictions on the ability to access or use the Group’s assets Risk, funding & capital Report The purpose of disclosing assets with significant restrictions is to provide information that enables users of its consolidated financial statements to evaluate the nature and extent of significant restrictions on its ability to access or use assets, and settle liabilities, of the group. At balance sheet date, the Group did not have any material non-controlling interests and therefore did not give rise to significant restrictions. Restricted financial assets consist of assets pledged as collateral against an existing liability or contingent liability and encumbered assets. Other restrictions impacting the Group’s ability to use assets: Governance Report ÅÅ assets as a result of collateralising repurchase and borrowing agreements (2015: EUR 19,075 million, 2014: EUR 16,933 million, 2013: EUR 16,212 million); ÅÅ assets held in certain jurisdictions to comply with local liquidity requirements and are subject to restrictions in terms of their transferability within the Group (2015: EUR 1,431 million, 2014: EUR 1,199 million, 2013: EUR 745 million). ABN AMRO Group in general is not subject to significant restrictions that would prevent the transfer Annual Financial Statements of dividends and capital within the Group; except for regulated subsidiaries which are required to maintain capital to comply with local regulations (2015: 1,240 million, 2014: EUR 957 million, 2013: EUR 867 million). 33 Commitments and contingent liabilities Accounting policy for off-balance sheet items Commitments Loan commitments that allow for draw-down of a loan within the timeframe generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace are not recognised as derivative financial instruments. Other Acceptances comprise undertakings by ABN AMRO to pay bills of exchange drawn on customers. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 444 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction ABN AMRO expects most acceptances to be settled simultaneously with the reimbursement from customers. Acceptances are not recognised in the balance sheet and are disclosed as Strategic Report commitments. Financial guarantee contracts A financial guarantee contract requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs if a specified debtor fails to make payment when due under the original or modified terms of a debt instrument. Initial recognition of financial guarantee contracts is at their fair value. Subsequent measurement is the higher of the amount initially recognised less cumulative Business Report amortisation, when appropriate, and the best estimate of the amount expected to settle the obligation. Contingencies Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, and present obligations where the transfer of economic resources is uncertain or cannot be reliably measured. Contingent liabilities are not recognised on the balance sheet but are disclosed unless the outflow of economic resources is remote. Risk, funding & capital Report Committed credit facilities Commitments to extend credit take the form of approved but undrawn loans, overdraft revolving and underwriting facilities. New loan offers have a commitment period that does not extend beyond the normal underwriting and settlement period. Guarantees and other commitments ABN AMRO provides financial guarantees and letters of credit to guarantee the performance of customers to third parties. These transactions have fixed limits and generally extend for periods of Governance Report up to 5 years. Expirations are not concentrated in any particular period. ABN AMRO also provides guarantees by acting as a settlement agent in securities borrowing and lending transactions. In addition, ABN AMRO has entered into transactions to guarantee various liabilities with respect to insurance-related regulatory reserve financing transactions. The contractual amounts of commitments and contingent liabilities are set out by category in the following table. The amounts stated in the table for commitments assume that amounts are fully Annual Financial Statements advanced. The amounts reflected in the table for guarantees and letters of credit represent the maximum accounting loss that would be recognised at the balance sheet date if the relevant contract parties completely failed to perform as contracted. Many of the contingent liabilities and commitments are expected to expire without being advanced in whole or in part. This means that the amounts stated do not represent expected future cash flows. Additionally, guarantees and letters of credit are supported by varying levels of collateral. Aside from the items which are included in the Guarantees and other commitments, specific non-quantified guarantees can be identified. The following contracts belong to the category of non-quantified guarantees: Other ÅÅ Guarantees that have been given for ABN AMRO’s securities custody operations ÅÅ Guarantees given to CCPs: In its capacity as clearing member, ABN AMRO guarantees the settlement of obligations to CCPs of clients’ transactions. In the event of a client defaulting, ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 445 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction ABN AMRO has the obligation to settle the clients’ outstanding positions towards CCPs. ABN AMRO collects (cash) margins from clients to minimise this settlement risk. Given the stringent margin Strategic Report requirements, possible future outflows of resources are considered to be close to zero. ÅÅ Guarantees provided for interbank bodies and institutions: ABN AMRO or Group companies participate in collective guarantee schemes (e.g. deposit guarantees) applicable or mandatory in various countries. Furthermore, statements of liability within the meaning of Article 403 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code have been issued for a number of its affiliated companies. Business Report The committed credit facilities, guarantees and other commitments at 31 December 2015, 2014 and 2013 are summarised in the following table. Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 446 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Payments due by period Less than Between one Between three (in millions) one year and three years and five years After five years Total Strategic Report 31 December 2015 Committed credit facilities 9,136 4,173 4,667 3,583 21,559 Guarantees and other commitments: Guarantees granted 299 124 70 1,947 2,440 Irrevocable letters of credit 3,675 1,042 407 613 5,737 Recourse risks arising from discounted Business Report bills 5,440 196 18 37 5,691 Total guarantees and other commitments 9,414 1,362 495 2,597 13,868 Total commitments and contingent liabilities 18,550 5,535 5,162 6,180 35,427 31 December 2014 Committed credit facilities Risk, funding & capital Report 6,558 2,907 4,261 2,436 16,164 Guarantees and other commitments: Guarantees granted 540 73 94 1,884 2,592 Irrevocable letters of credit 3,841 878 276 504 5,499 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 6,940 275 16 12 7,243 Total guarantees and other commitments 11,322 1,227 386 2,401 15,335 Total commitments and contingent liabilities 17,880 4,134 4,647 4,837 31,498 Governance Report 31 December 2013 Committed credit facilities 5,623 3,110 2,268 2,763 13,764 Guarantees and other commitments: Guarantees granted 440 1,091 102 1,901 3,534 Irrevocable letters of credit 4,125 772 186 332 5,415 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 6,983 133 13 25 7,154 Annual Financial Statements Total guarantees and other commitments 11,548 1,996 301 2,258 16,103 Total commitments and contingent liabilities 17,171 5,106 2,569 5,021 29,867 Commitments and contingent liabilities at 31 December 2015 amounted to EUR 35 billion, an increase of EUR 4 billion compared with EUR 31 billion at 31 December 2014. This increase was mainly caused by an increase of EUR 5 billion in the Committed credit facilities granted to corporate clients of which EUR 1.5 billion related to facilities given to ECT clients. This was partly offset by a decrease of EUR 1 billion in the recourse risks arising from discounted bills. Other The increase in Committed credit facilities of EUR 5 billion to EUR 22 billion was mainly related to the credit lines granted to corporate clients. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 447 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Leasing ABN AMRO mainly enters into leases classified as operating leases (including property rental). The Strategic Report total payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense. If it is decided that an operating lease will be terminated or vacated before the lease period has expired, the lesser of any penalty payments required and the remaining payments due once vacated (less sub leasing income) is recognised as an expense. If the lease agreement transfers substantially all the risks and rewards inherent to ownership of the asset, the lease is recorded as a finance lease and the related asset is capitalised. Business Report Operating lease commitments ABN AMRO leases various offices and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. The leases have various terms, escalation and renewal rights. There are no contingent rents payable. ABN AMRO also leases equipment under non-cancellable lease arrangements. Total operating lease agreements amounted to EUR 448 million (2014: EUR 467 million), of which EUR 376 million (2014: EUR 387 million) is due within five years. Risk, funding & capital Report Transactions involving the legal form of a lease ABN AMRO has entered into IT outsourcing arrangements that involve leases in form but not in substance. The contract periods of the arrangements vary between one and five years. The total amount of the lease payments was EUR 558 million for 2015 (2014: EUR 524 million). Other contingencies ABN AMRO is involved in a number of legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business in a number of jurisdictions. In presenting consolidated financial information, management makes estimates regarding the outcome of legal, regulatory and arbitration matters, and takes provisions Governance Report to the income statement when losses with respect to such matters are more likely than not. Provisions are not recognised for matters for which expected cash outflow cannot be reasonably estimated or are not considered more likely than not to lead to a cash outflow. Some of these matters may be regarded as a contingency. It is not practicable to provide an aggregate estimate of potential liability for our legal proceedings and regulatory matters as a class of contingent liabilities. On the basis of information currently available, and having taken counsel with legal advisors, Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO is of the opinion that the outcome of these proceedings is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position and the consolidated result of ABN AMRO. In particular the following matters are regarded as contingencies: ÅÅ Certain hedge funds initiated proceedings in Belgium and claimed an amount of EUR 1.75 billion plus 8.75% coupon until 7 December 2030 from four issuers, amongst which ABN AMRO, in relation to the conversion of Ageas mandatory convertible securities. On 23 March 2012, the Commercial Court in Brussels (Belgium) rejected all claims of the hedgefunds. This verdict underlines the verdict in the summary proceedings (kort geding) of November 2010. Certain hedge funds have filed an appeal against the verdict. ABN AMRO remains confident that has acted within its rights and therefore also continues to be positive about the outcome of the currently pending appeal proceedings; Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 448 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction ÅÅ As previously reported, ABN AMRO, certain of its subsidiaries and some of their client funds had exposure to funds that suffered losses (in some cases, significant losses) as a result of Strategic Report the Madoff fraud. Provision of the custodial services has resulted in a number of legal claims, including by BLMIS’ trustee in bankruptcy (Irving Picard), and liquidators of certain funds, as they pursue legal actions in attempts to recover payments made as a result of the Madoff fraud and/or to make good their alleged losses. Certain ABN AMRO subsidiaries are defendants in these proceedings. In light of the preliminary status of those claims and other arrangements that may mitigate litigation exposure, it is not possible to estimate the total amount of ABN AMRO’s potential liability, if any. ABN AMRO continues to investigate and implement strategies for Business Report recovering the losses suffered. As previously reported, a total amount of EUR 16 million (exclusive of costs) was recovered in the first half of 2009. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, one of ABN AMRO’s subsidiaries was able to sell shares and limited partnership interests that were provided to it as collateral or which it had bought to hedge its exposure in the context of the collateralized loans and total return swap transactions referred to above. These sales resulted in proceeds of EUR 52 million, EUR 78 million and EUR 253 million respectively and an equivalent amount provided for in 2008 was subsequently released. Risk, funding & capital Report The Imtech N.V. group has been in financial difficulties ever since certain fraudulent events, perpetrated by certain managers and staff, were discovered a few years ago and was declared bankrupt in August 2015. ABN AMRO has extended credit to the Imtech N.V. group of businesses and it holds shares in Imtech N.V. further to its underwriting commitment in the Imtech N.V. rights offering of October 2014. In April 2015, Stichting Imtechclaim threatened to initiate a collective action lawsuit against, among others, Imtech N.V. and the four underwriters (including ABN AMRO Bank) of the Imtech N.V. rights offering of October 2014. Since a claim has not yet been formally filed, the complaint is not entirely clear but ABN AMRO expects that it would, among other complaints, appear to refer to prospectus liability and inappropriate behaviour as a result of conflicts of interest Governance Report (“dubieuze dubbelrol”). The amount of damages that Stichting Imtechclaim can claim depends on the number of people in the class. In 2007, ABN AMRO Bank (Luxembourg) SA (‘AA Luxembourg’) provided a EUR 50 million loan to a client, which was secured by real estate mortgages and pledges on an art collection. In 2009, the client received negative press coverage regarding a dispute with other international banks and the Belgian tax authorities. In order to strengthen its collateral position, AA Luxembourg executed its right Annual Financial Statements with respect to the real estate mortgages. AA Luxembourg also took steps to ensure that the pledged art collection came into the custody of the bank. After AA Luxembourg discovered that the client had breached its obligations towards the bank, it started execution measures, eventually resulting in partial repayment of the loan. The Belgian public prosecutor initiated criminal proceedings against the client and 18 related parties, including AA Luxembourg, regarding suspicion of criminal acts in connection with alleged tax evasion by the client. All parties were summoned before the Council Chamber of the Court of Antwerp in December 2014. According to the writ, AA Luxembourg is suspected of money laundering. Allegedly, AA Luxembourg would have committed money laundering through the establishment of mortgages and pledges as security for the loan, the sale of certain pledged art work, the acceptance of partial repayment of the loan, the subsequent release of certain pledges and other related facts, as the client’s property involved in those actions allegedly had an illegal origin. If Other AA Luxembourg is convicted for these allegations, the sanction could be a fine and the compulsory confiscation of the ‘goods laundered’, including confiscation of mortgaged and pledged goods (or their counter-value) and of the money used as repayment of the loan. The Council Chamber of the Antwerp ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 449 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Court decided on 1 October 2015 that several parties, including AA Luxembourg, will be formally brought to trial in the correctional court. AA Luxembourg has filed an appeal against this decision. Strategic Report The appeal is expected to be handled by the court in the first quarter of 2016. In August 2007, Sentinel Management Group, Inc. (‘Sentinel’), a futures commission merchant that managed customer segregated funds for the Company, filed for bankruptcy. Shortly before Sentinel filed for bankruptcy, Sentinel sold securities to Citadel Equity Fund, Ltd. The US Bankruptcy Court ordered funds from the sale to Citadel Equity Fund, Ltd be distributed to certain Sentinel customers. The Company received its pro rata share of in total USD 52,755,815. On or about 15 September Business Report 2008, the bankruptcy trustee filed an adversary proceeding against all of the recipients of the court-ordered distribution of funds from the Citadel Equity Fund, Ltd sale, including the Company, claiming the repayment of the amounts received. The complaint also includes a claim for other monies the Company received shortly before Sentinel filed for bankruptcy. This regards an amount of USD 4,000,399 and a claim for pre-judgement interest which could range from USD 443,000 to USD 9,720,000. Risk, funding & capital Report Duty of care matters A number of proceedings have been initiated against ABN AMRO for alleged breach of its duty of care in transparency-related standards and a larger number of proceedings have been threatened. Where applicable, provisions for these matters have been made. There can be no assurance that additional proceedings will not be brought or that the amount demanded in claims brought to date will not rise. Current proceedings are pending and their outcome, as well as the outcome of any threatened proceedings, is uncertain, as is the timing of reaching any finality on these legal claims and proceedings. The uncertainties are likely to continue for some time. As a result, although the consequences could be substantial for ABN AMRO, with Governance Report a potentially material adverse effect on ABN AMRO’s reputation, results of operations, financial condition and prospects, it is not possible to reliably estimate or quantify ABN AMRO’s exposure at this time. In conclusion, although claims in relation to alleged breach of the duty of care remain contingent, they have been (partly) provisioned. Interest rate derivatives to SME clients Since 2014, there has been a public debate in the Netherlands on a bank’s duty of care towards Annual Financial Statements SMEs with respect to interest rate derivatives. As explained in note 28 Provisions, the bank has entered into interest rate derivatives with approximately 4,500 SME clients in combination with floating interest rate loans. These SME clients entered into an interest rate derivative with the purpose of fixing their interest rate risk on their floating rate notes. A combination of a floating interest rate loan together with an interest rate swap was less expensive for the clients than the alternative of a loan with a fixed interest rate. As a result of the decline in interest rates, the interest rate swaps have a negative mark-to-market value. There are no negative consequences for clients as long as the loan is not repaid, in whole or in part, prior to its maturity date. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 450 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Individual or class action complaints and litigation Some SME clients needed or wanted to repay their floating interest rate loans prior to their maturity Strategic Report date. As a consequence, the interest rate swap needed to be unwound in order to assure that no overhedge was created. In line with standard market practice, in such situations the SME clients had to pay the bank the negative mark-to market value of the interest rate swap. Such payment may be compared to the penalty interest on a fixed rate loan. The bank received several complaints and some clients and/or interest groups instigated legal proceedings about the bank’s alleged violation of its duty of care, for instance that the bank did not properly inform them of the risks associated with interest rate swaps. In some of these cases, the client’s claim was denied. In some other Business Report cases, the bank paid compensation to the client. For litigation in relation to SME derivatives, the bank does not recognise provisions for claims that do not meet the recognition and/or measurement criteria. There can be no assurance that additional proceedings will not be brought or that the amount demanded in claims brought to date will not rise. Current proceedings are pending and their outcome is uncertain. The uncertainties are likely to continue for some time. In conclusion, claims in relation to the alleged breach of duty of care Risk, funding & capital Report remain contingent. AFM supervision At the request of the AFM, a dedicated project team within the bank, with the assistance of external specialists and in regular consultation with the AFM, has been reviewing our SME client files containing interest rate derivatives. The objective of this review is to determine whether the bank acted in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable at that time and, if necessary, offer the relevant clients a solution. Based on the outcome of this review ABN AMRO recognised a provision at year-end, details of which are included in note 28 Provisions. Governance Report In December 2015 the AFM concluded that some aspects of the reviews banks were conducting would need to be amended. On 1 March 2016, the AFM published a press release and a letter addressed to the Dutch Minister of Finance advising him to appoint a panel of independent experts. These experts, in cooperation with the banks involved, will try to determine a uniform recovery framework which will serve as a benchmark with which banks will need to re-perform all client file reviews. This may lead to revised compensation solutions for clients. The uniform recovery framework is expected to be finalised by mid-2016. ABN AMRO will consult with the panel of Annual Financial Statements independent experts to determine how these changes will affect ABN AMRO’s review process. As a result, the future review process may change and parameters for future compensation levels may increase. This may impact the scope of the contracts that require compensation as well as the level of compensation per contract. As this is a possible liability dependent on a future event, there is no provision for this possible outflow of resources and it is therefore considered a contingency. Cross-liability A legal demerger may cause so-called cross-liabilities. Pursuant to section 2:334t of the Dutch Civil Code, the acquiring company or companies and the demerging company, if it continues to exist, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations of the demerging company at the time of the demerger. Other The acquiring companies and the continuing demerged company will remain fully liable for indivisible obligations. For divisible obligations (e.g. monetary obligations) the acquiring company to whom the obligation transferred or, if the obligation remained where it was, the company that continued to ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 451 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction exist is fully liable. However, if an obligation has not been transferred to or remained with a company, that company’s liability for divisible obligations will be limited to the value of the assets acquired or Strategic Report retained in the demerger. A cross-liability is of a secondary nature. The company that did not acquire or retain the obligation is not required to perform until the company that did acquire or retain the obligation has failed to perform. On 6 February 2010, the former ABN AMRO Bank N.V. demerged into two entities: RBS N.V. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (the ‘2010 Demerger’), giving rise to cross-liabilities similar to the crossliabilities described above. If ABN AMRO Bank N.V. fails to perform its obligations existing at the Business Report time of the 2010 Demerger, RBS N.V. is liable for the performance; if RBS N.V. fails to perform its obligations existing at the time of the 2010 Demerger, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. is liable. RBS N.V.’s contingent liability for divisible obligations as a result of the 2010 Demerger is limited to EUR 4 billion, whereas ABN AMRO Bank N.V.’s contingent liability is limited to EUR 1.8 billion (which amount remained unchanged as per 31 December 2015). ABN AMRO Bank N.V. has put in place arrangements to mitigate the risks of such contingent liability and received collateral from RBS Plc amounting to EUR 1,848 million (2014: EUR 949 million). ABN AMRO Bank N.V. did not post any Risk, funding & capital Report collateral with RBS N.V. or RBS Plc. On 7 August 2008, the EC Remedy part of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. was demerged to New HBU II N.V. (the ‘2008 Demerger’), giving rise to cross-liabilities similar to the cross-liabilities as described above. If ABN AMRO Bank N.V. fails to perform its obligations existing at the date of the 2008 Demerger, New HBU II N.V. is liable for the performance; if New HBU II N.V. fails to perform its obligations existing at the date of the 2008 Demerger, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. is liable. On 1 April 2010, New HBU II N.V. was transferred to Deutsche Bank AG and renamed Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V. As a result of the cross-liabilities described above, if RBS N.V. or ABN AMRO Bank Governance Report N.V. fails to perform its obligations existing at the date of the 2008 Demerger, Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V. is liable for the performance. Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V.’s contingent liability in this regard is limited to EUR 950 million. On 27 September 2014, pursuant to a put option exercised by Deutsche Bank AG, the assets and liabilities of Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V., apart from the cross-liabilities created as a result of the 2008 Demerger, were demerged into a newly incorporated subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG (the ‘2014 Demerger’). Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V. was subsequently acquired by ABN AMRO Bank and renamed Sumsare N.V. As a consequence, Annual Financial Statements Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V.’s contingent liability under the 2008 Demerger is now held by Sumsare N.V., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Deutsche Bank AG indemnified Sumsare N.V. for any claims (including cross-liabilities) in connection with the 2014 Demerger. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 452 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 34 Related parties Parties related to ABN AMRO include NLFI with control, the Dutch State with significant influence, Strategic Report associates, pension funds, joint ventures, the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board, close family members of any person referred to above, entities controlled or significantly influenced by any person referred to above and any other related entities. ABN AMRO has applied the partial exemption for government-related entities as described in IAS 24 paragraphs 25-27. As part of its business operations, ABN AMRO frequently enters into transactions with related parties. Transactions conducted with the Dutch State are limited to normal banking transactions, Business Report taxation and other administrative relationships with the exception of items specifically disclosed in this note. Normal banking transactions relate to loans and deposits and are entered into under the same commercial and market terms that apply to non-related parties. Total outstanding loans and advances to members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO amounted to EUR 4.4 million in 2015 (2014: EUR 5.8 million; 2013: EUR 6.1 million). The outstanding loans and advances to members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Risk, funding & capital Report mainly consist of residential mortgages granted under standard personnel conditions. Other loans and advances are granted under client conditions (further information is provided in the Remuneration report). Credits, loans and bank guarantees in the ordinary course of business may be granted by ABN AMRO companies to executive managers or to close family members of Board members and close family members of executive managers. At 31 December 2015, there were no outstanding credits, loans or bank guarantees, other than the ones included in the ordinary course of business noted above. Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 453 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Balances with joint ventures, associates and other (in millions) Joint ventures Associates Other Total Strategic Report 31 December 2015 Assets 15 364 379 Liabilities 232 991 1,222 Guarantees given 15 15 Guarantees received 9 38 47 Irrevocable facilities 28 28 Business Report 2015 Income received 35 46 81 Expenses paid 15 9 281 305 31 December 2014 Assets 20 325 345 Liabilities 161 749 910 Guarantees given 16 16 Risk, funding & capital Report Guarantees received 2 42 44 Irrevocable facilities 40 40 2014 Income received 33 47 80 Expenses paid1 15 10 247 272 31 December 2013 Assets 13 372 385 Liabilities 178 2,156 357 2,691 Guarantees received 2 42 44 Guarantees given Irrevocable facilities 22 22 Governance Report 2013 Income received 34 46 80 Expenses paid 14 9 241 264 1 Expenses paid in the column Other are adjusted in 2014 reflecting pension expenses. Liabilities with Associates increased by EUR 242 million as of 31 December 2015 compared with Annual Financial Statements 2014 due to higher balances with financial institutions. Expenses paid with Other parties for 2015 were higher compared with 2014 due to increased pension expenses as a result of lower discount rates (EUR 34 million). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 454 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Balances with the Dutch State1 (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Strategic Report Assets: Financial assets held for trading 423 897 1,262 Derivatives1 1,891 2,267 1,448 Financial investments available for sale 6,540 6,884 5,666 Loans and receivables customers 882 1,606 377 Other assets 99 22 30 Business Report Liabilities: Derivatives1 2,641 3,794 1,751 Due to customers 1,811 1,968 2,247 Financial liabilities held for trading1 204 573 541 Subordinated loans 1,654 1,654 2015 2014 2013 Income statement: Risk, funding & capital Report Interest income 150 147 142 Interest expense 107 106 112 Net trading income -8 1 64 Net fee and commission income 1 -3 -26 Other income1 1 2 1 As from 2015 Derivatives, Financial liabilities held for trading and Other income are shown. The 2014 and 2013 figures have been adjusted accordingly. Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) is still the legal owner of specific Consortium shared assets and liabilities. This means that these assets and liabilities are for the risk and reward of RBS, Santander and the Dutch State as the shareholder of RFS Holdings B.V. On 1 April 2010, ABN AMRO signed an indemnity agreement with the Dutch State for a shortfall in capital above a certain amount related Governance Report to specific assets and liabilities of RFS Holdings. Transactions and balances related to taxation are included in note 10 Income tax expense, tax assets and tax liabilities. Most of the tax items in this note consist of transactions and balances with the Dutch tax authorities. The regulatory charges Bank tax, NRF (National Resolution Fund) and DGS (Deposit Guarantee Annual Financial Statements Scheme) are included in note 9 General and administrative expenses. Financial assets held for trading decreased mainly as a result of lower Dutch government bonds, as a result of primary dealership in the Netherlands and of client facilitation. Most of these contracts are hedged with short positions in government bonds. Due to customers decreased by EUR 0.2 billion as of 31 December 2015 compared with year-end 2014, due to the redemption of part of the loan (including accrued interest) acquired from the Dutch State related to Ageas on 3 October 2008. Subordinated loans to the Dutch State were fully redeemed in July 2015 (EUR 1.6 billion). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 455 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Derivatives related to both Assets and Liabilities decreased by EUR 0.8 billion as of 31 December 2015 compared with the previous year mainly due to lower lending positions of the Dutch State. Strategic Report Derivatives transactions with the Dutch State are related to the normal course of business. 35 Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory Board Remuneration of Managing Board ABN AMRO’s remuneration policy was formally approved by shareholders and adopted Business Report by the Supervisory Board. The remuneration package for the Managing Board consists of the following components: ÅÅ annual base salary; ÅÅ benefits and other entitlements; ÅÅ severance payments. Risk, funding & capital Report The following statement summarises the income components for the individual Managing Board members for the year 2015. 2015 RepayRepayTotal Temporary ment ment recogTempory Variable Total pension fixed tempopost-emnised in Base fixed remunerarelated Severance income rary fixed ployment profit and salary1 income2 tion3 contribitions4 payments repayment2 Total income pension loss Post Short-term employee allowances (In thousands) pension (4a) (4b) G. Zalm 767 31 252 1,050 1,050 Governance Report J. van Hall 614 31 195 840 -100 -28 712 C. van Dijkhuizen 614 31 154 799 -100 -30 669 C.E. Princen 614 31 195 840 -100 -32 708 W. Reehoorn 614 31 195 840 -100 -28 712 C.F.H.H. Vogelzang 614 31 195 840 -100 -28 712 J.G. Wijn 614 31 195 840 -100 -31 709 Total 4,451 217 1,381 6,049 -600 -177 5,272 Annual Financial Statements 1 The 2015 base salary includes 1% salary adjustment in accordance with the developments in the collective labour agreement for the banking industry (“CAO Banken”) 2 Allowance during the applicability of the Bonus Prohibition Act. The Board members who were eligible for this pensionable allowance decided to forego this entitlement retroactively to 2014 and for the future; the allowance that they received in 2014 was paid back to the bank. 3 As a consequence of the applicability of the Bonus Prohibition Act the Managing Board members are not entitled to receive variable compensation. This prohibition has applied since the performance year 2011. 4 The Managing Board members participate in the Group’s pension plans as applicable to employees in the Netherlands. Total pension related contributions as applicable as of 2015 refer to (4a) the employer contribution to the pension fund (for the CDC pension scheme for pensionable income up to EUR 100,000) and (4b) the arrangement in accordance with the ABN AMRO collective labour agreement (“ABN AMRO CAO”). Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 456 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 2014 corrected Tempory Temporary Total pension related costs corrected Strategic Report Base fixed fixed income Variable for the pension related contributions Severance salary income1 repayment1,3 remuneration2 to the temporary fixed income1, 3, 4 payments Total G. Zalm 759 303 1,062 J. van Hall 608 100 -100 194 802 C. van Dijkhuizen 608 100 -100 184 792 C.E. Princen 608 100 -100 220 828 W. Reehoorn 608 100 -100 196 804 C.F.H.H. Vogelzang 608 100 -100 198 806 Business Report J.G. Wijn 608 100 -100 223 831 Total 4,407 600 -600 1,518 5,925 2014 as published in Annual Report 2014 Temporary Base fixed income Variable Severance salary repayment1 remuneration2 Pension costs4 payments Total Risk, funding & capital Report G. Zalm 759 303 1,062 J. van Hall 608 100 222 930 C. van Dijkhuizen 608 100 214 922 C.E. Princen 608 100 252 960 W. Reehoorn 608 100 224 932 C.F.H.H. Vogelzang 608 100 226 934 J.G. Wijn 608 100 254 962 Total 4,407 600 1,695 6,702 1 Allowance during the applicability of the Bonus Prohibition Act. The Board members who were eligible for this pensionable allowance decided to forego this entitlement retroactively to 2014 and for the future; the allowance that they received in 2014 was paid back to the bank. 2 As a consequence of the applicability of the Bonus Prohibition Act the Managing Board members are not entitled to receive variable compensation. This prohibition has applied since the performance year 2011. 3 The pension contributions related to the temporary fixed allowance were included in the originally tabled Pension Costs 2014 and have been corrected as a consequence of the repayment of the 2014 temporary fixed allowance. Governance Report 4 Pension costs exclusively comprise service costs for the year computed on the basis of the amended pension accounting standard IAS 19 (for the DB pension scheme until 12 June 2014) and employer contribution to the pension fund (for the CDC pension scheme as of 12 June 2014). Loans from ABN AMRO to Managing Board members The following table summarises outstanding loans to the members of the Managing Board at 31 December. 2015 2014 Annual Financial Statements Outstanding Outstanding (In thousands) 31 December Interest rate 31 December Interest rate G. Zalm C. van Dijkhuizen 308 2.8% J. van Hall 69 3.5% 69 3.5% C.E. Princen 794 3.0% 810 3.2% W. Reehoorn 1,429 3.8% 1,429 3.8% C.F.H.H. Vogelzang 1,415 1.9% 1,426 2.1% J.G. Wijn 650 1.8% 761 2.1% Remuneration of the Supervisory Board Other The following statement summarises the income components for the individual Supervisory Board members. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 457 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction (In thousands) 20151 20141 D.J.M.G. van Slingelandt2 91 91 Strategic Report J.H.M. Lindenbergh3 28 H.P. de Haan 78 78 S. ten Have 62 60 A. Meerstadt 65 63 M.J. Oudeman4 54 68 J.M. Roobeek 63 63 P.N. Wakkie5 19 75 O.L. Zoutendijk6 77 38 Business Report Total 507 564 1 Remuneration amounts excluding VAT. 2 D.J.M.G. van Slingelandt was appointed as Chairman of the Supervisory Board as of 10 April 2014. 3 J.H.M. Lindenbergh stepped down as Chairman and member of the Supervisory Board as of 10 April 2014. 4 M.J. Oudeman stepped down as member of the Supervisory Board as of 30 September 2015. 5 P.N. Wakkie stepped down as member of the Supervisory Board as of 1 April 2015. 6 O.L. Zoutendijk was appointed to the Supervisory Board as of 1 July 2014. Loans from ABN AMRO to Supervisory Board members Risk, funding & capital Report The following table summarises the outstanding loans to the members of the Supervisory Board at 31 December. 2015 2014 (In thousands) Outstanding loan Interest Outstanding loan Interest S. ten Have1 600 3.8% 600 3.8% J.M. Roobeek1 1,850 4.0% 1,850 4.0% P.N. Wakkie 2 971 4.3% 1 The loans to J.M. Roobeek and S. ten Have were not included in this table in 2014; these have been retrospectively corrected in 2015. 2 P.N. Wakkie stepped down as member of the Supervisory Board as of 1 April 2015. Governance Report 36 Employee share option and share purchase plans No employee share option plans were in place for the years 2015, 2014 and 2013. 37 Statutory financial statements of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Annual Financial Statements Accounting policies The company financial statements of ABN AMRO Group N.V. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements in Title 9 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. ABN AMRO Group N.V. prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU IFRS). ABN AMRO Group N.V. applies the exemption as included in section 2:362 paragraph 8. Participating interests in group companies are valued at net asset value determined on the basis of EU IFRS. The share in the results of participating interests in group companies is reported in accordance with the principles of valuation and profit determination that apply to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Reference is made to the accounting policies section in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the respective notes. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 458 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in euros, which is the presentation currency of Strategic Report the company, rounded to the nearest million (unless otherwise stated). The Statement of comprehensive income has been drawn up in accordance with Section 402, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Statement of comprehensive income ABN AMRO Group N.V. Business Report (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Income: Share in result from participating interests after taxation 1,919 1,134 1,162 Profit/(loss) for the period 1,919 1,134 1,162 Other comprehensive income 416 501 154 Total comprehensive income/expense for the year 2,335 1,635 1,316 Risk, funding & capital Report Share in result from participating interests after taxation increased by EUR 785 million in 2015. Other comprehensive income decreased to EUR 416 million in 2015 (2014: EUR 501 million). The decrease (EUR 85 million) in 2015 compared with 2014 was mainly due to a decrease of unrealised gains and losses. Statement of financial position ABN AMRO Group N.V. (before appropriation of profit) (in millions) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Governance Report Assets Participating interest in Group companies 17,568 14,865 13,555 Total assets 17,568 14,865 13,555 Equity Share capital 940 940 940 Share premium 12,970 12,970 12,970 Other reserves (incl. retained earnings/profit for the period) 2,038 744 3,534 Reserve participation 1,620 211 -3,889 Annual Financial Statements Total equity 17,568 14,865 13,555 Total liabilities and equity 17,568 14,865 13,555 Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 459 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Statement of changes in equity ABN AMRO Group N.V. Strategic Report Other reserves Share premium including retained Reserve (in millions) Share capital reserve earnings participation Total Balance at 1 January 2013 1,015 13,105 2,787 -4,043 12,864 Total comprehensive income 1,162 154 1,316 Dividend -412 -412 Increase/(decrease) of capital -75 -135 -3 -213 Balance at 31 December 2013 940 12,970 3,534 -3,889 13,555 Business Report Total comprehensive income1 1,134 501 1,635 Dividend -325 -325 Increase/(decrease) of capital Reclassification post-employment benefit plan1 -3,599 3,599 Balance at 31 December 2014 940 12,970 744 211 14,865 Risk, funding & capital Report Total comprehensive income 1,919 416 2,335 Dividend -625 -625 Increase of capital 993 993 Balance at 31 December 2015 940 12,970 2,038 1,620 17,568 1 Reclassification of EUR 3,599 million (EUR 4,799 million gross and EUR 1,200 tax) from Remeasurement gains/(losses) to Other reserves including retained earnings following the change of pension scheme. Reserve participation includes currency translation reserve, available-for-sale reserve and cash flow hedge reserve, which are non-distributable reserves. Other reserves including retained earnings also includes legal reserves for participating interests of Governance Report EUR 48 million (2014: EUR 75 million) which relates to profits retained form participating interests. The legal reserve is calculated in accordance with the collective method. Legal reserves are nondistributable reserves. Legal reserves also include a reserve for the positive revaluation of financial instruments through the income statement that are not traded on an active market, in accordance with Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW2, article 390(1)). If and to the extent that increases in the value of such Annual Financial Statements assets must be included in a revaluation reserve, the net amount in unrealised changes in fair value as at December 2015, 2014 and 2013 did not give ABN AMRO Group N.V. reason to form a revaluation reserve. Total comprehensive income includes EUR 1,919 million profit for 2015, compared with EUR 1,134 million for 2014. The total dividend for 2014 was EUR 400 million. A final dividend of EUR 275 million was paid to ordinary shareholders in 2015 (an interim dividend of EUR 125 million was paid out in 2014). For 2015, an interim dividend of EUR 350 million was paid to ordinary shareholders in August 2015. The total dividend paid out in 2015 was EUR 625 million. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 460 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction Participating interests in group companies ABN AMRO Group N.V. has one subsidiary, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. ABN AMRO Group N.V. is Strategic Report the sole shareholder of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Movements in participating interests in group companies are shown in the following table. (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Balance as at 1 January 14,865 13,555 12,864 Increase/(decrease) of capital 993 -213 Business Report Result from participating interests 1,919 1,134 1,162 Dividend upstream -625 -325 -412 Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans -2 -135 -218 Currency translation 101 100 -69 Available for sale 144 270 35 Cash flow hedge 166 244 406 Share of OCI of associates and joint Risk, funding & capital Report ventures 11 17 4 Other -4 5 -4 Other comprehensive income 416 501 154 Balance as at 31 December 17,568 14,865 13,555 Issued capital and reserves As at 31 December 2015, the authorised share capital of ABN AMRO Group N.V. amounted to EUR 4.7 billion distributed over 4,500,000,000 ordinary shares and 200,000,000 class B ordinary shares. Governance Report All shares have a nominal value of EUR 1.00 each and each share entitles the shareholder to one vote per share. As at 31 December 2015, issued and paid-up capital by ABN AMRO Group N.V. consisted of 940,000,001 ordinary shares (EUR 940 million). Issued guarantees Annual Financial Statements For a few group companies established in the Netherlands, general guarantees have been issued within the scope of Article 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code by ABN AMRO Group N.V. for an amount of EUR 186.2 billion (2014: EUR 193.5 billion). Other information provides a list of the major subsidiaries and associated companies of ABN AMRO Group N.V. for which a general guarantee has been issued. Fiscal unity ABN AMRO Group N.V. forms a fiscal unity with several Dutch subsidiaries for corporate income tax purposes. All the members of the fiscal unity become jointly and severally liable for the corporate income tax liabilities of the fiscal unity. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 461 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Notes to the Annual Financial Statements Introduction 38 Post balance sheet events There have been no significant events between the year-end and the date of approval of these Strategic Report accounts which would require a change to or disclosure in the accounts. Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 462 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Other information Introduction Other information Strategic Report Major subsidiaries and participating interests The following table shows the Branches, major subsidiaries and participating interests at 31 December 2015. ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands Business Report Retail banking ABN AMRO Hypotheken Groep B.V.1 Amersfoort, The Netherlands ALFAM Holding N.V.1 Bunnik, The Netherlands APG ABN AMRO Pensioeninstelling N.V. 70% Amsterdam, The Netherlands Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Verzekeringen Holding B.V. 49% Zwolle, The Netherlands International Card Services B.V.1 Diemen, The Netherlands MoneYou B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands Risk, funding & capital Report Private banking ABN AMRO Bank (Luxembourg) S.A. Luxembourg, Luxembourg ABN AMRO Life Capital Belgium N.V. Brussels, Belgium ABN AMRO Life S.A. Luxembourg, Luxembourg ABN AMRO Social Impact Investments B.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Social Impact Fund B.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO (Guernsey) Ltd St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands Banque Neuflize OBC S.A. 99.86% Paris, France Bethmann Bank A.G. Frankfurt am Main, Germany Bethmann Liegenschaft K.G. 50% Frankfurt am Main, Germany Cofiloisirs S.A. 45% Paris, France Governance Report Neuflize Vie S.A. 60% Paris, France Triodos MeesPierson Sustainable Investment Management B.V. 50% Zeist, The Netherlands Corporate banking ABN AMRO Capital USA LLC New York, USA ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Clearing Chicago LLC Chicago, USA ABN AMRO Clearing Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong, China ABN AMRO Clearing Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore, Singapore Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO Clearing Sydney Pty Sydney, Australia ABN AMRO Clearing Tokyo Ltd Tokyo, Japan ABN AMRO Commercial Finance Holding B.V.1 s-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Commercial Finance (UK) Ltd Haywards Heath, United Kingdom ABN AMRO Commercial Finance GmbH Köln, Germany ABN AMRO Commercial Finance N.V.1 s-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Commercial Finance S.A. Paris, France ABN AMRO Effecten Compagnie B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Groenbank B.V. 1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Investment Holding B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Jonge Bedrijven Fonds B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands Other ABN AMRO Lease N.V.1 Utrecht, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Participaties Fund I B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Participaties NPE Fund N.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 463 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Other information Introduction ABN AMRO Securities USA LLC New York, USA Aline Holding S.A. 50% Majuro, Marshall Islands Alma Maritime Ltd 42% Majuro, Marshall Islands Strategic Report Attema B.V. 93% Gorinchem, The Netherlands Banco ABN AMRO S.A. São Paulo, Brazil Bass Drill Alpha Ltd 26% Hamilton, Bermuda Car Carriers Management B.V. 50% Breskens, The Netherlands CM Bulk Ltd 50% Nassau, Bahamas Edda Accommodation Holding AS 20% Oslo, Norway European Merchant Services B.V. 49% Diemen, The Netherlands Business Report European Central Counterparty N.V. 25% Amsterdam, The Netherlands Graig MCI Ltd 49% Cardiff, United Kingdom Holland Ventures B.V. 45% Amsterdam, The Netherlands ICE Clear Netherlands B.V. 25% Amsterdam, The Netherlands Iceman IS 39% Oslo, Norway Icestar B.V. Rotterdam, The Netherlands Maas Capital Investments B.V.1 Rotterdam, The Netherlands Maas Capital Offshore B.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands Risk, funding & capital Report MP Solar B.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands Poseidon Containers Holdings LLC 6% Majuro, Marshall Islands Principal Finance Investments Holding B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands Richmont Preferente aandelen C B.V. 50% Amsterdam, The Netherlands Safe Ship Investment Company S.C.A. SICAR 48% Luxembourg, Luxembourg Group Functions ABN AMRO Arbo Services B.V.1 Amsterdam, The Netherlands ABN AMRO Funding USA LLC New York, USA ABN AMRO Holding International AG Zug, Switzerland ABN AMRO Holdings USA LLC New York, USA Currence Holding B.V. Amsterdam, The Netherlands Governance Report 36% Equens S.E. 18% Utrecht, The Netherlands Geldservices Nederland B.V. 33% Amsterdam, The Netherlands Nederlandse Financieringsmij voor Ontwikkelingslanden N.V. 20% Den Haag, The Netherlands Stater N.V. Amersfoort, The Netherlands Branches/Representative Offices ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (Belgium) Branch Berchem, Belgium ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (Hong Kong) Branch Hong Kong, China Annual Financial Statements ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (Jersey) Branch St Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (Norway) Branch Oslo, Norway ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (Singapore) Branch Singapore, Singapore ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (UAE/DIFC) Branch Dubai, United Arabic Emirates ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (UK) Branch London, United Kingdom ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Branch Spain Marbella, Spain ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Frankfurt Branch Frankfurt am Main, Germany ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Shanghai Branch Shanghai, China ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Representative Office (Dubai Multi Commodities Centre) Dubai, United Arabic Emirates ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Representative Office Greece Piraeus, Greece Other ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Representative Office Moscow Moscow, Russia ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Representative Office New York New York, USA ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Representative Office Shanghai Shanghai, China ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 464 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Other information Introduction ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V. (Singapore) Branch Singapore, Singapore ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V. (UK) Branch London, United Kingdom ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V. Frankfurt Branch Frankfurt am Main, Germany Strategic Report ABN AMRO Lease N.V. (UK) Branch London, United Kingdom ABN AMRO Lease N.V. Branch Deutschland Frankfurt am Main, Germany International Card Services B.V. Branch Deutschland Düsseldorf, Germany 1 A statement of liability within the meaning of Article 403, subsection 1, paragraph f, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been issued for these companies. The interest is 100%, unless otherwise stated. Business Report The full list of participating interests as referred to in Article 414, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been filed with the Trade Register. Provisions of the Articles of Association concerning profit appropriation The provisions regarding the reservation and distribution of profits are included in Article 10 of Risk, funding & capital Report the Articles of Association. In accordance with the reserve and dividend policy and subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, the Managing Board proposes to the General Meeting of Shareholders which part of the profit is to be reserved. The remainder of the profit will be at the free disposal of the General Meeting of Shareholders, pursuant to a proposal to this end by the Management Board, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. ABN AMRO announced its dividend policy in September 2015, which targets a payout ratio of 40% of the reported net annual profit for 2015 to 50% of the 2017 net profit. This target was increased based on the expected strong capital generation, while allowing for a further build-up of capital. Even though ABN AMRO remains well capitalised under Basel III, the bank would like to further build up Governance Report additional capital buffers in order to execute its strategic ambitions and manage the impact of new regulations (Basel IV). An interim dividend of EUR 350 million was paid on 27 August 2015. Any distribution of dividend remains discretionary and deviations from the above policy may be proposed by the bank. Annual Financial Statements In accordance with Article 38.4 of the Articles of Association, the Managing Board proposes, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, paying out a final dividend of EUR 414 million on the shares of 2015. As a result, the Managing Board proposes to the shareholders to pay out 40% (EUR 764 million) of the net reported profit of 2015 as dividend on the shares, with a dividend amount of EUR 0.81 per share. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 465 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Strategic Report Independent auditor’s report To: the General Meeting of Shareholders and the Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Business Report Report on the audit of the annual financial statements 2015 Opinion In our opinion: • the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of ABN AMRO Group N.V. as at 31 December 2015, and of its result and its cash flows for the year 2015 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code; Risk, funding & capital Report • the statutory financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of ABN AMRO Group N.V. as at 31 December 2015, and of its result for the year 2015 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. What we have audited We have audited the financial statements 2015 of ABN AMRO Group N.V., based in Amsterdam. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the statutory financial statements. The consolidated financial statements comprise: 1 the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015; 2 the consolidated income statement; 3 the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended; and 4 the notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory Governance Report information. The statutory financial statements comprise: 1 the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015; 2 the statement of comprehensive income and statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and 3 the notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Annual Financial Statements Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of ABN AMRO Group N.V. in accordance with the Regulation regarding the independence of auditors in case of assurance engagements (‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO)) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the Regulation code of conduct and professional practice for auditors (‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA)). We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Other KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’), a Swiss entity. 904621/16W00141114AVN ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 466 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Audit approach Strategic Report Summary • Overall materiality of EUR 50 million Business Report • 1.8% of operating profit before taxation • Impairments of • Coverage of 89% of Total assets loans & receivables and 87% of Net Risk, funding & capital Report • Fair value of financial result instruments • Included 53 • Litigation & claims components • IT Materiality Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. Based on our professional judgement we determined the materiality for the financial statements for the Group as a whole at EUR 50 million with reference to a primary benchmark of operating profit Governance Report before taxation 1.8% (2014: EUR 50 million). We have applied this benchmark based on our assessment of the general information needs of users of the financial statements. We believe that operating profit before tax is a relevant metric for assessment of the financial performance of the Group. Given the relatively high balance sheet total and gross income, we have not taken these alternative benchmarks into consideration. We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for qualitative reasons for the users of the financial statements, such as possible misstatements in the information on Board remuneration disclosures. Our audits of the components were performed in most instances to materiality levels based on the local statutory accounts which are considerably lower than the materiality for the financial statements Annual Financial Statements as a whole. In the other cases, based on our judgement we set the materiality for the audits at components at levels that we deemed appropriate for the circumstances with a maximum of EUR 37.5 million, having regard to the materiality for the financial statements for the Group as a whole and the reporting structure within the Group. We agreed with the Supervisory Board that all unadjusted misstatements in excess of EUR 2 million, which are identified during the audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative grounds. Other 2 904621/16W00141114AVN ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 467 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Scope of the group audit Strategic Report ABN AMRO Group N.V. is the parent company of the Group. The financial information of this group is included in the consolidated financial statements of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Business Report We scoped components of ABN AMRO Group N.V. into the group audit where they are of significant size or have significant risks to the group. Where this does not give adequate coverage we used our judgement to scope-in additional components. Applying these scoping criteria led to a full scope audit for 53 components, in total covering 6 countries. This resulted in coverage of 87.1% of net results and 89.3% of total assets. The remaining 12.9% of net results and 10.7% of total assets results from a significant number of components, none of which individually represented more than 3% of net results or total assets. For these remaining components, we performed specified audit procedures on significant risk areas such as legal claims and the tax position. Those procedures include among other inquiries with management, inspection of available documentation, testing of management’s assumptions, other Risk, funding & capital Report substantive procedures. Furthermore, we performed analytical procedures at the aggregated group level on the remaining components in order to corroborate our assessment that there are no significant risks of material misstatement within these remaining components. All components in scope for group reporting are audited by KPMG member firms. We sent detailed instructions to all component auditors, covering significant areas including the relevant risks of material misstatement and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team. We visited component locations in Chicago, Brussels, Luxembourg and Paris where we performed detailed file reviews. Conference calls and/or physical meetings were held with the auditors of the components in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and the United States of America. At these visits, meetings and calls, the planning, risk assessment, procedures performed, findings and observations reported to the group auditor were discussed in more detail and any further work deemed necessary by the group audit team was then performed. The consolidation of the group, the disclosures in the financial statements and certain accounting topics that are performed at group level are audited by the group audit team. The accounting matters Governance Report on which audit procedures are performed by the group audit team include, but are not limited to, assessment of the use of the going concern assumption, goodwill impairment testing, equity, group financing, corporate income tax for the Dutch fiscal unity, employee benefits and claims and litigations. By performing the procedures above at components, together with additional procedures at group level, we have obtained sufficient and appropriate audit evidence about the Group’s financial information to provide an opinion on the financial statements. Total assets 11% Profit before tax 13% Annual Financial Statements 2% 7% 80% Full scope audits Full scope audits 87% Audit procedures at group level Audit procedures at group level Out of scope Out of scope Other 3 904621/16W00141114AVN ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 468 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Our key audit matters Strategic Report Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit on the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Business Report Estimation uncertainty with respect to impairment losses on loans and receivables Description Certain aspects of the accounting for loan losses require significant judgement of management, such as the identification of loans that are deteriorating, the assessment of objective evidence for impairment, the assessment of the recoverable amount and the value of collateral. Due to the significance of loans and receivables (representing 70% of total assets) and the related estimation uncertainty, we consider this a key audit matter. The portfolios which give rise to the greatest estimation uncertainty are typically those with exposures that are unsecured or are subject to potential cash flow or collateral shortfalls. Refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements section in Note 1 on the Financial Statements and Risk, funding & capital Report related disclosures of credit risk within the Risk sections of the Managing Board Report. Our response Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over the approval, recording and monitoring of loans and advances, and evaluating the methodologies, inputs and assumptions used in determining and calculating the impairment for loan losses. We have been able to rely on these controls for our audit. Our audit procedures included, among others, a comprehensive testing of the Group’s credit management and credit monitoring procedures with an emphasis on internal controls on the timely recognition and measurement of impairments. In 2015, we continued to pay particular attention to collective impairment methodologies, focusing specifically on the Dutch mortgage portfolio and other retail lending exposures due to their relative size and the potential impact of changing inputs and assumptions. We tested the sufficiency of the models, assumptions and data used by the Group to measure loan loss impairments for these portfolios of loans with the assistance of our own credit risk modelling and valuation specialists. Likewise we have tested with the assistance of our specialists the models, assumptions and data used by the Group for the collective impairment for incurred but not identified loan losses, including the appropriateness of the loss emergence period as a critical factor used in these models. Governance Report We examined a selection of loan exposures that either continued to be, have become, or were at risk of being individually impaired. We applied professional judgement in selecting those exposures for our detailed inspection, placing an emphasis on portfolios that were potentially more sensitive to developing economic trends, including the ECT portfolio and exposures to commercial real estate, the retail sector and medium sized businesses. For each selected loan file we challenged management’s assessment of the recoverable amount, including the cash generating capacity and the value of realisable collateral, based on available financial information, market information and where applicable the analysis of alternative recovery scenario’s. Our examination of specific loan files included exposures managed by the financial recovery and restructuring department. Additionally, we assessed whether the financial statement disclosures appropriately reflect the Group’s exposure to credit risk, specifically considering those portfolios identified in 2015 as presenting the greatest risk. Our observation Annual Financial Statements Overall we assess that the assumptions used by management and related estimates resulted in a mildly cautious valuation of loans and receivables after deduction of loan loss impairments and concur with the related disclosures in the financial statements. Other 4 904621/16W00141114AVN ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 469 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Estimation uncertainty with respect to financial instruments measured at fair value Strategic Report Description The financial instruments that are measured at fair value are significant for the financial statements, such as derivatives, trading positions and available for sale investments. For financial instruments that are actively traded and for which quoted market prices or market parameters are available, there is high objectivity in the determination of fair values (level 1 instruments). However, when observable market prices or market parameters are not available the fair value is subject to significant estimation uncertainty. The fair value Business Report of those financial instruments (level 2 and level 3 instruments) is determined through the application of valuation techniques which often involve the exercise of judgement by management and the use of assumptions and estimates. At 31 December 2015, financial instruments carried at fair value represent 16.6% of total assets and 7.3% of total liabilities. Due to the related estimation uncertainty, this is considered a key audit matter. Estimation uncertainty is particularly high for those instruments where significant valuation inputs are unobservable in the financial markets (i.e. Level 3 instruments). In 2015, we have continued to focus on developments in derivative fair value methodologies and specifically on the credit, debit and funding fair value adjustments for the measurement of uncollateralised derivatives. Refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements section and disclosures of fair values in Notes 1 and 18 on the Financial Statements. Risk, funding & capital Report Our response Our audit procedures included an assessment of controls over the identification, measurement and management of valuation risk, and an evaluation of the methodologies, inputs and assumptions used by the Group in determining fair values. We have tested the level 1 fair valuations by comparing the fair values applied by the Group with publicly available market data. For the Group’s fair value models, we assessed the appropriateness of the models and inputs. We compared observable inputs against independent sources and externally available market data. For a sample of instruments with significant unobservable valuation inputs, with the assistance of our own valuation specialists, we assessed the assumptions and models used or reperformed an independent valuation assessment, by reference to what we considered to be available alternative methods and sensitivities to key factors. We also evaluated the methodology and inputs used by management in determining its credit value, debit value and funding value adjustments recorded on the uncollateralised derivatives portfolio and compared that against current market practice based on our experience of comparable institutions. Additionally, we assessed the appropriateness of the financial statement disclosures in Notes 1 and 18. Our observation Overall we assess that the assumptions used by management and related estimates resulted Governance Report in appropriate valuations and disclosures of financial instruments at fair value. Litigation, regulatory action and client care remediation Description The recognition and measurement of provisions and the measurement and disclosure of contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, regulatory action and client care remediation (together ‘legal matters’) require significant judgement. Due to the significance of these legal matters and the difficulty in assessing and measuring the amount from any resulting obligations, we consider this a key audit matter. In 2015, we paid particular attention to significant matters that experienced notable developments or that emerged during the period, including the SME derivatives remediation program and related litigation. Annual Financial Statements Refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements section and disclosures of provisions and contingent liabilities in Note 28 on the Financial Statements. Our response Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over the identification, evaluation and measurement of potential obligations arising from legal matters. For matters identified, we considered whether an obligation exists, the appropriateness of provisioning and/or disclosure based on the facts and circumstances available. In order to assess the facts and circumstances, we obtained and assessed the relevant regulatory and litigation documents, including lawyer’s letters and we interviewed the Group’s legal counsel. We also assessed the assumptions made and key judgements applied by management and considered possible alternative outcomes based on our own experience and knowledge of market information. Additionally we considered whether the Group’s disclosures of the application of judgement in estimating provisions and contingent liabilities adequately reflects the uncertainties associated with legal matters. Other 5 904621/16W00141114AVN ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 470 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Litigation, regulatory action and client care remediation Strategic Report Our observation Overall we assess the level of provisioning for claims in respect of legal matters and related disclosures as appropriate and concur with the disclosure of the contingent liabilities for claims and litigation in the financial statements. Business Report Reliability and continuity of the information technology and systems Description The Group is vitally dependent on its IT-infrastructure for the reliability and continuity of its operations and financial reporting In 2015 the Group again made significant investments in its IT systems and -processes to continuously improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the IT-infrastructure and the reliability and continuity of the IT processing. This includes the remediation of identified weaknesses and inefficiencies and to accommodate the ongoing regulatory changes imposed on the banking industry. We have therefore identified this as a key audit matter. Our response Risk, funding & capital Report Our IT auditors assessed the reliability and continuity of the IT environment, insofar as needed within the scope of our audit of the financial statements. Our procedures included the assessment of developments in the IT-domain and testing of the relevant internal controls with respect to IT-systems and processes. Insofar as relevant to our audit of the financial statements we also performed an assessment of the initiatives and measures of the Group in fighting cybercrime. Our observation In our reporting to the Group we provided recommendations for improvements to the IT-controls and related data quality initiatives as referred to in the report of the Audit Committee. Responsibilities of Managing Board and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements The Managing Board is responsible for: • the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Managing Board Report in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code; and Governance Report • such internal control as the Managing Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Managing Board is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, management should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Managing Board either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Managing Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. Annual Financial Statements Our responsibilities for the audit of financial statements Our objective is to plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion. Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors and fraud. For a further description of our responsibilities in respect of an audit of financial statements we refer to the website of the professional body for accountants in the Netherlands (NBA) www.nba.nl/standardtexts-auditorsreport. Other 6 904621/16W00141114AVN ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 471 Annual Financial Statements 2015 / Independent auditor’s report on financial statements Introduction Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Strategic Report Report on the Managing Board Report and the other information Pursuant to legal requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code (concerning our obligation to report about the Managing Board Report and Other information): • We have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination whether the Managing Board Report, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of Business Report the Netherlands Civil Code, and whether the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code has been annexed. • We report that the Managing Board Report, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial statements. Engagement We were engaged by the General Meeting of Shareholders as auditor of ABN AMRO Group N.V. on 1 April 2010 and have operated as statutory auditor ever since then. Starting 2016 the financial statements of ABN AMRO Group N.V. will be audited by another audit firm following our rotation as Risk, funding & capital Report external auditors. Amstelveen, 15 March 2016 KPMG Accountants N.V. D. Korf RA Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other 7 904621/16W00141114AVN ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 Introduction Strategic Report Business Report Risk, funding & capital Report Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other 472 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 ﻿Annual Financial Statements 2015﻿﻿ Introduction Other Strategic Report Other gives an overview of definitions of important terms and abbreviations used in the Annual Report. Enquiries and the Cautionary statements are included in Other. Business Report 474 484 Risk, funding & capital Report Independent auditor’s assurance report Cautionary statements 476 Definitions of important terms 485 Enquiries 482 Abbreviations Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other 474 Other / Independent auditor’s assurance report Introduction Strategic Report Independent auditor’s assurance report To: the readers of the Annual Report 2015 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Business Report Our conclusion We have reviewed the sustainability indicators marked with ‘<S>’ in the Annual Report 2015 (hereafter: The Selected Indicators) of ABN AMRO Group N.V. (hereafter: the Group). Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that The Selected Indicators are not presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the internally developed reporting criteria. Basis for our conclusion Risk, funding & capital Report We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3000:” Assurance Engagement other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. Our responsibilities under Standard 3000 and procedures performed have been further specified in the paragraph titled “Our responsibility for the review of The Selected Indicators”. We are independent of ABN AMRO Group N.V. in accordance with the Regulation regarding the independence of auditors in case of assurance engagements (‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO)) and other relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore we have complied with the Regulation code of conduct and professional practice for auditors (‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA)). We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Responsibilities of the Managing Board for the Selected Indicators The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation of the sustainability information in the Annual Report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative Governance Report supported by internally developed guidelines as described on the ABN AMRO Sustainable banking website. It is important to view the sustainability information in the Annual Report in the context of these criteria. We believe these criteria are suitable in view of the purpose of our assurance engagement. As part of this, the Managing Board is responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of The Selected Indicators that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our responsibility for the review of the Selected Indicators Our objective is to plan and perform the review assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain Annual Financial Statements sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion. We apply the Further Regulations for Audit Firms Regarding Assurance Engagements (‘Nadere voorschriften accountantskantoren ter zake van assurance opdrachten’) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our review engagement has been performed with a limited level of assurance. Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement are aimed at determining the plausibility of information and therefore vary in nature and timing from and are less extensive than a reasonable assurance engagement. Other 1 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 475 Other / Independent auditor’s assurance report Introduction The procedures selected depend on our understanding of The Selected Indicators and other Strategic Report engagement circumstances, and our consideration of areas where material misstatements are likely to arise. The following procedures were performed: • A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability issues for the Group in the reporting period. Business Report • Reviewing the suitability and application of the internal reporting criteria including conversion factors used in the preparation of The Selected Indicators and accompanying notes. • Evaluating the design and implementation of the reporting processes and the controls regarding The Selected Indicators. • Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate level responsible for sustainability management and reporting. • Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business level responsible for providing The Selected Indicators, carrying out internal control procedures on the data and consolidating The Selected Indicators. • Risk, funding & capital Report Evaluating internal and external documentation, based on sampling, to determine whether The Selected Indicators in the Annual Report are supported by sufficient evidence. • An analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all businesses for consolidation at group level as far related to The Selected Indicators. Amsterdam, 15 March 2016 KPMG Sustainability, Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. W.J. Bartels RA Governance Report Annual Financial Statements Other 2 ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 476 Other / Definitions of important terms Introduction Definitions of important terms ABN AMRO or the Group Basel I Strategic Report ABN AMRO Group N.V. incorporated on 18 December 2009 The Basel Capital Accord is the 1988 agreement among (‘ABN AMRO Group’ or ‘the Company’) and its the G10 central banks to apply common minimum capital consolidated subsidiaries. standards to the banking industry. Business Report ABN AMRO Bank Basel II ABN AMRO Bank N.V.. (formerly known as The Basel II Framework offers a new set of standards ‘ABN AMRO II N.V.’). for establishing minimum capital requirements for banks. It was prepared by the Basel Committee on Banking Absolute sensitivity Supervision. The absolute sensitivity adds up the different positions on the yield curve, regardless of whether they are positive or Basel III Risk, funding & capital Report negative. It measures the absolute interest rate position. The third set of Basel accords, which was developed in response to the financial crisis of the late 2000’s. Additional Tier 1 Capital securities The Basel III standards include higher and better-quality Unsecured, perpetual and deeply subordinated securities. capital, better risk coverage and the introduction of a maximum leverage ratio Advanced Internal Ratings Based (AIRB) The highest and most detailed level of credit risk Basis point (bp) calculation for determining capital adequacy levels One hundredth of 1 percentage point. under Basel II, based on the use of internal models to assess risk. Capital adequacy Governance Report Measure of a company’s financial strength, often Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) expressed in equity as a percentage of balance sheet The highest and most detailed level of operational total or – for banks – in the BIS ratio. risk calculation for determining capital adequacy levels under Basel II, based on the use of internal models to Capital markets products assess risk. Sales and distribution of primary equity and debt capital markets products and making a market in long-term Ageas Annual Financial Statements and short-term debt. Refers to ageas SA/NV (formerly known as Fortis SA/NV) and ageas N.V. (formerly known as Fortis N.V.) together. Cash and balances at central banks This item includes all cash and only credit balances Article 403 with central banks that are available on demand. Section 2:403 of the Dutch Civil Code, which states that companies that are part of a consolidating group entity Certificate of deposit (CD) may publish limited annual accounts if the parent company, Certificate of deposit is an unsecured short-term funding among other things, assumes joint and several liability instrument with maturities up to one year. for all liabilities of the group company. Clearing Other Asset Quality Review (AQR) Refers to the clearing businesses of ABN AMRO. Extensive review of asset quality performed by the ECB as part of a comprehensive assessment. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 477 Other / Definitions of important terms Introduction Client assets Covered bonds Assets, including investment funds and assets of private Covered bonds (CB) are secured long-term funding Strategic Report individuals and institutions, which are professionally instruments. This type of bond differs from a standard managed with the aim of maximising the investment bond by recourse to a pool of assets. In a default event, result. Client assets also include cash and securities the bondholder has recourse to the issuer and this pool of clients held on accounts with ABN AMRO of assets. Commercial paper (CP) Credit rating Commercial paper is an unsecured short-term funding Assessment of a credit rating agency expressed in Business Report instrument with maturities up to one year. a combination of letters and/or figures indicating the creditworthiness of a country, company or institution. Consortium Refers to The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Credit risk (‘RBS Group’), Ageas and Banco Santander S.A. Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss that occurs (‘Santander’), which jointly acquired ABN AMRO Holding if a client or counterparty fails to meet the terms of on 17 October 2007 through RFS Holdings B.V. a contract or otherwise fails to perform as agreed. Risk, funding & capital Report (‘RFS Holdings’). On 3 October 2008 the State of the Netherlands became the successor of Ageas. Credit valuation adjustments Market value adjustments for counterparty credit risk. Core Tier 1 ratio The bank’s core capital, excluding preference shares, Customer Excellence expressed as a percentage of total risk exposure amount. A new way of working being implemented at ABN AMRO, which is based on lean management principles. Cost of risk The cost of risk is defined as annualised impairment Defaulted exposures charges on loans and other receivables, divided by average Exposures for which there are indicators that a Governance Report loans and receivables customers. counterparty may not be able to meet its contractual obligations and/or when an exposure is more than 90 days Country risk past due. Country risk is part of credit risk and is defined as the risk of losses due to country-specific events or circumstances Derivatives (political, social, economic) relevant for credit exposures Financial instruments whose value is derived from the that are cross-border in nature. price of one or several underlying assets (e.g. currencies, Annual Financial Statements securities, indices). Coverage ratio The coverage ratio shows to which extent the impaired Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) exposures are covered by impairment allowances for A family of benchmarks, performed by RobecoSAM, identified credit risk. for investors who believe sustainable business practices may lead to long-term shareholder value. Credit equivalent Sum of the costs of replacement transactions Duration of equity (when counterparties fail to fulfil their obligations) and Duration of equity indicates the sensitivity of the market the potential future credit risk, reflected in a mark-up value of equity to a 1% parallel change in the yield curve. percentage on the principal of the contract. The mark-up The targeted interest risk profile results in a limit of the Other percentage depends on the nature and remaining term duration of equity between 0 and 7 years. of the contract. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 478 Other / Definitions of important terms Introduction Dutch State Global Sustainability Risk Index (GSRI) Refers to the State of the Netherlands. A tool that is used to assess credit applications on Strategic Report environmental, social and ethical (ESE) aspects. Earnings per share Profit for the period excluding coupons attributable to AT 1 Goodwill Capital securities and results attributable to non-controlling The difference between the purchase price of a interests divided by the average outstanding and paid-up participation and the fair value of the individual net assets ordinary shares. and liabilities. Business Report Economic capital Green bond An estimate of the amount of capital that the bank should A product that enables investors to invest in mortgages possess in order to be able to sustain larger-than-expected of highly energy-efficient homes, loans for solar panels losses with a given level of certainty. on existing homes and sustainable commercial property. Economic profit ​Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Net profit after tax less risk-adjusted cost of capital. A reporting framework that provides metrics and methods Risk, funding & capital Report for measuring and reporting sustainability-related impacts Economic value and performance. The value of future economic profits discounted to the present. Hedge Protecting a financial position by going either long or short, Employee Engagement often using derivatives. A business management concept that describes the extent to which employees feel passionate about their Household jobs and are committed to the organisation. The more In Retail Banking, products and services are primarily engaged an employee is with his or her company, the administered by family/cohabitation cluster, which is called Governance Report more effort they put into their work. a financial household. Encumbered assets Impaired exposures Assets that were pledged or subject to an arrangement, Exposures for which not all contractual cash flows are either explicitly or implicitly, in any way to secure, expected and/or exposures more than 90 days past due collateralise or credit enhance a transaction. for which impairments are determined on a portfolio basis. Exposure at Default (EAD) Impaired ratio Annual Financial Statements EAD models estimate the expected exposure at the time The impaired ratio shows which fraction of the gross of a counterparty default. carrying amount of a financial asset category consists of impaired exposures. Fortis Bank Nederland (FBN) The legal entity Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V., previously Impaired EAD ratio named Fortis Bank Nederland (Holding) N.V., which The impaired EAD ratio shows which fraction of merged with ABN AMRO Bank Standalone pursuant an EAD category consists of impaired exposures. to the Legal Merger. Impairment charges on loans and other Financing products receivables Other Solutions regarding (securities) financing, liquidity, risk Charge to the income statement to cover possible loan and collateral (e.g. securities borrowing and lending, stock losses on non-performing loans. borrowing, stock lending, repo and total return swaps). ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 479 Other / Definitions of important terms Introduction Interest rate mismatch Materiality Interest rate mismatch is the difference in interest Materiality is the threshold at which topics become Strategic Report maturity between funds lent and funds borrowed. sufficiently important to be reported. Material topics are those that may reasonably be considered important for International Financial Reporting Standards reflecting the organisation’s economic, environmental (IFRS) and social impacts, or influencing the decisions of IFRS, formerly known as International Accounting stakeholders, and, therefore, potentially merit inclusion Standards, are drawn up and recommended by the in a report. International Accounting Standards Board. The European Business Report Union requires that IFRS be used by all exchange-listed Medium-term notes (MTN) companies in the EU starting from the financial year 2005. Medium-term notes are unsecured funding instruments with maturities up to ten years issued in several currencies. Investment products Providing equity brokerage and research services to Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A) investors and primary equity services to companies Activities in the fields of mergers, acquisitions, (i.e. equity research, cash equities, government bonds privatisations, advisory services and organisations. Risk, funding & capital Report and credit bonds) Net Promoter Score (NPS) Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) This metric shows the extent to which customers would The LCR is intended to promote resilience to potential recommend a company to others. The customer is liquidity disruptions over a thirty-day horizon. The LCR regarded as a ‘promoter’ (score of 9 or 10), as ‘passively requires banks to hold sufficient highly-liquid assets satisfied’ (score of 7 or 8) or as a ‘detractor’ (score of 0 to equal to or greater than the net cash outflow during 6). The NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of a thirty-day period. ‘detractors’ from the percentage of ‘promoters’. The score is expressed as an absolute number between -100 and +100. Loan impairment allowance Governance Report Balance sheet allowance held against non-performing loans. Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) The objective of the NSFR is to promote resilience over Market risk (banking book) a longer time horizon by creating additional incentives Market risk in the banking book, mainly interest rate risk, to fund activities with more stable sources of funding is the risk of yield curve development that is unfavourable on an ongoing basis. for the bank. Other market risks are limited in the banking book either through hedging (foreign rate exchange risk) NII-at-Risk Annual Financial Statements or in general (other market risk types). The NII-at-Risk metric indicates the change in net interest income during the coming 12 months, comparing the NII Market risk (trading book) calculated using a constant yield curve with the NII Market risk in the trading book is the risk of loss resulting calculated using a yield curve that is gradually shifted from unfavourable market price movements which to a total of 200 basis points. The net interest income can arise from trading or holding positions in financial is negatively impacted when rates rise. instruments in the trading book. Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 480 Other / Definitions of important terms Introduction NLFI Preference share Stichting administratiekantoor beheer financiële Share that receives a fixed rate of dividend prior to Strategic Report instellingen (NL Financial Investments (foundation)). ordinary shares. On 29 September 2011 the Dutch State transferred its shares in ABN AMRO Group N.V. and in ABN AMRO Qualifying revolving exposures Preferred Investments B.V. to NLFI. NLFI was set up as Qualifying revolving exposures are revolving, unsecured, a means to avoid potential conflicting responsibilities and uncommitted exposures to private individuals that that the Minister of Finance might otherwise face, as meet additional criteria specified in the CRD. These a shareholder and as a regulator, and to avoid political outstanding balances are permitted to fluctuate based Business Report influence being exerted. on their decisions to borrow and repay, up to a limit established by the bank. Non-performing loans Exposures for which there are indicators that a counterparty RARORAC may not be able to meet its contractual obligations and/or A combination of two other measures: risk-adjusted return when an exposure is more than 90 days past due. on capital (RAROC) and return on risk-adjusted capital (RORAC). Risk, funding & capital Report Notional amounts The value of the principal of the underlying financial Regulatory capital adequacy derivatives contracts. Measure of a bank’s financial strength, often expressed in risk-bearing capital as a percentage of total risk OECD Guidelines exposure amount. The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises provide non-binding principles and standards for responsible Repurchase agreement (Repo) business conduct in a global context. The sale of securities together with an agreement for the seller to buy back the securities at a later date. Operational risk Governance Report Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from Residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS) inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems Residential mortgage backed securities are secured or from external events. long-term funding instruments. A pool of underlying assets, in this case own-originated residential mortgages, Options (shares and currencies) provides the cash flows to bondholders. Contractual right to buy (call option) or sell (put option) a specified amount of underlying shares or currency at Return on equity (ROE) Annual Financial Statements a fixed price during a specified period or on a specified date. Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company divided by shareholders’ equity. Past due exposure A financial asset is past due if a counterparty has failed Risk management products to make a payment when contractually due, if it has Products and strategic advice to manage the risk exposure exceeded an advised limit or if it has been advised of clients (e.g. solutions to hedge foreign exchange and of a limit lower than its current outstanding. interest rate risks and various types of capital markets solutions for ECT clients such as commodity derivatives). Past due ratio The past due ratio shows which fraction of the gross Risk-weighted assets (RWA) carrying amount of a financial asset category is past due Total assets and off-balance sheet items calculated on the Other but not impaired. basis of the risks relating to the various balance sheet items. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 481 Other / Definitions of important terms Introduction Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) Three lines of defence The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V., formerly known as ABN AMRO’s approach to risk management. The three Strategic Report ABN AMRO Bank N.V. prior to the Legal Demerger. lines of defence principle consists of a clear division of activities and responsibilities in risk management Salient human rights at different levels of the bank and at different stages Those human rights that are at risk of the most severe in the life cycle of risk exposures. negative impacts through a company’s activities or business relationships. Tier 1 ratio Tier 1 capital, the sum of CET1 capital and AT1 capital, Business Report Savings certificates of the bank expressed as a percentage of total riskSavings certificates are non-exchange traded instruments weighted assets. with an annual coupon payment and have the same characteristics as bonds. Trust Monitor A survey conducted by market research institute GfK on Savings mortgages how Dutch people think about banks in general, their own Savings mortgages are mortgages with a separate savings bank and how they experience various aspects of services Risk, funding & capital Report account whereby the balance of savings is used for provided by banks. redemption of the principal at maturity. UN Global Compact Securities financing transaction (also referred ​The United Nations Global Compact is a United Nations to as ‘professional securities transaction’) initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt A transaction whereby securities are temporarily sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report transferred from a lender to a borrower, with the on their implementation. commitment to re-deliver the securities. Uniform Counterparty Rating (UCR) Securitisation The UCR is an obligor rating and refers to the probability Governance Report Restructuring credits in the form of marketable securities. of default by an obligor, i.e. the likelihood that a counterparty fails to pay interest and/or principal and/or Social impact bond other financial obligations to the bank. A contract with the public sector or governing authority, whereby it pays for better social outcomes in certain areas Value-at-Risk banking book and passes on part of the savings achieved to investors. Value-at-Risk banking book (VaR banking book) is used as a statistical measure for assessing interest risk exposure. Social impact fund Annual Financial Statements It estimates potential losses and is defined as the Investing that aims to generate specific beneficial social predicted maximum loss that might be caused by changes or environmental effects in addition to financial gain. in risk factors under normal circumstances, over a specified period of time, and at a specified level of Standardised Approach (Basel II) statistical confidence. A VaR for changes in the interest The standardised approach for credit risk measures rate for the banking book is calculated at a 99% credit risk in a standardised manner, supported by external confidence level and a two-month holding period. credit assessments. Volatility Stress testing Statistical measure for the degree to which items Method of testing the stability of a system or entity when (market rates, interests) fluctuate over time. Other exposed to exceptional conditions. ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 482 Other / Abbreviations Introduction Abbreviations Strategic Report AACB ABN AMRO Clearing Bank DTL Deferred Tax Liability AFM Autoriteit Financiële Markten (Netherlands DVA Debt Valuation Adjustment Authority for the Financial Markets) EAD Exposure At Default AFS Annual Financial Statements EBA European Banking Authority AIRB Advanced Internal Ratings Based (Approach) EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes,Depreciation ALCO (ABN AMRO’s) Asset & Liability Committee and Amortisation Business Report ALM Asset & Liability Management EC European Commission AMA Advanced Measurement Approach ECAI External credit assessment institutions AQR Asset Quality Review ECB European Central Bank AT 1 Additional Tier 1 ECT (ABN AMRO’s) Energy, Commodities & BIS Bank for International Settlements Transportation BLMIS Bernard L Madoff Investment Securities EDTF Enhanced Disclosure Task Force bn Billion EMIR European Market Infrastructure Regulation Risk, funding & capital Report bp(s) Basis point(s) EPS Earnings per share BREEAM Building Research Establishment ESE Environmental, Social and Ethical Environmental Assessment Methodology ESG Environmental, Social and Governance BRRD Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive EU European Union CAO Collectieve Arbeidsovereenkomst (collective EUR Euro labour agreement) EVCA European Private Equity and Venture CAF Cycle Adjustment Factor Capital Association CBS Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek FATCA Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (Statistics Netherlands) FBN Fortis Bank Nederland CCC (ABN AMRO’s) Central Credit Committee FCCM Financial Collateral Comprehensive Method Governance Report CD Certificate of Deposit Fed Federal Reserve CDO Collateralised Debt Obligation FR&R (ABN AMRO’s) Financial Restructuring & CDS Credit Default Swap Recovery CE Customer Excellence FTE Full-Time Equivalent (a measurement of CEBS Committee of European Banking Supervisors number of staff) CET1 Common Equity Tier 1 FVA Funding Value Adjustment CFO Chief Financial Officer FX Foreign exchange Annual Financial Statements CGU Cash-Generating Units GBP British pound CHF Swiss franc GDP Gross Domestic Product CP Commercial Paper GfK Gesellschaft für Konsumforschung CRD (the EU’s) Capital Requirements Directive (Society for Consumer Research) CRE Commercial Real Estate GSRI Global Sustainability Risk Index CRO Chief Risk Officer GRC (ABN AMRO’s) Group Risk Committee CRR Capital Requirements Regulation GRESB Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark CVA Credit Value Adjustment GRI Global Reporting Initiative DGS Deposit Guarantee Scheme HR Human Resources DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index HRM Human Resource Management DNB De Nederlandsche Bank N.V. IAS International Accounting Standards Other (Dutch central bank) IASB International Accounting Standards Board DSTA Dutch State Treasury Agency IBNI Incurred But Not Identified DTA Deferred Tax Asset ICS International Card Services ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 483 Other / Abbreviations Introduction Strategic Report ICB Industry Classification Benchmark RBS The Royal Bank of Scotland plc IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards REA Risk exposure amount ILO International Labour Organisation RMBS Residential Mortgage-Backed Security IMA Internal Models Approach RM&S (ABN AMRO’s) Risk Management & Strategy INSEAD Institut Européen d’Administration des Affaires ROE Return on Equity (European Institute of Business Administration) RWA Risk-Weighted Assets Business Report INSID Institute for Sustainable Innovation and SA Standardised Approach Development SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission IPO Initial Public Offering SGD Singapore dollar IRB Internal Ratings-Based (Approach) SMEs Small and Medium-sized Enterprises ISO Information Security Office SPE Special Purpose Entity IT Information Technology SRM Single Resolution Mechanism KPI Key Performance Indicator SSM Single Supervisory Mechanism Risk, funding & capital Report LAD Loss at Default SWOT Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Threats LGD Loss Given Default TLTRO Targeted Long Term Refinancing Operations LtD Loan-to-Deposit (ratio) TOPS (ABN AMRO’s) Technology, Operations & LtMV Loan-to-Market-Value Property Services m Million UCR Uniform Counterparty Rating M&A Mergers & Acquisitions UNGP United Nations Guiding Principles MCI Maas Capital Investment B.V. USD US dollar MiFID (the EU’s) Markets in Financial Instruments VaR Value-at-Risk Directive WSW Waarborgfonds Sociale Woningbouw Governance Report MiFIR (the EU’s) Markets in Financial Instruments YE Year-end Regulation MtM Mark-to-Market NHG Nationale Hypotheek Garantie (Dutch ­State-guaranteed mortgages) NII Net Interest Income NLFI NL Financial Investments (foundation) Annual Financial Statements NPS Net Promoter Score NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio OCI Other Comprehensive Income OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development OOE One Obligor Exposure OTC Over-The-Counter PD Probability of Default PR&I People, Regulations & Identity RAROC Risk-Adjusted Return On Capital RARORAC Risk-Adjusted Return On Risk-Adjusted Capital Other RBB Regeling Beheerst Beloningsbeleid Wft 2011 (Regulation on Sound Remuneration Policies Pursuant to the Financial Supervisor Act 2011) ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 484 Other / Cautionary statements Introduction Cautionary statements The Group has included in this Annual Report, and from ÅÅ Reductions in ABN AMRO’s credit ratings; Strategic Report time to time may make certain statements in its public ÅÅ Actions taken by the EC, governments and their filings, press releases or other public statements that may agencies to support individual banks and the constitute “forward-looking statements” within the banking system; meaning of the safe-harbour provisions of the United ÅÅ Monetary and interest rate policies of the ECB and Business Report States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. G20 central banks; This includes, without limitation, such statements that ÅÅ Inflation or deflation; include the words “expect”, “estimate”, “project”, ÅÅ Unanticipated turbulence in interest rates, foreign “anticipate”, “should”, “intend”, “plan”, “aim”, “desire”, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and “strive”, probability”, “risk”, “Value at Risk” (“VaR”), equity prices; “target”, “goal”, “objective”, “will”, “endeavour”, “outlook”, ÅÅ Liquidity risks and related market risk losses; “optimistic”, “prospects” and similar expressions or ÅÅ Potential losses associated with an increase in the level Risk, funding & capital Report variations on such expressions. In particular, this of substandard loans or non-performance by document includes forward-looking statements relating, counterparties to other types of financial instruments, but not limited, to ABN AMRO’s potential exposures to including systemic risk; various types of operational, credit and market risk, such ÅÅ Changes in Dutch and foreign laws, regulations, policies as counterparty risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange and taxes; rate risk and commodity and equity price risk. Such ÅÅ Changes in competition and pricing environments; statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. These ÅÅ Inability to hedge certain risks economically; forward-looking statements are not historical facts and ÅÅ Adequacy of loss reserves and impairment allowances; represent only ABN AMRO’s beliefs regarding future ÅÅ Technological changes; events, many of which by their nature are inherently ÅÅ Changes in consumer spending, investment and Governance Report uncertain and beyond the bank’s control. saving habits; ÅÅ Effective capital and liquidity management; Other factors that could cause actual results to differ ÅÅ The success of ABN AMRO in managing the risks materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking involved in the foregoing. statements contained in this document include, but are not limited to: The forward-looking statements made in this Annual ÅÅ The extent and nature of future developments and Report are only applicable as from the date of publication Annual Financial Statements continued volatility in the credit and financial markets of this document. ABN AMRO does not intend to publicly and their impact on the financial industry in general update or revise these forward-looking statements to and ABN AMRO in particular; reflect events or circumstances after the date of this ÅÅ The effect on ABN AMRO’s capital of write-downs report, and ABN AMRO does not assume any in respect of credit exposures; responsibility to do so. The reader should, however, ÅÅ Risks related to ABN AMRO’s merger, separation take into account any further disclosures of a forwardand integration process; looking nature that ABN AMRO may make in ÅÅ General economic, social and political conditions in ABN AMRO’s interim reports. the Netherlands and in other countries in which ABN AMRO has significant business activities, investments or other exposures, including the impact Other of recessionary economic conditions on ABN AMRO’s performance, liquidity and financial position; ÅÅ Macroeconomic and geopolitical risks; ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 485 Other / Enquiries Introduction Enquiries ABN AMRO Investor Relations Mailing address Strategic Report investorrelations@nl.abnamro.com P.O. Box 283 +31 20 6282 282 1000 EA Amsterdam The Netherlands ABN AMRO Press Office Business Report pressrelations@nl.abnamro.com Internet +31 20 6288 900 abnamro.com (corporate website in English) abnamro.nl (client website in Dutch) ABN AMRO Group N.V. abnamro.nl/en (client website in English) Gustav Mahlerlaan 10 abnamro.com/corporatereporting 1082 PP Amsterdam The Netherlands Information on our websites does not form part of this Risk, funding & capital Report Annual Report, unless expressly stated otherwise. Acknowledgements General coordination Finance and Communications & Sustainability departments Governance Report Editing and translation Merilee Dranow Photography Erik Borst (Nargis Goldfinger Rasheed, Dies Donker, Adrian de Groot Ruiz) Jon Skille Amundsen (Petter Heier) Annual Financial Statements Olivier Middendorp (Hans Muysson, Managing Board, Supervisory Board) Concepting and layout DartGroup, Amsterdam Production and lithography Sumis Other ABN AMRO Group Annual Report 2015 abnamro.nl/corporatereporting/2015
