ANNUAL REPORT. 2015 ANNUAL REPORT . 2015 3 SUMMARY 04. ABOUT THE REPORT 06. MESSAGES FROM THE LEADERSHIP 12. SECTOR CONTEXT 18. MAP OF OPERATIONS 20. GOVERNANCE 34. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 40. NATURAL CAPITAL 52. HUMAN CAPITAL 60. SOCIAL CAPITAL AND RELATIONSHIPS 70. INFRASTRUCTURE CAPITAL 74. KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS CAPITAL 78. FINANCIAL CAPITAL 88. CONTENT INDEX GRI 120. CORPORATE INFORMATION Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Rosa dos Ventos Wind farm complex CE 5 1. ABOUT THE REPORT G4-16 G4-22 G4-23 G4-28 G4-29 G4-30 G4-31 CPFL Energia publishes its Report annually in order to maintain a transparent relationship with all of its stakeholders and provide accounts of the actions, projects and results achieved by the holding company. The information presented in this document refers to the period from 1st January to 31st December 2015 and covers all of the companies controlled by the Group, unless otherwise indicated. In 2015 CPFL consolidated its Sustainability Platform, built upon the foundation of a robust consultation and research process. This resulted in the material topics with their respective targets and indicators for monitoring, which guide the content of this report. In the first section of this report you will find a summary of information about our business and governance model and take a look back over the year with messages from our CEO and the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The second section presents information about our management and performance in the form of an Annual Report, guided by the fourth version of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), International Integrated Reporting Framework (IIRC) and the Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact. Responses to the indicators can be found on page 88 in the Content Index section, which also shows which indicators were submitted for external assurance by the independent auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers. G4-32 G4-33 For suggestions relating to the content of this report please contact us by email at sustentabilidade@cpfl.com.br. Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia G4-32 G4-33 Barra Grande hydroelectric plant SC and RS 77 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO G4-1 G4-2 At the beginning of the year we already knew that 2015 government in its adoption of a policy of tariff reportfolio has also started to show results in 2015. would provide a challenging scenario for the sector, princialism, covering a significant portion of the highest The Morro dos Ventos II wind farm also deserves atpally as a result of hydrological risk, the regulatory changes costs incurred by distributors for purchased energy tention: it began operating in April, eight months that were needed and the difficult economic situation and sector charges. Even so, the cash flow misahead of schedule. Today, CPFL Renováveis is the largin the country. It was a year marked by declining indusmatch continued and we accumulated a significant est renewable energy platform in Latin America, the trial production and increased unemployment. For the first CVA balance, almost equivalent to a year’s income first to reach R$ 1 billion in EBITDA on the continent time since 2001 we saw a drop in electricity consumption generation by the distribution companies, requirand the largest Brazilian wind-power generator, also in the residential and commercial segments. ing careful management of the Company's working maintaining a presence in the areas of biomass, small Despite the national electricity sector experiencing imcapital. The tariff realism combined with the detehydroelectric and solar power plants. mense difficulties, CPFL Energia continued on its growth rioration in the macroeconomic scenario led to a Also during the year CPFL Eficiência signed its first trajectory – the result of prudent action supported by a decline in energy sales, with a consolidated fall in major multi-solutions energy efficiency contract. Taksolid system of governance and efficient management of sales of 4.0% in the year recorded by the eight dising advantage of the growing consumer demand for resources. Besides contributing to maintain the company's tributors of the CPFL Energia group. services and solutions that bring about cost reduccash balance this careful work also helped us to preserve the The economic and financial results showed EBITDA tions, energy security and sustainability, the agreeexcellence of services provided to the population, expand of R$ 3.75 billion and net operating revenue of R$19.16 ment opened up a new business model. By exploiting 2. MESSAGES FROM THE LEADERSHIP the modernization of operational infrastructure and reaffirm billion, growth of 17% in relation to 2014 according to synergies between Group companies we are able to our commitment to socially responsible business practices. the accountancy standards of the International Finanoffer integrated and comprehensive products to meet One important point to note was CPFL's active particicial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as well as net income the needs of our customers, bringing new opportunipation in the preparation of proposals to resolve the Genof R$ 875 million. We also achieved savings of 18.6% in ties for business expansion. MESSAGES FROM eration Scaling Factor (GSF) issue. Provisional Measure MP 688 paved the way to renewing the attractiveness of the real terms in our management costs compared to 2011, when we began implementing Zero-Based budgeting. This strategy, focused on innovation and the development of sustainable solutions, reinforces our longTHE LEADERSHIP sector for investment, decreased sector judicialization and helped to maintain the economic balance of power genIt is also worth mentioning the funding in advance of R$ 2.8 billion in early 2015 to strengthen the Group’s term commitment to the growth of the energy sector. We are the largest private Group in Brazil in the energy erators and the sector as a whole. CPFL Energia chose to cash availability, in accordance with the prefunding sector and we work together with regulators and the renegotiate its eligible contracts in the SP100 modality of strategy that we have adopted since 2011. government to resolve key issues with the aim of imthe Regulated Environment (ACR), protecting themselves We maintained our growth plans and increased inproving the regulatory environment and the boosting from 100% of the GSF until the end of the contract terms. vestments by 34.5% to R$ 1.428 billion in 2015 alone, the development of the country. The renegotiation of hydrological risk factors brought back of which R$ 500 million was intended for electricity The continuous pursuit of consolidation of CPFL Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia greater predictability and stability of cash flows for the hygeneration. We increased investment in Distribution by Energia’s corporate and institutional leadership of the droelectric power generators and enabled the recupera24% across our eight utilities companies. R$ 868 milBrazilian market encouraged the reorganization of our tion of R$ 128 million in 2015, with reference to the conlion was employed for expanding and reinforcing the structure to incorporate three new vice-presidencies tracts already renegotiated. electrical system, for maintenance, for modernization in May: Market Operations, Regulated Operations and Another important development in 2015 was the and for research and development programs. This perCorporate Planning & Management. These changes completion of the Tariff Readjustment methods for mitted us to move forward with smart grid projects, instrengthen our growth trajectory in unregulated busidistribution companies, most notably the increase in cluding opening the Intelligent Dispatch Center in May. ness such as generation, retail, energy efficiency and the regulatory WACC from 7.50% to 8.09%. We should The incorporation of DESA by CPFL Renováveis in services, with increased focus on greater cost efficienalso recognize the even-handed stance shown by the 2014 adding 12 generation assets to our existing cy and quality of distribution services. 9 We also include commitment to continuous imAll this work to maintain and continuously improvement of our processes amongst our manageprove our performance was once again recognised ment principals, with priority for job security among by the market. For the fourth consecutive year the our employees. I'm glad to say that in 2015 we had a company's shares were listed on the Dow Jones Susrate of seriousness of accidents below the sector avtainability Index Emerging Markets, an index which erage despite the larger number of interventions as measures the performance of the leading compaa result of our increased participation in the sale of nies in sustainability in emerging markets. Also, for regulated energy. This result is evidence of the effithe 11th consecutive time our shares were selected ciency of the Safety Committee and its on-going work in the portfolio of the Corporate Sustainability Index to improve our processes. (ISE) of BM&FBovespa, where we have been present Today, we are also recognized by the National ever since its inception. We also maintained a presElectric Energy Agency (Aneel) as the company ence on the MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series, with the best supply indicators in the country and an index focused on investors who take into account we are proud to announce the choice of CPFL Santa the environmental and social governance and inCruz as the large utilities concessionaire with the vestment strategies of companies. best operating ratios in Brazil, based upon the OverFinally, we should state that we are much more MESSAGES FROM THE LEADERSHIP all Continuity of Performance Indicator (DGC). This optimistic about the scenario for the sector in 2016 is the result of prudent investments that we have and we believe that the electricity sector has left the made over the last five years and that were comworst behind it. With the main regulatory challenges pleted last year through the Tauron Program. With having been resolved during 2015 we will enter into telemetering deployed in 100 % of group A large a new phase of growth, with the consolidation of consumers, the use of tablets by our electricians assets and opportunities for new investments. We and the use of self-healing technology which auare prepared to work with innovation, excellence, retomatically reconnects the energy supply we are sponsibility, transparency and long-term vision. including advanced technology in our network and To all I express my gratitude and reaffirm our comincreasing our operational efficiency. mitment to continue contributing to the sustainable We believe in the potential of renewable energy development of the country. and actively participate in international discussions such as the preparatory forums for Brazil’s participaAnnual Report 2015 CPFL Energia tion in the last Climate Conference the COP21 held in December in Paris. In addition, we are signatories of the United Nations’ (UN) Global Compact and coordinate its Energy and Climate working group. We also signed the Open Letter to Brazil on Climate Change 2015, an initiative of the Climate Forum organized by Instituto Ethos that seeks commitments to the growth of solar, wind, hydro and Wilson Ferreira Jr. Tanquinho solar power plant SP biomass energy sources. CEO of CPFL Energia 11 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS G4-1 In times of crisis being able to count on a sound and theme in these meetings was the work surrounding Despite good results in efficiency management secure corporate governance structure is fundamenthe strengthening of the Succession Plan for CPFL we will continue in 2016 with the Zero-Based Budtal. I believe that this was one of the main aspects that Executives. In addition, our Anti-Corruption Policy, get strategy implemented in 2011 to optimize costs. helped CPFL Energia to maintain its growth trajectory in alignment with Federal Law no. 12,486, materialWe prioritize innovation in the improvement of proand good progress in business in 2015. Once again we izes our commitment to maintain the integrity and cesses and the use of new technologies. We will seek were able to reaffirm the prominence and leadership of reputation of the company. To ensure that this polito maintain our leading position in the sector and MESSAGES FROM THE LEADERSHIP the Group in the Brazilian electricity sector and despite cy is accessible to all of our employees we revisited continue our work with a focus on growth. In this the challenging scenario we achieved good results. our Code of Ethics and Conduct throughout the way we are able preserve our value creation capabilIt was a year that required a lot of dedication and in year, taking care to present it in simple, easy to read ity for shareholders and society, even with this backwhich the whole Board was focused on improving inlanguage to facilitate the understanding of all of drop of challenges. stitutional processes and strengthening the manageour employees, independent of their area of action. Finally, I thank all employees and shareholders ment of the company. Our three committees ManI would also like to highlight the inspiring result of for their trust and support, as well as their efforts to agement and Risk Processes, Personnel Management our work to continuously improve our processes build a better and more competitive CPFL Energia. I and Stakeholders worked intensely, with the active and practices with a focus on the occupational would also reinforce that we will continue to work in participation of all members in discussions, striving to safety of employees and the communities in the ara transparent manner to ensure that all of our stakefind solutions to the main issues facing the Group. eas of our concessions. Proof of the efficiency of the holders are fully satisfied. Discussions upon regulatory issues were clearly Safety Committee can be seen from the seriousness 2016 will definitely not be an easy year, but we present throughout the year. This effort was rewardrate of accidents, below the average for the sector march on with confidence in the future and knowing ed at the end of 2015 with the publication of Prodespite the many interventions on the grid due to that we have the support of all our stakeholders so Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia visional Measure MP 688: a decision that brought the high intensity of storms. We also managed to that CPFL Energia can remain a reference for quality relief to all those awaiting a resolution to the Gencreate a permanent program for accident prevenand pioneering spirit in the electricity sector. eration Scaling Factor (GSF) issue. This provided tion in schools and with very close supervision of regulatory stability and improved the attractivesafety management by the Board of Directors we Murilo Passos ness of the sector for investors. Another prominent moved closer to our target of zero accidents. Chairman of the Board of Directors 13 LEVEL OF RESERVOIRS OF THE NATIONAL INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM (SIN) | % 3. 75.7 SECTOR CONTEXT 42.9 37.8 34.9 36.9 38.3 40.8 35.8 42.6 30.6 29.4 G4-2 30.1 29.4 32.4 22.4 23.2 28.8 20.6 27.7 jan fev mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 2013 2014 2015 SOURCE: HTTP://WWW.MME.GOV.BR The Brazilian electricity sector faced major chalTo avoid the risk of rationing once again it was necing for investment. However, we need to keep paying lenges in 2015. These included the threat of cash essary for the thermo-electric power plants to work at attention to the hydrological scenario, following the flow imbalance for generators and distributors, full capacity throughout the year, which ended up inrecovery of the reservoirs, and the macroeconomic the impossibility of transferring resources from creasing the cost of the GSF (Generation Scaling Factor) scenario, considering that the deterioration in ecothe Treasury or other sources to cover the high and forcing contracted hydroelectric generators to buy nomic activity in Brazil leads to an impact on energy costs of distributors until they can be passed on short term energy supplies to honour their contracts. consumption and rings alarm bells with the issue of to the energy tariff, the unattractiveness of the In the midst of so many difficulties in the regulatory defaults. The economic crisis has indeed had a direct sector for new investments, the worsening of field progress was significant. The government and enimpact on the market: according to data from the the macroeconomic environment and even the ergy market agents1 sought solutions to resolve some Energy Research Company (EPE), electricity consumpthreat of rationing. of the problems of the sector. In the area of generation, tion in Brazil in 2015 was reduced by 2.1% over 2014, Data from the National System Operator (ONS) the publication of MP 688 brought a solution to the totalling 464,700 gigawatt-hours (GWh). The decline shows that the country has passed through one GSF issue, creating procedures to reduce risks and pavwas mainly driven by the contraction of industrial of the worst water crises in its history. The risk of ing the way to renewing attractiveness for investments consumption (-5.3%) due to the unfavourable scenarrationing was imminent as a result of very low and decreasing sector judicialization. io during the year. Residential consumption also derainfall and the reservoirs of hydroelectric plants In the case of distributors, a policy of tariff realism creased by 0.7% in the year, influenced by high rates, reached their lowest level in recent years. In Januwas adopted and alongside the traditional annual tariff the biggest fall recorded since 2004. CONTEXT OF THE SECTOR ary 2015, in the Southeast/Center-West region, readjustment the government also enforced a tariff flagAnother highlight is the fact that the energy marsponsible for 70% of the storage capacity of Brazil, ging system and authorized an extraordinary tariff reket is heading towards a transformation as a result of water levels reached 16.8%, compared to 40.3% view in March 2015. the search for cleaner alternatives and a tendency for in the same period of the previous year. This was a year of progress in the renewable enthe Brazilian energy matrix to become increasingly ergy field, with the entry into operation of wind farms, diversified and decentralised. The present moment the integration of solar plants in auctions and the decalls for the concentration of efforts to development IN THE GENERATION AREA, velopment of distributed generation. Today, accordinnovative business models that can generate new ing to data provided by Aneel, the country already has sources of growth, appropriate to this new political THE PUBLICATION OF PRO1025 distributed generation projects. The tendency is and economic environment. VISIONAL MEASURE MP 688 for growth in this segment, since the Brazilian governWithout a doubt the search for sustainable soluAnnual Report 2015 CPFL Energia ment committed to developing a low carbon econotions through technological advances will transform BROUGHT A SOLUTION TO my at COP 21, opening the way for the development the electricity sector. The market drives companies THE GSF ISSUE, CREATING of solar and wind energy. to do more with less and create competitiveness in Since the regulatory agenda has been addressed their processes to enhance growth with efficiency PROCEDURES TO REDUCE the scenario for the sector in 2016 looks more appealand innovation. RISKS AND LEADING THE WAY TO RENEWING ATTRAC1 Individuals or organizations (or consortia of companies) operating in the electricity sector and free consumers, as described in Law 9074/1995. The agents are divided into the following categories: generation, transmission, distribution, retail, independent power producer (IPP), self-producer, importer/exporter and consumer. Baldin Biomass Plant SP TIVENESS FOR INVESTMENT (http://www.anacebrasil.org.br/portal/index.php/faqs/1-energia-eletrica/37-quem-sao-os-agentes-do-setor-eletrico) 15 4. FUNCTIONING OF THE ELECTRIC SECTOR How does the energy supply chain work? Players Who are the main players in the market that interact with CPFL’s business Captive consumers buy energy from the distribution utilities to which they are connected. Each consumer unit Regulated Market only pays a monthly energy bill. The tariffs are regulated by the Government, and the price is the result of a mix of long-term contracts (auctions). Level of concession, regulation, supervision, planning and monitoring CNPE Taxes and National Council Charges for Energy Policy Flow of Government money Revenue from Service of Distribution Remuneration Remuneration for Single according to transmission services electricity bill auction contract Revenue from Service of distribution Generation Transmission Distribution Consumer Portion A Portion B CMSE MME EPE Energy Operating Monitoring Energy purchasing Costs Ministry of Flow of Committee for the Research Depreciation Mines and Energy Electricity Sector Company energy Transmission quota Sector charges Remuneration ONS of investment controls energy Destination: destino: generation  Generation, geração, Transmission transmissão Destination:  Distribution ANEEL Indicates price Indicates quantity and Governe governo energy of energy ment Contracting supply auction National Electrical Total of Energy Agency electricity bill = portion A + portion B mechanisms MME ANEEL CCE defines price ceiling conducts the auction operationalizes ONS CCEE Level of services and agents National System Electrical Energy FUNCTIONING OF THE ELECTRIC SECTOR Operator Trading Chamber Free consumers purchase energy directly from generators or retailers through bilateral contracts with freely negotiated Free Market conditions such as price, time period, volume, etc. Each consumer unit pays a bill to the local utility (regulated rate) for the distribution service and one or more bills for the energy purchased (negotiated contract price). Defines the country’s energy policy with the objective Taxes and CNPE charges Bill from Distributor + Bill from Generator of ensuring the stability of energy supply Flow of Government Responsible for the planning, management and money MME development of legislation for the sector and the possibility 1 Direct contract between Remuneration for Remuneration for supervision and control of implementation of policy consumer and generator transmission services distribution services guiding energy development. Conducts planning for the expansion of generation Flow of Generation Transmission Distribution Consumer EPE and transmission for the MME, and provides technical energy support for the auction process Supervises the continuity and reliability of CMSE electrical supply Flow of Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Regulates and supervises the generation, transmisenergy ANEEL sion, distribution and retail of electricity. Sets transport and consumption tariff rates and ensures the possibility 2 economic and financial balance of utilities companies Retailer Controls the operation of the National Interconnected Contracting ONS System (SIN) to optimize energy resources mechanisms Manages transactions in the energy market and Energy supply CCEE conducts official auctions contracts via retailer 17 5. CPFL ENERGIA’S BUSINESS MODEL Business Model for the Regulated Market Group Companies Revenues from Generation, Transmission and Distribution are regulated by ANEEL. Maintaining a rigid strategy for growth and financial discipline, CPFL Energia generates value through: Distribution Distribution companies are the Group companies that deliver energy to the final consumer via distri1 Efficient management of existing assets bution lines. In addition to providing transport infrastructure (poles and wires), the distributors provide 2 Complementariness of business activities to mitigate risks from outsourced suppliers all network maintenance services (including pruning trees) and network repairs in the case of power outages. Consumers receive electricity bills in the name of the distributors. CPFL is a leader in this segment with a 12.4% market share and 8 distribution companies: CPFL CPFL Paulista, CPFL Sul Paulista, CPFL Leste Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Mococa, CPFL 1 CPFL CPFL CPFL Santa Cruz and RGE. Geração Renováveis Transmissão Distribuição Consumer Generation companies are the Group companies that produce energy from various sources. Generation CPFL is the 3rd largest private player and leader in the renewable energy sector in Brazil. CPFL Geração: operates with a focus on power generation from conventional sources such as hydroelectric power plants (HPPs) and fossil fuel-powered plants (TPPs). 2 Quality of energy supply 2 2 Expertise in CPFL Renováveis: works exclusively with generation from alternative sources such as wind (wind customer services farms), sun (photovoltaic plants), sugarcane (biomass plants) and rivers (Small hydroelectric plants). Mitigation of risks from CPFL outsourced companies Serviços (compliance, safety) and CPFL is looking to expand its installed capacity and diversify the sources used for generation, as quality of works well as maintaining the operational efficiency of its generating facilities. CPFL CPFL Total Atende Retailers are companies operating in the Free Contracting Environment (ACL) whose main Retail role is to act in the intermediation of electricity supply contracts. This reduces the so-called transaction costs, creating an efficient bridge between generators and consumers and assisting Free Consumers and Generation companies to contract electricity with conditions that meet their particularities. At present there is one company in the Group with this mission CPFL Brazil. It conducts aucBusiness Model for the Non-Regulated Market tions for the purchase or sale of electricity where the proposed sellers or buyers compete for Existing and new business platforms focused on final customer service. the energy among themselves in a transparent and competitive manner. CPFL Brazil provides an electronic trading environment. Generates value through: CPFL Energia’s Business Model 1 Composition guarantee for the retailer 2 Expertise in negotiating with free consumers and other free market agents Services The mission of service companies is to improve the customer experience in the energy sector. 3 Integrated solutions in energy supply and use They provide solutions that meet the needs of both CPFL Group companies and other companies in the electricity sector: support for implementation of energy transmission lines from design through to construction, and maintenance, manufacturing and recovery of equipment, etc. Increased productivity and competitiveness through adoption of the efficient use of resources, CPFL intelligence in technical evaluation and the search for the best financial framework for project Eficiência implementation, flexible contractual alternatives for customers, and management of the supply chain are services offered by CPFL Eficiência. 3 Other services that take advantage of the experience and knowledge of the Group in the In-depth knowledge of sector are offered by CPFL Atende (contact center and customer service) and CPFL Total (AcConsumer the electric sector efficiency count payment services). Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia drivers for the customer CPFL Renováveis Transmission Transmission companies are the Group companies that transport energy via transmission towers and 2 Understanding of the transformers (structures known as the Basic Network) from the plant where it is generated to the customer’s reality distribution substations from where it is distributed to end consumers. CPFL Transmission is a new business for CPFL, still small in scale and born out of synergy with other businesses. Its main function is to ensure a high-quality energy supply to the Group’s distributors, acting Brasil selectively through complementary assets within the distribution network. 1 Renewable energy supply with guarantee At present there are two transmission companies in the Group: CPFL Transmissão Piracicaba and CPFL Transmissão Morro Agudo. 19 6. MAP OF OPERATIONS G4-3 G4-5 G4-6 G4-7 G4-8 G4-9 10 10 CPFL Energia is a company controlled by BraGENERATION 10 10 zilian investors, providing power Generation, CE 10 RN Distribution and Retail and electricity services 10 11 through its subsidiaries across 12 Brazilian States. PB 8 1 HPP Luis Eduardo Magalhães 2 HPP Serra da mesa 3 HPP Foz do Chapecó 4 HPP Campos Novos 5 HPP Barra Grande Ceran complex: HPPs Monte Claro, 6 Castro Alves and 14 de Julho 7 9 SHPs: 6 (SP) and 2 (MG) TO 8 2 UTEs (PB) 1 MT 9 DF 9 2 39 SHPs: 17 (SP), 9 (MG), 2 (MT), 9 6 (SC), 4 (RS) and 1 (PR) GO 41 Wind Farms: 12 (CE), 10 25 (RN) and 4 (RS) 11 8 Biomass: 5 (SP), 1 (RN), 1 (MG) and 1 (PR) 12 1 Solar Power Plant (SP) DISTRIBUTION SP MG RETAIL 11 9 7 11 7 MAP OF OPERATIONS 9 11 9 11 11 12 11 8 9 PR SC 3 9 4 9 9 5 6 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia RS 10 Nect Serviços 21 7. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Wind Farm Complex Rosa dos Ventos – CE 23 ORGANOGRAM OF CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDERS: G4-4 G4-17 The corporate governance model adopted by • DJSI Emerging Markets CPFL Energia is based on principles of transpar• IBOVESPA: Bovespa Index ency, fairness, accountability and corporate re• IBRX: Brazilian Index of 100 shares with sponsibility, always aligned with best practices greatest liquidity in Brazil and abroad. The Company’s shares are • ISE: Corporate Sustainability Index of 1 listed on the Novo Mercado (New Market) Index BM&FBovespa of BM&FBovespa and ADRS Level III, differentiated market segments that bring together companies • ITAG: Special Tag Along Stock Index • IGC: Special Corporate Governance Stock Index Free Float adopting best practices of corporate governance. • IEE: Electric Energy Index 23.6% 29.4%2 15.1% 3 In 2015, CPFL integrated the Dow Jones Sus• Dow Jones Brazil Titans 20 ADR Index 23.6%4 19.8%4 11.3% 4 31.9% tainability Emerging Markets Index (DJSI Emerg• MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital International ing Markets) of the New York Stock Exchange for • IBX50 BM&FBovespa* the fourth consecutive year, placing it among • Carbon Efficiency Index (ICO2) of the the largest 800 companies in 20 emerging marBM&FBovespa* kets, based on long-term economic, environmental and social criteria. The CPFE3 shares have CPFL Energia is part of a select group of 15 comintegrated the Corporate Sustainability Index panies that make up the Latin American Compa(ISE) of BM&FBovespa since its creation in 2005. nies Circle on Corporate Governance, an initiative G4-15 of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and DISTRIBUTION GENERATION RETAIL SERVICES the Organization for Economic Cooperation and 100% 100% 100% 100% PARTICIPATION IN MAJOR INDEXES Development (OECD), with the aim of promotion G4-15 and encouragement of the improvement of best CPFL Energia integrates the following major corporate governance practices in Latin America. market indices: * From 2016 100% 59.93% 99.95% 5.94% 100% Investco CPFL Centrais Geradoras 51.54% Serra da 5 Nect Serviços / Authi Mesa HPP 65% GOVERNANCE 25.01% 48.72% 53.34% 51% Notes : 1) Controlling Shareholders. Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia RENEWABLES 2) Includes 0.5% of shares held by the Banco do Brazil employee pension fund. 51.61% 3) Includes 0.2% of shares held by Petros pension funds. 4) Percentages refer to shares linked to the Shareholders' Agreement of CPFL Energia for total shareholder base. 5) Share of 51.54% of availability of capacity and energy from HPP Serra da Mesa, referring to the Energy Supply Agreement between CPFL Geração and Furnas. CPFL Headquarters SP 25 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Good governance practices require a conThe mandate of the Board Members is one year, with The Internal Rules of the Board of Directors estabtinuous process of improvement. One thing the possibility of re-election. The Corporate Goverlishes the procedures for assessment of the Board that makes CPFL Energia stand out is that its nance Guidelines state that those selected should be Members, under the leadership of the Chairman of governance structure enables agile strategic senior professionals in upper management positions the Board of Directors and their replacement by aldecision-making in line with international with a proven reputation and experience in the enternates, which can only occur in the case of impedibest practices. The Administration of CPFL ergy sector or in their respective areas of action and ments to the availability of the Board Member with a Energia is formed by the Board of Directors, should come from diverse backgrounds. prior statement to the Company. the decision-making body, and the Executive From left to right: Wilson Ferreira Jr. (CEO), Albrecht Curt Reuter Domenech, Licio da G4-40 G4-44 Costa Raimundo, Murilo Cesar Lemos dos Santos Passos (Chairman of the Board of Board, the executive body. Directors), Deli Soares Pereira, Décio Bottechia Júnior (Vice-President of the Board of G4-39 Directors), Ana Maria Elorrieta and Francisco Caprino Neto MAIN ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 2015 G4-47 Restructuring of the Management Processes Committee (decommissioning of the Risk Management Committee and transBOARD OF DIRECTORS fer of its duties to the new Committee to be called Management and Risk Processes Committee ) The Board of Directors of CPFL Energia is attentive to present and future opportunities Review of Corporate Risk Management Policy of June 29th, 2009 in the market. Responsible for the strategic Murilo Cesar Lemos direction of the holding company and its dos Santos Passos Reorganization of the structure of the Executive Board in order to redistribute activities until now under the responsibility of subsidiaries/affiliates, it consists of seven exDécio Bottechia Junior the VicePresidencies of Operations and Vice-Presidency of Administration, as well as the Company's initiative to separate ternal members, one of them an Independent regulated and unregulated business activities Member. The Board acts in accordance with the responsibilities attributed by the Bylaws Reform and consolidation of the Bylaws (approved in Shareholders' Meeting), to reflect the restructuring of the Executive Board, among other subjects and the Corporate Governance Guidelines and defines an Annual Calendar of meetings. Approval of the Sustainability Policy and Social Investment Policy Every month it is presented with the topics to be deliberated upon in the following quarter. G4-47 The Board of Directors is assisted by three comCOMPOSITION mittees that report directly to it. OF THE BOARD Francisco G4-35 G4-36 Ana Maria Elorrieta GOVERNANCE G4-38 Caprino • Management and Risk Processes Committee Neto • Personnel Management Committee • Stakeholders Committee CHAIRMAN The coordinator of each committee reports its activities at regular meetings of the Board of Directors. VICE-CHAIRMAN G4-35 G4-36 ADVISER Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia MEMBER G4-40 MEMBER The Management and Risk Processes CommitLicio da Costa Raimundo Albrecht Curt Reuter tee is responsible for supporting the Board of DirecADVISER Domenech tors in monitoring risk management processes, interINDEPENDENT MEMBER nal auditing activities and the Sustainability Platform, in addition to the reporting and ethical conduct channels and improvement of processes. Deli Soares Pereira 27 EXECUTIVE BOARD G4-36 THE MAIN ISSUES DEALT WITH BY THE MANAGEMENT AND RISK PROCESSES COMMITTEE In order to ensure alignment in governance practices of the Group in the domestic market CPFL Energia anthe Executive Directors hold positions on the Boards nounced three new directorships: Market Operations, IN 2015 INCLUDED: of Directors of the companies that compose the CPFL Regulated Operations and Corporate Planning and Group and nominate their respective statutory directors. Management. The Executive Board is now composed In May 2015, as part of the process of adjustment of the Chief Executive Officer (President) and six execu7% of the organizational structure and to maintain and tive vice-presidents, all with a two-year mandate. consolidate the business and institutional leadership G4-38 7% RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESSES 30% Carlos da Costa Wilson Ferreira Júnior Parcias Júnior SUSTAINABILITY 9% CPFL INSTITUTE INTERNAL AUDIT ANNUAL PLAN MAIN ISSUES INFORMATION 6% TECHNOLOGY Wagner Luiz Schneider SGDE (ETHICS) de Freitas 4% SUPPLIERS/ THIRD-PARTIES LEGAL 6% 23% 2% OPERATION EXECUTIVE 4% BOARD Gustavo Estrella 2% INTERNAL CONTROLS G4-36 Luiz Eduardo F. do Amaral Osorio The duties of the Stakeholders Committee of the succession plan for the Company's top GOVERNANCE include evaluation of the selection process for executives and assessment processes for short suppliers and service providers for implemenand long term corporate and individual targets tation of works and procurement of supplies of the Executive Board, which are defined from and services. The Committee also monitors the the strategic plan and metrics of the Value GenKarin Regina Luchesi signature of energy purchase and sale contracts eration for Shareholders System. In 2015, the with Parties related to the controlling shareholdCommittee worked with an external consultaners when values are equal to or greater than the cy to update the long-term incentive plan and Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia minimum threshold to fall under responsibility improve the assessment metrics for executives. of the Board of Directors according to the ComWhenever necessary, committees are pany's Bylaws. This ensures that market condiformed to advise the Board on issues such as Luís Henrique Ferreira Pinto tions are met and that no benefits or advantages strategy, budgeting, new business and finanCEO of any kind are afforded to Related Parties. cial policies. In the evaluation of the Board The Personnel Management Committee of Directors, the solid corporate governance EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT OF BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT OF REGULATED OPERATIONS accompanies and regularly reports back to the structure is a priority to ensure transparency EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT OF FINANCE AND INVESTOR RELATIONS EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT OF LEGAL AFFAIRS AND INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS Board during the year on the development and accountability to stakeholders. EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT OF CORPORATE PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT OF MARKET OPERATIONS 29 Among the main topics discussed by the Board in 2015 pliance with their legal and statutory duties. It has a permanent ETHICS MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM (SGDE) G4-57 G4-58 were: the GSF issue, cost discipline, expansion of renewable operational status and a basic calendar of activities that includes energy generation and the development of a new strategy periodic meetings with External Auditors and the main executives 1 2 for free consumers. of the company. G4-45 The Supervisory Board performs the activities of an Audit Established by the General Meeting of Shareholders, the remunerCommittee, in compliance with the rules of the Sarbanes Oxley ation of the Administration (Executive Board and Board of Directors) Act (SOX) applicable to foreign companies listed on US stock exis based on market research conducted by a specialized company changes and meets periodically with the Internal Auditors, the and submitted for prior consideration by the Personnel Management Risk Management and Compliance Department and the AccounCommittee. This remuneration consists of a monthly fee. tancy Department. One of the supervisory board members qualiG4-52 fies as a Financial Expert, as defined in the SOX. Variable remuneration is established based on criteria defined in an Annual Goals Plan and a Long-Term Incentive Plan. The definiCOMPOSITION OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD G4-38 SGDE tion of targets and the assessment of the performance of executive • William Bezerra Cavalcanti Filho (Chairman) 7 3 officers, as well as the Company's Succession Plan, are accompa• Adalgiso Fragoso de Faria nied by the Personnel Management Committee. • Carlos Alberto Cardoso Moreira G4-51 G4-52 • Celene Carvalho de Jesus • Marcelo de Andrade SUPERVISORY BOARD G4-36 OBJECTIVE: The company's Supervisory Board is a collegiate body elected To find out more about the powers and responsibilities and see by the General Meeting of Shareholders, with a unified term of the résumés of Members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Convert concerns for one year. Composed of five members, it has the responsibility of Board and Executive Directors of CPFL Energia, visit the Investor Reoverseeing the actions of the Administration and verifying comlations/Governance website: www.cpfl.com.br> Investidores ethical behaviour into effective practices 6 4 1 ETHICS COMMITTEE 5 GOVERNANCE 2 MAPPING OF ETHICAL RISKS 3 SYSTEM OF ENCULTURATION In 2015, there were 10 meetings of the Ethics Committee to 4 CPFL ENERGIA CODE OF ETHICS improve the SGDE and deal with demands received through Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia AND BUSINESS CONDUCT the Ethics Channel. The Committee has published 17 Guidance Precedents in order to guide decisions, attitudes and the behav5 LOCAL ETHICS COMMITTEES iour of all employees. The new Code of Ethics was approved by the Board of Directors and will be implemented in 2016 for the 6 ACCESS CHANNELS entire CPFL Energia Group. Barão Geraldo Substation – SP 7 DISSEMINATION OF ACTIONS 31 System Operation Center (COS) at CPFL Headquarters SP ETHICAL CONDUCT G4-57 G4-58 ETHICS COMMITTEE Ethics is seen as an essential value and should be a Composed of ten members, it is the principal instru•B  ribery: Of the six grievances received, two were •  Talk to the CEO Channel guiding principle in all business conducted by CPFL ment of the Ethics Management and Development considered well-founded and four unfounded. Receives demands from CPFL staff addressed directly Energia Group. At a company, ethics are manifested System (SGDE). Participants are chosen for their pro•M  isuse of CPFL Resources: All four complaints to the CEO through the intranet desktop through the daily fulfilment of concrete tasks. At CPFL fessional respectability. Members include the Direcreceived were considered well-founded. Energia, the Code of Ethics is primarily a map of values, tors of Risk Management and Compliance, Communi•Q  ueries: Eight queries were analysed and responded to. PROGRAM FOR REFLECTION UPON a set of major guidelines and a benchmark for moral cation and Institutional Relations, Human Resources, BUSINESS ETHICS and ethical conduct to guide the actions and decisions Legal Affairs, Internal Auditing, the Executive Board LOCAL COMMITTEES The program is of great importance for the spread of of all employees, regardless of their hierarchical level. and representatives of employees and civil society. Currently we possess two Local Committees (RGE ethics at CPFL Energia and also its business partners. It In 2015, 69 grievances were presented to the CPFL and CPFL Paulista/Piratininga). CPFL Renováveis is consists of the following steps: CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT Ethics Committee. The Committee also received eight no longer part of the CPFL Ethics Committee due to requests to issue professional opinions/positioning. governance issues. • e xpanding awareness of actions in business G4-50 The committees possess Internal Rules, apand society. proved by the Ethics Committee of CPFL Energia, • ethical dimension of professional practices, FORMALIZATION OF The main topics investigated and analysed by the in which their working dynamics and reporting through its relationship with the imposition of GOVERNANCE Committee included: mechanisms are established. Existing communicaa new reality in the business world. CORPORATE COMMITMENTS G4-50 tion channels were maintained to receive possible • p resence of ethical values in organization of complaints of transgressions. work and the relationship with customers. EXPLANATION OF RESPONSIBILI•M  oral harassment: Of the 17 grievances received, • Contributions to the improvement of the 14 were analysed with seven considered well-foundOPEN COMMUNICATION Code of Ethics. TIES WITH PARTNERS ed and seven found to be unfounded. Another three • Ethical Conduct Channel grievances are still under investigation. (transgressions of the code of ethics) Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia •M  isconduct: Of the 19 grievances received, 17 were The channel is accessible via phone (0800 77 02050), GUIDE FOR DECISION-MAKING examined, with seven considered well-founded and email (etica@cpfl.com.br) or letters to the Ombuds10 considered unfounded. Another two grievances man, using the mailbox 13088-900. are still under investigation. MARKERS FOR GUIDING •F  avouritism: Of the 11 grievances received, nine • Channel for reporting fraud and tax were examined, with four considered well-founded and accountancy issues Access www.cpfl.com.br > Governança > Ética em THE ACTIONS OF EMPLOYEES and five considered unfounded. Another two grievThe channel is accessible by phone (0800 77 38422), Rede to learn more about the Policies, the Code of Ethances are still under investigation. email (denuncia@cpfl.com.br) or letters to the Omics and Business Conduct of CPFL Energia and the dubudsman, using the mailbox 13084-970. ties of the Ethics and Corporate Conduct Committee. 33 RISK MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AND COMPLIANCE (EXECUTIVE LEVEL): RISK MANAGEMENT G4-14 G4-45 AND COMPLIANCE DEPARTMENT The Risk Management and Compliance Department renational and international standards, as well as the alignports to the Vice-Presidency of Finance and Investor Relament of policies with the Company's corporate planning. RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK tions and is responsible for coordinating risk management The company established two management areas to conAT CPFL ENERGIA and ensuring the adherence of CPFL Energia’s processes to duct these activities: Compliance and Risk Management. In the established risk management model it is up to the prevent risk exposure from exceeding these limits. In Board of Directors of CPFL Energia to deliberate on the the case that risk limits are exceeded this should be risk limit methodologies recommended by the Executive reported to the Board of Directors, alongside possible Board and become familiar with exposures and mitigation mitigation actions. PRESIDENCY plans in the event of exceeding these limits. G4-46 The Advisory Committees to the Board of Directors The Executive Board of CPFL Energia is assisted in should understand the risk models, exposure to risk and this function by the Management Processes and Risks control levels (including their effectiveness), supporting Committee. The Committee, after receiving information the Board of Directors in risk monitoring provided by the control areas and business units, underVICE-PRESIDENCY FOR CPFL ENERGIA EXECUTIVE G4-46 FINANCIAL AND INVESTOR RELATIONS RISK COMMITTEE takes technical and in-depth discussions of the exposures EXECUTIVE The Executive Board of CPFL Energia is responsible to business risks and reports the points of greatest relfor conducting the CPFL Group's business within the evance to the Executive Board with its recommendations. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL risk limits set and taking the necessary measures to G4-46 CONTROLS DEPARTMENT A multi-disciplinary group that receives information from the control areas and business units, promotes in-depth and technical discussions on exposure to business risks and RISK MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE MANAGEreports the most relevant points to the ExecuSUPERVISORY AREA MENT AREA tive Board with its recommendations BOARD OF BOARD DIRECTORS ADVISORY COMMITTEES In addition to identifying, measuring and monitoring Fighting corruption is an essential part of the way busiEXECUTIVE business risks, this department works as a supporting ness is conducted at CPFL Energia and it seeks to ensure BOARD body for the decision-making of the Executive Board and that people who act on its behalf perform their activities INFORMATION DELIBERATION the Board of Directors, playing a key part in maintaining with honesty, integrity and transparency. The Company GOVERNANCE the company's strategy. states this position in the Code of Ethics and Business ConTo achieve this, the area works with a Risk Map divided into duct and has an effective Integrity Program, structured, categories (Financial, Energy Market, Operational, Legal, Sector implemented and updated according to the current charRegulation, Environmental, Image and Sustainability), which acteristics and risks of its activities. EXECUTIVE RISK consolidates the set of events that can affect the strategy and In 2015, no well-founded cases of corruption were COMMITTEE operations of the Company, which in turn are regularly moniidentified involving employees or third parties related to tored by indicators/models and exposure limits (risk appetite). CPFL Energia's business activities. Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia G4-SO5 The CPFL Group performs risk assessments related ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES to corruption for the organizational units of CPFL and G4-SO3 G4-SO4 its suppliers. The main risks identified relate to active SUPPORT Law 12,846/13, known as the Brazilian Anti-Corruption corruption by employees, joint and several liabilities for Law, brought important advances by providing objective acts of suppliers and risks to image and reputation. As EXTERNAL INTERNAL RISK AND COMPLIANCE BUSINESS accountability for companies that practice harmful acts, a result, assessments particularly consider the need for AUDITOR AUDITOR MANAGEMENT MANAGERS committed in their interest or for their benefit against narelationships with public officials during the conduction tional or foreign governments. of business processes. 35 8. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Hydroelectric Power Plant Castro Alves RS SHORT AND MEDIUM TERM (PLATFORM) LONG TERM 37 Stakeholder engagement SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM G4-37 Strategic Planning Megatrends Vision 2030 Seeking excellence in the management of issues stakeholders was undertaken in 2013-2014 to of relevance to the business in the short, meidentify relevant topics for short-term manageHealth and Personnel Supplier dium and long term, CPFL Energia has adopted ment, as well as benchmarking important topics Safety Management Development the Sustainability Platform since 2014. This susfor the sector. In 2015 CPFL sought to align these Topics related to future Community business environment tainability tool is integrated into the strategic short-term priorities with visions for the sector Reverse Climate Relations planning of the Group and its performance is and medium and long term trends. Logistics Change Management directed and monitored by the Executive Board, Therefore, the Group examined the topics the Sustainability Committee and the Managethat had been mapped according to the rement and Risk Processes Committee and reportsults of the Vision 2030 program and megaPositioning by topic Principal risks, challenges and ed to the Board of Directors. trends in the sector, using as criteria the curValue levers opportunities for CPFL The Sustainability Platform is currently in rent importance of management. The process use and being constantly improved. A robust resulted in six topics, 17 value levers and 90 Performance indicators Long term strategic goals and KPIs process of consultation of internal and external monitoring indicators. Short and medium term indicators 2016 2020 SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM G4-19 Leader in the Brazilian The company in the electric sector for electric sector that capWhat do we want for the future? overall sustainability tures the most value indicators from sustainability INPUTS • Screening • E nergy in the City of the Future (2030) • Sector Challenges • S takeholder Engagement Board of Directors/Management and Risk Processes Committee • Strategic Planning International Reference Executive Board/Sustainability Committee 31 TOPICS 6 PRIORITY TOPICS SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT What do we want for the future? Climate Change Supplier Development VISION 2030 – FORCES THAT ARE INFLUENCING THE ELECTRIC SECTOR Community Relations Personnel Management Health and Safety Reverse Logistics 1 Greater power for the customer 2 Movement towards sustainability 3 Introduction of disruptive technologies Customers are more demanding as regards Increased environmental commitment is By 2030, technology such as smart grids, quality of service and more aware of their transforming how energy is consumed in the distributed generation, and energy rights and the negative socio-environmental world. Agents are increasingly concerned about storage will be even more developed and Value Levers impacts generated by companies. They will the sustainability of consumption and economic disseminated across the electric grid and (17) begin to influence the regulator when defingrowth and seeking more conscientious ways of will impact the traditional business of ing rules and policies for the sector. coexisting with the environment. electricity distributors. Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia MEGATRENDS Indicators (90) SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM (SHORT AND MEDIUM TERM) PRINCIPAL RISKS, Targets (short/ TOPICS RELATED TO CHALLENGES AND LONG TERM STRATEGIC medium term) FUTURE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES FOR CPFL GOALS AND KPIs ENVIRONMENT IN THIS ENVIRONMENT 39 Corporate sustainability is essential for the Group and the DJSI performance is The Sustainability Platform consists of a series of indicators used for the manone of the targets of the company's Upper Management. CPFL believes that the agement of material themes through targets, with one part for internal use and Sustainability Assessment conducted by RobecoSAM is a strong driver for manthe other made publicly available. agement and all new questions are closely monitored. Continuous analysis of perExamples of indicators and targets are shown in the table below and details formance results permits the implementation of action plans to improve the comof the Sustainability Platform can be found on the website pany's management system. The same reasoning also applies to the ISE and CDP management assessment processes. THEME INDICATOR CONDUCTED IN 2015 TARGET 2016 % Business plans for Generation ISE BM&FBOVESPA DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX modelled with carbon pricing scenario 0% 100% Climate Change 2015 81 2015 80 Size of carbon credits portfolio (tCO2) 1,215,405.00 tCO2e Previous year + 100% of eligible generation projects +5% +3% equal to or above the energy 2014 77 2014 78 Personnel Management Hours of training per employee 59.06 market [performance CPFL] [performance CPFL] Health and safety Cultural Evolution (Bradley Curve) 76 80 2013 72 2013 77 Management of % Employees with volunteering commit5% 7% Community Relations ments / total of Group employees 2012 68 2012 74 Supplier Development Overall Average of critical suppliers 65.5% 72.6% monitored by SBM Reverse Logistics Destinated hazardous solid waste 77% 80% SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Wind Farm Complex Rosa dos Ventos CE 41 9. NATURAL CAPITAL Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Small Hydroelectric Power Plant Salto Grande SP 43 In all of its businesses activities the CPFL Energia In 2015, environmental investments totalled ENERGY AND CLIMATE GROUP Group works to minimize environmental impacts, R$ 87.38 million, of which R$ 27.48 million was OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT promote intelligent use of natural resources and related to the production/operations of the With the aim of being a hub of influence in society and contribute to environmental preservation through company and R$ 59.9 million was for external a proactive group in the search for knowledge, the Theprojects and diverse awareness-raising initiatives programs/projects . matic Group Energy and Climate coordinated by CPFL, with the range of stakeholders that make up the G4-EN31 has encouraged companies to become protagonists in value chain. The management of natural capital, the discussion of issues such as mitigation, adaptation integrated with the sustainable growth strategy, and carbon pricing. One of its strategies is to articulate is supported by the Environmental Management CLIMATE CHANGE with other corporate initiatives relating to climate to proSystem with ISO 14001 certification and also by mote joint actions such as events, documentaries and the Environmental Policy (applied since 1997) and MANAGEMENT G4-EC2 participation in COP events. At the international level, it the Group's Sustainability Policy. is aligned to the Caring for Climate platform. The Group In 2015, CPFL received 13 infraction notices seeks to foster partnerships and projects focused on isLOW CARBON ECONOMY, ENERGETIC AND arising from non-compliance with environmenOPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY, RENEWABLE ENERGIES sues such as energy efficiency and the increase of renewtal laws and regulations. The total figure for fines able energy sources in the country. paid in the year was R $ 62,907.09, related to pruning, removal of vegetation and collection CPFL Energia has continuously improved of waste from the management of vegetation its management in relation to sustainability for its transmission and distribution networks. and has acted prominently in the discussion The environmental management mechanisms on climate change. In line with its Position Position Statement of the CPFL adopted by the company allow identification of Statement on Climate Change, the company Energia Group on Climate Change opportunities for improvement in various operaworked hard to consolidate and systematize tional processes, from the planning of construcmanagement relating to the issue of climate Hydroelectric Power Plant Monte Claro RS tion work with the participation of the Environchange, developing a Climate Panorama and • Develops Inventories of Greenhouse Gases mental area through to environmental licensing a Climate Change Management Program com(GHG) and publicly discloses the report after and the reuse of materials. posed of five fronts of action: external assurance. Since 2008, CPFL has participated in COPs representG4-EN29 • I nvests in and develops projects for electricity ing the Brazilian and international business position at generation from clean, renewable sources the conferences. At COP 21 it presented a paper on such as hydro, wind, solar and biomass. climate produced by the CPFL Institute in partnership CLIMATE CHANGE MANAGEMENT • I nvests in efficiency and raising awareness of with the IEC's, launched the “Climate Heroes” (“Heróis do electricity use at its facilities. Clima”) comic book (Planeta Sustentável) and partici•P  articipates in corporate and sector movepated in corporate and governmental events. ments for discussion, learning and collaboration on climate change, as well as on CPFL Energia’s Schedule at COP 21: NATURAL CAPITAL CLIMATE INSTITUTIONAL AND MANAGEMENT OF EMISinternational agreements, public policy, and • Participation in an event held by the Environment FUNDING CARBON PRICING RISKS ADVOCACY SIONS AND INDICATORS GHG emissions management methodologies. Department of the State of São Paulo to present •B  elieves that carbon pricing is a tendency and the Climate Protocol for the State that being prepared for this new model could • Release of a documentary on Climate Change be advantageous for the company. Therefore (consolidation of the “contemporary Invention” All these areas will be further detailed during the it considers the price of carbon in its projects. programs) in partnership with the IEC's year 2016 and CPFL plans to publish its commit• I nvests in and provides distributed energy • Launch of the workbook of the Energy and Climate ments in the form of Sustainable Development and energy efficiency solutions through ESCO. Working Group of the Global Compact (in which Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia CPFL ENERGIA WORKS TO MINIMIZE Goals (SDGs) on the UN platform [www.sustain•A nalyzes new technologies for reducing techniCPFL participates) abledevelopment.un.org]. cal losses from its electricity distribution system. • Launch of the French language version of the “Climate ITS IMPACT , PROMOTING INTELLIGENT This engagement has led the Company to • I nvests in R & D and energy efficiency projects Heroes” comic (“Heróis do Clima”)(Planeta Sustentável) USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES participate in business forums on the topic and that contribute to climate change mitigation. • Participation in the Business Forum (Caring for Climate) as CPFL leads the Energy and Climate Group of •A  nalyzes the risks of climate change to Energy In 2015, in a joint effort with the Risk Management AND CONTRIBUTING TO the Brazilian Network of the Global Compact it Generation and Distribution businesses, as and Compliance Department, a single vision for the ENVIRONMENTAL PRESERVATION. also participates in the Corporate Climate Initiawell as existing vulnerability. company on climate change and related risks was tive (IEC), which brings together the Climate Foconstructed, including Operational Risks, Financial rum, CEBDS, CFP, FGV/CES and Envolverde. Risks and Reputational Risks. PERFORMANCE IN GHG 45 EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT PARTNERSHIPS To track its performance on greenhouse gas Significant partnerships such as those deemissions (GHGs), CPFL Energia has carried out veloped with the CDP (Carbon Disclosure GHG inventories since 2007, the year that it startProject) and the Municipal Government of ed its carbon credit projects. Campinas were the subject of discussions Using the operational control approach the on the environment and new energy in the group emitted 599,864.41 tons of carbon dioxCPFL Eficiência country presented through the Contemide equivalents (CO2e), alternatively, considering porary Invention program. These and other the equity share approach total emissions were In 2015 CPFL Eficiência signed its first multi-soluUberlândia center and activities such as replacing meetings were recorded, edited and pub1,307,254.70 tCO2e . tions contract with Algar Tech, a Brazilian multi18,000 conventional light bulbs with LEDs, switlished on social networks and the website Total emissions from the company fell 5.92% national that integrates ICT and BPO solutions. ching to lighter and cheaper cooling gases and www.cpflcultura.com.br and will be shown over the previous year according to the operaIn partnership with CPFL Brazil the company will energy consulting solutions to help the company on TV Cultura. In addition to the debates tional control approach and grew 6.67% accordupgrade lighting and air conditioning systems, with the planning of its energy needs and negowith free admission and a live broadcast the ing to the equity share approach. The decrease finance two solar energy projects and also encoutiations with suppliers. CPFL Culture Institute (Instituto CPFL Culin the operational control approach is directly rage the migration of customers to the free market. These projects will provide reductions of 3,500 tura) also organized free movie screenings in associated with the reduction of emissions from The contract foresees investments of approximately MWh per year in Algar Tech’s energy consumption, 2015 in honour of established directors such technical losses (8.4%) due to both the reducR$ 6 million in data centers located in the cities of of which 73% corresponds to the energy efficiency as Spike Jonze, Wes Anderson and Richard tion in energy losses (-1.0%) and reduction in the Campinas (SP) and Uberlandia (MG), which will be actions and 27% will come from the self-producLinklater and classical music concerts. The annual average of the national interconnected financed with CPFL Eficiência’s own resources. tion of energy from solar power plants. The energy Institute also brought the CPFL Art and Culsystem’s emissions factor (-8.1%). This agreement involves the construction of a savings from the project represent a 435 tCO2e ture Circuit to the interior of the state of São G4-EN19 solar energy plant at the data center in Camemissions reduction considering the emission Paulo, with screenings of Brazilian films and The increase in the equity share approach pinas, the expansion of the solar plant at the factor of the electricity GRID in 2015. documentaries and sustainability workshops stems mainly from emissions from increased enin partnership with the Cinesolar project, a ergy generation by EPASA with the consequent solar-powered traveling cinema; increase in fuel oil consumption (23.5%). TOTAL EMISSIONS AND EMISSIONS BY SCOPE (TCO2E) – OPERATIONAL CONTROL G4-EN15 G4-EN16 G4-EN17 CARBON PRICING G4-EU5 One of the focus areas of the CPFL Group’s Change applying the hypothetical market value of US$ 1 per ton tCO2e (x1.000) Management Program is carbon pricing, with the aim of CO2e this equates to R$ 4,557,768.75 in potential carof setting a price for consideration in its business plans. bon credits for trading. Projects include: the Santa Clara, 800 CPFL is a C4C’s Carbon Pricing Champion and is part Macacos, Morro dos Ventos, Eurus I and III, and Campo dos of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition http://www. Ventos II Wind Farms and the Salto Goes SHP, Arvoredo e 700 638 carbonpricingleadership.org/ Varginha SHP; Barra da Paciência, Ninho da Águia, Corrente The company considers the assessment of the ecoGrande, Paiol, São Gonçalo and Várzea Alegre SHPs; and 600 nomic impacts of compensation, considering the value São Joaquim, Dourados, Esmeril, Gavião Peixoto, Capão 600 of carbon credits in the voluntary market and the value Preto and Chibarro SHPs. However, due to the current mar535 NATURAL CAPITAL of compensation from planting trees as a way to size ket situation CPFL Renováveis has not sold carbon credits 490 462 the risks and outline its strategies. in 2015 but should return to doing so in due course. 500 Most of the projects eligible to obtain carbon credits G4-EU5 378 through both the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) In 2015, two companies from the Group traded 358 2011 and the voluntary standards of the market belong to CPFL certified emission reductions (both within the Verified 400 Renováveis. There are nine registered CDM projects, four Carbon Standard VCS). BAESA sold a total of 148,681 272 2012 of which are small hydropower plants and five are wind VCUs, generating revenue of R$ 444,201.27, and Foz 300 farms, totalling annual potential of 1,215,405.00 tCO2e. By do Chapecó sold 20,000 VCS, raising R$ 61,593.75. Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia 2013 111 200 151 2014 2015 29 72 75 92 100 94 11 14 9 10 EVOLUTION OF EMISSIONS 16 0 FROM 2011-2015, BY SCOPE Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total AND TOTAL EMISSIONS 47 HAZARDOUS WASTE (CLASS I) OTHERS 2015 TYPE OF WASTE GENERATED AND DISPOSED OF(T) Used oil 8.91 Contaminated gravel 3.78 Batteries 3.40 Mixed contaminated waste 41.37 Oil emulsion 14,35 Contaminated PPE 0.91 Total 72.72 Equipment Refurbishment at CPFL Serviços – SP (T) Metric Ton MANAGEMENT OF REVERSE LOGISTICS G4-EN27 Sustainable durability The waste management program identifies and classifies the main waste materials generated by the difRECYCLING AND REUSE, WASTE DISPOSAL ferent processes of transmission and distribution of Up until 2010 100% of the crosspieces used energy. For each of the different waste materials identiin CPFL’s primary distribution networks were fied especially for hazardous waste (class I) the CPFL made from native wood and their useful life was Energia Group has established storage and transportaapproximately 10 years. From 2011 onwards, CPFL WASTE MANAGEMENT G4-EN27 tion standards and determined appropriate forms of began introducing pilot batches of crosspieces disposal, taking into account the current legislation. manufactured from other materials, including G4-EN23 lightweight concrete, polymers and fiberglass. The Reverse Value Chain Since 2006, CPFL has carried out management and new crosspieces do not use forest materials in their monitoring of all equipment identified as contaminatcomposition and have an expected useful lifetime ed with Ascarel (PCB), contained in a disposal plan duly of at least 20 years. This initiative has led to a graIn the process of replacing equipment used in CPFL has already implemented an internal submitted to environmental agencies to meet the apdual reduction in the use of wooden crosspieces the electrical systems that it manages the CPFL reverse supply chain program for materials plicable legal requirements. The Company is progresbetween 2011 and 2015, with only 3% of acquisiNATURAL CAPITAL Energia Group has adopted a methodology to selected for reverse logistics, in which used sively replacing and disposing of such waste in an ention of wooden crosspieces in 2015, alongside 48% avoid environmental risks while promoting value materials removed from the network, such as vironmentally appropriate manner. In 2015, 193.3 tons of lightweight concrete and 48% polymer. By 2019, generation, in line with its business strategy. metals, cables, insulators and bulbs are reused, were disposed of. CPFL’s purchasing planning considers zero partiCPFL Serviços has facilities in São José do recycled or sent for treatment. CPFL is committed to disposing of 100% of its PCB cipation of wooden crosspieces in the purchase Rio Pardo from where it provides services of The scrap resulting from dismantling, such as steliabilities by 2020 and annually disposing of at least mix, with 50% made of lightweight concrete, 30% maintenance, refurbishment, logistics and transel, copper and other materials, is sold to the market. 80% of other Class I waste generated during operation polymer and 20% fiberglass. This initiative has the port of electrical equipment throughout Brazil. Equipment which is reusable is reintroduced into and maintenance of its assets. potential of saving CPFL R$ 66 million by 2032*. It has more than 700 of its own highly trained CPFL systems or auctioned off to other companies. Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia and specialized technicians and engineers with The difference with this management model market experience and who receive constant implemented by the Group is the monitoring of the training to develop the best solutions for comentire process, with the maximum utilization of mateHAZARDOUS WASTE (CLASS I) PCBS 2015 panies. It operates from eight operational cenrials, identification and proper disposal of substances TYPE OF WASTE DISPOSED OF (T) ters, strategically located and with cutting-edge and assessment of scrap dealers to verify licenses for * The analysis period considered the end of the useful equipment and modern operational processes. the purchase of scrap metal, among other measures. PCBs 193.3 lifetime of the first polymer crosspieces installed and the cash flow method discounted. (T) Metric Ton 49 SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AT THE BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT G4-EN12 G4-EN13 G4-EU13 POWER PLANTS G4-EN13 G4-EU13 Foz do Chapecó HPP In 2015, 148,000 juvenile curimbatá and dourado fish agement, entrepreneurship, and specific skills such as GENERATION PROJECTS were released with the aim of repopulating the Uruproduction and management techniques. G4-EN27 guai River. The fingerlings were reared at the Águas The generation projects in which the CPFL EnThe main activities related to the theme in de Chapecó Fish Farm Station through an agreement Barra Grande HPP (BAESA) ergia Group has interests include investments conventional generation plants include varibetween the company and Instituto Goio-En. The The Socio-environmental Responsibility Program is in socio-environmental programs and actions ous types of monitoring, including monitorfishermen's associations benefitting from the Fisheran initiative created by BAESA and ENERCAN with the aimed at conserving the vegetation surrounding ing of permanent preservation areas (APPs), men Support Program (Programa de Apoio aos Pescafunction of supporting projects that help to improve reservoirs and regenerating and preserving biofish populations (ictiofauna), surface water dores) participated in technical visits to learn new fish the quality of life and promote the development of indiversity in protected areas close to the plants, and erosion, among others activities includfarming and processing techniques. Sponsored by stitutions and communities in the municipalities of the as well as conducting studies and systematic ing maintenance of tree plantings and serFoz do Chapecó Energia, the visitors received techniarea covered by the Barra Grande and Campos Novos monitoring of native fauna and flora. The Comvice strips. The implementation of hydrocal support from SEBRAE and Emater. In addition, in power plants. It includes six lines of action to support pany also encourages the development of inielectric projects can require the formation of November 2015 the certification body BSI conducted social projects with a mission to manage social initiatiatives aimed at raising awareness in the local reservoirs. In the areas belonging to hydroan external audit of the certification of the Integrated tives that contribute to the sustainable development community of the importance of proper use of electric plants in which CPFL has an interest Management System FCE (ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and of municipalities located within the states of Santa Canatural resources and environmental protection. there are a total of 121.9 square kilometers OHSAS 18001), with a recommendation for maintaintarina and Rio Grande do Sul with the aim of improvIn the case of conventional generation hydro of permanent preservation areas, representing the certifications obtained by the company ing the quality of life for people and reducing social and thermal – the Group has no new projects, with ing 41% of the total land area and 76% of the inequality through social engagement strategies and all plants currently in the operating phase. As a retotal flooded area. Rio das Antas Energy Company (Companhia stimulating development of partnerships. sult there was no significant environmental impact. G4-EN11 Energética Rio das Antas Ceran) In 2015, the Socio-environmental Responsibility The company operates an Integrated Management Program supported 40 projects in municipalities in the System at its headquarters and power plants (Monarea of influence of HPP Barra Grande. Focused on inte Claro, Castro Alves and 14 de Julho). The system come generation, the environment, culture, sport, pubmeets the requirements of ISO 9001: 2008, ISO 14001: lic safety and social development, the projects received 2004 and OHSAS 18001: 2007 and its certificates are investment of R$ 424,000 from the company and more valid until January 2018. than R$ 1.2 million from shareholders and local partners. The 4th edition of the Incentive Program for the Campos Novos HPP (Enercan) Conservation of the reservoir’s Permanent PreservaIn 2015, ENERCAN supported several actions for the tion Area was also conducted, recognizing the actions cultural, environmental and economic development of of local residents to preserve vegetation. In 2015, ten NATURAL CAPITAL the region, providing support for 31 projects, generatresidents were awarded prizes at a ceremony held ing 500 direct, indirect or temporary jobs and benefitduring BAESA’s 8th Sustainability Week, an event that ing over 36,000 people. One of these projects Protetores annually highlights environmental projects developed Ambientais “Environmental Protectors” is developed in in the municipalities of the area covered by the HPP partnership with the Environmental Police and trains Barra Grande. ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certificastudents to act as multipliers for environmental prestions were maintained after an external audit, which ervation. Enercan developed a Conservation Program verified the functioning of the Integrated Management for Permanent Preservation Areas (APP) with the local System. BAESA created a Community Advisory CounAnnual Report 2015 CPFL Energia residents of the HPP Campos Novos reservoir for the cil to strengthen dialogue with the community in the fourth consecutive year, with rewards for the top five areas surrounding HPP Barra Grande. The intention is initiatives and, in partnership with Epagri, Senar and lothat the institutions promote debates to define investcal Agriculture Departments, supported fruit and fish ments in health, education, security and environmental farming projects with the aim of contributing to the protection in the municipalities of the region. Another development of the local economy and providing alhighlight was being awarded the Gold Seal of the GHG ternative income for farmers in the region. In addition Protocol, the highest recognition awarded by the Proto financial support from Enercan, participants receive gram, which attests to the transparency of information Hydroelectric Power Plant 14 de Julho – RS free courses in cooperativism, associativism, farm manin BAESA’s 2014 GHG inventory. 51 Preserva Program G4-EN13 G4-EU13 The Preserva Program (Programa Preserva) arose from the Social Pillar: important role in changing the current need to provide greater robustness and efficiency in mandascenario of national biodiversity through learning from critical tory reforestation related to the expansion of CPFL’s Electric analysis and appropriation of actions that can change the Power System, previously conducted in small and dispersed way companies mitigate their impacts. Leads the transition to areas. As a way to not only mitigate environmental impacts new business models so that society can enjoy the benefits but also to reduce costs and give greater environmental provided by the Management presented and replicate such significance to mandatory reforestation, CPFL approved initiatives in any other compensation/offsetting schemes. a methodology with CETESB (environmental protection Moreover, it contributes directly to reducing climate agency for the State of São Paulo) to allow the unification change effects, permits the use of the areas by society and of environmental recovery commitment terms, directing encourages research into the restoration of the country’s planting schemes to sites of ecological interest defined in a most degraded biomes: the Cerrado (Savanna) and Mata mutual agreement with the environmental agency. Atlântica (Atlantic Forest). It was concluded that the most interesting scenario Financial pillar: contributes to the establishment and would be to create Seedling Banks for planting larger consolidation of larger areas, achieving economies of scale areas. This new model promotes a significant reduction with suppliers and approximately 40% reduction in costs. CPFL's transmission tower in costs for the Company: the reforestation of 100 hectaExpandability: any company that is required to refores through the Preserva Program economizes about R$ rest an area can adopt the CPFL methodology. All actions 1.79 million in eight years considering the contractual can be replicated, requiring only an ideal, an alignment of values or R$ 223,748 per year compared to reforestathe organizational strategy and the company's commitTRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION tion costs for the previous model. ment. The good results obtained in the two seedlings LINES G4-EN12 G4-EN27 The CPFL Energia Group also obtained approval for its banks encouraged CPFL to expand the initiative, seeking One of the concerns of the environmental manlarly assessed for environmental risks and legal offer of offsetting through the conservation of existing forest to build new partnerships in other regions of São Paulo, agement of the CPFL Group is with the impact requirements, establishing a ranking and a plan fragments, ensuring the registration of the excess legal such as Baixada Santista (Santos lowland area), where it of its electricity lines on the rural environment. of action for improvements. For situations of enreserve in an area equivalent to the deforested area, with contributes to the conservation of Atlantic rain forest. As a result, procedures have been defined to vironmental emergency the distributors have the same ecological characteristics and within the same waIn 2016, the CPFL Energia Group will seek to consolidate develop projects that guide the choice of routes contracts with specialized companies, as well tershed. This compensation mechanism contributes to the the new mode of environmental compensation through for construction of new energy networks. Prias environmental insurance. For smaller-scale maintenance of forest remnants and their biodiversity and registration of the terms of the Environmental Recovery ority is given to avoiding forest fragments and occurrences, the Advanced Stations and vepreserves large amount of carbon stored in mature forests Commitment (TCRA), in the form of excess legal reserve. The isolated trees to avoid the need for removal of hicles with hydraulic equipment have environwith vegetation in medium and advanced stages of growth. company is also awaiting the approval of a new environindividual trees. In some specific locations with mental emergency kits for immediate use. CPFL Even if reforestation is carried out with rigorous adopmental compensation methodology, based on the manahigh ecological interest where it is not possible Paulista started the Arborização + Segura (Safer tion of best practices it will take a long time for biodiversity gement of exotic species. This methodology is necessary to change the layout of the networks the pracTree Planting) Program, an initiative to revitalize richness to reach the same level existing in the original as a result of the large number of areas covered with these NATURAL CAPITAL tice of raising the height of structures and poles urban tree planting in partnership with municiforest. Therefore, this mechanism enables efficient comspecies, including Pine (Pinus), Eucalyptus and Braquiária grass has been established. As a result of the measures palities in its concession area. pliance with environmental laws and provides a financial species within the limits of the conservation units. These adopted the need for removal of vegetation has The urban tree planting projects of the contribution to rural landowners who already protect the areas prevent the spread and growth of native species, been significantly reduced. Group’s utilities concessionaires not only connatural vegetation, ensuring the preservation of forests, hindering the full performance of ecological functions and In situations that do not permit the adoption sider the tree species most suitable for each biodiversity and water resources, as well as acting as a tool preservation of the biodiversity of flora and fauna. of these measures and also in cases where there site but also monitor the growth of the plants for implementing public policies for the environment and Also in 2016, CPFL will adhere to the state government of is a need for vegetation management under the in partnership with local governments. In adsustainable development. São Paulo’s Programa Nascentes (Springs Program), formerly existing lines, the suppression of vegetation is dition to the typical benefits of well-treed Environmental pillar: increased ecological significance known as the Programa Mata Ciliar (Riparian Forest Program). Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia authorised by environmental agencies, under towns and cities with this type of program, of larger areas of tree planting, greater diversity of species It aims to extend the protection and conservation of water the condition of offsetting the impacts of this another advantage is also reflected by the planted due to the size of the areas; generation of greater resources and biodiversity. With the publication of Decree No. suppression through heterogeneous plantadecreased need for pruning, with reduced awareness of environmental improvement in society; incre61137 of February 2015, another important factor was also intions proportional to the impact caused. environmental impacts and contribution to ased resilience of areas of tree planting and minimization cluded, considering public security with the aim of ensuring the The Urban Roads Tree Planting Program conthe beautification of cities. In 2015, 134,334 of the risk of irreversible biodiversity loss, etc. multiple use of water sources and prioritizing the public supply. tinued with the donation of saplings to municitree saplings were planted through offsetting pal governments. Advanced Stations are regucompensation programs. 53 10. HUMAN CAPITAL Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Electrician of CPFL 55 • The total figure invested in training in 2015 was R$ PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 12 million , representing R$ 152.24 per FTE (full-time equivalent – measurement method for the degree of ORGANIZATIONAL CLIMATE, DEVELOPMENT AND involvement of an employee in the activities of the SUCCESSION, ATTRACTION AND RETENTION company or a particular project), with an average of 59.06 hours of training per employee(78.4 in 2014), above the average of the Sextante Survey – of 53 hours in 2015. G4-LA9 • Turnover of 19.9% in 2015, down from 23.4% in 2014. G4-LA1 • Strikes and Stoppages: The Group considers permanent mutual respect between the parties and fairness PROFILE OF CPFL EMPLOYEES in procedures as essential for the development of healthy relations with the unions, ensuring total impartiality whichever the labour union. The Group be23% are employees lieves in maintaining good relations with the unions contracted in 2015 representing its employees, evidenced by the fact that G4-10 G4-LA1 there have never been any strikes that have materially affected the Group's operations in the last 27 years. 22% G4-HR4 Electricians of CPFL 12% TALENT MANAGEMENT G4-LA10 Aware of providing opportunities for the professional 2015, 34 employees took part in the program. The growth of all employees, the CPFL Energia Group proCompany also invests in an internship program that vides its employees with a structured program that presents opportunities and challenges for students encourages each individual to be the protagonist of from different areas. their own development. Another important program for the developIn the Career Management Program, CPFL laid out ment of talent at CPFL is the Succession Plan. Tied a catalogue of requirements and qualifications so that to the Calibration Committee and in operation for employees know the skills required to occupy different four years, it maps potential successors with the positions in the company. The Career Portal provides guarantee of fairness in the process and approval access to this catalogue, as well as an overview of all by the Board of Directors. This model of assessment HUMAN CAPITAL the processes in the company and descriptions of the and management of succession is focused on the activities and responsibilities of each position, allowing sustainability of the CPFL Group's business, as well for comparison of the individual’s professional profile as providing career development opportunities for with any existing positions at CPFL and permitting its talent pool. In 2015, two vice-presidencies were them to express their interest in a desired career. All occupied by internal professionals, alongside other leaders of the organization are trained and qualified to managerial positions. guide the career development of their teams. In this system, the Calibration Committee is re78% 55% CPFL also developed a Career Primer that comsponsible for collectively assessing the performance Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia 33% municates concepts, tools and success stories from of managers and enables the optimization of human the company. All expressions of interest are stored capital. The Committee holds a structured meeting in a database, which feeds the internal recruitment annually, conducted by a mediator, in which it reprocess for the positions available. The company also flects upon and analyses professional potential and has a Talent Management Program, which internally performance objectively and effectively. At the end identifies professionals with potential and aspiraof the process a realistic analysis is obtained regardtions for leadership positions. The program promotes ing the current performance level and the future ca7.459 MEN 2.125 WOMEN > 50 YEARS 30 TO 50 YEARS < 30 YEARS accelerated develop activities for the employee to pacity observed amongst the professionals. In 2015, be better prepared when an opportunity arises. In CPFL held eight Committee meetings. 57 G4-LA11 PERFORMANCE School for Electricians HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT The Group adopts an assessment system to direction of each of the Company's business REDUCTION IN ACCIDENTS, SAFETY CULTURE analyse the overall performance of its employactivities through its schools of Leadership, CPFL’s traditional process of hiring electricians AND BEHAVIOUR, HEALTH ees at different hierarchical levels. This process Specializations and Customer and the Marconsiders a period of 30 days for selection and covers 100% of eligible professionals and inket, as well as supporting all other areas with hiring and another 90 days for practical and Principal performance indicators G4-LA6 cludes stages of evaluation of skills and targets, common and supporting processes through theoretical training, totalling a minimum of Accident seriousness rate feedback, Individual Development Plans and deTraining Support and Corporate Qualification. 120 days between identifying the need for an velopment of targets for the next cycle. Called G4-EU14 electrician and their starting work in the field. 1,500 1,401 Personal Value, the system allows the creation To train the professionals who have taken up In 2012 CPFL began to implement the School of Individual Development Plans (IDPs) in which leadership positions (managerial, coordination for Electricians program, in partnership with 1,200 1,073 personal goals are established and areas for imand supervisory functions) the Basic Leaderrecognized training centers. The project aims provement are identified to be overcome with ship Qualification program was formed in 2015, to train people from the communities in CPFL's 900 training sessions and other forms of learning. with courses that aim to help support people in concession area to work as network electricians, 600 In addition, the Group has a technical and leadership roles, including: Corporate Education contributing to increase the supply of skilled 415 414 behavioural assessment system aimed at System and Knowledge Management, CLT in the labour. Students are prepared before the vacan384 300 identifying the match-up between of the emday-to-day, Safety at Work, Organizational Climate cies open, eliminating the time of the selection ployee's profile and the technical and behavManagement, Performance Management, Career and training processes. Therefore, the vacancy 0 ioural requirements for the position occupied. Management and Remuneration I and II, Managereplacement period only covers the admission 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 This evaluation is performed by the immediate ment of Third Parties, Recruitment, Selection and and Service Center tests, reducing the time superior and feeds the professional profile in Dismissal of Employees and the Calibration Combetween the vacancy appearing and the electriLost days the Career Portal, helping to identify gaps for mittee and Succession Model, among others. cian entering into the field to 20 days. development and also to guide the developG4-LA10 Between 2012 and 2014, 17% of the 482 25,000 20,087 ment of the employee’s IDP. In the participating For all employees including those at the electricians hired by CPFL were admitted via the 18,211 companies, 100% of employees were assessed management level technical tracks in 2015 School for Electricians. Last year was atypical and 20,000 through the Personal Value program. CPFL Serwere focused on business skills: Energy Manage390 electricians were hired using the traditional 15,000 viços, CPFL Atende, CPFL Total and EPASA did ment Track and Regulatory Affairs Track. With an process of internal training and only 15 came not participate in assessments of the Personal excellent turnout, this work facilitated the manvia the School for Electricians. Considering a 7,271 7,357 10,000 6,921 Value Programme, representing 24% of the agement and expansion of critical knowledge. projected 20% contraction in demand for elecworkforce of the CPFL Energia Group. The tracks relied on the work of internal educatricians via the School for Electricians by 2020, 5,000 HUMAN CAPITAL tors who are specialists in the referenced issues this initiative provides potential annual savings with the aim of ensuring the continuity of this of R$ 850,000 on contracting, representing total HUMAN CAPITAL knowledge within the organization, in line with savings of R$ 3.6 million by 2020 . 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 the Knowledge Management Program and CPFL also works with the SENAI Young DEVELOPMENT the development of professionals in the critical Apprentice (Jovem Aprendiz SENAI) program. Accident frequency rate Another important point for CPFL is the trainissues for the organization's business. With a workload of 800 hours, the program has 3.5 ing of its employees. Therefore, the Corporate Talks were also held on Communication at CPFL, helped train young people aged between 18 and 2.72 3.02 University conducts training in the classroom Volunteering, the Integrated Management System 24 to work as electricians since 2012. By last year 3.0 2.67 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia or through an online platform linked to straand “Our Way of Being and Doing” (Nosso Jeito de 89 young people had been trained and 41 of 2.5 tegic planning, through which employees are Ser e de Fazer), all given by internal experts on the them had been hired by CPFL. 2.0 1.80 1.77 invited or summoned to participate in initiasubjects, bringing a lot of credibility to the processes Also in 2015 CPFL initiated a new partnertives to develop their positions and careers. Its conducted by them. The company also offered ship with SENAI to train 32 students from the 1.5 focus is on employees, but may extend to the courses via e-learning, as preparatory activities for community in Cutting off and Reconnecting 1.0 entire value chain with a focus on business classroom courses or complementary to them. activities, with a duration of 240 hours and 50% results. In addition, the university acts in the G4-LA10 of students hired. 0.5 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 59 With regards to the Safety of the population, • Director of Distribution Operations; alongside various mass communication efforts CPFL • Director of Engineering; Fatalities involving own employees Fatalities involving independent contractors has promoted the External Campaign for Preven• Director of Procurement and Infrastructure; 5 tion of Electrical Accidents (CEPAE) throughout 2015 • Director of Corporate Communications and 5 3 through lectures, informative booklets and actions in Institutional Relations; 3.0 schools, construction companies, sugarcane mills, etc. • Safety, Health and Quality of Life Manager; 4 Through our Internal Accident Prevention Commit• Personnel Development Manager. 2 3 tees (CIPAs) and their members we took the message 3 2.0 of preventive safety with the electrical grid to more 2 2 than 40,000 people during these events, which were SAFETY AT THE POWER PLANTS G4-LA6 2 1 1 1 promoted on a voluntary basis by our employees. CERAN: in 2015 one accident at work with lost 1.0 1 1 G4-EU24 time was reported at the 14 de Julho HPP. The It is also important to note that since the launch of the Monte Claro and Castro Alves HPPs closed the year 0 0 People First (Primeiro as Pessoas) program, the Executive 2015 with 995 and 2858 days without lost-time ac2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Health and Safety Committee has been formed, with the cidents, respectively. role of deliberating on and promoting strategic actions and Barra Grande HPP: on 26th November 2015 an operational directions to be introduced to the CPFL Group. accident occurred which required medical treatment O Executive Health and Safety Committee is offibut without lost-time and of low severity. cially composed of: Foz do Chapecó HPP: ended the year 2015 CPFL Energia considers the health and safety The commitment to the five Basic Safety G4-LA5 with 1130 days without accidents. The frequency of its workers as a core value of the organiSteps was renewed throughout the company, • Vice-President of Regulated Operations; and severity rate for 2015 was zero. One significant zation. Since 2013, as a facilitator for accident with a strong awareness-raising and commu• Vice-President of Market Operations; event was the acquisition of an automatic defibrilprevention and health promotion actions, the nication campaign, and the preparation of the • CEO of CPFL Paulista and Piratininga; lator and equipment for rescue at height with apPeople First (Primeiro as Pessoas) program new project for the Safety, Health and Quality • CEO of RGE; propriate training. works with various actions related to the of Life operating system, with a focus on func• CEO of CPFL Santa Cruz and Jaguariúna; Campos Novos HPP: in 2015 there were no acHealth, Safety and Quality of Life of employtionality, agility and assertive management. • CEO of CPFL Serviços; cidents with or without lost time. The last lost-time ees, partners and customers. There were advances in preventive internal • CEO of CPFL Geração; accident occurred at the plant in 2006, a total of Last year, Phase 1 of the Behavioural Procommunication and all accidents, incidents, • Director of Strategic HR; 2,590,004 hours without accidents. gram “Sinto de Segurança” (Feeling Safe) was preventive actions and lessons learned were implemented, among other actions. In addidisclosed and discussed in Daily and Weekly tion to strengthening and spreading a Safety Safety Dialogues with all teams. This change in Culture throughout the organization the procommunication directly generated advances in Hydroelectric Power Plant Chapecó – SC gram seeks excellence in the management reporting which resulted in the increase in the process through concepts such as operational injury frequency rate reported over the last two discipline, a sense of ownership of the area and years. The increase is viewed positively, howevHUMAN CAPITAL visible and perceived leadership. er, as providing the opportunity for preventive This methodology, developed by DuPont, permeasures can be robust and definitive. mits the raising of awareness and commitment To provide greater assertiveness in prevention of different members of the institution as regards and correction the development of Safety profesthe importance of their participation for the consionals in methodologies for investigation and solidation of the culture and the proper functionanalysis of accidents has been strengthened. ing of the integrated management system. The Safety audits are carried out in partner commain stages of the program involved interviews panies on a quarterly basis in order to develop Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia with executives, workshops with senior leadera culture of prevention and corrective actions ship and managers and coaching for behavioural in necessary Health and Safety processes. observers. Behavioural observation tools and a Safety inspections were improved throughsafe practices index (IPS) were also implemented. out the year and now include behaviour, condiIn addition, a survey of the cultural perception of tions and automated reports. Another highlight safety was conducted and used as a base to eswas the training of over 460 of our leaders in daitablish a target for the organization, indices and ly actions and essential actions for Safety, Health evolution of measures in this area. and Quality of Life. 61 11. SOCIAL CAPITAL AND RELATIONSHIPS Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia CPFL Employee 63 MANAGEMENT OF RELATIONSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS G4-EU19 RELATIONSHIP WITH CONSUMERS In 2015 there were about 45 million customer SERVICE QUALITY, RELATIONSHIPS AND Providing a positive experience for the consumer services provided, an increase of 27% over the COMMUNICATION, REPUTATION is a major challenge and CPFL Energia has been previous year. Internet services represented implementing tools and new service platforms 55% of the total while call center and in-perThe Relationship of the CPFL Energia Group that offer flexibility, quality, safety, comfort and son attendances fell. with its different stakeholders boosts its agility for all. Amongst the new procedures is the business and generates value for the Comsending of electricity bills via email. CPFL is the pany. Good quality service and education first company in Latin America to use the syscampaigns targeted at customers and contem and in 2015 has already reached the signifiREPRESENTATIVENESS OF THE USE OF CUSTOMER SERVICE CHANNELS sumers, strengthening of partnerships with cant milestone of one million bills sent via digisuppliers focused on promoting respect for tal means across its eight electricity distribution human rights and good management praccompanies. The advance brings multiple benefits tices, investments in projects that benefit the communities of the municipalities in the conto consumers, the environment and the Group. The convenience provides the customer 2% 9% cession areas and support for governmental with access to bills through tablets, laptops and and regulatory bodies for the development smartphones. Registering to receive bills online 15% 12% of public policies and improvements to the also provides access to the billing history for the electricity sector are examples of how CPFL last 60 invoices from the date of registration with contributes to socio-environmental developthe service, allowing customers to monitor their ment throughout its value chain. The comenergy consumption in the period. pany has a stakeholder engagement policy that aims to create, maintain and strengthen Another relationship channel is provided through the free smartphone app for mobile 2014 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND RELATIONSHIPS relationships based on ethics, trust and transdevices, available for Android OS and iOS/Apparency. The company also developed a deple. Through the application the customer can tailed matrix of its relationships with each of quickly access 12 services relating to the electhe stakeholder groups. tricity supply to their consumer unit. G4-26 G4-27 G4-EU24 31% 23% CUSTOMER SERVICES VIA SMARTPHONE (THOUSANDS) 1471 53% 55% 200 194 148 144 109 115 INTERNET CALL CENTER IN-PERSON OTHER CHANNELS 104 103 544 88 94 88 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia 84 63 64 61 68 45 44 34 33 37 33 28 34 Total customers Increase of Total customer services services provided provided jan fev mar abr mai jun jul ago set out nov dez 35,513,882 2014 27% 44,980,359 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 65 SATISFACTION SURVEY G4-PR5 Social Inclusion: CPFL conducts a series of customer satisfaction services, industrial, government and public Efficient Communities Program surveys, including the ABRADEE survey of resiagencies, hospitals and charities, rural, etc. CPFL dential customers, Survey of large consumers Energia implements projects aimed at replacing With the objective of promoting smart energy concement of old refrigerators with new, efficient models and the Image and Branding Survey, as well as obsolete equipment with more efficient modsumption and replacing obsolete domestic equipment and replacement of electric showers for efficient techparticipating in the satisfaction survey conductels, promoting technological innovation. It also with efficient new models CPFL Energia developed the nologies and the installation of solar heaters. ed by ANEEL. The ABRADEE Survey of residenimplements projects related to sustainability Efficient Communities Program (Comunidades Eficiêntes) Public awareness actions are also carried out to tial customers is the largest one and serves as a and cultural and educational changes to reduce involving a set of projects for residential customers with promote the smart, safe and lawful use of energy basis for comparison between companies in the waste and encourage safe and legal energy use. low purchasing power. through talks, courses and educational activities. With sector, with the participation of the largest comIn 2015 the Company invested more than One of the projects implemented involves eliminathe adoption of these measures, rates of return to irrepanies in the country. R$ 59.8 million in this area, with R$ 39.3 million ting illegal hook-ups, generating new customers and gularity are low and the company's presence in poor In the most recent survey there was a genfor projects aimed at residential customers with promoting citizenship amongst the beneficiaries. In communities creates a special relationship with gains eral decline in the evaluation of companies but low purchasing power. This resulted in the regu2015, 1,500 low income customers were regularized for all parties involved. the CPFL Energia Group had the best results for larization of 1,503 customers, the exchange of through the Energy Efficiency Program (PEE). Engagement is undertaken in a structured quality indicators when compared to other cor8,412 refrigerators and 134,754 light bulbs for The selection of beneficiary customers is achieved manner by community agents, who act as a porate groups that participated in the survey more efficient models (LED) and the installation through a diagnostic/prospecting process and to go-between for the community and CPFL Energia. in 2015. The exception was the price valuation of 3,582 solar water heaters, 3500 heat exchangreceive the benefits consumers must possess an NIS They are trained and equipped with uniforms index, which may be associated with the tariff ers and 7376 E-Power electronic controllers to document (Social Identification Number), be registeand tablets and able to negotiate the correction review conducted during the survey period. reduce energy consumption by electric showred for the Social Electricity Tariff and have their bill of illegal connections and outstanding debts, 83% of respondents considered the services ers. The initiative also avoided the emission of payments up to date. together with the company. This is alongside the of CPFL’s electricity distribution companies to be 4.22 million tons of CO2. The program also includes the replacement of principal objective of teaching everyone how to of good or excellent quality. This figure is higher G4-PR3 G4-EN7 obsolete light bulbs with efficient LED models, replause energy correctly and safely. than for services provided by water distributors, banks and mobile telephony. In addition, 51% of the Group’s residential customers said that distriSOCIAL CAPITAL AND RELATIONSHIPS bution services have improved in recent years. In 2015, two Group companies received the Abradee Award: CPFL Paulista in the Customer CPFL in Schools Evaluation category and RGE in the Social Responsibility category. RGE also won the IASC The CPFL in Schools project has the principal objecAward, granted by ANEEL, as the best electric tive of empowering educators from municipal and utility company in the South Region with a marstate public schools in the concession area of CPFL ket of over 400,000 consumers. Paulista to disseminate basic concepts of smart and safe use of electricity among the students of 2nd to ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM 9th grade. It involves families and the community, In order to disseminate smart energy consumpthrough entertaining and interactive actions, contrition and energy efficiency, the CPFL Group anbuting to changing habits and behaviour. nually develops its Energy Efficiency Program Implemented in 2015, the CPFL in Schools Project for its customers: residential, commercial and involved 235 state and municipal schools, reaching Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia 23,940 students and 1,039 teachers in 87 municipalities with investment of more than R$ 5.4 million. 36 public buildings, 39 schools and 13 hospitals also received energy efficiency makeovers, with an investment of over R$ 7.3 million, alongside three water supply utilities and four industries, with an investment of R$ 2.3 million. G4-PR3 G4-EN7 67 Tauron Program RELATIONSHIP WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-EU6 CPFL Energia’s Sustainability and Social InvestSupport for Municipal Councils for the National Support Program for the was introduced with the challenge of The overall objective of the Tauron program is ment guidelines are intended to ensure the Rights of the Elderly – IDMC (1% Income Health Care of People with Disabilipromoting the integration of the manageto increase the productivity of the company and continuity of the business and create and share Tax). In 2015 a contribution of R$ 261,000 ties (PRONAS/PCD) ment processes of Programa Semear and improve the quality of services provided through value with all of its stakeholders. They are based was made to the Veranópolis (RS) Senior In 2015, CPFL supported the SORRI-BAto promote the mobilization of volunteers the insertion of technology into its processes. The on the material issues identified and prioritized Citizen Fund to support the continuation URU Specialized Rehabilitation Center and the interaction between them. CPFL program comprises three major Smart Grid projects: by the company and its stakeholders. All proof diagnosis for stage 2 of the City for All to the value of R$ 261,000. made available a budget of R$ 150,000 Operation and Mobility, Telemetry of Group A and grams and activities to promote the developAges (Cidade para Todas as Idades) projG4-SO1 for the program, as well as the number Automation of Distribution Networks. ment of the communities where CPFL operates ect, started in 2015. of working hours assigned for planning The Operation and Mobility project has imare designed through programs that strengthG4-SO1 CPFL Energia Volunteer Program activities and participation of volunteers plemented an interruptions management system en public policy and promote social protago(Programa Semear) in training sessions totalling 300 hours. and the intelligent management of the workforce. nism, as defined in its Social Investment Policy National Support Plan for Oncology Involved the participation of 5% of emThe program reached some important The field teams began using smartphones and approved in 2015. Social investment activities Care – PRONON (1% Income Tax) ployees in activities that directly benmilestones, including the training module cars with wireless devices. Work orders were are divided into five areas: Culture, Sport, EduLast year, CPFL supported the Boldrini efited 13 entities. Furthermore, indepenapplied to the Leadership Track and the previously sent by voice via radio but through the cation, Public Management and Community Childrens Center with R$ 261,000. PROdent actions and emergency campaigns launch of the Semear social network (V2V project began to be sent via data messages. This Development. All of CPFL Energia's operations, NON aims to capture and channel rewere conducted that benefited about – De Voluntário para Voluntário – “from volproject has improved the logistics of field teams for which the communities theme is relevant, sources to prevent and fight cancer. 64,000 people overall through 72 volununteer to volunteer”). by using geo-referenced maps, expediting the they implemented programs with communiG4-SO1 G4-EC8 tary actions. In 2015 an online platform G4-SO1 restoration of electricity and reducing travel time ties and follows the guidelines established in by optimizing routes, as well as allowing online the Social Investment Policy. progress updates during field work. These chanAll of CPFL Energia’s operations for which the isges have been made for 100% of the teams that sue of communities is important implemented prorespond to emergency and commercial orders for grams with the communities and follow the guidethe eight distributors of the CPFL group. lines established in the Social Investment Policy. G4-SO1 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND RELATIONSHIPS The Telemetry projected replaced conventional electronic meters with smart meters for Group A customers, which are those served by medium Revitalization Program and high voltage. The consumption information is for Philanthropic Hospitals automatically collected via CPFL’s own telecommuRunning since 2005, this program helps to raise nications network, thus eliminating the need for the administrative performance of philanthropic teams to travel to the location to take a reading. This hospitals and improve the services provided to the project, in addition to allowing remote readings, also community. In 2015, the program continued with permits the analysis of the load curve, fraud detechospital management training, serving 20 hospitals tion, measurement malfunctions and energy supply in the regions of Barretos and Marilia and reinforcinterruptions in real time. More than 26,600 meters ing activities with the Ribeirão Preto Regional Comhad been replaced by December 2015. mittee, formed by Philanthropic Hospitals trained in The Automation of Distribution Networks earlier phases. R$ 750,000 was invested in 2015. project enables the remote control from distance of G4-EC8 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia 4,866 medium voltage reclosers installed across the distribution network of the eight CPFL Group compaSupport for Municipal Councils for the nies, thereby increasing the supervision and visibility Rights of Children and Adolescents – CMDof the network and allowing field teams to act to reCA (1% Income Tax). In 2015 the Group com-establish supply with greater assertiveness, reducing panies allocated R$ 261,000 to the Municipal the time required to normalize the situation. Fund for Children and Adolescents. The transfer serves to support Action Plans that result from situational diagnosis performed in 2015. G4-SO1 G4-EC8 69 CPFL INSTITUTO Formalized in 2015, Instituto CPFL incorporated the traditional cultural programs of CPFL Energia, including Café Filosófico CPFL, Cine CPFL and the Contemporary Music program, and expanded its functioning to inSUPPLIER MANAGEMENT clude activities related to Sport, quality of life and social responsibility. G4-SO1 THIRD-PARTY RISK, PERFORMANCE, DEVELOPMENT In this first year Instituto CPFL has organized major events such as the Campinas leg of the Night Run – Water Stage, continued to support the training project for high performance athCafé Filosófico CPFL Institute | Culture letes at Orcampi and was able to strengthen G4-12 the commitment to take the best in art and culCPFL Energia ended 2015 with 3,785 suppliers in 2015 by bringing it into line with the Risk ture in Brazil to a growing audience through the registered for centralized purchasing (over R$ Management area through calibration of the CPFL Art and Culture Circuit. These numbers help turn Instituto CPFL into 20,000). Of this total, 114 are strategic (repreweighting of the tools items and risk score inG4-SO1 a reference for organizing high quality events senting over 80% of CPFL Group of supplier creases. Based on this model we started to use Publicity for events, highlighted in the main for the general public and as a center for recosts) and 98 are critical (in addition to being supplier risks for decision making: contracting, regional and national media outlets, has been flection and organization of contemporary strategic, they also represent an operational contract renewals, disqualifications, and manleveraged by a communication strategy using thought, in addition to strengthening the Comand/or reputational risk). In its interaction with agement of actions with suppliers, contract social networks: there are about 6,000 followers pany's image as one of the main supporters of these partners the company attempts to spread managers and risk committees. on Facebook and 28,000 on Twitter. the arts and culture in Brazil. the adoption of sustainable management best In 2015 there were no identified cases of suppractices and share its values in order to crepliers that had caused significant environmental ate an environment suitable for conducting or social impacts. ONLINE DEBATES: PROGRAMS ON TV CULTURA: ethical business and generating shared value. G4-EN33 G4-LA15 AUDIENCE OF 104 PROGRAMS AND In the actions it develops with its suppliers In the past year CPFL has not identified any 11,888 AN AUDIENCE OF CPFL Energia assesses quality and efficiency cases amongst its suppliers of the rights of em47 million in the delivery of goods and services and aims ployees to freedom of association or collective SOCIAL CAPITAL AND RELATIONSHIPS to encourage its supply chain to adopt sociobargaining being put at risk. This was ascertained PEOPLE environmental responsibility practices such as after conducting periodic assessment visits in EVENTS PEOPLE adhering to occupational safety standards and which the social responsibility requirements are social responsibility initiatives, respecting envianalysed, according to the regulations. PARTICIPATION OF 10,290 ronmental and labour laws and committing to G4-11 contribute to social development. Value Network: this program seeks to conCPFL considers these 2.5% (98) as critical tribute to development of suppliers in relation to PEOPLE due to the operational or reputational risks corporate sustainability through sharing practices they present. These suppliers are monitored and management tools. In 2015, 81 suppliers parCULTURAL AND SPORTS via SBM (Supply Base Management). The criteticipated and five bimonthly meetings were held CIRCUITS: MORE THAN ria used for the monitoring of these suppliers to address the Value Network objectives for 2015, 24,000 include financial analysis, safety, the environment, technical performance and legal risks. For suppliers not monitored by the SBM, monsupplier management, strategies for sustainability, the challenges for the energy sector, plans for outsourcing, the BRR 2015/2016 investment PEOPLE Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia itoring is conducted following registration plans, the Energy in Cities of the Future project maintenance criteria according to the sup( A Energia nas Cidades do Futuro ), electric moEXHIBITION: TOMIE OHTAKE: CORES GRAVADAS, LINHAS NO ESPAÇO” (“TOMIE plier rating. In 2014 the SBM tool was integratbility, solar roofs and innovation and overcoming OHTAKE: RECORDED COLORS, LINES IN ed into the SAP. The tool has been improved challenges, with a lecture by Amyr Klink. SPACE ) AND LINHA D’ÁGUA” (“WATER LINE ) BY THE YACHTSMAN AMYR KLINK: 4,362 PEOPLE 71 12. INFRASTRUCTURE CAPITAL Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia CPFL's transmission tower On this date we had 453 high voltage to quality and reliability of electricity supply. 73 medium voltage transformer substations for The System Average Interruption Duration GENERATION subsequent distribution (increase of 8 subIndex (SAIDI) measures the average duraIn 2015, CPFL Energia continued its expansion MW) and 2 SHPs (51 MW) under construction, stations), with a total processing capacity of tion (in hours) of interruptions per customer in the Generation segment, with a 0.1% inwith the following schedule for beginning 14,865 (an increase of 294 MVA). during the year and the System Average Increase in installed capacity from 3,127 MW to operations: 255 MW in 2016, 51.3 MW in 2018 Investments were made in the expansion, mainterruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) indicates 3,129 MW, considering the 51.6% share in CPFL and 26.5 MW in 2020. tenance, improvement, automation, modernization the average number of interruptions per Renováveis. This increase resulted from the In April 2015 the Morro dos Ventos II wind and strengthening of the electrical system to meet customer during the year. growth of CPFL Renováveis. farm located in the municipality of João Câmara/ the growth in the market, in operational infrastrucThe distributors of CPFL Energia ended G4-EU1 RN began operations with 29.2 MW of installed ture and in customer services, alongside other areas. 2015 with an increase of approximately 20% On December 31st 2015, the portfolio capacity, eight months ahead of schedule. The Group continued its strategy of stimuin the number of inspections carried out of CPFL Renováveis totalled 1,802 MW of inInvestments were mainly allocated to the lating the dissemination and sharing of best to identify irregular or illegal connections. stalled capacity in operation, comprising 38 Morro dos Ventos II Wind Farm, a development management practices and operations within There were more than 300,000 inspections small hydroelectric power plants SHPs (399 that began operation in April 2015, and the the distribution companies, in order to increase carried out over the last 12 months, resultMW), 34 wind farms (1,032 MW), 8 thermal Campo dos Ventos, São Benedito and Pedra operational efficiency and improve the quality ing in the recovery of 330 GWh of electricity biomass plants (370 MW) and 1 solar plant (1 Cheirosa Wind Farms and the Mata Velha SHP, of services provided to customers. diverted from the CPFL Energia system. By MW). There are currently 11 wind farms (282 projects still under construction. G4-EU6 way of comparison, this quantity of energy The following results were achieved by the would be enough to power about 130,000 distributors for the main indicators measuring homes for a month. INSTALLED CAPACITY/GW SAIDI AND SAIFI INDICATORS 2015 (ANNUALISED VALUES) G4-EU28 G4-EU29 3,5 CPFL CPFL CPFL CPFL LESTE CPFL CPFL SUL CPFL RGE PAULISTA PIRATININGA SANTA CRUZ PAULISTA JAGUARI PAULISTA MOCOCA 3,0 SAIDI1 7.76 7.24 15.98 8.46 6.93 7.04 7.92 11.51 2,5 SAIFI2 4.89 4.31 8.33 6.34 4.61 5.92 5.67 9.47 2,0 (1) measures the average duration in hours of interruptions per consumer in the year (2) average number of interruptions per customer in the year 1,5 Although irregular connections (commerBALANCE OF LOSSES G4-EU12 cial losses) represent less than 2% of total 1,0 energy losses from CPFL Energia's distributors TYPE OF LOSSES PERFORMANCE % GWH INFRASTRUCTURE CAPITAL the company is working to further lower this 0,5 index and create a fairer and safer relationTotal 8.33 5,154 ship with customers. The CPFL companies Technical 6.31 3,904 0,0 are among the major electricity distributers Non-Technical 2.02 1,251 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2018 (p) in Brazil with the lowest levels of total losses (technical and commercial losses), according to the Brazilian Association of Electricity DisEVOLUTION OF OVERALL LOSSES G4-EU12 tributors (ABRADEE). SHP THERMAL 14,0% DISTRIBUTION Commercial losses contribute to making On December 31st 2015 our distribution electricity bills more expensive for all consum12,0% BIOMASS HYDRO companies had 7.8 million customers (an iners. The value of stolen energy and cost of idenAnnual Report 2015 CPFL Energia 10,0% crease of 166,000) and our distribution nettifying and curbing irregularities are taken into WIND work consisted of 247,422 kilometers of disconsideration by the National Electric Energy 8,0% tribution lines (a 6478 km increase in lines) Agency (Aneel) to establish how much energy 6,0% including 369,526 distribution transformers will cost in each concession area. 4,0% (increase of 15,804 transformers). Our eight distribution subsidiaries had 9,986 high-volt2,0% age distribution lines of between 34.5 kV and OVERALL LOSSES 2015 0,0% 138 kV (105 km increase in lines). OVERALL LOSSES 2014 CPFL CPFL RGE CPFL CPFL CPFL Sul CPFL CPFL Paulista Piratininga Santa Leste Paulista Jaguari Mococa G4-EU4 OVERALL LOSSES 2013 Cruz Paulista 75 13. KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS CAPITAL G4EU8 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia CPFL Employee 77 One of the goals of the CPFL Group is the conTechnological and Scientific Research and DeOne of the highlights is the Mobilidade Eléand semi-public charging points. The charging tinuous pursuit of innovation in processes, prodvelopment reached approximately R$ 25.1 miltrica (Electric Mobility) project, which aims to points will be placed in locations such as shopucts, services and business models, with the lion. Of this total, it is worth noting a significant establish a real Electric Mobility laboratory in ping centers, service stations and the City Hall. clear objective of maintaining competitiveness increase of 153% in safety investments. the metropolitan region of Campinas to collect The research concluded that electric vehicles and excellence in its service to the market. To It is the responsibility of the company's real data on the various applications and imare an excellent choice for people seeking econocontinue as a reference in the market as an ininnovation area to establish a culture that plications of this technology, permitting study my. The data collected by the project shows that novative company we must continually invest in stimulates the development of actions and and deepening of knowledge of the impacts of the cost of running a conventional combustion Research and Development (R&D). projects of this nature. To achieve this, its electric vehicles for the sector. vehicle is approximately R$ 0.31 per kilometer, Brazilian regulations for the electricity sector work is divided into two fronts of action: The Study began in 2013 and will receive while the cost for an electric vehicle is R$ 0.11, require companies operating in distribution, management of innovation projects and fiapproximately R$ 21.2 million in investments just over a third of the cost of a conventional car. generation and transmission of energy to innancial and regulatory management. As a by the year of its completion in 2018. The studAnother conclusion from the first phase is vest 1% of their net operating revenue annuresult projects are now classified as structural ies undertaken have a global and systemic vithat the expansion of the electric vehicle fleet ally in research and development and energy or operational excellence: sion of how the issue is addressed in different would have little impact on energy demand. efficiency programs. The distributors invested Structural: those long-term projects that parts of the world which allows opportunities CPFL Energia’s Initial projections point out that 0.5% of revenue in research and development prepare CPFL and the electricity sector for the to identify the barriers to be overcome in Brazil the use of this technology would increase elec(R&D) projects and 0.5% in energy efficiency future, including for example the Tanquinho Soand achieve the objectives of the project. tricity consumption from the National Interprograms. The Generation companies invest lar Power Plant, Mobilidade Elétrica (Electric MoAmong the topics studied are the impact connected System (SIN) by between 0.6% and 1% of their revenue in R&D. bility), A Energia na Cidade do Futuro – Visão 2030 on the electrical network in the planning for 1.6% by 2030 when forecasts indicate that the With these resources it is possible to im(Energy in the City of the Future Vision 2030) system expansion, use of electric vehicles as fleet of electric cars could reach between five prove current technology and CPFL’s expertise and Telhados Solares (Solar Roofs). a source of distributed generation, regulaand 10.1 million units. in the already consolidated segments and lead Operational Excellence: related to the tory and legal improvements, the life cycle The project currently involves various types the development of energy sources, with the day-to-day activities of the company, such as as and recycling of batteries, study of tariffs of partnerships. The main ones are: principal focus being on the Company's opTrafo Verde (Green Transformer), Virtual Training rates and billing, the proposition of a busi• The entities carrying out the studies: CPqD, erating region. In 2015, CPFL’s investments in and Lightweight Concrete Crosspieces. ness model for electric mobility in Brazil and Unicamp and Daimon, besides the Portuother related issues. guese CEiiA. Last year new partnerships brought greater •The companies using the vehicles: Natura, robustness to the project and also provided a 3M, Instituto CCR, Unicamp and other breakthrough in the study of the business modpartnerships in closing phase. el. Today, users of electric cars have five operat• Companies with charging stations in ing charging points but the goal is to increase their establishments: Rede Graal and KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS CAPITAL this number to 25, including public, private Shopping Iguatemi. FUNDS INVESTED IN SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R$) 2014 2015 Alternative electricity generation sources 7,578,556 4,222,356 The Environment 401,442 777,064 Safety 877,466 2,223,876 Energy efficiency 117,703 0 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Planning of Electrical Systems 4,535,237 8,016,378 Operation of Electrical System 5,350,879 2,764,191 Supervision, Control and Protection of Electrical Systems 2,564,430 2,896,023 Quality and Reliability of Electricity Services 1,034,803 1,449,377 Metering, billing and prevention of commercial losses 256,592 116,263 Electric Car of CPFL Other 7,691,700 2,678,915 79 14. FINANCIAL CAPITAL G4-EC1 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Tanquinho solar power plant SP 81 Consumption Meter Net operating revenue grew 17.1% (R$ 2.798 billion). These effects were partially offset by a reducDEBT. At the end of 2015 the company’s gross finanFor the criterion adopted to ascertain financial covlion) excluding revenue from construction of the tion in net financial expenses (R$ 75 million) and cial debt (including derivatives) reached R$ 19.49 billion, enants for loan agreements with financial institutions, concession infrastructure to reach R$ 19.159 bilIncome Tax and Social Contribution (R$ 45 million). an increase of 5.0%. Cash and cash equivalents totalled which considers CPFL Energia’s participation in each lion, mainly as a result of: (i) an increase of 21.6% R$ 5.68 billion, an increase of 30.4%. As a result net debt generation project, net debt reached R$ 12.21 billion in the Distribution segment (R$ 2.76 billion), mainly decreased 2.8% to R$ 13.8 billion. at the end of 2015, a decrease of 6.3% compared to due to the tariff increases applied throughout the The increase in financial debt is intended to support the net debt position at the end of 2014, which was year and the increase in sector financial assets; and EBITDA (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) the Group's business expansion strategy, including financof R$ 13.04 billion. (ii) an increase of 28.5% in Generation from Renewing CPFL Renováveis’ Greenfield projects. In addition, CPFL For the ascertainment of covenants, the effects of able Sources (R$ 280 million) due to new projects 2014 2015 Energia adopts a strategy of pre-funding in anticipation of CVA Variation Compensation Account of Portion beginning operations. This was partially offset by funding debt due to mature within 18 to 24 months. A are also included in the calculation of adjusted IFRS 3,760,903 3,750,012 reductions of 20.8% (R$ 150 million) and 4.9% (R$ The nominal cost of debt increased by approximately EBITDA and as such adjusted EBITDA for the last 12 92 million) observed in the segments of ConvenMANAGERIAL 3,901,084 3,947,766 2.4 percentage points to 12.6% per year as a result of the months was R$ 3.58 billion. Therefore, the ratio of tional Generation and Marketing and Services reincrease in the Selic rate and the relation to the profile of adjusted Net Debt to adjusted EBITDA at the end of spectively, mainly as a result to the lower prices its debt. The average debt maturity is 3.61 years. 2015 was 3.41x. observed in the short term (spot) market. EBITDA. Operational cash generation, meaPARTICIPATION OF THE SEGMENTS IN MANAGERIAL EBITDA OF CPFL ENERGIA FINANCIAL CAPITAL sured by EBITDA, totalled R$ 3.75 billion, a decrease of 0.3% (R$ 11 million), mainly reflecting a NET REVENUE (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) 25.1% increase in electricity costs and charges (R$ 22.67 billion) and the variation of 14.7% in operat2014 2015 4% ing costs, including spending on private pensions IFRS 16,360,945 19,159,200 (R$ 296 million). These effects were offset by the 17.1% growth in net revenue excluding revenue MANAGERIAL 15,724,038 18,914,808 from construction of the concession infrastructure GENERATION – which amounted to a total of R$ 2.8 billion. The Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia variation in sector financial assets (R$ 1.6 billion), 50% and increase in equity balance (R$ 157 million) are especially notable. 46% RETAIL AND SERVICES NET PROFIT. In 2015, Net Profit reached R$ 875 NET PROFIT (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) million, down 1.3% (R$ 11 million), mainly reflecting the increase in depreciation and amortization 2014 2015 (R$ 120 million), particularly as a result of CPFL IFRS 886,444 875,277 DISTRIBUTION Renováveis’ generation projects beginning operaMANAGERIAL 1,161,966 1,124,379 tion and the reduction of 0.3% in EBITDA (R$ 11 mil83 PERFORMANCE OF CPFL ENERGIA’S BUSINESSES DISTRIBUTION There was an increase of 21.6% in Net Revenue in the Also of note is the performance of the residential business confidence in industry, smaller quanSALES IN CONCESSION AREA (GWH) Distribution segment (R$ 2.76 billion), mainly as a result and commercial classes, which together represent tities of exports and excessive stockpiles obof the tariff increases applied throughout the year and 60.4% of total consumption in the concession area served in industry in recent months. 2014 2015 an increase in sector financial assets. of the Group's distributors: In 2015, sales to the captive market totalled 41,730 • R esidential and commercial classes: falls of Sales from retail and generation (excluding related Residential 16,501 16,164 GWh, a decrease of 3.3% compared to 2014, while en2.0% and 1.0%, respectively. This performance parties) amounted to 17,033 GWh, representing an ergy transported to free customers, billed through the reflects the deterioration in the labour market, increase of 3.7%. This is mainly due to increased sales Industrial 24,565 22,874 Tariff for Use of the Distribution System (TUSD), fell 5.8% with rising unemployment and decreased real for the retail comapany through bilateral contracts. to 15,829 GWh. These reductions are a reflection of the income, as well as the increase in electricity tarIn recent years, CPFL Brasil has been focusing its efCommercial 10,043 9,945 adverse macroeconomic environment, which has resultiffs. Lower temperatures and fewer billing days forts on the sale of electricity to special customers ed in a drop in industrial production, lower sales volume also contributed negatively to the performance who purchase energy from alternative sources. The Others 8,853 8,575 to the retail trade and reductions in real income. of these classes. number of free and special customers in the portfoSales in the concession areas by the distribution • Industrial class: down 6.9%, reflecting the slowlio reached 246 in December 2015. Total 59,962 57,558 segment totalled 57,558 GWh, down 4.0%. down in economic activity, the falling level of INDICATORS FOR THE DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT EBITDA (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) 2014 2015 IFRS 2,180,272 1,750,485 MANAGERIAL 1,984,873 1,830,297 FINANCIAL CAPITAL NET REVENUES (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) 2014 2015 IFRS 12,787,990 15,550,533 MANAGERIAL 12,010,838 15,580,533 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia NET INCOME (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) 2014 2015 IFRS 947,958 709,355 MANAGERIAL 866,748 762,031 Electricians of CPFL 85 ANNUAL TARIFF ADJUSTMENTS (RTA) 2015 The tariffs of the CPFL Group distributors were readjusted in 2015 in accordance with ANEEL’s resolutions, as follows: GENERATION In 2015, net operating revenue from the Conventional Generation segment was R$ 984 million, a deANNUAL TARIFF ADJUSTMENTS (RTA)/PERIODIC TARIFF REVIEW (RTP) crease of 17.4% (R$ 207 million) from R$ 1.19 billion in 2014, mainly due to a reduction of 13.2% in shortCPFL CPFL CPFL CPFL SUL CPFL CPFLLESTE CPFL RGE term sales (aggregate effect of a reduction of 13.0% PIRATININGA PAULISTA MOCOCA PAULISTA JAGUARI PAULISTA SANTA (RTA) in quantity of energy sold and 90.8% in the average (RTP) (RTA) (RTA) (RTA) (RTA) (RTA) CRUZ (RTA) sale price). Meanwhile, Generation from Renewable Ratifying Sources saw net operating revenues increase by 1,972 1,896 1,871 1,849 1,851 1,853 1,852 1,850 Resolution 15.8% (R$ 218 million) over the same period, totalEconomic IRT* 40.1% 25.0% 37.3% 28.9% 30.2% 40.1% 28.8% 22.0% ling R$ 1.6 billion. This is mainly attributable to an Financial 11.7% increase in revenues from energy sold to li16.2% 8.5% 4.1% -5.6% -5.4% -1.6% -8.0% 12.7% censees and utilities concessionaires (R$ 162 million) componentes and an increase in Other Revenue (R$ 32 million) due Total IRT* 56.3% 33.5% 41.5% 23.3% 24.9% 38.5% 20.8% 34.7% to the recognition of loss of earnings from CPFL Bio Average effect 21.1% -3.8% 4.7% 29, 2% 28.4% 45.7% 24.9% 28.0% Pedra, CPFL Coopcana and CPFL Alvorada. * IRT: Tariff Adjustment Index INDICATORS FOR THE GENERATION SEGMENT EXTRAORDINARY TARIFF REVIEW (RTE) 2015 Through its Resolutions ANEEL approved Extraordiincrease in the CDE quota in 2015; and (iv) recalculaEBITDA (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) nary Tariff Reviews RTE for electricity distributors who tion of the research and development charge (R&D). had requested the reviews, including the distributors For the distributors CPFL Santa Cruz, CPFL Jaguari, 2014 2015 of the CPFL Group. This RTE was necessary to restore CPFL Mococa, CPFL Leste Paulista and CPFL Sul PauIFRS 1,343,058 1,894,078 the economic and financial balance of these utilities lista the RTE was necessary to reflect the new 2015 concessionaires as a result of the following factors: (i) CDE quota, adjust the exchange rate for payment of MANAGERIAL 1,679,762 1,971,212 increase in the exchange rate and the tariff rate to R$ energy purchased from the Itaipu Power Plant and 2.80/US$ adopted in the energy purchase contracts exclude the financial component predicted for exfor the Itaipu Power Plant in 2015; (ii) increase in enposure/overcontracting. The remaining items had alNET REVENUE (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) FINANCIAL CAPITAL ergy purchase costs at the 2015 Adjustment Auction ready been included in the Annual Tariff Adjustment and the 2014 Existing Energy Auction; (iii) significant RTA on February 3rd. 2014 2015 IFRS 2,436,766 2,481,682 MANAGERIAL 3,163,812 2,780,016 EXTRAORDINARY TARIFF REVIEW (RTE) CPFL CPFL CPFL CPFL SUL CPFL CPFLLESTE CPFL RGE PIRATININGA PAULISTA MOCOCA PAULISTA JAGUARI PAULISTA SANTA CRUZ NET PROFIT (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Energy 3.3% 17.1% 7.7% 1.2% 0.8% 2.6% 1.7% -4.1% 2014 2015 Charges 26.0% 18.4% 24.0% 15.0% 20.5% 20.2% 17.4% 13.2% IFRS (48,233) 254,144 Average effect 29.8% 37.2% 32.3% 16.6% 22.0% 23.0% 19.5% 10.0% Electrician of CPFL on Consumer MANAGERIAL 309,274 423,007 87 Energy Commercialization Desk of CPFL Brasil RETAIL AND SERVICES RETAIL DISTRIBUTION OF DIVIDENDS MINIMUM MANDATORY DIVIDEND (25%) STATUTORY RESERVE WORKING Compared to the year ending December 31st 2014, net The Company Bylaws foresee the distribution in diviThe Administration is proposing the distribution of R$ 205 CAPITAL INCREASE operating revenues from the Energy Retail segment dends of at least 25% of adjusted net income to its million in dividends to holders of common shares traded For this financial year, considering the current addecreased 17.4% (R$ 380 million) to R$ 1.8 billion in shareholders, as provided for in law. The proposed alon the BM&FBovespa Securities, Commodities and Fuverse economic situation and the uncertainty sur2015. This decrease was due to a 77.5% (R$ 547 million) location of net income is shown in the following table: tures Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA). The proposed amount rounding projections for distribution due to energy FINANCIAL CAPITAL fall in revenue from sales through the CCEE, as well as a corresponds to R$ 0.206868475 per share for the year 2015. efficiency campaigns and the extraordinary tariff infall of 6.6% (R$ 54 million) in revenue from sales to othcreases during 2015, the Company's Administration er utilities concessionaires and licensees. These reducis proposing the allocation of R$ 393 million to the tions were partially offset by an increase of 22.2% (R$ THOUSANDS OF REAIS statutory reserve working capital increase. 193 million) in revenue from free industrial customers. Net income for the year – Individual 864,940 SHARE BONUSES FOR SHAREHOLDERS Realization of comprehensive income 26,119 SERVICES To strengthen the Company's capital structure, the Compared with the previous year, net operating revPrescribed dividends 5,597 Executive Board, at its meeting on March 7th 2016, enue from the Services segment fell 14.5% (R$ 50 milrecommended to the Board of Directors to propose Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Basic net income for distribution 896,656 lion) to R$ 295 million in 2015. This is mainly attributto the General Meeting the capitalization of the able to a reduction of R$ 68 million in revenue from Legal reserve (43,247) balance of the statutory reserve working capital construction contracts, driven by the reclassification Statutory reserve financial assets of the concession (255,013) increase, with the issue of new shares, in favour of of two transmission assets as other activities in 2015. shareholders. This proposal will be submitted for the In addition, rental revenue showed a fall of 80.6% (R$ Statutory reserve working capital increase (392,972) approval to the Extraordinary General Meeting con10 million) but was offset by a 7.0% increase (R$ 20 Minimum mandatory dividend (205,423) vened for 29 April 2016. million) in the sale of goods and services. 15. CONTENT INDEX GRI Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia 89 91 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Message from the President. Yes 7, 11 and 10 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 7 and 12 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the Organization. 18 G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services. Yes 23 G4-5 Location of Organization's headquarters. 18 Countries in which the organization operates and where its main G4-6 18 operations are located. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 18 G4-8 Markets served. 18 G4-9 Scale of the organization. 18 2014 2015 AGE GROUP: UNDER 30 YEARS MEN 0 2213 AGE GROUP: UNDER 30 YEARS WOMEN 0 956 AGE GROUP: 30 TO 50 YEARS MEN 0 4216 AGE GROUP: 30 TO 50 YEARS WOMEN 0 1006 AGE GROUP: 50 YEARS OR OLDER MEN 0 1030 AGE GROUP: 50 YEARS OR OLDER WOMEN 0 163 FUNCIONAL CATEGORY EXECUTIVOS MEN 0 18 FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY EXECUTIVES WOMEN 0 1 NORTHEAST REGION– WOMEN 0 7 NORTHEAST REGION – MEN 0 109 G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. MID-WEST REGION – WOMEN 0 2 54 MID-WEST REGION – MEN 0 1 CONTENT INDEX GRI SOUTHEAST REGION WOMEN 0 1837 SOUTHEAST REGION MEN 0 5943 SOUTH REGION WOMEN 0 279 SOUTH REGION MEN 0 1406 EMPLOYMENT TYPE: PART-TIME WOMEN 0 42 EMPLOYMENT TYPE: PART-TIME MEN 0 32 EMPLOYMENT TYPE: FULL-TIME WOMEN 1911 2083 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia EMPLOYMENT TYPE: FULL-TIME MEN 6710 7427 EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT: INDEFINITE OR PERMANENT WOMEN 2019 2121 EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT: INDEFINITE OR PERMANENT MEN 6748 7459 EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT : FIXED-TERM OR TEMPORARY WOMEN 34 4 All of the Group's employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, excluding the CEO, G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 69 Executive Directors, Employers and Statutory Directors. 93 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-12 Describe the organization's supply chain. Yes 69 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period. 9 There were no significant changes. COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES Explanation of whether and how the organization applies the G4-14 32 precautionary principle. G4-15 Charters, principles or other externally developed initiatives. Yes 22 G4-16 Participation in associations and/or national/international organizations. 5 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Entities included in the consolidated financial statements and entities not G4-17 Yes 23 covered by the report The Report contents are based on the material Aspects of the CPFL Sustainability Platform, as well as the issues G4-18 Process for definition of report content. identified as relevant by stakeholders consulted for the 2013-2014 cycle. G4-19 List of material Aspects. 36 G4-20 Materiality and limits of each aspect within the organization. Aspect Impact within CPFL Energia Impact outside CPFL Energia HEALTH AND SAFETY (MATERIAL) All business Employees, communities and customers PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (MATERIAL) All business Employees and third parties SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT (MATERIAL) All business Customers and society REVERSE LOGISTICS (MATERIAL) Distribution Society MANAGEMENT OF COMMUNITY RELATIONS All business Customers and communities (MATERIAL) CLIMATE CHANGE (MATERIAL) All business All stakeholders COMPLIANCE (RELEVANT TO STAKEHOLDERS) All business All stakeholders CONTENT INDEX GRI CORRUPTION (RELEVANT TO STAKEHOLDERS) All business Communities, employees, government RELIABILITY OF ENERGY All business Customers and society (RELEVANT TO STAKEHOLDERS) BIODIVERSITY (RELEVANT TO STAKEHOLDERS) Generation and Distribution Society WATER (RELEVANT TO STAKEHOLDERS) Generation All stakeholders Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia G4-21 Materiality and boundaries of each Aspect outside the organization. 14 See indicator G4-20. G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports. 5 G4-23 Significant changes in Scope. 5 95 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Description of the process performed for the 2013-2014 cycle appears in the CPFL Energia Annual Report 2014, G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. pages 30-35. Description of the process performed for the 2013-2014 cycle appears in the CPFL Energia Annual Report 2014, G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. pages 30-35. Description of the process performed for the 2013-2014 cycle appears in the CPFL Energia Annual Report 2014, G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement. 62 pages 30-35. Description of the process performed for the 2013-2014 cycle appears in the CPFL Energia Annual Report 2014, G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement. 62 pages 30-35. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. Yes 5 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. 5 G4-30 Reporting cycle. Yes 5 G4-31 Point of contact in case of questions regarding the report or its contents. 5 G4-32 Table identifying the location of information in the report. 5 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external G4-33 5 assurance for the report. GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the G4-34 Yes 20 highest governance body. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental G4-35 and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives 25 and other employees. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or G4-36 positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, Yes 25 and 28 and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Report consultation processes between the stakeholders and the highest CONTENT INDEX GRI governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. G4-37 36 If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. G4-38 Independent or non-executive members of the highest governance body. Yes 25, 27 and 28 G4-39 Chair of the highest governance body. 24 MECHANISMS FOR SHAREHOLDERS AND EMPLOYEES TO PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS G4-40 Qualifications of the members of the highest governance body. Yes 25 and 27 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia It is a duty of the board of directors to prevent and manage situations of conflict of interests or differences of opinion to ensure that the interests of the company and its subsidiaries and affiliate companies always take precedence over any other interests. The member of an advisory committee to the Board of Directors who has actual or potential conflict of interests concerning a particular matter will withdraw from the room and not participate in the meeting during the period in which the matter is G4-41 Processes to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided. being considered but may be asked to provide information. Any Board Member who has actual or potential conflict of interest or who is linked to a Related party whose main activities imply the existence, actual or potential, of conflict of interests with a particular matter to be examined by the Board should abstain from participating in the part of the meeting in which this matter is analyzed. More information is available at www.cpfl.com.br 97 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE MECHANISMS FOR SHAREHOLDERS AND EMPLOYEES TO PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the The Executive Board is responsible for approving and updating CPFL’s strategic directives (Vision, Mission and Principles) development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or and the definition of political strategies and targets as well as the definition of strategies, policies and targets related to G4-42 mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, the organization’s economic, environmental and social impacts. The Management Processes Committee of the Board of environmental and social impacts. Directors is responsible for monitoring initiatives related to the sustainability of the company and its subsidiaries. The company provides the Board Members with Certification from the Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC) Report the measures taken to develop and improve the highest governance G4-43 to encourage continued and permanently updated education, as well as encourage their participation in events related body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. to governance issues or related to the businesses in which it is involved. G4-44 Processes for self-evaluation of the highest governance body. 25 Responsibilities for implementation of economic, environmental 24, 28 G4-45 Yes and social policies. and 32 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of G4-46 the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental Yes 24 and 32 and social topics.. Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, G4-47 Yes 24 and 25 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. In order to foster the participation of shareholders in the company’s relevant decisions, CPFL Energia prepares the Report the process to communicate critical concerns to the Manual for Participation in the General Shareholders' Meetings which clearly and objectively presents the themes on G4-49 Yes highest governance body. the agenda for the Meeting and makes it possible to freely indicate professionals to be constituted by proxy as shareholder representatives in the Assemblies. Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were G4-50 communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) 30 used to address and resolve them.. Relation between remuneration and the organization's performance G4-51 28 (including social and environmental). Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and G4-52 28 whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. CONTENT INDEX GRI ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Available online: G4-56 Statements of mission and values, codes of conduct and relevant principles http://www.cpfl.com.br/institucional/quem-somos/visao-missao-principios/Paginas/default.aspx http://www.cpfl.com.br/institucional/etica-na-rede/o-codigo-de-etica/Paginas/default.aspx Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical G4-57 and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as Yes 29 and 30 helplines or advice line. Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational G4-58 Yes 29 and 30 integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 99 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Distribution of added value (DVA) 2014 2015 GOVERNMENT 74.3% 57.5% EMPLOYEES 5.2% 9.3% G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 42 SHAREHOLDERS 1.0% 8.7% THIRD PARTIES 15.4% 23.1% RETAINED 4.1% 1.4% Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the G4-EC2 Yes 42 organization's activities due to climate change. INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-EC8 Description of significant indirect economic impacts. 66 and 67 ENERGY G4-EN3 Power consumption within the organization. ENERGY (MWh) 2014 34774 2015 35255 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 7, 8 Energy consumption increased by 481 MWh in 2015. G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. 64 WATER To promote eco-efficiency actions at its facilities CPFL runs the Consumo Inteligente (Smart Consumption) program, with initiatives to raise the awareness of employees at the headquarters and regional offices with the aim of reducing water and energy consumption. The consumption targets considered for 2015 included 140.058 cubic meteres of water and 38.654 MWh of energy. CONTENT INDEX GRI Actions in progress: 1. Energy Diagnostics conducted at the Headquarters, Regional Offices and EAs aiming to identify project opportunities with focus on replacing equipment; 2. Modernization project for the Air-conditioning system at the Campinas headquarters; 3. Creation of exclusive Primer for the Consumo Inteligente Program; G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Yes 4. Encouraging the participation Floor Administrators. PERFORMANCE Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia 2014 126 2015 151 Data in thousands of cubic meters In the case of power plants that have significant water use (biomass plants of CPFL Renováveis), the resource G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 8 passes through a closed loop for cooling processes. 101 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE BIODIVERSITY Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas G4-EN11 48 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on G4-EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Yes 48 to 50 protected areas HPP HPP HPP HPP HPP HPP Barra Campos Foz do Monte 14 de Castro Grande Novos Chapecó Claro Julho Alves TOTAL PLOT AREA (KM²) 125.8 50.5 95.7 4.49 7.97 10.21 FLOODED AREA (KM²) 82.6 25.6 46 0.69 2.77 3.05 AREA WITH PRIMARY VEGETATION 20.8 (KM²) AREA WITH SECONDARY VEGETATION IN MEDIUM AND ADVANCED 45.7 9.9 14.6 3.76 5.17 7.1 STAGES OF REGENERATION (KM²) PERMANENT PRESERVATION AREA 48, 49 42.4 20.7 44.6 3.02 4.31 6.87 7, 8 (KM²) G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. and 51 INSTALLED POWER/FLOODED AREA 8,35 34.38 18.58 189.5 36.15 42.61 (MW / KM²) EPASA has a reforestation program in the area surrounding the power plant (degraded area recovery). The Epasa area covers a total 79.24 hectares, subdivided into an Internal area of 29.13 hectares (36.74% of the total) and External area of 50.11 hectares (63.25% of total), and separated by a masonry wall. Five reforestation nuclei of one hectare each were implanted in the inner area, which is maintained by a specialized contractor. Native vegetation in the growth stage predominates in this area. In the external area the characteristic vegetation consists of grasses and sedges, until recently used for grazing animals. The herbaceous layer is punctuated by isolated trees of common native species and a variety of exotic plants. Close to the project there is a forest reserve of approximately 80 hectares containing remnants of the original vegetation of the region with plant composition of shrub and subshrub layers, complemented by a sparse herbaceous layer. CONTENT INDEX GRI Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia 103 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE EMISSIONS G4-EN15 Total direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) by weight. 44 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) by weight. 44 G4-EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) by weight. 44 G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions. 7, 8 48.3 tCO2e/GWh considering corporate interest and 5.50 tCO2e/GWh considering operational control. G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHGs) emissions. 7, 8 44 In 2015, mobile sources at CPFL Energia produced estimated total emission of 47.85 tons of NOx gas for operational control and 53.21 tons in the corporate interest. Emissions from diesel consumption by mobile sources at CPFL Energia resulted in an estimated total of 13.10 tons of SOx gas following the operational control approach and 14.31 tons by the corporate interest approach. NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions by type and weight. G4-EN21 NOx emissions from consumption of fossil fuels for power generation in thermal power plants were 2,569.94 tons following the operational control approach and 3296.64 tons following the corporate interest approach. Estimates SOx emissions were 1.02 tons by operational control and 4580.91 tons by corporate interest. EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 47 Unit Local Volume (L) Material SE PAINEIRAS Campinas, sp 150 SE OVA APARECIDA Sumaré, SP 80 SE IPÊ Americana, SP 60 Oil Rodovia SP 207, Km 25 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. CPFL SERVIÇOS 300 São José do Rio Pardo, SP PIRACICABA Piracicaba 80 SE COLONIAL Itatiba 763 Oil mixed with water CONTENT INDEX GRI There were eight events of larger proportions, in six of which a company specializing in emergencies was called in. In two event (EA Itapira and Taquara), the company’s own team resolved the issue. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 46, 48, 50 G4-EN27 Extent of mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. 7 Yes and 64 CONFORMITY Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary G4-EN29 Yes 42 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. GENERAL G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 42 105 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF SUPPLIERS Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the G4-EN33 7 Yes 69 supply chain and actions taken. EMPLOYMENT New employees and the turnover rate of employees. 2015 TURNOVER (%) BY AGE GROUP: FROM 30 TO 50 YEARS – MEN 12.6 TURNOVER (%) BY AGE GROUP: FROM 30 TO 50 YEARS – WOMEN 17.42 TURNOVER (%) BY AGE GROUP: 50 YEARS OR OLDER – MEN 9.28 TURNOVER (%) BY AGE GROUP: UNDER 30 YEARS WOMEN 38.28 TURNOVER (%) BY AGE GROUP: UNDER 30 YEARS MEN 32.68 TURNOVER (%) WOMEN 26,55 TURNOVER (%) MEN 18.01 OVERALL TURNOVER (%) 19.9 NEW HIRES NORTH REGION WOMEN 0 NEW HIRES NORTH REGION MEN 0 NEW HIRES NORTHEAST REGION WOMEN 3 NEW HIRES NORTHEAST REGION MEN 39 NEW HIRES – CENTER-WEST REGION WOMEN 0 NEW HIRES – CENTER-WEST REGION MEN 0 NEW HIRES SOUTHEAST REGION WOMEN 508 NEW HIRES SOUTHEAST REGION MEN 1299 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover NEW HIRES SOUTH REGION WOMEN 97 G4-LA1 54 and 55 by age group, gender and region. NEW HIRES SOUTH REGION MEN 275 NEW HIRES BY AGE GROUP: 50 YEARS OR OLDER WOMEN 15 NEW HIRES BY AGE GROUP: 50 YEARS OR OLDER MEN 34 NEW HIRES BY AGE GROUP: FROM 30 TO 50 YEARS WOMEN 173 CONTENT INDEX GRI NEW HIRES BY AGE GROUP: FROM 30 TO 50 YEARS – MEN 606 NEW HIRES BY AGE GROUP: UNDER 30 YEARS WOMEN 420 NEW HIRES BY AGE GROUP: UNDER 30 YEARS MEN 80 NEW HIRES WOMEN 60 NEW HIRES MEN 300 TOTAL NEW HIRES 300 TURNOVER (%) BY AGE GROUP: 50 YEARS OR OLDER – WOMEN 60 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia TURNOVER (%) SOUTH REGION – MEN 300 TURNOVER (%) SOUTH REGION – WOMEN 80 TURNOVER (%) SOUTHEAST REGION – MEN 60 TURNOVER (%) SOUTHEAST REGION WOMEN 300 TURNOVER (%) – CENTER-WEST REGION MEN 300 TURNOVER (%) – CENTER-WEST REGION WOMEN 60 TURNOVER (%) NORTHEAST REGION – MEN 300 TURNOVER (%) NORTHEAST REGION WOMEN 80 107 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE EMPLOYMENT Employees Benefits Employees of CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Geração and CPFL Brasil, linked to Fundação CESP, are entitled to benefits in line with best practices in the labor market, with access to pension PAULISTA, PIRATININGA, plans and healthcare plans, meals and food expenses paid, transportation and day care assistance. BRASIL, GERAÇÃO E For the same group of employees, the company also offers participation in profit sharing, payroll ENERGIA loans, retraining program, vacation bonus, in addition to specific reimbursements for healthcare services. Benefits such as life insurance, house insurance and vehicle insurance are offered with 100% employee participation. RGE employees are granted various benefits, such as pension plans, health and dental care, food stamps, meals vouchers, day care assistance, personal/payroll loans, life insurance, agreement with RGE pharmacy, school kits, reimbursement for Driving Licence, post-return bonus vacation and assistance for persons with disabilities. RGE also offers annual scholarships to aid employees for technical, undergraduate, graduate, MBA and master's degrees. At the distributors CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Mococa, CPFL Leste Paulista and CPFL Sul Paulista, employees are entitled to pension plans, medical and dental assistance, food stamps, meals vouchers, JAGUARIÚNAS pharmaceutical aid, daycare, payroll loan, vacation bonus, retraining programs, holiday loan and life insurance. Agreements with universities and language schools are also granted. CPFL Santa Cruz offers a pension plan, health and dental assistance, food stamps, disability assistance, day-care assistance and transportation. Employees have the right to payroll loan, vacation bonus, SANTA CRUZ retraining programs, life insurance and accident insurance (extended to spouses) and agreements with pharmacies. Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, food stamps, meal vouchers, pharmacy CENTRAIS GERADORAS assistance, day-care, payroll loan, vacation bonus, vacation loan and life insurance. They are also granted agreements with universities and language schools. Benefits granted to full -time employees that are not provided to temporary G4-LA2 Yes Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, food stamps, meals vouchers, pharmacy or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation INSTITUTO CPFL assistance, compensation for accidents at work, special individual assistance, payroll loan, pension, life insurance, retirement bonus, sick pay and day-care. Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, food stamps, pharmacy assistance, pay-roll CPFL SERVIÇOS loans, life insurance, retirement bonus, pension and child care allowances. Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, food stamps, pharmacy assistance, payroll CPFL ATENDE loan, life insurance and day-care. CONTENT INDEX GRI Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, food stamps, pharmacy assistance, payroll CPFL TOTAL loans, life insurance, retirement bonus, sick pay, specific compensation and day care. Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, food stamps, pharmacy assistance, payroll NECT loans, life insurance, retirement bonus, sick pay, specific compensation and day-care. Employees are entitled health and dental care plans, nursery assistance, pharmacy, aid special indiTELECOM vidual, complement sickness, payroll loan, vacation bonus, pension, life insurance and meal vouchers. Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, day-care assistance, pharmacy assistance, CPFL EFICIÊNCIA disability assistance, private pension plans, life insurance, food stamps and meals vouchers. Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, day-care assistance, pharmacy assistance, EPASA payroll loan, private pension, retraining programs, life insurance, food stamps and meals vouchers. 109 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK G4-LA5 Percentage of employees represented in formal health and safety committees. 59 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenG4-LA6 Yes 57 and 59 teeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. TRAINING AND EDUCATION Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, G4-LA9 55 and by employee category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the G4-LA10 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing Yes 55 and 56 career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career G4-LA11 Yes 56 development reviews, by gender. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minorities and other diversity indicators. Race % ASIAN 1.04 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees WHITE 76.29 G4-LA12 per employee category according to gender, age group, minorities 10 and other diversity indicators. INDIGENOUS 0.14 NOT INFORMED 1.23 BLACK 5.68 MIXED-RACE 15.62 CONTENT INDEX GRI SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices G4-LA15 Yes 69 in the supply chain and actions taken. NON-DISCRIMINATION G4 – HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective measures taken. 2, 6 CPFL Energia does not carry out management of this indicator. Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia 111 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom G4 HR4 of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant 2, 3 55 CPFL Energia does not carry out management of this indicator. risk, and measures taken to support these rights. CHILD LABOR Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of G4 HR5 child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition 2, 5 CPFL Energia does not carry out management of this indicator. of child labor. FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents G4 – HR6 of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination 2, 4 CPFL Energia does not carry out management of this indicator. of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. LOCAL COMMUNITIES Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, G4 SO1 1 Yes 66 to 68 impact assessments, and development programs. ANTI-CORRUPTION Percentage and total number of business units submitted to evaluation G4 – SO3 10 33 of risks related to corruption. G4 – SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 10 Yes 33 G4 – SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 10 Yes 33 No donations were made to politicians or political parties as CPFL Energia’s Code of Ethics and Anti-corruption policy prohibits G4 – SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 10 making donations of any party-political character on behalf of any of the CPFL Group companies. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labelling, and G4 – PR3 1 Yes 64 percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements. CONTENT INDEX GRI G4 – PR5 Results of customer satisfaction surveys. 10 Yes 64 COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and In 2015, processes of inspection of the distributors CPFL Group conducted by the Agencies ANEEL, ARSESP and AGERGS G4 PR9 10 Yes regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. resulted in six significant fines of a commercial-technical nature, amounting to the total payment of R$ 1.77 million. Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia 113 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Installed capacity broken down by primary energy source and G4-EU1 72 by regulatory regime. Customers of CPFL Energia distributors 2015 2014 2013 RESIDENTIAL 6,906,580 6,750,758 6,523,533 INDUSTRIAL 55,586 57,397 58,565 COMMERCIAL 473,333 484,937 491,057 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial RURAL 245,238 243,998 245,687 G4-EU3 customer accounts. GOVERNMENT 51,359 50,931 49,443 PUBLIC LIGHTING 10,362 9,92 9,596 PUBLIC SERVICE 8,402 8,251 7,961 OWN CONSUMPTION 845 851 843 TOTAL 7,751,705 7,607,043 7,386,705 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines, G4-EU4 72 by regulatory system. Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by G4-EU5 45 trading framework. The hydroelectric power plants have multi-year plans (5 years) that include preventive (machine stops) and corrective maintenance and an estimate of failures for each generating unit. The management of this plan is carried out weekly at operation and maintenance programming meetings. There is also management software for all maintenance activities, including a schedule of all preventive and predictive maintenance necessary. At EPASA,guidelines of the manufacturers' manuals for the maintenance of the engines are followed. Plans for periodic inspections Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity 66, 68 of the electrical parts are also implemented, as well as the implementation of the asset management system, which is being tested G4-EU6 10 availability and reliability. and 73 to improve the database system for records of occurrences and maintenance. At CPFL Renováveis, short-term preventive maintenance practices are scheduled with the aim of preserving the equipment, extending its useful life, reducing the need for major interventions with the equipment in the long term and corrective interventions. Short-term maintenance activities are scheduled for the seasons with lowest water levels in the case of hydroelectric plants, less CONTENT INDEX GRI wind in the case of wind farms and the off-season for sugarcane for thermal biomass plants. The scheduling of this maintenance aims to reduce or prevent loss of generation as a result of outages caused by the maintenance. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at G4-EU8 9 Yes 74 to 77 providing reliable electricity and promoting sustainable development Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia 115 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE RESPONSE SYSTEM EFFICIENCY Total Technical Non-TechniTotal Technical Non-TechniTotal Company Losses Losses cal Losses Losses Losses cal Losses Losses 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 CPFL PAULISTA 8.66% 6.57% 2.09% 8,42% 5,77% 2,65% 7.80% CPFL PIRATININGA 6.92% 4.52% 2.40% 6,95% 4,45% 2,50% 6.20% RGE 9.31% 7.71% 1.60% 9,61% 8,08% 1,52% 9.70% G4-EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy. 73 CPFL SANTA CRUZ 8.86% 8.38% 0.48% 7,93% 7,76% 0,17% 9.30% CPFL LESTE PAULISTA 11.76% 8.64% 3.13% 11,33% 8,61% 2,72% 11.50% CPFL SUL PAULISTA 7.64% 7.42% 0.22% 7,81% 7,16% 0,65% 8.20% CPFL JAGUARI 4.35% 3.48% 0.90% 4,19% 3,70% 0,49% 3.80% CPFL MOCOCA 9.58% 7.69% 1.90% 9,56% 7,69% 1,87% 9.20% BIODIVERSIDADE 48, 49 G4-EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas. Yes and 51 EMPLOYMENT G4-EU14 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce. Yes 56 LOCAL COMMUNITIES Stakeholder participation in decision making processes related to G4-EU19 62 energy planning and infrastructure development. DISASTER/EMERGENCY PLANNING AND RESPONSE Training is provided for fire brigade members and the Emergency Response Plan, with simulations according to the annual Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management calendar. The Emergency Response Plan involves a simulation of an emergency situation, verifying the functionality of the G4-EU21 Yes plan and training programs, and recovery/restoration plans. procedure and possible improvements that could be made. At the CPFL Group’s Campinas headquarters we have a Civil Fire Brigade, trained and qualified in accordance with legislation to respond to any emergency situations that may arise. CONTENT INDEX GRI PROVISION OF INFORMATION Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability G4-EU24 related barriers to accessing and safely using electricity and customer 59 and 62 support services. CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Number of injuries and fatalities to the public invlving company assets, G4-EU25 Yes In 2015 there were 74 accidents involving the population, with 11 fatalities. including legal judgments, settlements and pending legal cases of diseases. Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia ACCESS G4-EU28 Power outage frequency. 73 G4-EU29 Average power outage duration. 73 117 AUDITORS' LIMITED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON INFORMATION RELATED TO ASSURANCE SUSTAINABILITY INCLUDED IN THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR 2015 To the Board of Directors CPFL Energia S.A. CampinasSP INTRODUCTION We have been engaged by CPFL Energia S.A. ( CPFL Energia ) to present our limited assurance report on the compilation and fair presentation of the information related to sustainability included in the 2015 Annual Report of CPFL Energia S.A., for the year ended December 31, 2015 ( Annual Report for 2015 ). MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR 2015 The management of CPFL Energia is responsible for the compilation and fair presentation of the sustainability information included in the Annual Report for 2015, in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4) and for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of information free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the compilation and fair presentation of the information related to sustainability included in the Annual Report for 2015, based on our limited assurance engagement carried out in accordance with the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audit and Review , issued by the Brazilian Federal Accounting Council (CFC), which is equivalent to the international standard ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information , issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements, including independence requirements, and perform our engagement Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia to obtain limited assurance that the information related to sustainability included in the Annual Report for 2015, taken as a whole, is free from material misstatement. A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000 and ISAE 3000 mainly consists of making inquiries of management and other professionals of the entity involved in the preparation of the information, as well as applying analytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us to issue a limited assurance conclusion on the information, taken as a whole. A limited assurance engagement also requires the performance of additional procedures when the independent auditor becomes aware of matters that lead him to believe that the Campinas SP information taken as a whole might present significant misstatements. 119 The procedures selected are based on our understanding of the aspects related to the compilaNon-financial data are subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, due to the nature tion and presentation of the information related to sustainability included in the Annual Report for and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate and estimate such data. Qualitative inter2015, other circumstances of the engagement and our analysis of the areas in which significant pretations of the materiality, relevance, and accuracy of the data are subject to individual assumpmisstatements might exist. The following procedures were adopted: tions and judgments. Furthermore, we did not consider in our engagement the data reported for prior years, nor future projections and goals. (a) planning the work, taking into consideration the materiality and the volume of quantitative and qualitative information and the operating and internal control systems that were used to prepare the information related to sustainability included in the Annual Report for 2015; CONCLUSION Based on the procedures performed, as described herein, no matter has come to our attention that (b) understanding the calculation methodology and the procedures adopted for the comcauses us to believe that the information related to sustainability included in the Annual Report for pilation of indicators through interviews with the managers responsible for the preparation 2015 of CPFL Energia S.A. has not been compiled and fairly presented, in all material respects, in of the information; accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4). (c) applying analytical procedures to quantitative information and making inquiries regarding the qualitative information and its correlation with the indicators disclosed in the OTHER MATTERS Annual Report for 2015; and AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 The financial statements of CPFL Energia for the year ended December 31, 2015 were audited (d) obtaining evidence about the more material GRI-G4 indicators included in the Annual by other auditors, who issued an unqualified audit opinion dated March 7, 2016. The social and Report for 2015 and presented in the GRI Index of the mentioned Report. environmental performance indicators based on accounting information and presented in the Annual Report for 2015 of CPFL Energia were extracted from these financial statements, which The limited assurance engagement also included the application of procedures to assess comwere not subject to assurance procedures by us for the purposes of this review. pliance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4) applied in the preparation of the information related to sustainability included in the Annual Report for 2015. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. Campinas, April 8, 2016 SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less detailed than those applied in a reasonable assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issuance of PricewaterhouseCoopers an opinion on the compilation and fair presentation of the information related to sustainability Contadores Públicos Ltda. included in the Annual Report for 2015. Consequently, we are not able to obtain reasonable assurCRC 2SP023173/O-4 F ance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issuance of an opinion. Had we performed an engagement with the objective of issuing an opinion, we might have identified other matters and possible misstatements in the information related to sustainability included in the Annual Report Edmilson Monutti for 2015. Therefore, we do not express an opinion. CRC 1SP258388/O-0 Annual Report 2015 CPFL Energia CORPORATE INFORMATION CPFL Energia S.A CNPJ: 02.429.144/0001-93 NIRE 35.300.186.133 Rua Gomes de Carvalho, 1510 – 14o andar – Cj 142 – Sala 02 Vila Olímpia São Paulo – SP CEP: 04547-005 CREDITS GENERAL DIRECTION Vice Presidency of Legal Affairs and Institutional Relations Sustainability Department CONTENT GUIDANCE Rodolfo Nardez Sirol | Carlo Linkevieius Pereira | Natalia Tadokoro GATHERING OF INFORMATION Employees of the CPFL Energia Group (subsidiaries and affiliates) EDITORIAL COORDINATION Carlo Linkevieius Pereira | Natalia Tadokoro EXTERNAL PARTNERS CONTENT, TEXT AND GRAPHIC DESIGN Keyassociados – www.keyassociados.com.br PHOTOGRAPHY CPFL Energia Image Bank CONTACT Sustainability Department sustentabilidade@cpfl.com.br We thank the professionals of the CPFL Energia Group who provided the information necessary for the preparation of the Annual Report 2015, including the teams at the generation projects (Foz do Chapecó, Enercan, Baesa, Ceran Complex and CPFL Renováveis) and the people who participated in our survey of relevant issues and contributed important observations, as well as all external partners. Tanquinho solar power plant SP
