Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress ‘16 Sep 2016 2015 Human Rights Labour Rights Environment Anti-Corruption 1 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress ‘16 Sep 2016 2015 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Dear All, For the third year running, I am pleased to confirm that Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd (TGS) continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Moving forward, we are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the new Sustainable Development Goals. We hope this document goes some way to demonstrate our progress with respect to the UN Global Compact’s guiding principles. As a company, we are constantly striving to achieve an exceptional level in all areas of our operations. This year has seen the company achieve the prestigious ISO 14001:2004 in recognition of our Environmental Management System, as detailed in 2015’s COP we created an Environmental Project Team who carried out the research and implemented the new procedures which in turn ensured that TGS met the strict ISO targets. On behalf of TGS’s 140 employees, I reaffirm our commitment to compliance with the 10 Principles of the Global Compact. Yours sincerely Kevin Jones Chief Executive Officer 2 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress ‘16 Sep 2016 2015 CORPORATE VALUES: The following are the Toyota Gibraltar (Stockholdings) Ltd Corporate Values that provide the foundation for the organisation’s business principles: Integrity: Above all, we are committed to integrity in all that we do. Leaders: To be leaders in quality of service and client satisfaction is our main objective. To attain this we must all be committed, from the bottom to the top of the organisation. Teamwork: This remains the essence of our ability to succeed as a trusted preferred supplier to our clients. Our overriding loyalty is to the good of the whole organisation. We learn from each other and share our skills and resources across organisational boundaries for our clients' benefit and our own. We support the development of teams which in turn enhances our corporate image. Respect: We respect every individual not only our clients but the public in general, our own personnel and the environment. We draw strength from equal opportunity and diversity, at the same time supporting personal growth and development. We value and benefit from the entrepreneurial spirit of each individual. Professionalism: We are committed to the highest standards of professionalism, we are dynamic, we pursue innovation, we are open to new ideas and we act decisively and consistently. We are determined to deliver outstanding quality so that our relationships with our clients will be long lasting and close. 3 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress ‘16 Sep 2016 2015 Principle 1 and 2 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Toyota Gibraltar (Stockholdings) Ltd is committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and demonstrating that we value the diversity of our workforce. This year we updated our policy booklet on “Equal opportunities and diversity”, the aim of this policy is to do our best not to unfairly discriminate against any job applicant or employee, when recruiting or at any time during employment, and in all cases only to consider factors which are relevant to someone’s ability to perform the job well. It is also the company’s responsibility to prevent anyone being treated unfairly, victimised or being harassed for any reason during employment, and the Company will take appropriate action when necessary to ensure all employee abide by this policy at all times. Our commitment: 1. To create an environment in which individual differences and the contributions of all our staff are recognised and valued. 2. It recognises the varied contributions to the achievement of the company’s mission made by individuals from diverse background and with a wide range of experiences. 3. Every employee is entitled to a working environment that promotes dignity and respect to all. No form of intimidation, bullying or harassment will be tolerated. 4. Training, development and progression opportunities are available to all staff. 5. Equality in the workplace is good management practice and makes sound business sense. 6. We will review all our employment practices and procedures to ensure fairness 4 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress ‘16 Sep 2016 2015 Implementation All employees, and in particular Supervisors, Managers etc., have responsibilities to ensure the continuing success of the implementation of the Procedures by: Topic should be discussed during yearly appraisals with line manager.  Anonymous surveys will be carried out with all staff members. Results/Outcomes Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd has not been subject to any incidents, investigations or legal cases relating to Human Right abuses. We as a company are very committed to developing and investing in our people and this is reflected by our successful retention of the Investors in People (IiP) Gold award and Champion status in 2015/2016. A more realistic benchmark we can use to demonstrate how significant this achievement has been is: •Of the 25,000 organizations accredited by IiP, only 205 (0.8%) have achieved the Gold award to date and only 48 Companies have achieved Champion status in UK. •There are only six Investors in People Champions outside of the UK which includes TGS and we are the first Gibraltar company to attain this prestigious award. 5 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress ‘16 Sep 2016 Principles 3-6 2015 Labour Rights Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Toyota Gibraltar (Stockholdings) Ltd supports and abides by ILO’s International Labour Standards, as such we refrain from doing business with any organization which is involved with forced or child labour. In every aspect of our business we follow the principles of Labour Rights and our strict Labour Policy covers the following: • Promoting a reputation for honesty, trust and excellence with employees, clients, contractors and suppliers. • Providing good employment and working conditions for all staff members. • Respecting the rights and dignity of every employee and treat them fairly and without discrimination. • Encouraging team working and the sharing of knowledge throughout the organisation.• • We give Health and Safety the highest priority. • Helping and supporting the communities where we are involved become better places to live and work. Implementation • We now have structured development programmes for employees at all levels of the company; these are reviewed on a quarterly basis by line managers. • We promote a healthy work/life balance, during summer 2014 we implemented summer hours for all staff, we also implemented flexible lunch breaks which allow staff to attend gym classes, the company also promotes gym membership and holds a corporate rate with a local gym, fees are deducted from salaries. • During the last 12 months the company has sent different staff on 48 job related courses, aimed at increasing their performance and future prospects. • We have recently launched our Talent Management Programme which encourages members of staff to come up with proposals for company improvements which are in line with our corporate values and guiding principles, the best proposals are implemented by the company. • For 2016, we announced an additional 2 university students would qualify for the company’s Graduate Sponsorship Scheme. Results/Outcomes • Toyota Gibraltar (Stockholdings) Ltd has not been involved with any investigation or legal cases relating to the contravention of UNGC Labour Rights principles. • The average staff members at TGS has been working at the company for over 10 Years, this is an exceptionally high number and demonstrates all of the above. • In 2016 a student from our graduate sponsorship scheme came back to work for the company following completion of their studies. 6 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress ‘16 Sep 2016 2015 Principles 7-9 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Toyota Gibraltar (Stockholdings) Ltd recognises that virtually all the activities of an organisation or an individual have some impact on the environment. Our aim is to reduce the impact of our own organisation through a programme of continuous improvement. All departments follow closely the Group’s environmental policy which covers all aspects and operations of the group, the effectiveness of which is monitored closely by the company. The company’s goal is to reduce our CO2 emissions considerably during the next five years, through methods which I will detail below. We are committed to: Complying with current legislation and, where practical, seek to meet and wherever possible, exceed future legislative requirements ahead of relevant deadlines and address environmental responsibilities within the framework of our operating procedures.  Developing and implementing a comprehensive Environmental Management System through;  Maximisation of materials recycling across the business  Reduction in energy consumption by both deploying energy saving technologies as well as reducing usage  Pollution Risk Analysis and Prevention  Staff education and awareness  Using and promoting paperless processes in pursuit of our day to day business  Encouraging the use of suppliers with an environmental policy  Encouraging employee feedback on potential improvements to our environmental business practices . 7 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress ‘16 Sep 2016 2015 Results/Outcomes 2015-2016 Major Achievement In spring 2016 we were very proud to achieve the ISO14001 for Environmental Management, this was the result of a great amount of hard work by our Environmental project team. 8 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress ‘16 Sep 2016 2015 Below is the summary of all the Environmental changes which the Group has made in the last 12 months:  LED Lighting substitution to improve its energy efficiency.  Air conditioning inspection in every building to comply with Environmental Protection (Controls on Ozone-Depleting Substances) Act 2014.  Oil separators installations in garage and workshop to avoid any unexpected water discharge to public sewage.  Substitution of company’s car to Hybrid type to reduce carbon emissions.  Preventive equipment maintenance for reduction of malfunctions that cause undesired consumptions, breakages, spillages, etc.  Waste hierarchy implementation (reuse, recycle, recover and refuse), waste segregation and bailer purchasing to reduce waste volume. As part of the Environmental Management System TGS checks its facilities in a monthly basis in order to identify any deviation from ISO 14001 environmental related activities (Chemicals storage, waste management, resource consumption, energy efficiency, etc.) Staff are trained in Environmental Aspects related to their post in an annual basis. In these trainings all the information related to the resources available for the conservation of energy, water, wood paper and other resources, reduction of waste and phasing out ozone depleting substances and minimizing the release of greenhouse gases, volatile organic compounds and other substances damaging to health and the environment are outlined. Awareness sessions are maintained every time that Non-conforming actions are detected. 9 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress ‘16 Sep 2016 2015 Principle 10 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Toyota Gibraltar (Stockholdings) follows its Ethical Procurement policy which covers several key aspects including Corruption. We are compliant with the latest Bribary Act and refrain from participating in any corruption, bribery or extortion. We support the United Nations Convention against Corruption, and abide by all of its principles no matter which country we are operating in. Implementation As part of our Ethical Procurement policy, we follow the below guidelines:  Not to abuse position of authority for personal gain.  Declare any personal interest which may affect, or be seen by other to affect, impartiality or decision making.  Not to accept inducements or gifts other than items of small value, such as business diaries and calendars.  To always declare the offer or acceptance of hospitality and never allow hospitality to influence a business decision.  To ensure that the information given is accurate.  To respect the confidentiality of information received and not to use it for personal gain.  To strive for genuine, fair and transparent competition.  To remain impartial in all business dealings and not to be influenced by those with vested interests. This year TGS created a new Business Management Manual which details how to work with suppliers in the correct manner. Results/Outcomes Despite 20 years of selling vehicles to over 100 countries, TGS has never been involved in a single case relating to bribery or corruption, moving forward we expect and hope to keep it this way. 10
