Corporate Social Responsibility Progress Report 2015 Table of Contents CSR REPORT 2015 3 Letter from the CEO 4 About Össur 5 2015 – Year in Review 7 Corporate Strategy 8 Values 9 Össur’s Approach to CSR 11 Human Rights and Labor Practices 20 Environment and Quality 24 Anti-Corruption 25 Compliance 26 Support and Responsibility 28 Overview of Measurements 30 Goals and Key Focus for 2016 CSR REPORT 15 2 Letter from the CEO To build a strong and successful team of employees it is important to embrace diversity in its broadest sense. Likewise, we recognize the need to encourage diversity in our industry. To do that we have launched a Women’s Leadership Initiative providing a forum that encourages interaction, community-building and educational opportunities that serve the needs of the growing number of women in the field. We are proud to be among 103 businesses and institutions in Iceland that have signed a declaration to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and to cut waste. This declaration was delivered at the 21st United Nations Climate Jón Sigurðsson Change Conference in Paris. Accordingly, we Össur President and CEO are putting more emphasis on reducing our environmental footprint. Össur is a global company, dedicated to amputees. Mind-controlled Bionic prosthetic We at Össur believe that by integrating our improve people’s mobility with products and legs are a remarkable clinical breakthrough in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) into our services focused on bracing and supports next-generation Bionic technology. By adapting day-to-day business we are creating a stronger and prosthetics. To be in the business of to the individual’s intentional movements and foundation for our Company and for future helping people is extremely rewarding. We are intuitive actions, we are closer than ever to growth. We believe adhering to a strong CSR continuously striving to eliminate physical creating prosthetics that are truly integrated policy will help us take on future challenges. limitations caused by certain disabilities by with their user. delivering innovative solutions that improve the quality of life for those needing our products. In a global company like Össur, employees Our mission to improve people’s mobility has interact with each other, as well as with led us to reach one of our most important stakeholders from many different cultures and milestones: the introduction of the first mindbackgrounds. Therefore, we are constantly controlled Bionic prosthetic lower limbs for striving for diversity within our company. CSR REPORT 15 3 About Össur Össur focuses on improving people’s mobility through the delivery of innovative technologies within the fields of prosthetics and bracing and supports. Össur is known as a technical leader in the field of prosthetics and one of the leading companies in the field of bracing and supports. The Company was founded in 1971 as a prosthetic clinic and has since then grown through innovation and acquisitions in both prosthetics and bracing and supports. Today Össur has a strong position in the industry and key markets and is in a good position to leverage on future opportunities. Össur has been listed since 1999 and on NASDAQ in Copenhagen since 2009. Össur is headquartered in Reykjavik, Iceland. Össur has operations in 18 countries and around 2,500 employees. The Company’s sales are well diversified by segments and geography. Sales in 2015 amounted to USD 483 million. Össur’s Two Business Segments Bracing and Supports Össur’s bracing and supports products are used primarily to support joints and other body parts for therapeutic and preventative purposes. The Company offers a comprehensive line of custom made and off-the-shelf products with primary focus on osteoarthritis and injury solutions. Prosthetics Prosthetics are artificial limbs and related products for individuals who were born without limbs or who have had limbs amputated. Össur offers a full range of premium lower limb prosthetics, including liners, knees and feet. CSR REPORT 15 4 2015 – Year in Review Unloader® FIT – New Össur and Challenged Athletes Össur and SpringActive addition to the Unloader Foundation continue partnership that explore next generation bionic OA brace family supports people with limb loss prosthesis development Low Active – New comprehensive Mind-controlled prosthetics product solutions for less active introduced at Össur Capital amputees launched Markets Day CSR REPORT 15 5 ISPO in Lyon, France (Sara and Hans Team Össur dominates at the IPC dance video on social media … over Athletics World Championships – 16 million views) 17 medals, 6 world records MORE GREAT THINGS TO COME ... Bloomberg Business Össur Ambassador features Össur Jami Marseilles becomes first bilateral female amputee to complete a full marathon CSR REPORT 15 6 Corporate Strategy Össur’s vision is to be the leading company in non-invasive orthopaedics. Össur’s business is improving people’s mobility through innovative VISION technologies within the fields of bracing and Leading Company in Non-Invasive Orthopaedics supports and prosthetics. Össur will continue to generate value for individuals and healthcare systems by focusing its business strategy on MISSION innovation, efficiency and growth. We Improve People’s Mobility MAIN FOCUS AREAS Innovation Efficiency Growth Execute Ideas that Add Value Do Business Efficiently Sustainable Growth We embrace innovation in all our We strive to increase efficiency and We will achieve growth by successfully actions by creating value for our drive continuous improvement. We run commercializing our innovation through customers. We will be at the forefront of efficient operations in the most optimal our local go-to-market strategy and indication-related innovation to ensure locations, hire passionate employees commitment to our customers’ needs. our consistently strong position in the and deliver strong profit and cash flow. We will further develop our business and market. leverage untapped market opportunities. CSR REPORT 15 7 Values Össur’s core values ensure successful cooperation and partnerships, and are the foundation for the strategy and the Company’s success. HONESTY Show respect by adhering to facts and reality, fulfilling promises and claims, and admitting failures. Nurture honest communication throughout the Company by sharing information and respecting each other’s time and workload. FRUGALITY Use resources wisely. The Company aims to minimize costs across all areas of its business through effective communication, preparedness, planning and optimized processes. COURAGE To be open for changes and constantly strive for improvement. Challenge unwritten rules, show initiative and take calculated risks, while at the same time, taking responsibility for ideas, decisions and actions. CSR REPORT 15 8 Össur’s Approach to CSR Össur has been committed to the active development of its CSR for years. This report contains an overview of the Company’s approach to CSR, as well as key ­measurements and progress. Össur is committed to maintain high standards of ethical, environmental and ­social responsibility. The Company’s values – Honesty, Frugality and ­Courage – serve as the foundation and driving force behind Össur’s culture, guiding ­employees in their day-to-day activities and in their decision-making. Össur’s ­values encourage employees to take social, ethical and environmental stands beyond the C ­ ompany’s legal obligations. In addition, these values help the Company adapt to the ­various cultures in which it conducts business. To integrate and make CSR a natural part of Össur’s operations, the Company’s focus has been on involving employees across the organization. This enables the Company to foster discussions at all levels and guides employees in their ­day-to-day decisions. Össur monitors various aspects within CSR and publishes ­measurements and future goals. CSR REPORT 15 9 Overview of main initiatives supporting the Global Compact principles Environment Labor Practices Human Rights Anti-Corruption Össur started implementing Össur’s focus has been on a Össur’s most comprehensive In recent years a set of global the ISO 14001 environmental safe workplace and to eliminate project regarding human rights processes and procedures have standard in 2011. Currently, all discrimination in any form. has been in relation to audits on been established to better evaluate main manufacturing locations are The Company has established product suppliers in Asia. Other the Company’s main risk areas and certified. an equal opportunities policy activities include clauses and take adequate measures to prevent and implemented initiatives declarations with respect to human corrupt practices. encouraging diversity in the rights in contracts with business workplace. partners. Areas of Action • Signed declaration on climate • Safe workplace • Health and safety at product • Anti-Corruption and Bribery issues suppliers in Asia training and education • Diversity and equal opportunity • Increased employee awareness • Education on fire protection • Screening and risk assessment • Women‘s initiative in the O&P of business partners in high-risk • Review of processes industry • Social and compliance audits areas CSR REPORT 15 10 Human Rights and Labor Practices The Workplace Össur employs 2,500 people in 18 countries. In order to further develop as a company, it’s essential to encourage a sense of responsibility in the workplace. Every day, employees make decisions that can impact the Company. It’s of great importance that employees understand the impact of their decisions and take into account the Company’s possible gains or losses in terms of financial value, as well as environmental or social value. Occupational Health and Safety Össur considers health and safety of its employee’s as one of the Company’s most important priorities. Over the past few years, numerous projects have been initiated to increase risk awareness among employees and change the mindset. As part of the continuous improvement culture, employees are encouraged to submit ideas to improve their work environments with particular focus on safety. The total number of implemented ideas in 2015 were 7,500. Suggestions relating to safety matters accounted for 12%, while other suggestions concerned environment, delivery performance, quality, efficiency, personal development and general improvements of the working environment. Additionally, a special attention is on fire prevention where all major manufacturing and warehouse locations are audited quarterly by local site safety representatives, and every two to three years by an external expert. Regardless of focus on safety matters, 2015 results show that incidents are above the Company’s goal for Incidents per 100 employees which was <2.1. The main reasons for increased number of incidents is related to operational changes, better reporting and transparency. In 2015 all incidents were tracked, even first aid related incidents where the employee returned back to work without restrictions. Several of the incidents were not considered recordable, however, they are included on the safety dashboard. The goal for 2016 is to reduce incidents per 100 employees down to 1.9. To achieve this goal and to improve employee safety several initiatives are planned this year, such as Job Hazard Analysis (JHA) which is a process that will expose potential risks within the operations as well as to minimize or eliminate the potential risk to employees. This is a global project that most sites will participate in and report on findings and improvements. CSR REPORT 15 11 Össur strives to promote the importance of a healthy lifestyle to its employees. Össur offers employees regular health checks and promotes Measurements on Safety preventive health measures. Additionally, Össur Measurement Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 Goal 2016 supports and promotes various health activities where employees participate in activities such Incident per 100 employees 3,4 2,2 2,0 3,4 1,9 as running or cycling and raising money for Incident causing a lost day 12 12 16 28 0 charity at the same time. Equally, Össur strives to educate staying mobile. Mobility and general health researches the effectiveness of its products to reimbursement authorities and relevant and well-being is very important for everyone, promote health economics and benefits for healthcare professionals, as well as the and even more important for amputees and healthcare systems and the end users. Company’s end users, of the importance of people with impaired mobility. Össur tests and CSR REPORT 15 12 Equal Opportunities and Diversity Audit on Equal Remuneration In a global company like Össur, employees interact with each other, and stakeholders from many different cultures and backgrounds. Therefore, diversity must be addressed. To build a strong and In 2014, the Company’s first external successful team of employees, diversity in its broadest sense is important. Different functions of the audit on equal remuneration was Company require different types of skill sets. For each and every employee to thrive and add value completed. The audit addressed equal to the Company, it is essential for them to be assigned appropriately challenging tasks, and to be remuneration for women and men in trusted to take on broader responsibilities. the Company’s operation in Iceland. The audit was conducted by PWC In 2015, the Company’s commitment to employee engagement was reflected in the results of the and is performed by-annually. In the by-annual Motivational Index Survey, which measures employees’ motivation and feelings about Americas, salary audits on all employees Össur as an employer. Motivation, engagement and job satisfaction are areas of strength within the are done annually as part of standard Company with employee scores of 4.4 out of 5.0 on satisfaction surveys. compensation review procedures. Össur is committed to develop working conditions in which employees can achieve their full potential. In order for Össur to grow, develop and maintain its competitive positions in an­­ ever-changing international environment, it’s important that employees have the opportunity to improve their knowledge and skills. Therefore, the Company offers employees numerous learning opportunities. AGE EDUCATION University Degree 9% Other Vocational or 55+ 21% Technical Training 46-54 32% 36-45 28% 45 % 41 26-35 10% 16-25 14 CSR REPORT 15 13 Measurements on Equal Opportunities Aspect Measurement 2012 2013 2014 2015 Goal 2016 Diversity and Equal Percentage of women in n/a1 30% 31% 32% >30% Opportunity management positions 1 Comparable numbers not available. Gender and Diversity, Overview of Management Positions Management EVP & VP Senior Management Middle & First Management Total Level Female 20% 21% 36% 32% 2015 Male 80% 79% 64% 68% 56% 44% Female 19% 17% 35% 31% 2014 Male 81% 83% 65% 69% Female 15% 16% 39% 30% 2013 Male 85% 84% 61% 70% GENDER RATIO IN ÖSSUR Encouragement of a diverse workplace benefits opportunity plan, Össur ensures that recruiting based on skills and ability. When recruiting for the Company, because diversity brings myriad and internal promotion strategies are aligned. open positions, the Company makes an effort to perspectives from which to make decisions, The Company’s goal is to utilize the skills, source diverse candidates, which often includes which in turn can lead to better results. Össur strengths and knowledge of all employees posting open positions on job sites targeting wants to be an attractive workplace. To reach without gender-based discrimination. women, minorities, disabled persons and that goal the Company needs to create an military veterans. environment where both men and women have Össur recruits competent and ambitious the opportunity to perform and contribute to individuals who are capable of working on the Company’s success. To support the equal demanding projects, and hiring decisions are CSR REPORT 15 14 We come from all around the world CSR REPORT 15 15 United Nations Women’s more women to join the p ­rofession, and to a­ ddition to adding a three-day ­conference with Empowerment Principles marshal their growing i­nfluence in the field. a diverse group of speakers in order to provide For s­ tarters, Össur s­ ponsored a ­survey among leadership education. The conference will also Encouragement of diversity in the workplace is ­female ­practitioners. The results i­ndicated that create a good opportunity for female p ­ ractitioners beneficial as it helps gain diverse perspectives they felt strongly about the need for support and to meet and share their ­experiences. This will be from which to make decisions, which in turn a desire to participate in a ­leadership program. the first time such an event will be hosted within leads to better results. Össur signed the United The program’s focus and initiatives are based the industry, and it has already created exciteNations Women’s Empowerment Principles in on the survey’s results. ment within the field. May 2014. Össur Women’s Leadership Initiative seeks to Demonstrating Össur’s commitment to Women’s Leadership Initiative to encourage and support O&P practitioners by diversity, the Americas region joined the ­ encourage diversity in the industry providing a forum for discussion and education. ­California D ­ iversity Council in 2015, an affiliate In 2014, Össur launched a new Women’s Main goals: of the N ­ ational Diversity Council. The Council is Leadership Initiative to encourage greater ­ • Engage inclusively with both men and a non-profit organization that seeks to ­champion diversity and inclusiveness in the Orthotic ­ women to provide development support to diversity in both businesses and communities and Prosthetic (O&P) industry. The program female practitioners across the nation in order to create a truly open is ­ intended to support O&P p ­ractitioners • Bring awareness to gender biases in the society where everyone is valued for their unique by ­ providing a new forum that ­ encourages workplace and practices that promote perspective and viewpoints. ­Össur, along with interaction, ­ community-building and diversity other employers in the Council, will champion ­educational opportunities that serve the needs • Create a forum for female practitioners to diversity in the community, host multi-­cultural of the growing number of women in the field. network and provide support to each other roundtables, participate in the Women In Currently, the initiative is focused on the U.S. • Establish a greater number of female role ­Leadership Symposiums, and offer education, market, the Company’s largest market. ­Women models for future practitioners development and networking opportunities for currently comprise about 20% of all O&P members. • Create a positive, balanced perception of ­professionals in the U.S. This number has more both male and female industry leaders than d ­ oubled over the past decade, and women Össur’s Women’s leadership initiative has now c­omprise more than half of all s­tudents In 2015, the Women’s Leadership ­ Initiative ­received deserved industry attention, including ­enrolled in ­graduate-level O&P programs. ­Össur ­ featured an array of valuable resources, a large cover on the O&P Almanac. ­spearheaded the Women’s Leadership I­ nitiative ­including an educational webinar series and a because it recognizes the ­ importance of ­dedicated blog. The goal for 2016 is to continue ­providing dedicated resources to help e­ ncourage with c­ urrent blogs and educational webinars in CSR REPORT 15 16 Supply Chain Raw Material Suppliers Össur manufactures its products in four main Össur has more than 500 active suppliers, locations: Iceland, Mexico and two locations of which about 100 are considered critical by in France. In addition, Össur has product current definitions. The critical suppliers are ­ ­suppliers in Asia, which manufacture bracing evaluated annually based on certain criteria, and s­ upports products. ­including ­quality, reliability, price, service and ­ responsibility. Following an evaluation, the Bracing and supports products are m ­ anufactured results are sent to the suppliers along with ­ in Mexico, France and by ­ suppliers in Asia. ­feedback and opportunities for ­improvement. The vast majority of the C ­ ompany’s p ­ rosthetic Suppliers that reach a score of 75 points or ­products are ­manufactured in ­Iceland; ­however, more on the scale of 100 are considered to a small amount of prosthetic products are show “good results.” Suppliers who do not ­manufactured in Michigan, U.S. The ­Company’s deliver ­results in line or above the Company’s main distribution centers are in Holland, the target are offered the ­ opportunity to adapt U.S. and the U.K. All m ­ anufacturing ­locations ­accordingly, and in some instances suppliers and distribution centers have adopted lean are replaced. In the past, questions related to ­ manufacturing processes in addition to social ­ responsibility have been added to the extensive loss prevention initiatives which ­ ­evaluation. In 2014 all critical suppliers were are focused on both personal safety and plant ­required to sign s­tatements on human rights ­safety. and ­ anti-corruption. The goal is to have all ­critical suppliers to commit to the Company’s ­requirements by 2017. Measurements on Raw Material Suppliers 2013 2014 2015 Evaluation of critical suppliers2 70% 69% 73% Critical raw material suppliers that have n/a1 56% 88% signed clauses on human rights 1 Comparable numbers not available. 2 Suppliers which have reached 75 points or above. CSR REPORT 15 17 New approach on how to define critical to assist the suppliers to make f­urther progress To maintain focus on the product suppliers, one suppliers and to develop their operations. ­Results from of the initiatives has been not to increase the During 2015 it was decided to change the the audits show that non-conformities have number of suppliers if possible. The Company ­definition of a critical supplier from a ­business ­decreased by 18% between years and critical has maintained the same number of s­ uppliers and health risk to more patient focused concerns have decreased by 38% between years. between years, however the Company has ­ measurements. Any supplier that provides a To improve the risk profile of its suppliers, ­decreased the number of product suppliers by component that could cause unreasonable ­Össur hosted risk and safety seminars for the 3 since 2012, from 11 at yearend 2012 to 8 at risk to the patient, clinician or others involved Company’s most critical suppliers, those that yearend 2015. is now defined as a critical supplier and, as manufacture 95% of outsourced products in such, ­stricter controls are applied. C ­ lassification Asia. Main initiatives in 2016 and c­ategorization of suppliers is currently Since 2014, an increased focus has been placed ­underway, and an evaluation based on this new The Asia manufacturing and sourcing team is on education and safety measures at product setup is in progress. This ­reclassification project responsible for the product suppliers in Asia. suppliers in order to ensure safe working conis expected to be finalized in Q2 2016. The division consists of a team of 13 people. ditions, and to improve the risk profile of supThe team works closely with suppliers, and on pliers. In 2016, efforts will be made to continue Product suppliers average there are one or two Össur employees supporting the Company’s suppliers in order to Part of Össur’s manufacturing of ­ bracing at each supplier, up to three days every week. improve processes. and s­upports products is outsourced to ­manufacturers in China and Taiwan. ­Össur and its partners are instructed to follow a ­special code of conduct. Additionally, all c­ontracts External Audits on Product Suppliers ­ address ­ human rights with special focus on 2014 2015 Goal 2016 compensation and health and safety. To e­ nsure proper working conditions and r­esponsible Social Compliance Audit 100% 100% 100% ­production processes, Össur works closely with Fire and safety Audit* 97% 95% 95% its ­suppliers. Every week local Össur ­employees Internal Audits (audits performed 100% 100% 100% visit the factories to monitor and audit ­processes by Össur employees) and product quality before anything is shipped to Össur warehouses. Additionally, external *Manufacture 95% of the Company‘s outsourced products in Asia. ­parties audit the suppliers annually on social ­compliance and human rights ­matters, as well as risk and safety matters. Össur uses the results CSR REPORT 15 18 Measurements on human rights Product suppliers audited regarding child labor Clauses in agreements with product suppliers Product suppliers audited regarding human rights on human rights 100% 100% 100% Maintain 100% 100% 100% Maintain 100% 100% 100% Maintain 100 100 100 91% 100% 91% 100% 91% 100% 80 80 80 60 60 60 % % % 40 40 40 20 20 20 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 Goal 2012 2013 2014 2015 Goal 2012 2013 2014 2015 Goal 2016 2016 2016 CSR REPORT 15 19 Environment and Quality Quality & Regulatory the Canadian Medical Device regulations improvements that will further strengthen the SOR/98-282. focus on quality and safety of the Company’s Össur has had a certified quality management products. system in place since 1993 that is based upon The Company has been growing in recent ISO management standards. Össur is currently years, both through acquisitions and organic Customer feedback certified with ISO9001:2000, ISO13485:2003, growth, adding products and locations to the Össur values feedback from customers, both 2012 and ISO14001. The system also complies organization. When experiencing rapid periods in relation to products and services. Össur with the applicable medical device regulations of growth, processes and procedures need to regularly conducts surveys among its customers in the countries that Össur sells to, including be adjusted accordingly. In the last couple of and monitors claims and feedback. Össur has but not limited to the requirements of the years, the Company has been strengthening strengthened the customer feedback process FDA Quality System 21CFR820, the European its quality system, revaluating processes and and system allowing improved capture and Medical Device Directive EU 93/42/ECC and establishing new approaches. In 2015 number detailed analysis to identify improvement of projects were initiated resulting in significant opportunities. Össur believes that recently established quality Certifications of Össur Sites (Total 10 Sites) centers play a key role in cooperation and alignment of processes between departments ISO 9001 ISO 13485 ISO 14001 allowing Össur to provide higher quality products and increased safety for users. Reykjavík, Iceland X X Eindhoven, the Netherlands X X Manchester, U.K. X X Uppsala, Sweden X X St.Etienne, France X X X Foothill Ranch, California X Tijuana, Mexico X X Albion, Michigan X Paulsboro, New Jersey X Camarillo, California X CSR REPORT 15 20 The Safety of Our Users Strongly focused on CONTINUOUS ­IMPROVEMENT, we monitor and respond to needs. We comply with international MEDICAL ­DEVICE ­ regulations to ensure user ­safety. We use best practice standards to ensure PRODUCT QUALITY and user safety. CSR REPORT 15 21 Environment environment, which enables Össur to ­reevaluate current procedures. This increased focus on the Össur understands its responsibility to r­educe environment is encouraging for employees. and control its environmental footprint. ­Össur’s environmental impact primarily comes through its manufacturing sites, which use Employees are urged to turn in suggestions raw m ­ aterials, such as plastics, silicone and on how to improve their work environment. In ­carbon fiber in ­addition to anodizing of metals 2015, seven percent of the suggestions were which also ­impacts the environment. In 2011, ­related to environmental concerns. Össur ­ started to implement the ISO 14001 ­environmental standard, which has now been As discussed in last year’s report, the research implemented at six locations, including all & development department is increasing its ­major manufacturing locations. Össur strives focus on environmental sustainability. This to continuously advance its processes in order is done through the design process, with the to better utilize raw materials and reduce the aim to minimize the environmental impact of ­Company’s environmental impact. products throughout their entire lifecycle. This Össur’s goal is to be accountable for the involves carefully selecting materials when Company’s impact on the environment Key Focus Areas include: working on new projects, minimizing waste in • Össur is committed to working ­manufacturing, as well as guiding end ­users on in accordance with relevant laws, • Prevent pollution by avoiding, reducing or regulations and other requirements controlling pollutant or waste the disposability of products. In 2015, a groundwork has been done on analyzing opportunities • Strives to preserve the environment • Take environmental issues into account and prevent pollution for environmental improvements and d ­ eciding when selecting materials and suppliers which product lines to start focusing on. In • Emphasizes continuous improvements • Focus on continuous improvements via focusing on environmental impact 2016, the Company will take steps to ­implement annual environmental objectives new processes, h ­ elping ­employees to be ­better • Recognizes that its operations impact equipped to include environmental aspects the environment in a number of ways Through the reorganization of the q ­uality when making ­ decisions about new product ­epartment, environmental concerns have d ­development. ­received increased focus. The Company is now devoting more resources to safeguarding the CSR REPORT 15 22 Össur signs a declaration to take active measures on Climate Issues A declaration signed by 103 business and institutions in Iceland was delivered at the 21st United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris 30 November 11 December 2015 Össur together with 103 businesses and institutions in Iceland signed a declaration in November 2015 to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and to cut waste. This project is a joint venture launched by the City of Reykjavik and Festa, the Icelandic Centre for Corporate Social Responsibility. This initiative is intended to motivate businesses and institutions to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases, thus actively taking responsibility towards global environmental concerns and the local community. Participants in this initiative will publish their goals by mid-June 2016 and report on the progress on annual basis. Össur is proud to be part of this initiative. CSR REPORT 15 23 Anti-Corruption As reported in last year’s report, the Company has increased its focus on anti-corruption in the past two years, establishing global processes and procedures, enabling Össur to evaluate and conduct risk assessments on its business partners and take adequate measurements to prevent corrupt practices. In 2015, the primary focus was on the screening and risk assessment of distributors and b ­ usiness partners. To identify the scope of the project, distributors and business partners were identified based on annual sales and geography, with a focus on countries that have a low score on the ­Transparency International list on corruption. The first wave of the risk assessment was focused on countries with a corruption score below 50, which resulted in the screening of distributors and business partners in 11 countries. No material concerns were identified and the screening program provided an overview and understanding of Össur’s business partners that operate in high-risk countries, and revealed potential exposures related to corruption and bribery. At the same time distribution agreements were reviewed and updated adding clauses on anti-corruption and antibribery. In the second half of 2015, the next wave of the screening project was ­initiated, focusing on countries with a certain level of annual sales and corruption score below 70. Two main anti-corruption projects are planned for 2016, the second wave of the screening and risk assessment, as well as to establish educational program and training on anti-corruption and ­bribery. The second wave of the risk assessment will be finalized by mid-year. The training program consists of: face-to-face training, on-line training sessions as well as internal material for awareness building. The main emphasis will be on training key employees and employees located in high-risk areas or responsible for the Company’s business in high-risk areas. Measurements on Anti-corruption and Bribery 2012 2013 2014 2015 Critical raw material suppliers that have signed n/a1 n/a1 56% 88% clauses on Anti-Corruption and Bribery 1 Comparable numbers not available. CSR REPORT 15 24 Compliance In line with the Company’s core values of the Company. As a listed company, Össur recommendations, including any deviations ­honesty and courage, Össur realizes that it is ­communicates with its shareholders and other and explanations thereto. important to be aware of the various laws and stakeholders about the Company’s financial and • A description of the main aspects of internal regulations in it’s business environment in business developments in an open and honest controls and risk management systems in which the ­ Company operates. Össur always manner. connection with the preparation of financial ­prepares to adapt to future developments. statements. Össur provides investors, analysts and other stakeholders with timely and accurate ­ • A description of the Company’s organizational structure and the role and A Whistle Blower Scheme ­information. Every year, Össur hosts i­nvestor composition of each function. meetings and teleconferences with the CEO, The Company provides employees with ways CFO and IR Manager, following quarterly r­ eports of reporting conduct that they reasonably and other key events. A complete report on the Company’s compli­believe violates applicable laws, regulations or ance with each recommendation in the Danish the ­ Company’s policies. The Company treats As a listed company, Össur complies with ­various Recommendations on Corporate Governance is all ­reports as confidential and any issue will rules and regulations. The Company has ­chosen available on the Company’s website: be ­discussed only with those individuals who have a “need to know.” The Company’s policy to follow the Danish R ­ecommendations on www.ossur.com/investors strictly prohibits any retaliatory action against a Corporate Governance because the ­Company’s person reporting actual or potential compliance shares are traded on NASDAQ ­Copenhagen. issues in good faith, whether or not the reports ­ultimately prove to be well founded. The Company’s Corporate Governance ­statement includes information on the ­following Corporate Governance items: • A reference to the corporate governance Össur hf. is an Icelandic company listed on recommendations the Company follows NASDAQ in Copenhagen. The Annual ­General and how the Company addresses the Meeting is the supreme governing body of CSR REPORT 15 25 Support and Responsibility One aspect of responsibility is to show s­ upport furthering the level of education and quality of responsibility and privilege to champion the for the societies and environment in which prosthetic and orthopaedic knowledge among ­industry and serve patients and practitioners the Company operates. Össur believes that professionals, patients and their families. The in every way possible. In fulfilling this m ­ ission, it has a great responsibility towards disabled aim is to enable orthotists, prosthetists and Össur believes it is obliged to provide not only people, not only by providing products, but other medical professionals to achieve clinical world-class products, but also lend ­support to equally to ­support third-party initiatives aimed success through accessible information and those relying upon them. As such Össur’s ­focus at better care and support for disabled people. the services Össur provides. Össur also has in is to work with associations and funds that The ­Company believes it is important that the place a program called “The Össur O ­ rthopaedic support people with disabilities, in p ­ articular ­perception of disabled people is positive and ­ Fellowship Program.” This is a 12-month increasing access to sports activities and together with great athletes participating in ­ academic program designed to enhance the ­increasing the visibility of sports for disabled the Paralympics, as well as other elite sporting clinical, surgical, and research skills of orthopeople. In most countries Össur operates, it events, the perception of people with a disability paedic/musculoskeletal healthcare specialists. is involved with local associations for people has changed. Hopefully this will motivate o ­ thers with ­disabilities, such as Amputee Coalition of whose own mobility has been challenged, and Össur offers a research grant program both America, Challenged Athlete Foundation and ­ encourage them to play more active roles in in the field of prosthetics and bracing and Iceland Sports Association for the Disabled, to ­society with even greater confidence. ­supports. The program is designed to provide name a few. funding for scientific research in the areas of Additionally, Össur believes it has a lower ­extremity biomechanics, dynamic/­active ­ responsibility in relation to the education of rehabilitation, ortho biologics, functional healthcare p ­ rofessionals that work in the field ­bracing, clinical patient outcomes and related of ­prosthetics and bracing and supports. In this healthcare economics. respect, Össur cooperates with universities in both the U.S. and Europe on research projects, Support And Charity and has on average in the range of 6-10 interns at any given time. For over a decade, Össur Össur supports and partners with a wide range has had an educational program called Össur of organizations around the globe. As a leading Academy. The Össur Academy is committed to orthopaedic manufacturer, it is the Company’s CSR REPORT 15 26 Community initiative in South Africa Össur encourages employees to participate in community support and every year various ­initiatives are supported through p ­ articipation in various events. Last year employees in South A ­ frica came up with a new idea on how they could improve the life of poor children in townships close to the Company’s location ­ in Cape Town, South Africa. In the townships, ­people are living in small containers, sometimes over 10 people in each container, and without a toilet or ­shower. The employees came up with an idea on how to save money to buy food for the poor children. Each month the warehouse in South Africa ­receives a container with pallets from Össur’s warehouse in Eindhoven. Since it is expensive to ship the empty pallets back to Eindhoven, they are now sold locally. The proceeds are then used to buy food and cook for the c­ hildren. This initiative started in February 2015, and each ­ month the warehouse team uses their spare time to cook food for these disadvantaged c­ hildren. On average the Company handed out meals to 70 children at each serving. Towards the end of hospital, St Joseph’s Home, which takes care with the children during their visit. Össur is very the year the warehouse team had to stop going of children, who have long-term ailments, and proud of this team and their initiative. into the townships due to safety ­reasons, so the ­orphans. The team brought teddy bears, fruit project has developed into s­ upport for a nearby and vegetables and some zinc crème and played CSR REPORT 15 27 Overview of Measurements Measurements on Safety Measurements on Raw Material Suppliers Measurement Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 Goal 2016 2013 2014 2015 Incident per 100 employees 3,4 2,2 2,0 3,4 1,9 Evaluation of critical suppliers2 70% 69% 73% Incident causing a lost day 12 12 16 28 0 Critical raw material suppliers n/a1 56% 88% that have signed clauses on human rights Measurements on Equal Opportunities Goal Aspect Measurement 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 External Audits on Product Suppliers Diversity and Equal Percentage of women in 2014 2015 Goal n/a1 30% 31% 32% >30% opportunity management positions 2016 Social Compliance Audit 100% 100% 100% Fire and safety Audit3 97% 95% >95% Gender and Diversity, Overview of Management Positions Internal Audits (audits performed 100% 100% 100% Management Senior Middle & First EVP & VP Total by Össur employees) Level Management Management Female 20% 21% 36% 32% 2015 Male 80% 79% 64% 68% Measurements on Anti-corruption and Bribery Female 19% 17% 35% 31% 2014 2012 2013 2014 2015 Male 81% 83% 65% 69% Critical raw material Female 15% 16% 39% 30% suppliers that have n/a1 n/a1 56% 88% 2013 signed clauses on AntiMale 85% 84% 61% 70% Corruption and Bribery 1 Comparable numbers not available. 2 Suppliers which have reached 75 points or above. 3 Manufacture 95% of the Company‘s outsourced products in Asia. CSR REPORT 15 28 Measurements on human rights Product suppliers audited regarding child labor Clauses in agreements with product suppliers Product suppliers audited regarding human rights on human rights 100% 100% 100% Maintain 100% 100% 100% Maintain 100% 100% 100% Maintain 100 100 100 91% 100% 91% 100% 91% 100% 80 80 80 60 60 60 % % % 40 40 40 20 20 20 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 Goal 2012 2013 2014 2015 Goal 2012 2013 2014 2015 Goal 2016 2016 2016 Certifications of Össur Sites (Total 10 Sites) ISO 9001 ISO 13485 ISO 14001 Reykjavík, Iceland X X Eindhoven, the Netherlands X X Manchester, U.K. X X Uppsala, Sweden X X St.Etienne, France X X X Foothill Ranch, California X Tijuana, Mexico X X Albion, Michigan X Paulsboro, New Jersey X Camarillo, California X CSR REPORT 15 29 Goals and Key Focus for 2016 In 2016, Össur will continue to engage employees and increase awareness of CSR and the ­Company’s initiatives and progress. Additionally, training and educational programs will be rolled out with a primary focus on ethics and anti-corruption and anti-bribery. The training initiatives will be through ­various channels, including face-to-face meetings and online solutions. Another strong focus area is continued engagement with product suppliers in Asia through audits and assisting them to improve processes. For other areas and aspects, such as environmental and labor practices, Össur will continue with its current approach. Not all of the Company’s operations have been included in this analysis; however, work on expanding the scope of CSR continues. About the Report In this report, Össur discusses various aspects within social responsibility and how the Company approaches the subject. Össur has identified its critical focus areas, and has addressed related projects and initiatives in this report. As a participant in the UN Global Compact Initiative, the main focus of this report is on the four areas identified by the Global Compact: environment, labor ­practices, human rights and anti-corruption. To structure and support CSR initiatives within the Company, Össur has used resources and guidelines issued by the Global Compact, GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), as well as the ­ ISO 26000 standards. CSR REPORT 15 30 © ÖSSUR, 02. 2016
