Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Table of Contents Statement of Support 3 Advancing Corporate Responsibility 4 Human Rights 5 Labor 8 Health and Safety 12 Corporate Sustainability 14 Charitable and Social Responsibility Programs 24 Leveraging Environmentally Friendly Technologies 27 Environmental Product Compliance 30 Quality Management System 32 Anti-Corruption 34 About Anixter 39 2 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Statement of Support To our Stakeholders, I am pleased to reaffirm Anixter International’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual corporate responsibility report, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business. Sincerely yours, Robert J. Eck President and Chief Executive Officer 3 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS ADVANCING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ACCOMPLISHMENTS PRESIDENT AND CEO’S ONGOING COMMITMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WEBPAGE In his third-quarter state-of-the-company video message Since launching the corporate responsibility section on to global employees, President and CEO, Bob Eck, once anixter.com in recognition of Earth Day 2014, the section again reinforced Anixter’s ongoing commitment to corporate continues to draw stakeholders with increasing year-overresponsibility. Bob directed staff to Anixter’s Corporate year pageviews and document downloads. As of November, Responsibility Report located on the company’s external the webpage is on track to exceed more than 6,700 unique website for more information on the program and highlighted visitors this year, which is a 20 percent increase over last year. the events leading up to Anixter becoming a participant to the The corporate responsibility report continues to be the site’s United Nations Global Compact in 2012. Bob also highlighted most frequently downloaded item. the ongoing accomplishments attained within Anixter’s U.S. supplier diversity program, expanding energy-saving LED lighting programs and the importance of diverting waste from landfills and into recycling programs. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Since becoming a participant to the United Nations Global Compact in 2012, Anixter continues to successfully achieve and maintain the Global Compact Active level annually. NEW EMPLOYEES For the second year in a row, Anixter continued its presentation segment on corporate responsibility during Rapid Start, a week-long new-employee orientation workshop. The 20-minute presentation, led by the senior director of corporate sustainability and environmental product compliance, introduces new employees to Anixter’s corporate responsibility program by highlighting the various accomplishments attained and featured within the annual corporate responsibility report. This year, eight Rapid Start classes were held with over 90 domestic and For more information on Anixter’s Corporate Responsibilty international participants. program, contact Tony Volpe, senior director of corporate sustainability and environmental product compliance at tony.volpe@anixter.com. 4 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Rights Anixter is committed to treating all employees fairly, courteously, respectfully and with dignity by supporting a workplace that is free from demeaning, intimidating, offensive, abusive or harassing behavior. With company policies that clearly state a commitment to human rights and that are endorsed by President and CEO, Bob Eck, and Chairman of the Board, Sam Zell, Anixter complies with applicable employment laws and regulations around the globe and does not tolerate unlawful discrimination of any kind. 5 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES AND PROGRAMS HUMAN RIGHTS PROTECTION U.S. DIVERSITY PARTNERSHIPS Anixter upholds human rights based on its policies and regular Anixter is committed to the participation and advancement management reviews combined with regularly engaging with of small businesses and business enterprises owned by peers and experts in the field. The following is a list of related minorities, women and disabled veterans. Anixter will use policies and programs that support these ongoing efforts: reasonable efforts to provide opportunities to these groups • Human Rights Policy whenever practical for subcontracting, purchasing or reselling, • Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy teaming arrangements and mentor-protégé programs. • Reaffirmation of Equal Employment Opportunity Policy • Conflict Minerals Policy Statement TOWARD CONFLICT-FREE SUPPLY CHAINS • Anti-Harassment Policy Anixter supports industrywide efforts to identify, reduce and • Anti-Retaliation Policy eliminate the use of conflict minerals that originate from the • Workplace Violence and Response Policy Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries, • Reaffirmation of Policy on Confidentiality which are believed to be financing groups that are responsible • Employee Personal Data Protection Policy and Notice for human rights violations. Anixter is committed to fully • Global Health and Safety Policy complying with the conflict minerals requirements included in • Non-discrimination in employment and personnel practices the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Dodd• Comprehensive health and welfare benefit programs Frank Act, which requires publicly traded companies to perform • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms due diligence as to the existence and source of conflict minerals All human rights policies and programs are administered by in their supply chains. the executive compliance committee, chief compliance officer, regional compliance officers and the human resources, legal and internal audit organizations. 6 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS ACCOMPLISHMENTS DIVERSITY PURCHASING CONFLICT MINERALS •W  ithin the U.S., Anixter spent more than $94.7 million with • In compliance with the Conflict Minerals Rule under the over 961 small, minority-, womanand disabled-veteranDodd-Frank Act, Anixter successfully filed its Form SD and owned business enterprises over the last 12 months. Conflict Minerals Report with the SEC in 2016 for the 2015 • A nixter continued to help U.S. customers report on their calendar year. indirect diversity purchases from Anixter by distributing •O  nce again, Anixter’s Conflict Minerals Policy Statement was electronic diversity purchasing reports each quarter. Anixter the second-most downloaded item by stakeholders from has been supporting customers with quarterly diversity Anixter’s corporate responsibility webpage. purchasing reports since 1999. • A nixter continued surveying suppliers for conflict minerals by using a risk-based approach to support its annual SEC DIVERSITY SALES reporting obligations. Through a combination of long-term and recently established Additional conflict minerals accomplishments can be found in partnerships with a vast array of diversity organizations the Environmental Product Compliance section. located across the U.S., Anixter’s and our partners’ strengths are combined to collectively help our mutual customers achieve their diversity business engagement goals for both large projects and day-to-day operations. In 2016, Anixter sold more than $87 million in products to various strategic U.S. diversity partners. AT&T SUPPLIER DIVERSITY AWARD In 2016, Anixter was presented with AT&T’s Supplier Diversity Crystal Award for significantly exceeding their minorityand woman-owned business utilization targets. Per AT&T’s recognition letter, Anixter was part of “a very select group of Prime Suppliers who attained and/or exceeded 21.5 percent diversity utilization in 2015.” This is the second time in three years that Anixter has attained this prestigious award. 7 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Labor Anixter strives to create a positive and safe work environment — free of discrimination, harassment and inappropriate conduct and one in which employees treat each other fairly and with dignity and respect by: •S  upporting and upholding the elimination of discriminatory practices particularly with respect to employment and occupation • P romoting and embracing diversity in all aspects of business operations •S  upporting the elimination of all forms of forced, bonded or compulsory labor •S  upporting the freedom of association and the right to choose a collective bargaining representative, if desired • P roviding a safe and healthy work environment for all employees •C  ondemning all forms of child exploitation and supporting the elimination of exploitative child labor. 8 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LABOR POLICIES AND PROGRAMS EMPLOYEE COMMITMENT EMPLOYEE CONCERNS Anixter’s labor policies and programs are communicated In addition to reporting a suspected issue through local through its: management, human resources, the legal department or a • Anti-Harassment Policy compliance officer, employees around the globe can call a • Anti-Retaliation Policy toll-free number or access the Business Integrity Line website • Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy to ask ethicsor compliance-related questions or to report a • Workplace Violence and Response Policy suspected issue. Communications can be made anonymously • Global Health and Safety Policy where permitted by local laws. The call center and website • Employee Personal Data Protection Policy are managed by an independent, third-party provider and all • Competitive employee benefit programs submissions or conversations are kept confidential and shared • Nondiscrimination in employment and personnel practices only with those necessary to respond to or investigate a report. • Employee notices of right to join or form unions for purposes of collective bargaining, if desired U.S. MILITARY VETERAN RECRUITING • Annual compensation benchmarking analysis Being a multi-national company headquartered in the U.S., • Business Integrity Line and other Anixter supports and values those who have served our nation communication mechanisms. and actively recruits U.S. military veterans as they transition out of careers within the Army, Air Force, Navy, Coast Guard EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION and Marines. Throughout our organization, U.S. military veterans In the Anixter Blue Book, the first item listed under “Our are not only making a difference, but are also embarking on Philosophy” is “People come first” and this is demonstrated rewarding careers. across the organization in the various ways in which employees are recognized for their outstanding contributions. INFORMATION SECURITY Information security is a critical part of Anixter’s business environment. As a result, Anixter has a robust information security program, with policies and controls that are aligned with well-known security standards, such as ISO 27001 and NIST SP 800-53. Anixter’s information security program includes security awareness initiatives designed to educate employees about computer security. 9 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LABOR ACCOMPLISHMENTS INTERNAL EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION AWARDS The following provides examples of the various employee recognition awards given to select Anixter employees throughout the year: President’s Club President’s Club Anixter’s President’s Club is a prestigious group of people who Award of Excellence embody the drive, spirit and achievement that constitute the Nominated by fellow co-workers, the Award of Excellence best at Anixter. Through dedication, customer service and an is Anixter’s most prestigious honor and is awarded to the incredible work ethic, the members of the President’s Club top 1 percent of all employees globally. These employees have earned the opportunity to be recognized. This year, 118 demonstrate Anixter’s philosophy to providing excellence for people were inducted into the President’s Club. co-workers, customers and partners. This year, the Award of Excellence was given to 80 people to honor their outstanding performance in 2015. Leave No Doubt The Leave No Doubt award is given to those employees who go above and beyond in their jobs and strive to provide Technology Fellow Award exceptional service to our customers, suppliers and The Anixter Technology Fellow award promotes leadership employees. A total of 24 people were recognized this year. among Anixter’s technical professionals who have contributed extensively to driving innovation in alignment with Anixter’s business strategies and is awarded to one person each year. EXTERNAL EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION AWARDS The following provides select examples of the various employee recognition awards given to Anixter employees throughout the year: • A n Anixter employee was inducted into the Security Products and Technology News (SP&T) Security Hall of Fame. This honor is awarded by SP&T to an individual in recognition of their volunteer efforts and years of dedication to the security industry. SP&T News is the primary source of information for dealers, installers, system integrators, resellers and specifiers working in the Canadian security industry. • A n Anixter employee received the Harry J. Pfister award from BICSI, which recognizes the outstanding efforts of an individual who promotes professionals and enhances the scientific, technical or educational aspects of the field of telecommunications/ information and communications technology. BICSI is a professional association supporting the advancement of the information and communications technology community. • A n Anixter employee received the 2016 Larry G. Romig award from BICSI. This award honors the exemplary efforts and dedication to work activities performed as a member of a BICSI committee. 10 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LABOR ACCOMPLISHMENTS – continued ANNUAL EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATION AND TRAINING The following provides select examples of the various HEALTH AND WELLNESS FAIRS employee certification and training programs distributed to The following provides select examples of the various health Anixter employees throughout the year: and wellness events held for Anixter employees throughout • A nnual online training and certification acknowledging the year: compliance with the Global Business Ethics and Conduct • A nixter held its annual health and wellness fairs at its Policy is issued to all employees Glenview, Ill. headquarters and its largest distribution • A nnual affirmation of adherence to Anixter’s security facility in Alsip, Ill. making 27 local wellness and policies is required for all Anixter employees healthcare providers available to more than 1,100 • A s part of its worldwide trade compliance program, Anixter employees. These fairs include basic healthcare delivers a comprehensive online export compliance screenings, educational information and free flu shots. training course to the majority of its global employees on • Anixter’s São Paulo location held a health week where a scheduled basis. free eye exams, discounted eye glasses, various medical screenings and traffic safety lectures were offered to more PROUDLY SUPPORTING U.S. MILITARY VETERANS than 90 employees. The location also held a family day Anixter continues to support U.S. military veterans in a where healthy food was offered and nutritionists were variety of ways. The following lists select accomplishments available to speak to and address questions from attained this year: employees and their families. • Anixter created a veteran steering committee to assist in the recruitment and integration of recently discharged veterans; the committee has successfully created veteran-focused marketing material, attended multiple military recruiting events and partnered with Anixter Cares, the charitable donations program, to support local veteran groups. • In the U.S., Anixter hired 40 U.S. military veterans this year. •C  urrently, over five percent of U.S. employees are U.S. military veterans. 11 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Health and Safety Anixter’s health, safety and environmental program is designed to create, implement and maintain a healthy and safe work environment for all employees, visitors and contractors. Everyone at Anixter is part of this program. Anixter is committed to providing employees with a safe and healthy work environment through its: • Global Health and Safety Policy • Global safety and environmental management system • Quality management system • Continuous location management education • Equipment safety training • Electronic notification and mandatory staff training on policy modifications •C ertification or compliance to ISO 9001:2008 (2015 in progress) Quality Management System, ISO 14001:2004 (2015 in progress) Environmental Management System and OHSAS 18001 International Occupational Health and Safety Management System • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms • Start-of-shift weekly safety communications • Monthly safety Toolbox Talks through Anixter’s learning management system • Health, safety and environmental communications through quarterly newsletters • Health, safety and environmental directives through Anixter’s learning management system • Department of Transportation Driver Safety Training • Monthly driver safety communications. 12 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HEALTH AND SAFETY ACCOMPLISHMENTS OPERATING SAFELY FACILITY INSPECTIONS Anixter’s global health, safety and environmental teams Anixter voluntarily used an external auditor to complete work to make sure compliance elements are met and human element inspections at 22 global facilities. These that the guidelines of the global safety and environmental inspections focused on fire protection systems, sprinklers, management system are followed. These teams make sprinkler control valves and hot work areas. resources available and define responsibilities to enable the company to operate in a manner that provides a safe and healthy workplace for employees, visitors and contractors while also protecting the environment. AUDITS AND CERTIFICATIONS Internal and external compliance audits were successfully completed at two international locations for ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System and one U.K. location for the Five Star British Health and Safety Certification. As a result of the audits, all locations maintained their certifications. WORKPLACE VIGILANCE The health, safety and environmental senior director continuously monitors global operations and reviews the global safety action list with management on a quarterly basis. This allows Anixter to address any current concerns and prioritize future actions. ONGOING TRAINING AND EDUCATION This year, the health, safety and environmental teams: • Provided health, safety and environmental oversight on five continents and in nine languages • Distributed 14 compliance reinforcement newsletters • Completed 72 compliance site audits • 3,129 employees completed monthly Tool Box Talks and the annual Workplace Harassment training • 2,047 employees participated in the daily Start of Shift safety meeting and annual North America Health & Safety Directives review • 1,379 employees finished online training which included 395 employees completing their forklift certification or recertification • 354 employees received group training by a corporate health and safety advisor. 13 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Corporate Sustainability Through its corporate sustainability program, Anixter seeks to continuously improve business processes to control and reduce the impact associated with its targeted environmental aspects of energy, waste, materials and natural resources and transportation. By targeting measurable results within each environmental aspect combined with using A Sustainable PathSM approach, which focuses on the economic, environmental and social impacts of the organization, Anixter balances environmental responsibility and return on investment. 14 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM GOALS ACCOMPLISHMENTS ENERGY ENERGY GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS Anixter continues to operate and evaluate additional facilities for various green building certifications based upon lease durations Anixter reduces energy use through and payback calculations. Green buildings help lower operational innovative technologies, equipment costs, minimize carbon emissions and provide a comfortable and control systems. environment for employees. Anixter’s green building certified portfolio consists of the following facilities: • The 61,000 sq. ft. annex office building located next to Anixter’s headquarters in Glenview, Ill. attained U.S. WASTE Green Building Council LEED® (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification in 2014. The annex also attained its first ENERGY STAR certification in 2014 from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and continues to Anixter minimizes waste by recertify annually. capitalizing on opportunities to • The 21,000 sq. ft. multitenant facility in St. John’s, reduce, reuse and recycle. Newfoundland, attained LEED Silver in 2014. • The 195,000 sq. ft. facility in Edmonton, Alberta, attained LEED Silver in 2011. MATERIALS • The 457,000 sq. ft. Alsip, Ill. facility attained AND NATURAL LEED certification in 2007. RESOURCES • The 167,000 sq. ft. corporate headquarters located in Glenview, Ill. first attained the EPA ENERGY STAR certification in Anixter consumes fewer materials 2014 and continues to recertify annually. and natural resources by increasing recycled content in consumables HIGH-FREQUENCY BATTERY CHARGERS while simultaneously pursuing source Several Anixter locations around the world use high-frequency reduction strategies. battery chargers to recharge forklift batteries. These advanced battery chargers not only monitor the health and condition of the batteries, but they also reduce charging time and are energy efficient. This year, Anixter’s U.S. network added an additional 40 new high-frequency battery chargers to the existing units TRANSPORTATION already deployed. FIELD SERVER VIRTUALIZATION Anixter lowers transportation emissions Like the data center, Anixter’s global field locations continue by using outsourced third-party carriers to consolidate and virtualize servers. Currently, Anixter’s and internal fleet vehicles that operate field locations are using 37 physical servers to host in the most environmentally efficient 122 virtual machines. manner possible and by enforcing a global no idling policy at warehouse locations. 15 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY ACCOMPLISHMENTS – continued EUROPEAN UNION ENERGY AUDITS To meet the requirements set forth by the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS), by year end, Anixter will have ENERGY-EFFICIENT LIGHTING AND ADVANCED LIGHTING successfully conducted energy audits within the following CONTROL SYSTEMS locations: Barcelona and Madrid, Spain; Dublin, Ireland; Depending upon the duration of lease terms and payback Frankfurt and Stuttgart, Germany and Milan, Italy. The audits calculations, facility lighting systems can range from advanced evaluate each building’s energy efficiency. All ESOS audit systems that include daylight harvesting, zone scheduling, recommendations will be reviewed by management for dimmable ballasts/drivers and advanced occupancy control implementation consideration. sensors to energy-efficient systems that include fluorescent fixtures and LED lighting. SINGAPORE ENERGY REDUCTION Anixter continues to increase the use of energy-efficient LED After moving to a new building in August 2015 and lighting and advanced wireless technologies to reduce energy installing new energy-saving air conditioning systems and consumption and increase lighting system controls. fluorescent lighting, Anixter’s 25,655-square-foot Singapore In 2016, five additional Anixter locations began utilizing location is using 37 percent less kilowatts of energy than the LED technology: previous building. 1. Denver, CO – 64,000 sq. ft. warehouse 2. Seattle, WA – 62,000 sq. ft. warehouse SOLAR ENERGY 3. Charlotte, NC – 40,000 sq. ft. warehouse The 142,000-square-foot Willebroek, Belgium, facility — 4. Dublin, Ireland – 4,000 sq. ft. office Anixter’s largest in continental Europe — successfully started 5. Sydney, Australia – 22,000 sq. ft. warehouse attaining solar energy from rooftop solar panels in late 2011, The above LED lighting systems are designed to save more which powers approximately half of the facility. This year, the than 283,000 kilowatt hours of energy annually. location successfully attained 26 percent of its energy from Anixter locations that converted to LED lighting in prior the rooftop solar panels. This is 11 percent higher than the years include: original 2012 solar energy consumption target of 15 percent. 1. Reno, NV – 249,400 sq. ft. warehouse 2. Phoenix, AZ – 65,000 sq. ft. warehouse LIGHTING PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS 3. Memphis, TN – 93,300 sq. ft. warehouse Anixter is now a fully authorized value-added distributor of 4. Alsip, IL – 457,000 sq. ft. warehouse lighting products and solutions. We are committed to working 5. Cranbury, NJ – 282,200 sq. ft. warehouse with customers to determine the project scope and create an 6. Mexico City, Mexico – 19,190 sq. ft. warehouse energy-efficient lighting solution specifically designed for each 7. Windsor, CT 58,000 sq. ft. warehouse customer’s unique lighting needs. 8. Detroit, MI 59,000 sq. ft. warehouse 9. Glenview, IL 61,000 sq. ft. LEED-certified annex office HIGH-SPEED DOCK DOORS building and adjacent parking lots Several Anixter locations around the world use high-speed The above LED lighting systems are designed to save more dock doors that are motion-sensor activated to open than 1.4 million kilowatt hours of energy annually. and close within seconds. The speed of these dock doors helps to control warehouse temperatures and in turn help ONGOING DATA CENTER EFFICIENCIES conserve energy consumption in both winter and summer. Anixter continues to consolidate and virtualize servers in its For example, Anixter locations in the UK utilize a total of data center, which currently uses 68 physical servers to host 12 high-speed doors. 1,185 virtual machines. Anixter’s data center is more than 90 percent virtualized. Due to the decrease in data center cooling requirements, combined with more than a 40 percent RELATED ACCOMPLISHMENTS: decrease in space, Anixter continues to successfully use an air conditioning auto changer that rotates the shutdown of one of • A NIXTER UNIVERSITYSM three air conditioning units each month. • DATA CENTER BEST PRACTICES • VIRTUAL LAB AND SOLUTIONS BRIEFING CENTERSSM 16 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEW RECYCLING PROGRAMS WASTE Within North America, Anixter successfully implemented three new recycling programs that will divert an estimated 50,700 REDUCING LANDFILL WASTE pounds of cardboard and single-stream/mixed recyclables Anixter leases its global buildings in order to remain flexible from landfills annually. to successfully meet both customer and market demands. Leasing, combined with periodic divestitures and acquisitions, SUPPLY CHAIN SOLUTIONS causes the physical locations, building sizes and waste and Anixter’s Supply Chain Solutions team provides customers recycling tonnages to continuously change. To help manage with various value-added services that include, but are not these changes, Anixter has successfully outsourced various limited to: disposal services over the last several years to specialized • K itting of multiple line items into a single finished good part waste brokers that help reduce landfill waste, lower operating number to ease ordering, reduce waste at the job site and costs and increase recycling tonnages. Anixter currently has improve job site receiving 239 global locations successfully outsourced to waste brokers. • P reassembling of racks, cabinets and cameras prior to MATERIAL RECYCLING FACILITIES shipping to improve job site productivity and lower overall Three U.S. locations continue to use specialized single-stream project costs material recycling facilities that leverage a combination of • P roviding job site waste diversion documentation, when manual and automated equipment to extract recyclables from requested by customers, for performing the above services the trash. The combined average recyclable recovery rate from to help earn points for green building certification projects these facilities is 96 percent, which based on the annualized • For example, seven Anixter locations across five countries projection of waste tonnage, as reported by Anixter’s waste collectively diverted and recorded more than 42,300 broker, will result in approximately 51,800 pounds of pounds of cardboard, wood and plastic for customer-specific recyclables being recovered annually. green building projects. In addition, Anixter locations in 14 countries will have completed over 900 customer projects by year end that also diverted packaging waste from job sites This packaging waste was not separately tracked and weighed, as in the above example, as this was not required by the customers. This diverted waste is picked up in the overall warehouse waste recycling statistics. 1.9 million lb. of cardboard 4.2 million lb. of single 1.3 million lb. stream/commingled recyclables (paper, of wood NORTH AMERICAN cardboard, glass, metal, plastic, etc.) RECYCLING SNAPSHOT Anixter’s North American operations maintain the largest square 29,200 lb. footage building footprint and total number of employees. of plastics This graphic provides a snapshot of key North American recycling 74,240 lb. of volumes based on annualized projections from fixed and intermittent 10,100 lb. of obsolete forklifts and warehouse service frequencies, combined with industry guidelines and estimates obsolete electronic equipment equipment for commodity weights and waste container capacity utilization. 17 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY ACCOMPLISHMENTS – continued SELECT GLOBAL RECYCLING SNAPSHOT By city: By country: • The Brisbane, Australia, location will successfully recycle • T he Singapore facility will successfully recycle approximately approximately 74,200 pounds of paper, cardboard and 17,000 pounds of wood, cardboard, plastic and paper and wood by year end. over 39,000 pounds of obsolete electronic equipment by year end. • The Dubai, UAE, location will successfully recycle approximately 52,000 pounds of paper, cardboard • A total of 14 U.K. locations will successfully recycle and plastic by year end. approximately 662,200 pounds of cardboard, wood, paper, metal and plastic by year end. • The Willebroek, Belgium, location will successfully recycle approximately 113,000 pounds of paper, plastic, cardboard •B  razil will successfully recycle more than 3,500 pounds and wood by year end. of cardboard, metal, paper and wood by year end. • F our Mexico locations will successfully recycle more than 40,700 pounds of cardboard, plastic and wood by year end. • In eight countries alone, Anixter will successfully recycle more than 1.9 million pounds of scrap copper and other metals by year end. REEL CONSOLIDATION PAPER SHREDDING The Anixter-designed, reusable PARAPULLSM paralleling reels While Anixter endeavors to minimize paper consumption as can accommodate various cut-to-length cables of the same much as possible, paper use is often a business necessity. gauge on a single multichambered wooden reel. Because each By leveraging location-level paper recycling and shredding PARAPULL reel is reused an average of six times, their ongoing programs, Anixter seeks to minimize its overall environmental use helps preserve natural resources while eliminating empty impact. For example, 36 U.S. and Canadian locations reel disposal costs and waste from job sites that frequently collectively shredded and recycled more than 79,000 pounds ends up in landfills. Customers using a single PARAPULL reel of paper. All recycled paper is sent to mills where it is pulped can eliminate two to four individual wooden cable reels on and de-inked to make recycled paper products like paper a job site, which reduces shipping and handling costs while plates and paper towels. increasing contractor productivity. Anixter shipped more than 1,860 reusable PARAPULL reels to customers over the last REUSE PROGRAMS 12 months. Anixter locations around the world successfully harvest and reuse select inbound packaging and shipping materials RECYCLING AUDITS received from supplier partners when they are in like-new Anixter’s internal ISO audit team reviewed 13 office and condition and meet our strict quality standards. For example, warehouse locations across North America to ensure the Anixter locations receive cable reels from suppliers safely locations’ recycling programs, which can consist of paper, secured to wooden reel cradles. All reel cradles that pass cardboard, wood, metal, and plastic, were being effectively Anixter’s integrity inspections are reused to ship cable reels supported by management and used by staff. Once again, to customers. Doing so has lowered freight claims and all the locations successfully passed the audit team’s costs as well as improved operational efficiencies and screening criteria. customer satisfaction. 18 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY ACCOMPLISHMENTS – continued TALKING RECYCLING EMPTY PRINTER CARTRIDGES TRASH By returning the empty printer toner and ink cartridges to office supply providers for reuse, Anixter helps prevent thousands of pounds of plastic and metal from entering MIXED RECYCLING landfills annually. For example, Anixter’s Alsip, Ill. facility successfully recycled approximately 1,120 lb. of toner Plastic cartridges this year alone. Glass CABLE CUTTING Paper and Cardboard Over the last 12 months, Anixter processed more than 1.7 million custom cable cuts for customers from Aluminum Cans 150 global warehouse locations. By providing cable cut to the exact length required by the customer, job site cable waste is virtually eliminated. Job site costs are also reduced as the need to purchase, cut and control master cable reels TALKING TRASH and the resulting short cable lengths, or leftover cable, no A recycling refresh campaign titled Talking longer exists. Trash was unveiled to the approximately 850 employees within Anixter’s Glenview, Ill. headquarters in November. The initial campaign RELATED ACCOMPLISHMENTS: launch consisted of: • REDUCING CABLE REELS AT THE JOB SITE • A n email message reinforcing all building • REUSABLE METAL REELS recycling programs • RECYCLED CONTENT • A link to a new internal website containing additional information on all recycling programs • Talking Trash recycling signs placed in highly visible and trafficked areas • Talking Trash recycling stickers placed on recycling bins throughout the building • A Talking Trash message featured on the large panel monitors outside the employee cafeteria. 19 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY ACCOMPLISHMENTS REDUCING CABLE REELS AT THE JOB SITE MATERIALS AND Anixter’s READY!SM Layer service offering reduces the total NATURAL RESOURCES number of cable reels needed at a job site by adding multiple layers of cable to a single reel chamber. As more layers are WAREHOUSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM added, fewer reels are needed. Having fewer reels at a job The Anixter-developed and Anixter-supported next-generation site reduces transportation costs, transportation emissions WMX warehouse management system uses state-of-theand, when wood reels are used, timber consumption. READY! art technology and was designed to quickly incorporate Layer provides further value when combined with Anixter’s operational system enhancements to meet customer and PARAPULLSM or PARASPINSM services that use returnable reels. market demands. The WMX system also significantly reduces Over the last 12 months, U.S. locations have shipped more paper and printing waste generated throughout the entire than 1,800 READY! Layer reels to customers’ job sites. order processing cycle. REUSABLE METAL REELS In 2016, the Anixter WMX team successfully incorporated more than 200 enhancements that improved performance, Anixter offers electrical contractors the option of receiving increased operational efficiencies and expanded user cut-to-length cable on reusable metal PARASPIN reels that functionality in the 11 facilities across North America have five independent spinning chambers from which to pull that currently use it. One of the larger enhancements was cable. Customers using a single PARASPIN reel can eliminate incorporating automated shipping notice processing, which will four individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces shorten material receiving time and increase the accuracy of shipping and handling costs while increasing contractor product information received into the WMX system. The second productivity. As the PARASPIN reel completely eliminates the major enhancement was the addition of a point-of-sale use of wood and is reusable, natural resources are preserved storefront option that will roll out in 2017. and cable reel waste and disposal costs are eliminated at the job site. Over the last 12 months, Anixter shipped and retrieved more than 2,500 reusable PARASPIN reels from customers’ job sites. 20 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY ACCOMPLISHMENTS – continued eBUSINESS Anixter’s eBusiness offerings allow global customers eTRAVEL AND EXPENSE REPORTING and suppliers the ability to seamlessly process a vast array of business transactions with Anixter in a secure and During the last 12 months, Anixter’s paperless travel and paperless environment. Anixter’s eBusiness highlights include expense reporting system expanded beyond the U.S., Canada the following: and EMEA regions to now include most Latin American countries. With more than 45,000 electronic expense report • E lectronic data interface (EDI): By year end, Anixter will submissions, Anixter estimates that more than 225,000 sheets have successfully processed more than 1.7 million global of paper and approximately 43,000 paper envelopes, and EDI transactions of which over 687,480, or approximately the subsequent postage expense, were eliminated. Currently, 40 percent, will result in the elimination of a paper there are 29 countries using the paperless travel and expense transaction, such as an invoice, purchase order or forecast reporting system and in 2017, Brazil and the Asia Pacific • T hird-party electronic invoicing: Anixter communicates region will be added. extensively with various online procurement applications and supplier networks. Over the last 12 months, Anixter has GREEN OFFICE SUPPLIES successfully processed more than 86,200 paperless invoice Anixter continues to focus on purchasing office supplies that transactions through these networks contain green attributes where feasible. Green attributes can • e Delivery: Over the last 12 months, Anixter’s email invoice include, but are not limited to, products that contain recycled and statement notification program has successfully or plant-based materials or are remanufactured. For example, eliminated more than 1.3 million paper invoices. as of Q4 2016: • Six Anixter U.K. locations and Anixter’s North American RECYCLED CONTENT locations spent 58 and 41 percent respectively of their total Anixter seeks to use recycled content in consumables where office supply expenditures on products that contain green feasible. Here are two examples: attributes as identified by the office supply partners • A nixter’s U.S. warehouses, which collectively process • Anixter’s global locations continued to use remanufactured the largest outbound line volume in the global network, toner cartridges for printers instead of new OEM cartridges, shipped more than 2.3 million pounds of corrugated boxes, where available packing paper, paper tape and related packaging items • Anixter’s new North American office supply partner utilizes that are made from recycled content ranging from boxes that contain 35 to 100 percent recycled content and 40 to 100 percent. leverages award-winning technology to tailor box sizes to the • A ll of Anixter’s North American business cards and marketing exact size of the order to minimize packaging waste collateral are printed on 100 percent recycled paper that is • More than 74 percent of U.S. print production jobs utilize approved by the Forest Stewardship Council, a group that soy-based ink. works to ensure materials are sourced responsibly. eCARDS Anixter offers employees the option of sending animated RELATED ACCOMPLISHMENTS: ecards to customers and supplier partners rather than using traditional printed paper holiday cards. • ANIXTER’S UNIQUE CANADIAN CUSTOMS OPERATIONS • LEVERAGING ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES 21 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY ACCOMPLISHMENTS NO IDLING PROGRAM TRANSPORTATION Anixter continues to operate a global no idling A Sustainable PathSM program at its warehouses and headquarters. LONGER COMBINATION VEHICLES Truck drivers are required to turn off their Anixter’s global transportation team successfully leverages engines while waiting for materials to be third-party carriers’ longer combination vehicles (LCVs) loaded or unloaded from their vehicles. Anixterthat increase the cargo capacity of combination trucks by designed “No Idling” signs are placed on driver using longer and/or multiple trailers. According to the EPA’s entrance doors as well as in select yard and loading dock SmartWay program, LCVs generally have much better ton-mile locations. The No Idling program seeks to improve air quality, fuel economy than other combination trucks as they carry reduce carbon emissions and increase safety. In 2016, Anixter more cargo per trip, which results in lower fuel consumption conducted a global refresh of the No Idling program. As part of and reduced greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions. the refresh, the No Idling signs were redesigned and placed in Anixter’s transportation team in Canada successfully used new buildings as well as used as replacements for any three LCV carriers to transport more than 9,476 shipments damaged signs. over 1.9 million miles. SMARTWAY CARRIERS GPS NAVIGATION AND VEHICLE MONITORING SYSTEMS More than 90 percent of Anixter’s preferred U.S. and Anixter continues to connect select fleet vehicles to GPS international transportation spend is with the EPA’s certified navigation systems that provide real-time route planning SmartWay carriers for products shipped into and out of the and various vehicle performance metrics to help increase United States. SmartWay carriers focus on reducing emissions fuel economy, lower carbon emissions and improve driver and fuel consumption. productivity. By year end, Anixter will operate 153 global fleet vehicles connected to a vehicle monitoring system. COMMUTER BENEFITS PROGRAM Since 2009, Anixter has offered U.S. employees a commuter benefits program that allows qualified public transportation and/or parking expenses to be automatically deducted pre-tax from paychecks. The program continues to grow and encourages staff to use public transportation, which helps protect the environment while saving users money. 22 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY ACCOMPLISHMENTS – continued SHIPMENT CONSOLIDATION TRANSPORTATION REDUCTION STRATEGIES Anixter successfully used third-party transportation partners Anixter’s Edmonton, Alberta, location continues to purchase to collect, consolidate and ship more than 169 million unassembled cable reels to assemble, when needed, as pounds of products from the U.S. to Anixter and customer opposed to purchasing fully assembled reels. In 2016, the locations around the world. By leveraging multimodal location ordered 1,800 unassembled reels that arrived in two transportation to consolidate supplier shipments, Anixter truckloads. If these reels were fully assembled, this would reduces operating expenses, increases material visibility and have required 10 to 12 truckloads. This practice reduces the lowers carbon emissions. location’s inbound freight expenses, carbon emissions and reel storage space requirements. ANIXTER’S UNIQUE CANADIAN CUSTOMS OPERATIONS Anixter electronically clears all of its own products that ship FEDERAL ALTERNATIVE FUEL TAX CREDIT to Canada from anywhere around the world. This gives Anixter Anixter’s U.S. forklift fleet will consume more than 29,200 a distinct advantage in that the custom clearance transaction gallons of propane in 2016 and because propane is a is faster. Having the self-clearance designation ensures that cleaner burning fuel, it qualifies for the IRS Federal Alternative the clearance process does not have to pass through the Fuel Tax Credit. hands of an outside custom broker. In addition to improving the speed of transaction, it also improves the visibility and ADVANCED EMISSION CONTROLS the accountability of every import Anixter brings into Canada. In 2016, Anixter ordered 20 forklifts that meet the EPA’s Tier For example, through Q4 2016, Anixter in Canada processed 4 emissions standards. This is a comprehensive national more than 13,000 lines of customs entries, which accounts program focusing on reducing emissions from non-road diesel for 150 percent growth over 2015. engines. To attain this standard, the forklift engines require In addition to handling the Canadian imports from the U.S., advanced emission-control technologies. Anixter’s Canadian transportation team is responsible to ensure compliance with U.S. Customs. The department also centrally manages all export paperwork for shipments moving outside Canada, which will entail more than 4,100 shipments RELATED ACCOMPLISHMENTS: and 9,600 lines by year end. • ONGOING EMPLOYEE EDUCATION • VIDEOCONFERENCING DIESEL TRACTOR UNIT REPLACEMENT • ANIXTER UNIVERSITYSM In 2016, Anixter replaced 21 diesel commercial motor vehicles, which will significantly reduce NOx (Oxides of • DATA CENTER BEST PRACTICES Nitrogen) emissions from 1.2 g/hp-hr to 0.2 g/hp-hr, • VIRTUAL LAB AND SOLUTIONS BRIEFING CENTERSSM an 83 percent decrease. 23 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Charitable and Social Responsibility Programs Around the world, Anixter is powered by employees that have the talent and dedication to address the most challenging problems. But their efforts go beyond business and into the communities where they work and live. Anixter believes it is important to support global communities and encourages employees to get involved with the causes and charities they care about. The Anixter Cares program is powered by these people and supports various charity organizations, such as the Red Cross, Red Crescent Societies, American Cancer Society, American Diabetes Association and Habitat for Humanity. Anixter also provides company-matching gifts to higher education within the U.S. and Canada and offers time off for employees to volunteer at nonprofit organizations. 24 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS – continued In 2016, donations generated through Anixter Cares included: MORE THAN MORE THAN MORE THAN MORE THAN $48,473 $48,473 $147,286 $244,232 ANIXTER EMPLOYEE + ANIXTER CARES EMPLOYEE MATCHING + ANIXTER CORPORATE = TOTAL ANIXTER EMPLOYEE AND CONTRIBUTIONS CONTRIBUTIONS DONATIONS ANIXTER CARES IMPACT Contributions were made to institutions of higher learning and charities addressing the areas of poverty, education, medicine and disaster relief. HABITAT FOR HUMANITY AMERICAN RED CROSS In 2016, Anixter employees put down their computers and In 2016, Anixter locations in Charlotte, Atlanta and picked up paint brushes and hammers to volunteer with Philadelphia raised more than $3,700 for the American Red Habitat for Humanity on eight Chicago-area projects and Cross by selling “Mulligan’s” at golf tournaments. In October, one in upstate New York. Overall, 80 employees participated Anixter employees showed their support for the victims of in the program in 2016. “We’re proud to continue our Hurricane Matthew by donating $3,850, which was matched sponsorship of Chicagoland Habitat for Humanity,” said Ted by Anixter for a total donation of $7,700. Anixter was also a Dosch, CFO and executive vice president of finance. “Through sponsoring member of the 14th-annual Red Cross Heroes the efforts of Anixter employees, we have helped families Breakfast, an event that raised $1.3 million to provide realize their goal of gaining self-reliance.” veterans with basic necessities, as well as vaccinations for children, volunteer training and other lifesaving skills. AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY Additionally, the Anixter headquarters in Glenview, Ill. hosted Anixter employees raised more than $10,000 for the a blood drive in which employees voluntarily donated 30 American Cancer Society’s Walk & Roll campaign between pints of blood, enough to save 90 lives. employee contributions and matching funds from Anixter Cares. In the past several years, 100 Anixter walkers have AMERICAN DIABETES ASSOICATION participated in the annual event, and donated over $60,000 Riders from Team Anixter were among the 1,050 participants to the American Cancer Society. This year, Anixter also in the 2016 Tour de Cure bicycle race who pedaled and partnered with the American Cancer Society on its Road to pushed their way to collectively raise over $657,000 for the Recovery program, a national campaign providing cancer American Diabetes Association (ADA). Team Anixter finished patients with rides to and from treatment. Currently, 13 third among corporate teams and placed as a top team employees are on their way to becoming drivers in overall, earning $22,715 for the ADA. Riders completed the program. courses that ranged from 10 miles to 100 miles. Anixter employees also participated in the Step Out Walk to Stop Diabetes and raised an additional $2,000 for the ADA. 25 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS – continued ASPIRE COFFEEWORKS In 2016, Anixter replaced all 2,800 pounds of coffee used annually in the break rooms at its corporate headquarters in Glenview, Ill. with coffee from Aspire CoffeeWorks, a program through which adults with disabilities work side-by-side with employees of Metropolis Coffee Company in Chicago. Not only does this provide jobs to an underemployed group, but 100 percent of the proceeds go back into Aspire’s programs and services to improve the lives of adults and children with disabilities. WORLD VISION Anixter’s Colombia location worked with World Vision, an international organization with programs to benefit children, families and communities in need. In May, employees took a “Tour de la Esperanza,” visiting the communities in need that Anixter sponsored. Several Anixter Colombia employees also ran in the Bogota Half Marathon on the World Vision team. FRATERNIDADE IRMÃ SANTA CLARA Anixter’s Brazil office held a food and clothing drive in May for Fraternidade Irmã Santa Clara, a charity center that serves children, teenagers and adults with cerebral palsy. The center promotes improving quality of life through motor and cognitive rehabilitation. Anixter also donated used employee laptops. CASA DO PEQUENO CIDADÃO In July, employees in the Brazil office organized a winter clothing drive, gathering clothes, jackets, gloves and blankets for Casa do Pequeno Cidadão, a nonprofit group that cares for children and teenagers. 26 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Leveraging Environmentally Friendly Technologies Anixter leverages its global leadership position to advance environmentally friendly technologies to further support our customers, strategic partners and internal operations. ACCOMPLISHMENTS ANIXTER’S MOBILE APP In 2016, Anixter released its mobile app, making it easy for customers to shop and manage their accounts on the go. By digitizing the order and account management processes, Anixter is helping customers work more efficiently by allowing them to: • Search through 300,000 products • Download manufacturer specifications • Find and contact the nearest Anixter location to request a quote • Explore Anixter services and customized solutions from anywhere. 27 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LEVERAGING ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES ACCOMPLISHMENTS – continued AUTOMATED SCANNING SOLUTIONS VIDEOCONFERENCING Anixter has developed an automatic replenishment tool where Anixter operates 30 videoconferencing units globally. Plus, many customers or Anixter field representatives can scan product employees use desktop cameras and conferencing software to or rack labels to automatically create orders to Anixter. connect with co-workers, suppliers and customers around the Users have the flexibility of digital input methods, such as world. Videoconferencing eliminates travel and its associated scanning, web portal or file uploads to generate orders. By carbon emissions while lowering expenses and increasing leveraging the Anixter solution, customers are able to reduce employee productivity. time and resources allocated to purchasing inventory in addition to reducing the number of shipments received and excess inventory. By year end, Anixter will have received more than 800,000 sales order lines through its global automatic replenishment system. Through Anixter University, Anixter creates and offers university-like courses to educate customers globally on VENDOR MANAGEMENT INVENTORY CONTROL SOFTWARE the latest standards and industry best practices for data centers, physical security, building technologies and industrial Anixter offers an inventory management software application infrastructure. Course examples include power distribution where customers can scan and track inventory purchased from and thermal management. Topics covered include, but are not Anixter and other suppliers. Rather than keep manual logs limited to, energy-efficient design, metering and monitoring with a pen and clipboard, this web-based software can be of power using the Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) metric accessed from a PC or mobile device allowing Anixter customers established by The Green Grid and how best to separate hot the ability to view inventory status in real time. In addition exhaust air from chilled supply air. To date, Anixter has delivered to helping customers use software to reduce stock outs, over 500 Anixter University presentations worldwide. In 2016, excess inventory and loss, Anixter, upon request, can remove Anixter introduced a new online on-demand format of Anixter all product packaging prior to shipping to help customers University, giving customers the opportunity to attend online attain their sustainability goals. Currently, Anixter customers courses anywhere in the world at any time. are collectively managing over 33,000 SKUs through Anixter’s vendor management inventory control software. TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT SERVICES ONGOING EMPLOYEE EDUCATION Anixter’s global engineering teams work with customers to efficiently develop standards and compliant solutions that Anixter uses an electronic delivery model for much of its respond to change, drive innovation and deliver customer value. learning and development programs. Web-based virtual These teams use the latest in video and voice conferencing workshops, classes and ecourses are delivered via a global tools to provide instant support for customers’ unique learning management system (LMS). The LMS helps to reduce application needs, when and where needed. Over the last 12 carbon emissions by eliminating employee travel and also helps months, the technology support team was engaged in more to preserve natural resources as printed training materials are than 18,400 customer projects virtually. eliminated. This year, Anixter successfully attained more than 139,416 course completions from the 1,293 courses offered to employees. 28 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LEVERAGING ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES ACCOMPLISHMENTS – continued into digital formats for use by internal sales representatives and external customers. The materials converted into digital formats include print catalogs, case studies, fact sheets, DATA CENTER BEST PRACTICES reference guides, product specification sheets and various Anixter’s Infrastructure as a Platform (IaaP) approach other documents. Anixter has nearly 275,000 parts with addresses the key building blocks for data center accompanying product specification sheets in digital format interoperability that can provide agility for budgets, scalability for easy access on anixter.com. These specification sheets for demand and flexibility for technology choices. The building represent 93 percent of all global downloads from anixter.com. blocks of power optimization and thermal efficiency specifically identify product solutions and best practices that enable ANIXTER TRAKRSM customers to achieve energy savings by deploying state-ofAnixter has recently developed a propriety patent-pending the-art infrastructure. A subcomponent of the IaaP program asset tracking solution that incorporates multiple technologies is the Data Center HealthCheckSM service. Experts from that can track, locate and provide visibility to highAnixter’s global technology support services and Infrastructure valued assets along with incorporating an inventory Solutions LabSM evaluate the current data center operations management component that helps customers of customers looking for energy savings, using industry best locate assets in large laydown yards and complex practices as well as documented standards of compliance, project sites. The tool will help customers reduce such as AHRAE, IEEE and TIA. They provide recommendations labor costs by efficiently locating assets on large project sites. for improving operational efficiency, which often bring a 4 to 12 In doing so, it will reduce the potential to overbuy due to percent reduction in energy consumption. Over the past year, misplaced products. The tool can also provide visibility of the Anixter has provided commercial insight into achieving power cut lengths remaining on master reels throughout the project optimization and thermal efficiencies within the data center site, which can be accessed through the cloud-based inventory environment to thousands of customers and industry management system. This feature can help identify reorder experts through global workshops, online webinars and points for wire and cable. best practices reports. VIRTUAL LAB AND SOLUTIONS BRIEFING CENTERS RELATED ACCOMPLISHMENTS: Virtual lab tours provide an alternative to live customer visits where cost, time and distance make it problematic to visit •G  REEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS demonstration facilities in Glenview, Indianapolis, Atlanta, • ENERGY-EFFICIENT LIGHTING AND ADVANCED Boston, London, São Paulo or Mexico City. The virtual tours LIGHTING CONTROL SYSTEMS are given by subject matter experts who may also present • ONGOING DATA CENTER EFFICIENCIES on industry trends during a tour of the lab facilities located • FIELD SERVER VIRTUALIZATION in Glenview. The videoconferencing bridge offers HD-quality • SINGAPORE ENERGY REDUCTION video and audio between the lab and the customer’s site. • SOLAR ENERGY After investing $1 million in the Infrastructure Solutions • LIGHTING PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS LabSM located at Anixter’s headquarters in Glenview, it is now • WAREHOUSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM equipped to provide virtual tours around the globe. • eTRAVEL AND EXPENSE REPORTING • eBUSINESS DIGITAL MARKETING • eCARDS Anixter began its digital marketing initiatives five years ago by • GPS NAVIGATION AND VEHICLE MONITORING SYSTEMS focusing on the promotion of Anixter, its brand and positioning • ANIXTER CANADA’S UNIQUE CUSTOMS OPERATIONS and products and services over various digital channels such • DIESEL TRACTOR UNIT REPLACEMENT as web, mobile, social and email. Part of the digital marketing • DATA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM strategy has been the migration of traditional print materials 29 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Environmental Product Compliance Anixter’s environmental product compliance team is comprised of specialists who are committed to: •D  etermining the compliance status of products to applicable environmental regulations in the countries where Anixter conducts business • F ully complying with the Conflict Minerals Rule under the Dodd-Frank Act • Identifying, monitoring and addressing new and existing environmental product compliance, international substance control and extended producer responsibility obligations •W  orking with the global sales teams and partner suppliers to ensure customers’ requested environmental product compliance specifications are successfully met •C  ontinuously improving processes and team training • A dvancing the use of technology to help fulfill the above. 30 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT COMPLIANCE ACCOMPLISHMENTS DATA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ONGOING CONFLICT MINERALS ACTIONS In 2016, Anixter began migration to a new software platform • A nixter partnered with a new software provider to for the management of Anixter’s environmental product provide all supplier outreach and follow-up activities compliance supplier data. The new platform provides as well as data management. In addition, the new efficiencies in obtaining product compliance documentation provider analyzed all inbound supplier response from suppliers as it allows them to submit their information documentation and provided various performancethrough the platform’s portal. based activity and status reports in support of Anixter’s annual conflict minerals report. CENTRALIZED SUPPORT • A nixter increased the number of suppliers surveyed This year, Anixter migrated the Canadian field support as well as the number of times and methods each operations to the U.S. corporate headquarters located in supplier was contacted during the annual conflict Glenview, Ill. This transition leverages existing dedicated minerals survey campaign. resources, while continuing to provide seamless North • A s a result of the above activities, Anixter’s annual American support and expertise. conflict minerals supplier survey resulted in an increase of more than 100 percent completed ONGOING COMPLIANCE ENHANCEMENTS supplier conflict minerals reporting templates AND PROCEDURES (CMRT) than the previous year. This, in turn, provides Anixter implemented new procedures to further reduce the Anixter’s customers with better insight into Anixter’s risk of shipping non-RoHS products from U.S. facilities to distribution supply chain. international destinations. In addition, customer notification • A nixter is now able to generate a CMRT that better processes were enhanced should a product containing REACH reflects the supply chain for each specific customer substances of very high concern be identified by an Anixter when required. supplier. Anixter continues to successfully survey suppliers for • In 2016, Anixter along with 39 other companies compliance to the REACH candidate as it updates accuracy. formally contacted 54 different international CUSTOMER SUPPORT smelters and refiners through letters and emails encouraging each to engage with the Conflict Free In 2016, Anixter’s environmental product compliance Sourcing Initiative and become compliant to the team helped more than 800 customers address various Conflict Free assessment protocols. international product compliance obligations for products purchased from Anixter. • T he North American and corporate environmental product compliance teams continued to provide content that helped create Anixter’s annual: 1. Company level CMRT customer response 2. SEC Form SD 3. Conflict minerals report. 31 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Quality Management System Anixter’s quality management system provides global support to all business divisions and segments through a variety of services by the corporate quality team. A commitment to continuously improving processes and maintaining the best quality practices drives Anixter’s focus to meet or exceed customers’ expectations. Anixter’s quality management system is supported by its: • Global quality manual • Quality procedures • Quality-related documents • Standard operating procedures • New business and customer audit support • Continuous employee education in best practices • Certification or compliance to: ISO 9001:2008 (2015 in progress) Quality Management System and ISO 14001:2004 (2015 in progress) Environmental Management System • Mandatory staff training on policy and procedure updates • Global on-site training and support for quality management system functions • Operations help desk. 32 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ACCOMPLISHMENTS ISO STANDARDS ENGINEERING TECHNICAL SERVICES • Two locations are certified to ISO 14001:2004 The engineering and technical services group works in (2015 in progress) collaboration with the product management team to • 40 locations are certified to ISO 9001:2008 provide support regarding product capabilities and (2015 in progress) expertise in application options for electrical and electronic solutions customers. • 53 locations are compliant to ISO 9001:2008 (2015 in progress). Accreditation to ISO 9001:2015 is This team also audits existing suppliers in accordance to currently underway for all certified locations with North ISO 9001 every three years for the following items: America’s completion target being Q4 2017 and all • Raw materials remaining locations by Q3 2018. • Manufacturing processes • Engineering OPERATIONS HELP DESK • Quality programs Anixter’s operations help desk is a support group available to • Lab capabilities all Anixter employees to analyze internal systems and provide • Warehouse management assistance to address customer or internal inquiries. This year • Customer service. the team has: Additionally, this team manages the multi-point product • Completed more than 280 customer and supplier quality evaluations required for new vendors to become approved questionnaires or surveys Anixter suppliers. • Created and assigned 263 quality training modules addressing new or changing procedures • Addressed more than 7,000 individual internal support calls. CONTINUED QUALITY MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS This year, the quality management teams have: • Begun the redesign to a single quality management system that incorporates multiple languages • Completed over 50 internal location audits and site reviews to improve Anixter’s quality management system and location certification • Created 24 standard operating procedures to address new processes and customer requirements • Updated 85 existing standard operating procedures to include revised best practice instructions derived from customer and supplier feedback • Led 14 on-site customer audits. 33 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Anti-Corruption Anixter is proud of its reputation as a fair, honest and ethical company. All Anixter directors, officers, employees, suppliers and business partners are required to conduct business with the highest degree of honesty and integrity and in full compliance with applicable laws. These principles are set forth in company policies such as Anixter’s Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy (Ethics Policy), Global Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy (Anti-Bribery Policy) and Business Partner AntiCorruption Policy. As clearly stated in its policies, Anixter takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery and any other form of corruption and is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all business dealings and relationships. It upholds all laws countering bribery and corruption wherever it operates. No Anixter employee or anyone acting on Anixter’s behalf may promise, offer, give, authorize, request, agree to receive or receive, directly or indirectly, a bribe to or from anyone. 34 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION ACCOMPLISHMENTS The Anti-Bribery Policy, Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy COMPONENTS OF ANIXTER’S GLOBAL and related training were revised and reissued last year. The ANTI-CORRUPTION PROGRAM Anti-Bribery Policy is an internal policy that applies to all Anixter promotes responsible business practices at every level Anixter employees globally. The Business Partner Anti-Corruption of the company. It strives to conduct business ethically, honestly Policy applies to Anixter’s suppliers, contractors, integrators, and in accordance with its Ethics Policy (anixter.com/ethics), resellers, channel partners, consultants, professional advisers, and expects all employees and business partners to meet these joint venture partners, custom brokers, freight forwarders, sales high ethical standards. agents and any other parties with whom Anixter does business Countering bribery and corruption is one of Anixter’s standards (business partners). For a copy of Anixter’s Business Partner and a primary focus area of its global Compliance program. Anti-Corruption Policy, visit anixter.com/bppolicy. The anti-bribery and corruption program is comprised of the Anixter has adopted a Supplier Code of Conduct available at following ten components: anixter.com/suppliercode. This code incorporates the key Ten • Policies Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and specifies • Oversight, autonomy and resources how Anixter expects its suppliers to conduct business. This code also emphasizes Anixter’s zero tolerance approach to bribery • Commitment from senior management and any other form of corruption. • Third-party due diligence Anixter’s anti-corruption policies are designed to comply with • Incentives and discipline all anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in countries where • Training and communication Anixter operates or conducts business including, but not limited • Confidential reporting and investigations to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act • M&A diligence and integration and the Brazil Clean Company Act. No bribe of any kind may be • Risk assessment authorized, offered, given, requested or accepted in the course • Periodic testing and review. of doing business for Anixter. Anixter’s policies also prohibit facilitation payments. Anixter’s zero tolerance approach to POLICIES bribery and corruption is not limited to government officials; it In support of Anixter’s high ethical standards, its global also extends to bribes involving commercial parties. Compliance program provides guidance and training for Anixter The Anti-Bribery Policy, Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy, employees worldwide on policies and topics such as, but the Overview Presentation and Supplier Code of Conduct are not limited to, business ethics and conduct, anti-bribery and available in 11 languages. corruption, government contract compliance, fraud, conflicts All employees are familiar with the Blue Book, which drives the of interest, prevention of workplace harassment and export company’s culture by outlining Anixter’s core beliefs and guiding compliance. The policies that reinforce Anixter’s zero tolerance principles. Created over 45 years ago as the company went of bribery and corruption include, but are not limited to, the public, its influence continues to shape Anixter’s overall culture. Ethics Policy, Anti-Bribery Policy, Government Contracts Policy, The Blue Book is frequently quoted in companywide trainings Global Fraud Policy and Conflicts of Interest Policy. See and internal communications. For a copy of the Blue Book, visit “Relevant Policies” in this section for more information about anixter.com/bluebook. these policies. All new employees globally are made aware of the Ethics Policy, Additionally, as part of Anixter’s anti-corruption program, the Anti-Bribery Policy, Conflicts of Interest Policy and the Blue Book company has implemented a business partner compliance during their on-boarding process. They also receive the other program (anixter.com/bpcompliance) that includes the Global policies if applicable to the employee’s position. Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy (anixter.com/bppolicy) and a business partner due diligence screening process. 35 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION ACCOMPLISHMENTS – continued OVERSIGHT, AUTONOMY AND RESOURCES COMMITMENT FROM SENIOR MANAGEMENT The Audit Committee of the Anixter International Inc. Board Company policies, including the Ethics Policy and Anti-Bribery of Directors oversees the global Compliance program, Policy, clearly state Anixter’s commitment to conducting including the anti-bribery and corruption program. Anixter’s business ethically and with integrity and include Anixter’s Chief Compliance Officer, who reports directly to the company’s zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. These are President and CEO, updates the Audit Committee quarterly endorsed by President and CEO Bob Eck and Chairman of the on the company’s anti-bribery corruption compliance program Board Sam Zell. and initiatives. Anixter managers include topics such as bribery and Anixter’s Internal Audit Department reports to the Audit corruption, and ethics and integrity in their leadership-driven Committee of the Board of Directors. It provides independent discussions with their teams throughout the year. and objective advisory services designed to add value and improve Anixter’s operations. The department helps Anixter THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined Anixter expects its business partners to act professionally approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of and ethically at all times in carrying out their services and enterprise-wide risk management, internal control systems contractual obligations to Anixter or on Anixter’s behalf to an and governance processes. The Internal Audit Department, Anixter customer or any other third party. Business partners in collaboration with other key departments, also provides must undergo a qualification and screening process if the oversight and guidance related to applicable laws, regulations business partner is (1) located in or doing business in a and company policies to foster a positive and ethical work “high-risk country” identified by Anixter or (2) performing environment for employees. services for or on behalf of Anixter in one of the “high-risk Anixter’s Executive Compliance Committee held three categories” identified by Anixter regardless of country. Red meetings in 2016. At each meeting, the committee discussed flags identified during this process are referred to a regional the company’s overall compliance program, including the compliance officer for review and further investigation. Any components of the anti-corruption program. The committee business partner that refuses to participate in the screening is led by the Chief Compliance Officer and consists of senior process or an investigation will not be approved to do business leaders from various departments within the company. with Anixter. Regional compliance committees are responsible for identifying INCENTIVES AND DISCIPLINE risk and compliance matters within their respective regions, and for overseeing the regional compliance initiatives. Performance and evaluation tools remind managers These committees are comprised of senior management from that ethics and integrity must be considered during various departments within the company. The committees performance evaluations. meet at least twice a year and are led by regional compliance Anixter investigates all suspected incidents of corruption and officers who are in-house regional attorneys. The regional violations of company policies. These investigations can result compliance officers are also members of the Executive in disciplinary action, which could include termination. Compliance Committee. 36 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION ACCOMPLISHMENTS – continued or unethical activities. The anti-retaliation policy is emphasized by the Safe to Speak FAQs document that is available in 11 languages and posted on its intranet sites. TRAINING AND COMMUNICATION Investigation reports are provided to executive management Employees complete training on Anixter’s Compliance program and the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. policies online. These assignments must be completed when issued. All new hires receive these assignments upon M&A DILIGENCE AND INTEGRATION beginning their employment with Anixter. All new employees are Prior to an acquisition, Anixter conducts a due diligence review also assigned the online training module “Blue Book – Living that includes reviewing the targeted company’s anti-corruption the Anixter Culture”. compliance program and controls. Anixter also looks for prior Targeted training sessions on the Compliance program policies anti-corruption issues or violations. Post-acquisition integration and topics are also conducted throughout the company. These efforts include effectively communicating and implementing sessions are tailored to the group attending the session and training on Anixter’s Compliance program, including all policies are typically presented by management or a member of the and procedures. Legal Department. The Compliance program policies are posted in various RISK ASSESSMENT locations on Anixter’s intranet site and are easily accessible In 2016, the Ethics & Compliance Office, along with the EMEA by employees. News about and updates to the Compliance and APAC regional compliance officers and their respective program are communicated to employees via quarterly regional compliance committees, conducted a bribery and company-wide newsletters and email blasts. corruption risk assessment focused on these regions. The To help Business Partners better understand Anixter’s zero assessments included reviews of business practices of the tolerance approach to anti-bribery and corruption, they are regional subsidiaries. The results of the assessments will be encouraged to review the “Understanding Anixter’s Business reported to the Executive Compliance Committee. Partner Anti-Corruption Policy” presentation available at anixter.com/bpoverview (the “Overview Presentation”). This PERIODIC TESTING AND REVIEW Overview Presentation summarizes Anixter’s expectations of its The Annual Ethics Questionnaire was distributed in January business partners to comply with its zero tolerance approach 2016 to all directors, officers, senior management and to bribery and corruption. members of select departments and functions and was available in 11 languages. All recipients who received CONFIDENTIAL REPORTING AND INVESTIGATIONS the questionnaire completed it in a timely manner. This Anixter’s employees, business partners and other third parties questionnaire will be distributed again in January 2017. can ask questions or report possible ethics or bribery and To further monitor the compliance program, Anixter distributes corruption violations through the Business Integrity Line. and analyzes a culture survey. This survey is issued every two Anixter has partnered with an independent third party to years and was last conducted in 2015. The results of this host and track such reports made via telephone or online. survey were reported to the Audit and Executive Compliance Where allowed by local laws, these reports can be made committees. anonymously. Reports made at anixter.ethicspoint.com are managed and responded to by members of the Legal, Human The anti-corruption program is monitored by a combination of Resources and Internal Audit departments, as appropriate. audits, reviews, risk assessments and internal investigations. The Internal Audit, Global Shared Services, Finance and Legal Anixter does not tolerate any form of retaliation against departments are engaged in these processes. employees who in good faith report a concern regarding illegal 37 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION RELEVANT POLICIES GLOBAL BUSINESS ETHICS GLOBAL TRAVEL AND ENTERTAINMENT AND CONDUCT POLICY • E mphasizes prohibition of entertainment and •R  eflects current industry best practices, gifts to government personnel emphasizes zero tolerance of bribery and • A dopted in 1999; last revised in 2014 restates commitment to anti-retaliation • P osted on intranet sites • E arliest version distributed in 1998; • A vailable in three languages last revised in 2013 •D  istributed with training to all employees who • Posted on intranet and external sites travel and entertain on behalf of Anixter. • Available in 11 languages •D  istributed with training at least every two years to all employees. GLOBAL ANTI-BRIBERY AND GLOBAL FRAUD POLICY ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY • P rovides guidance on preventing, identifying • P rovides guidance on what bribery and and detecting fraud and instructions corruption are and how to avoid them regarding appropriate action in cases • Revised in 2015; first adopted in 2012 of suspected violations • Posted on intranet sites • A dopted in 2014 • Available in 11 languages • P osted on intranet sites •D  istributed with training at least every • A vailable in English two years to all employees. •D  istributed with targeted live training to members of the Finance organization. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS POLICY GLOBAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY • P rovides guidance for meeting ethical and legal obligations as a supplier to U.S. federal, state • Identifies the most common types of activities and local governments that may result in a conflict of interest and the disclosure and approval process for each type • Adopted in 2011 of activity • Posted on intranet sites • A dopted in 2014 • Available in English • P osted on intranet sites •D  istributed with training every two years, most • A vailable in 11 languages recently issued in 2015, to employees involved with U.S. government contracting in the U.S., •D  istributed to all employees globally with United Arab Emirates, Japan and Germany. targeted live training. 38 | 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT About Anixter CORPORATE SNAPSHOT EMEA ENTERED REGION YEAR FOUNDED 1972 1957 NORTH ENTERED REGION AMERICA 1991 APAC ENTERED REGION 1990 CALA GLOBAL REACH. LOCAL ADVANTAGE. With Anixter, you get a true local partner around APPROXIMATELY 50 APPROXIMATELY OVER APPROXIMATELY 320 YEAR FOUNDED 1957 8,700 the world. No other distributor of our kind can 125,000 claim an in-country presence in approximately CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COUNTRIES WAREHOUSES/ 50 countries and in over 300 cities. BRANCHES We do business in more than 35 currencies and 30 languages, which means we are IN OVER OVER FORTUNE OVER uniquely positioned to help facilitate your $1.1 BILLION 300 STOCK SYMBOL AXE 450,000 500 project in the local environment, reduce risks INVENTORY CITIES PRODUCTS COMPANY and keep costs down. About Anixter: anixter.com/aboutus Anixter Inc. World Headquarters Legal Statement: anixter.com/legalstatement 2301 Patriot Boulevard Glenview, Illinois 60026 16G7288GL © 2016 Anixter Inc. 1.224.521.8000 1.800.ANIXTER | anixter.com Products. Technology. Services. Delivered Globally.
