Communication on Progress 2015 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle# 1: The business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle# 2: The business should make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses HUMAN ipl2 KCE is dedicated and committed to upholding the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all other international, regional and/or local laws that apply to KCE, such as the Thai Labour Standards: Corporate Social Responsibility of Thai Business (TLS 8001-2010), the Labour Protection Act, B.E. 2541 (1998) and its amendments, the Labour Relations Act, B.E. 2518 (1975) and its amendments, the Social Security Act, as well as the Workmen Compensation Insurance Act. POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • To ensure that KCE is constantly improving its commitments to the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, KCE has continually reviewed and revised its policies and strategies to support human rights. Top Management shall define the policy on social and labor accountability by a written document and formal declaration, expressing the intention to confirm the requirement of human rights, employment conditions and working condition standards. • KCE appointed an Employee & Welfare Committee comprised of employer and employee representatives to be responsible for carrying out activities related to the application to the requirement of the Thai Labour Standards. • KCE shall conduct appropriate measures related to occupational safety and health covering all areas and types of work, which may be harmful to worker’s health and safety, in accordance with laws and occupational safety and health standards. In order to prevent harm and to decease risk factors, KCE arranges a safe working environment and provides the following for its workers: a) An opportunity to participate in the management of occupational safety and health. b) An opportunity to obtain access to information concerning hazards that may arise from the working process or working environment. c) Knowledge and awareness of rules, regulations, code of practice or guidelines concerning occupational safety and health. 1 d) Training related to occupational safety and health focusing on issues that are newly assigned or re-assigned for the performance of work. e) Safety equipment in accordance with safety standards and suitable for working conditions of each worker. • KCE shall not engage in or support any discrimination in respect of employment, payment of wages and remuneration, providing welfare and opportunities for training and development, promotion, termination of employment or retirement, and so on, due to national extraction, race, religion, language, age, sex, marital status, personal attitude on gender or sexual orientation, invalidity, HIV/AIDS, AIDS patients, trade union membership, employee committee, political affiliation or personal opinion. • KCE ensures that corporate social responsibility, of which human rights is the core component, being an integral part of the company’s strategy and that KCE will continue to operate its business in responsible manner for the community. • KCE shall provide for and maintain procedures to evaluate and select suppliers or subcontractors who conform to the requirement of the Thai Labour Standards in regard to human rights. ACTIONS Phase 1 of the new KCE plant at Latkrabang successfully started operations on January 2, 2015. In the final quarter of 2015, KCE commenced Phase 2 by completing the transfer of operations from the old plant. Various measures related to occupational safety and health covering all areas and types of work, which may be harmful to worker’s health and safety, were put in place at the new plant facilities, in accordance with laws and occupational safety and health standards. During 2015, the Company participated in the safety, occupational health and environmental workplace activities as follows: 1. Reported 91.5% achievement in compliance with the safety plan of 2015, due to extra activities regarding the new plant, i.e. the Safety week, assessment of environment, water inspection and annual fire drill. 2. The Safety unit performed the following activities at the new plant: • Studied the new plant layout. • Tried to understand the operating system of new machines and other facility systems. • Installed the fire protection system. • Conducted risk assessment regarding the health of worker who involve chemical substance. • Conducted an assessment regarding the danger from chemicals. • Reviewed and updated safety manual. 2 • Arranged trainings for leaders regarding the suspension of an emergency caused by chemicals. • Fire drill. • Submitted related application and updated the official documents/ registration as necessary. 3. The following master projects were carried out: • Studied and survey fire extinguisher system, storing and transporting system for chemicals at the new plant, i.e. the Sprinkle system, fire fighting foam, Nitrogen fire fighting, fire alarm system, fire pump, fire hose, chemical pipelining and etc. • Explored the mounting points for the closed circuit cameras and oversee the installation of 230 cameras at the new plant. • Installation of the Master key. • Installation of the Access Control • Survey of the risk areas for fire, determination of fire escape routes and the points to place the fire tanks. • Installed the safety equipments, i.e. fire detection system, fire alarm system and including various fire suspension systems, fire extinguishers, fire hose, fire fighting nozzles, fire equipment cabinet, fire fighting suit SCBA, the automatic fire suspension by Nitrogen or Foam, the sprinkler system, removing equipment for detector, megaphone, flashlight and etc. • Purchased necessary equipments for the first-aid nursing room. • Improved documentation system to facilitate the ISO 14001 certification. During 2015, the Company conducted Customer Satisfaction surveys in various categories, such as technical area, quality, on-time delivery, problem responsiveness, logistics, accuracy of the document and communication. The results of which are satisfactory (in the level of 80%-100%.) Many customers conducted the plant audit to qualify the new factory, and the results were in the level of 82% 97%, or 89% at the average, this considered as the new plant was qualified for production. Another audit was in regards to Logistics, where the audit score was as high as 92% (very good.) At the new plant, KCE appointed the safety officers at all levels: professional, supervisor and management level (HR announcement # 008-11/2015 dated February 18-24, 2015). Safety office is mainly responsible for the planning, monitoring and evaluating the results of the implementation of safety and occupational health policies in order to ensure their strict compliance and maximum effectiveness. KCE appointed the Emergency response team at both plants. (HR announcement # 016-17/2015 dated March 11, 2015) 3 KCE elected a Committee for the Safety, Health and Working Environment (HR announcement # 030/2015 dated May 25, 2015), effective from May 25, 2015, to May 24, 2017. The main responsibility is to establish a safety policy, develop a working plan, monitor procedures and report achievements in order to improve the working environment so as to comply with safety standards pertaining to the law. KCE appointed an Educational Fund for Employees’ Children Committee on March 18, 2015. Employees who complete one year of service and earned income at a lower than certain amount is entitled to apply for the fund. The Company’s policies and objectives are delivered through “continuous training,” including occupational safety and health, technical and professional education, specific knowledge and skills training, and basic training courses to all employees as appropriate for their job and career path. (See Appendix 2). KCE has continued its commitments to CSR activities (See Appendix 3) Activity #1: Mangrove planting at the Mangrove Forest Development Station 1, Tambon NoenKho, Amphoe Klang, Rayong province, July 25, 2015. Activity #2: Refurbishment of Prasert-Wittayatarn Suksasongkraw School, Tambon Champa, Amphoe Tharuea, Phra Nakhon Sri Ayutthaya province, September 19, 2015. PERFORMANCE o No complaints from employees were filed with the Ministry of Labour during 2015. o KCE was awarded an “Excellent Establishment on Safety, Health and Working Environment” certificate by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2014. o KCE was certified for achieving the requirements of Thai Labour Standards – Corporate Social Responsibility, TLS 8001-2010 Certificate Completion level, issued by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, issued on February 8, 2013. The certification is valid until February 7, 2016. o KCE was awarded the AIDS-response Standard Organization Certification, “ASO Thailand – Silver,” from the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, and the Department of Disease Control, Ministry of Public Health, issued on August 8, 2013. The certification is valid until August 8, 2015. o The Company participated in the Safe Factory Project, organized by the Ministry of Labour and was certified for its commitment on the participation in such project, on August 3, 2015. o In 2015, the Company was awarded the Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare at the National level in the year 2015 achievement, award organized by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, issued July 17, 2015. 4 o KCE was awarded a certificate The Company is able to maintain Thai Labour Standard continuously , issued by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, on May 26, 2015. o Additionally, the Company was certified in its supporting on the better health in the workplace project, by the Association for the Development of Environmental Quality. o The Human Resource & Organization Development Department has continually arranged various training programs for employees throughout the year, resulting in an increase in the total number of training hours and the number of multi-skilled operators: 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total number of training hours 23.94 23.75 30.14 74.06 % of multi-skilled operators 60.00% 64.44% 69.26% 69.45% o Accident Statistics in 2013-2015 Type 2013 2014 2015* First aid Times 28 25 36 Lost days ≤ 3 days Times 20 24 20 Lost days > 3 days Times 9 9 11 Total number of lost days Days 165 147 209 Incident Frequency Rate (IFR) 10.84 10.91 13.74 Incident Severity Rate (ISR) 31.47 27.66 42.96 Note * The statistics of the new plant LABOUR Principle # 3: The business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle # 4: The business should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. BOUR Principle # 5: The business should effect the abolition of child labor. Principle # 6: The business should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 5 Thai Labour Standards: Corporate Social Responsibility of Thai Business (TLS 8001-2010) is written within the provisional scope of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, provisions of labor laws concerning labor protection, occupational safety, health and environment, labor welfare, and labor relations. Moreover, related conventions of the International Labour Organization and of the United Nations are also brought into account. KCE recognizes that employees are our greatest asset. To ensure that we are able to recruit, hire, and retain the talented individuals in our organization, we strive to assist all of our employees in maintaining a balanced work life and to provide flexibility to employees on an individual basis. • KCE respects the right of a worker to establish or become a member of a trade union or other committees in the company, and the right of the worker to bargain collectively without imposing obstacles or any kind of sanction on such activities. • KCE shall not engage in or support the use of forced and compulsory labor in any form. • KCE shall not hire or give support to hire a young worker under the age of 15. • KCE shall not engage in or support any discrimination in respect of hiring, employment, payment of wage and remuneration, providing welfare and opportunity for training and development, promotion, termination of employment or retirement. POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • Union-neutral policy: An employee representative will not be subjected to discrimination, displacement or dismissal, or other illegal actions. • The Company’s management provides facilities to the Union or employees’ representative in regard to carrying out their functions: collect annual union member fees via payroll deduction time-off with pay for union activities: union committee meeting, Union Annual General Meeting (AGM) arrange for a meeting venue outside the company for the Union’s AGM provide partial financial support for union activities allow union activities during regular working hours, as requested Provide a bulletin board to post union notices • HR administration policy addressing the issues of human rights: HR policy takes into account the Company’s strategy and conforms to the business ethics and the equitable treatment of employees. The HR policy ensures clear, transparent and fair procedures. The Company will recruit and hire a person who is suitable for the job based on skills and experience and other qualifications as required. 6 The Company will pay wages and remuneration according to the Company’s pay structure, which is based on job responsibility, economics, and the wage rate of the current market. The Company supports HR development as well as self-development so that employees are knowledgeable and continually increase their efficiency in carrying out their job duties. • There is no requirement that workers lodge a financial deposit with the Company. • KCE recognizes the importance of the workforce and prohibits any form of forced or compulsory labor. Workers in debt bondage or in other forms of forced labor are not engaged and, where found, removed. • The Company’s policy for pregnant employees is that they are prohibited to work in situations deemed detrimental to their condition, health and safety for women, and prohibited from working during the hours of 22.00 – 6.00, from working overtime and working on holidays so that they may take care of their health. • The minimum wage age provision of Thai Labour law is15 years. However, KCE prohibits hiring employees under the age of 18 years. • In the recruitment process, an adequate verification method for age is employed to ensure the validity of the applicant’s age. • KCE seeks to disseminate to staff, among other relevant information, applicable laws and regulations, and international regulations ratified by the country for the eradication of child labor and current debates about these issues. • Grievance procedures regarding discrimination, where found. • KCE offers equal employment opportunities for all. The persons we recruit and promotions are based on merit and suitability. • KCE has an annual performance and career development review process which provides all employees with the opportunity to receive regular reviews, regardless of job, grade, gender, age or ethnic origin. • The recruitment and selection process for employment is based on a policy of non-discrimination and guidelines of Thai Labor Standard. • All employees are awarded equal opportunities to develop knowledge, skill and competence that are relevant to their job. KCE started to conduct a training needs analysis for specific roles within the organization. • The recruitment and the selection process of employees of KCE are based on a policy of nondiscrimination and the guideline of Thai Labour Standards • Salary increases for employees depend on performance and added value of an employee’s work. All employees are accorded equal opportunity to develop their knowledge, skill and competence as relevant to their job. 7 • We seek to eradicate discrimination, increase cross-cultural understanding and eliminate workplace violence and harassment. In addition to all the above, KCE organizes in-service training such as the learning of languages, first-aid training, rules of protocol, occupational course training, personnel development courses, team work and regular social events, such as New Year parties, walk rallies, and other sport activities. • KCE’s employees are not discriminated against because of gender, race, origin, background, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or age. ACTIONS During 2015, the union cooperated with the Company’s management in various activities, as follows: 2015 annual collective bargaining as a forum to improve employment terms and other benefits and welfare Regular meetings Participation in the Company’s activities as well as CSR activities KCE appointed an Employee Committee and Welfare Committee on January 11, 2012, (HR announcement #005/2555). The committee is composed of six representatives from employees and five representatives from the employer. The committee is responsible for proposing provisions to ensure that employees have access to adequate welfare, consider grievances from employees and resolve any conflicts, if any. In 2015, there were four meetings in which the following topics were discussed: The general business situation KPI evaluations for the old plant and new plant Company recreational activities Reward for the Good attendance and the Long-service award of 10, 20, 30 years Schooling scholarships for children of employee Safety in traveling between old plant and new plant Welfare for medical expense for the employee's family members Food service in the canteen KCE's policy for transferring subcontracted worker to KCE's permanent operator, and promotion of daily worker to monthly worker Arrangement of trade union activities Vacation entitlement Annual working calendar 8 Employee uniforms General disciplinary procedures Promotion procedures and criteria used Safety equipment 5-S activities and the Big cleaning day Miscellaneous issues: bus service, canteen, car parking, drinking water On February 10, 2015, collective bargaining was conducted to address issues related to working conditions and employee welfare. Negotiations reached an agreement for both parties. KCE has always been supportive of the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Prior to employment, it is our policy to be transparent about all working terms and conditions. KCE’s employee policies are specified within employment contracts. These contracts clearly state the actual working conditions and their rights, and thus all employees are aware of their existence and must agree before signing an employment contract. Regularly review timecard, payroll and production records in respect of incorrect record keeping, incorrect or non-payment of wages and excessive overtime hours and verify their accuracy through worker interviews. KCE’s employee manual defines work hours. The overtime procedure provides employees a form to sign if he/she agrees to render more than eight hours of duty. Those on overtime are given a premium pay rate according to Thai labour law, travel allowance from and to their home and a meal allowance. KCE has a child labor employee policy for suppliers and subcontractors to follow. In its contracts with suppliers, the Company requires that suppliers declare that they do not employ child labor. An Employee Satisfaction Survey was conducted for 2015, the result of which was summarized at an average of 63% (a range of min-max 56-68%), an increase from 61% in 2014 and 57% (a range of minmax 47-66%) in 2013, representing a high level of satisfaction. The highest score category was for an intrinsic aspects of the job and a Social aspects of the job, and the lowest score category was for an opportunity for advancement. The Company continually communicates with employees in order to obtain feedback, assess their needs and problems through various channels: Reports from supervisors Employee satisfaction surveys Grievances by employees via personal consultation, telephone, intranet, e-mail or comment box 9 In 2015, the Talent Management program was implemented. It is mainly used for personnel development planning, which is already incorporated in the SAP system. The program is based on the principle of competency management, which can help identify and develop a suitable career development plan for individual personnel, including a succession plan for key positions. KCE treats subcontracted labor fairly based on the same standard as used with the Company’s own staff in terms of human rights, competency development, training, safety & health and working environment, incentive pay, etc. During 2015, a large number of daily-subcontracted workers changed to the monthlyworkers. Subcontracted labor is also entitled to a merit increase and an annual bonus from the Company. This has caused a major change in the workforce structure; and the turnover rate was reduced from 7% to 5.7% at the new plant. Subcontracted labor headcount by type: 2014 2015 Daily 1,043 772 Monthly 496 (33%) 796 (50%) Total 1,539 1,568 persons Human Resources Department develop a road map for 2016-2018 : Challenge: Support business requirement Customer needs Expansion of KCE's business Foundation of HR system Increase HR service level HR develop the Master Training plan for 2016 An Assessment Center was set up to track HR service via on line, regarding : 1) Recruitment 2) Training 3) Employee relation 4) Employee self service (KPI, OT, Leave record, EPay slip ...) PERFORMANCE o KCE received accreditation from the Thai Labour Standard project of the Ministry of Labour in 2010.The Company received TLS 8001-2010 certification (Thai Labour Standard: Corporate Social Responsibility)on February 8, 2013, by having met the requirements of the Department of Labour, Protection and Welfare of the Ministry of Labour. The certification is valid until February 7, 2016. 10 o The Company received the “Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare” award from the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare on August 20, 2014. o In 2015, the Company was awarded the Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare at the National level in the year 2015 achievement, award organized by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, issued July 17, 2015. o KCE received a Certificate, the Company is able to maintain Thai Labour Standard continuously , issued by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, on May 26, 2015. o 60% of the Company’s employees are represented by the union. o List of established Associations: • Labour Union • Employee and Welfare Committee • Safety, Health and Working Environment Committee • 5S Team • Thai Labour Standard Committee • Educational Fund for Employees’ Children Committee • KPI Committee • Environment Management Representative (EMR) o In 2015, there were no conflicts between employees and the Company. o All employees received salary above the stipulated minimum wage. o KCE does not employ child labor, and all employees are over 18 years old. o KCE’s risk management demonstrates that there are no current or planned business activities in which child labor is or is likely to be a factor. We have appropriate systems in place to ensure that we do not employ child labor. o We have enhanced our ability to identify opportunities to influence others to abolish child labor and are considering further embedding of this within our existing risk management system. o Neither employees nor the union filed a case regarding unfair treatment against the Company with the Ministry of Labour in accordance with Labour Relations Act B.E. 2518 (1975). o Employee complaints averaged less than 1% per year. o In 2015, KCE employed 838 employees. All employees were above18 years of age, and there were no employees between the ages of 15-18. 11 Age 18+ yrs. Age 15-18 yrs. Handicap Men Woman Men Woman Men Woman 2013 418 387 None None 4 1 2014 438 400 None None 3 2 2015 450 388 None None 4 4 ONMENT ENVIRONMENT Principle #7: The business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle # 8: The business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. BOUR Principle # 9: The business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. KCE recognizes the importance of being a socially and environmentally conscious company. KCE is committed to supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and will undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, as well as encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. KCE demonstrates our commitment through a strong set of policies and objectives that shape the scope of the business and the way that it deals with clients and suppliers.8 POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • KCE is committed to the establishment of an Environment Management System by complying with the Company’s environment management policy, as follows: To meet all legal requirements as well as contribute to the improvement of environmental issues. Reduce waste materials. An effective and efficient utilization of natural resources. Continuous assessment and evaluation of the environment management system; review objectives, and targets to ensure the effectiveness of the system. 12 Promote and develop staff awareness and responsibility to the environment through communication, provision of relevant information and cooperation among staff, suppliers, customers, government agencies, the private sector and the general public. • KCE applies a precautionary principle and seeks to minimize the environmental impact of its activities. Social and environmental impact assessments and reviews are carried out regularly in accordance with international standards and industry requirements. • KCE aims at collaborating with stakeholders for the protection of environmental quality and values by using every effort in the utilization of energy and natural resources for a sustainable life and environment, working for the development and implementation of environmentally friendly and clean technology and voluntarily adopting environmental management systems and environmental standards. In addition, the Company collaborates and exchanges information with local, national and international environmental organizations to that end. • KCE adheres strictly to environmental law and other regulatory requirements, including concerned environmental directives such as RoHs, WEEE, and REACH. • KCE provides an ongoing environmental induction training and awareness program to provide employees with an insight into our environmental efforts at both the operational and office levels. • The Company continuously strives to improve our environmental performance by: promoting environmental awareness integrating environmental consideration into the business process developing and applying sustainable processes and products reducing the use of resources and endeavoring to prevent pollution monitoring and evaluating environmental performance throughout the entire supply chain engaging in dialogue with stakeholders and partnerships, and providing performance reports complying with environmental legislation and relevant requirements • KCE started to reduce paper consumption and encourage its employees to use alternative products such as recycled paper and to avoid unnecessary expense. KCE encouraged staff to correspond and communicate via electronic mail to minimize paper usage. • Energy and natural resources are utilized effectively and efficiently. The Company has established a waste water treatment plant and an air emission prevention system to treat waste water and air before discharge. • KCE is committed to contributing to the development of public policy and to the initiatives of businesses, government agencies, international programs and non-government organizations that will enhance environmental awareness and protection through the public release of selected research findings. 13 • KCE is dedicated to creating more environmental friendly products; to produce environmentally safe PCB products, and to work with our customers and raw material suppliers to produce environmental friendly products such as lead-free and halogen-free products, as well as to use environmental friendly packaging materials such as bubble sheets instead of plastic foam. ACTIONS In 2015, KCE performed two internal audits, conducted two management reviews, and satisfied a surveillance audit performed by SGS (Thailand) for ISO 16949:2009. In 2015, KCE performed two internal audits, conducted two management reviews, and satisfied two surveillance audits performed by SGS (Thailand) for ISO 14001. Established environmental plans for 2015, as follows: Reduce electricity usage to 6.50 KWH/sq ft, the operation of which began in 2009 under the responsibility of the energy conservation committee. Reduce water usage to 0.113 m3/sq ft. Reduce process scrap to target rates: • Inner Layer < 0.550% • Outer Layer < 4.200% In 2015, the Company began operating a new plant to expand capacity in order to accommodate growth in customer orders. The new plant was designed based on the Green Building concept to be more resource friendly and efficient in accordance with evaluation criteria of the US Leadership in Energy & Environment Design Standard (LEED) by incorporating the following • Waste water treatment technology to reduce water usage , using a Reverse Osmosis (RO) system to treat wastewater from production to recycling. • 24-hour use of LED lighting in production areas to reduce electricity usage. • A fire sprinkler system in line with the US National Fire Protection Association Standard (NFPA). • A fire suppression system for specific areas such as electrical rooms that does not utilize ozone-depleting substances. • Full wastewater treatment in accordance with IEAT regulations. • A high efficiency chiller with an Atmosphere Impact Index according to LEED (Green Building Design and Construction). • VSD (variable speed drives) installed on pumps and AHUs. 14 • A building management system is provided to monitor and control all energy consumption equipment in order to maximize efficiency during operations. • A Chiller Plant Manager monitors and operates chillers and pumps to ensure they operate at the highest efficiency. • A sponge Ball-Cleaning system is utilized to clean the condenser tubes of chillers to enhance system performance. • Generators are provided to back up life safety equipment. The Company arranged activities to promote and encourage environmental policy in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard, as follows: Mangrove planting: The Mangrove Forest Development Station 1, Tambon NoenKho, Amphoe Klang, Rayong province, on July 25, 2015. The Company participated in an environmental conservation project with help from a team of 45 persons to reforest the mangrove area by planting 2,000 trees to replace trees that have died, collect garbage in the surrounding area to restore the ecosystem and protect the top soil from erosion. Refurbishment of Prasert Wittayatarn SuksaSongkraw School, Ayutthaya: The Company together with its employees participated in the following activities for the community at Prasert Wittayatarn School: • provided maintenance for the toilet doors, the school's kitchen, made shoe racks, repainted the bedding building and made shelves for cleaning tools • repainted the outer and inner building • Donated teaching aids • Offered scholarships, provided funds for lunch and donated consumer goods Reduction of paper usage, including paper for copying, and encouraging the use of recycled paper. The team also seeks cooperation from all departments in changing their behavior or adjusting their work patterns. The result was satisfactory. Promote energy saving in office areas by encouraging all departments to change their behavior in order to reduce electricity consumption. Promoted safety and environment awareness through fun activities during the Safety Week event. In 2015, the Company had no social or environmental legal disputes. PERFORMANCE o KCE was granted recertification of ISO 14001:2004. o KCE passed the surveillance audit of ISO 16949:2009. 15 o In terms of environmental operation, the Company achieved the objectives specified by the legal rules and regulations as well as the environmental management system. o KCE was awarded the following: ISO/TS 16949:2009 Edition 3 (July 10, 2015 July 9, 2018), Certificate of Quality Management System of Technical Specification for Automatic Productive and Relevant Service Part (certified since July 18, 2003). ISO 14001: 2004, valid from October 14, 2015 –March 28, 2017 (certified since March 28, 2002), certified by UKAS and NAC in regard to the Environmental Management System and Quality Management System. ISO 9001:2008 (October 14, 2015 September 14, 2018), certified by UKAS o The Company was certified by the Green Industry , the Ministry of Industry, that the Company is rated Green industry-Level 3) in the Green system, as the Company has systematically manage the environment, monitor and assess the outcome and continuously improve the results, issued by April 3, 2015 April 2, 2018. Environmental Performance in 2015 2015 Actual measurement Jan Jun Jul Dec Per Law Air quality from chimneys CO Emission (ppm) 13.96 13.95 690 No2 Emission (ppm) 38.81 68.36 200 So2 Emission (ppm) n/a n/a 60 Particulate (mg/Nm3) 3.93 25.79 400 Noise quality Average noise level 8 hrs. 86.9 90 Maximum noise level 114.4 140 Quantity of industrial waste Properly Buried or Non-toxic industrial waste (per year) 1,200 Tons/ year Recycled Managed by Toxic industrial waste (per year) 6,000 Tons/ Year licensed company 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle# 10: The business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. KCE manages its business with honesty, fairness and transparency, and is committed to being responsible to society and all stakeholders in compliance with accepted principles of good corporate governance and business ethics. KCE believes that bribery and corruption must be tackled by all levels of society. KCE’s role as a private company is to act responsibly in all aspects of how KCE conducts business, as well as to actively support relevant initiatives to combat corruption. POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • The Company is committed to implementing an anti-corruption policy. Directors, management executives and all employees of the Company will not accept any form of corruption involving all areas of business and all related sections of the organization. • The Company’s directors are responsible for setting up a policy and ensuring that an efficient system to detect corruption is in place. • The Company’s code of conduct and the business ethics must emphasize anti-corruption. • The Company’s financial statements are reviewed quarterly and audited by a qualified external auditor who is fully independent. • All information presented in the financial reports are correct, complete and reliable. It was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and appropriate standards. • KCE strives to treat all parties equally and consistently within the framework of the SET by avoiding favoritism or situations where conflicts of interest may arise. • Directors, management executives and all employees must comply with the Company’s code of conduct where sensitive issues are involved. • Whistle blowing: The Company has a policy to receive information regarding wrongdoing, violations of the law, regulations or Good Corporate Governance principles, or corruption, directly through the Audit Committee. 17 ACTIONS KCE’s Board of Directors appointed a Corporate Governance Committee on September 17, 2013. The committee is responsible for managing and controlling the Company’s operations in accordance with good corporate governance, policies and related laws. In 2015, the CG Committee promoted the efficiency in the practice of Corporate Governance: • Encouraged the distribution of Corporate Governance Policy, business ethics and a code of conduct • Updated the corporate governance and code of conduct handbook. • Had all subcommittees and the CEO conduct a self-performance appraisal. • Established a channel for claims and suggestions on any matter so that employees and stakeholders could express their opinions independently, which led to improvements. • Reviewed, adjusted, assessed and updated Corporate Governance principles and business ethics to conform with the law, regulations of the SET and SEC, and good practices of international standards, and reported such compliance to the Board in each quarter. In 2014, the Company carried out the following tasks regarding the Fraud risk analysis: 1. Assessed risk from fraud through the following procedures and steps: • Identified fraud risk and classify risks based on category of fraud • Assessed a fraud risk rating: Rate risks based on the likelihood of occurrence and the significance of the risks • Assessed mitigation controls: Identify control Determine the control’s effectiveness Determine the current residual risk Draft a fraud risk register • Conducted a workshop to validate significant fraud risks and related controls • Obtained a fraud risk register • Developed a fraud risk monitoring mechanism 2. Developed a fraud policy and anti-corruption policy 3. Conducted a fraud risk awareness training workshop and classes for all management, HR, and selected supervisors and personnel to ensure that principles and policies are communicated effectively to all levels of employees. 18 4. Promoted an ethical culture and an awareness of fraud by a series of initiatives and activities throughout the year using various formats (e-mail, posters, training material, etc.). Throughout 2015, KCE promoted communication regarding an anti-corruption policy and fully supported the undertaking of the certification process. As a result, the Company was certified a member of CAC on April 3, 2015. At orientations provided for new employees, the Company explains KCE’s business ethics, and employees must sign a form in which they agree to strictly comply with the Company’s employee code of conduct. PERFORMANCE o There was no fraud reported by the internal auditor for 2015. o The 2015 Audit Committee’s report confirmed that: The Company’s financial report for the year ended December 31, 2015, was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and the information was accurate, complete and reliable with a reasonable application of accounting policy. The Company’s internal control systems are adequate and appropriate. All related party transactions are part of the Company’s normal course of business with regular commercial terms, sensible and fair conditions and for the maximum benefit of the Company. The Company fully complies with the Public Company Act and regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand, as well as other laws pertaining to the Company’s business. o A business code of conduct and practical guidelines were completed in 2014 and updated in 2015. o KCE undertook steps in compliance with the CAC's certification process, such as the development of anti-corruption measures, conducting self-evaluations regarding anti-corruption practices. As a result, the Company was certified a CAC member on April 3, 2015. o In 2015, the Company was awarded an Excellent ranking for its Corporate Governance based on a survey of listed companies, by the Thai Institute of Directors Association (IOD) o SET Awards 2015: The Company was awarded the Outstanding CEO Awards and the Outstanding Company Performance Awards , in a category of company with market capitalization of Bt10,000 30,000 million. 19 Appendix 1: Certificates/Awards KCE was certified for achieving the requirements of Thai Labour Standards – Corporate Social Responsibility, TLS 8001-2010 Certificate Completion level, issued by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, issued on February 8, 2013. The certification is valid until February 7, 2016. 20 KCE was awarded the AIDS-response Standard Organization Certification, “ASO Thailand – Silver,” from the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, and the Department of Disease Control, Ministry of Public Health, issued on August 8, 2013. The certification is valid until August 8, 2015. The Company participated in the Safe Factory Project, organized by the Ministry of Labour and was certified for its commitment on the participation in such project 21 The Company was awarded the Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare at the National level in the year 2015 achievement, award organized by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare KCE was awarded a certificate The Company is able to maintain Thai Labour Standard continuously , issued by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, on May 26, 2015 22 The Company was certified in its support on the better health in the workplace project, issued by the Association for Development of Environmental Quality. The Company received the “Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare” award from the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare on August 20, 2014. 23 ISO 14001: 2004, valid from October 14, 2015 –March 28, 2017(certified since March 28, 2002), certified by UKAS in regard to the Environmental Management System and Quality Management System. 24 ISO 14001: 2004, valid from October 14, 2015 –March 28, 2017 (certified since March 28, 2002), certified by NAC in regard to the Environmental Management System and Quality Management System. 25 ISO/TS 16949:2009 Edition 3 (July 10, 2015 July 9, 2018), Certificate of Quality Management System of Technical Specification for Automatic Productive and Relevant Service Part (certified since July 18, 2003). 26 ISO 9001:2008 (October 14, 2015 September 14, 2018), certified by UKAS KCE was certified by the Green Industry , the Ministry of Industry, that the Company is rated Green industry-Level 3) in the Green system, as the Company has systematically manage the environment, monitor and assess the outcome and continuously improve the results, issued by April 3, 2015 April 2, 2018. 27 KCE undertook steps in compliance with the CAC's certification process, such as the development of anti-corruption measures, conducting self-evaluations regarding anti-corruption practices. As a result, the Company was certified a CAC member on April 3, 2015. 28 SET Awards 2015: The Company was awarded the Outstanding CEO Awards and the Outstanding Company Performance Awards , in a category of company with market capitalization of Bt10,000 30,000 million. 29 Appendix 2: Training and Development KCE implements an employee development program to enhance their knowledge and potential. In 2015, training courses for employees included, but were not limited to, the following: Period (TL No. of No. Course Objective Target Group Date Hours) Trainee Safety 1 ERT (EMERGENCY Train Emergency Response Team Emergency Response May-Dec 2015 36 20 RESPONSE TEAM) Team 2 Fire Suppression 1.To educate causes and All employees Feb, Mar, Oct & 6 45 Basis prevention of fires Dec 2015 2.To educate how to use fire suppression equipment. 3 Safety Officer in To comply with the rule Leader, Foreman, Jul & Dec 2015 12 50 Executive level Officer, Supervisor, Engineer, Sr. Supervisor, Sr.Engineer 4 Folklift skills and 1. To develop skills in using Warehouse, Material Sep 2015 6 15 Maintenance Training Forklift. preparation, FG stock 2. To educate for maintenance. 5 Safety for working with To comply with the rules and X-ray Area Staffs Nov 2015 6 7 X-rays educate how to prevent dangerous when working with X-rays. 6 Safety for working with To provide knowledge of electrical Sr. Supervisor, Nov 2015 6 34 the electricity and system, dangerous, safety rules Supervisor, Sr. helping the victim of and educate how to help the victim Engineer, Engineer electricity. of electricity and to comply with the and Maintenance law. staffs 30 7 Safety training for the 1. To comply with the law The Committee Jul 2015 12 16 Committee of Safety, 2. To educate the Committee member Occupational Health member to understand their roles and Environment and responsibilities. 8 Annual Fire Drills and 1.To comply with the rules. All Employees Dec 2015 0.5 2,388 Evacuation. 2.To educate how to survive and move from fire areas. 9 Training for the basic To understand the basic Foreman, Leader and Dec 2015 6 34 of First Aid knowledge of the first aid and be Operator able to help in the emergency incident 10 Chemical Handing & 1. To know various types of Employee working with Jul & Aug 2015 3 30-45 Emergency chemical and the usage of chemical Response chemical 2. Provide safety procedure in handling and storing chemical and working with chemical. 3.How to handle the emergency incident in case of chemical leaking. 11 C-TPAT Security To support C-TPAT Sr. Supervisor, Apr 2015 6 43 system Supervisor, Sr. Engineer, Engineer, Foreman, Leader, Officer 12 Safety Awareness To create safety awareness in Sr. Supervisor, Feb, Jun & Aug 12 134 everyday working, toward zero Supervisor, Sr. 2015 accident. Engineer, Engineer, Foreman, Leader, Officer 31 13 Creating an To understand the principle of the All operators Oct 2015 6 38 awareness of sense of ownership and to promote ownership in the the awareness of ownership at the company operator level 14 Career Path 1. To understand the concept and Management level Nov 2015 6 22 Management & steps in developing the Career Succession Planning Path and the Succession Planning. 2. To be aware of problem and barrier to Career Path and Succession plan. 3. To understand the relation between the Career path and the succession plan. Environment 15 ISO 14001:2004 1.To educate about the Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Mar 2015 6.0 29 Awareness and environment management system Sr.Supervisor, Requirement 2. To specify rules of environment Supervisor, Foreman, management for ISO 14001:20014 Officer 16 Monitoring for To understand the importance and Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Nov 2015 12 54 environment the regulations of the environment Sr. Supervisor, management management system of ISO Supervisor (Effective Inernal 14001:2004 and be able to Audit for ISO prepare an effective monitoring 14001:2004) report for the audit 17 Aspect Identification To explain aspects of identifying Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Nov 2015 6.0 40 for Environmental environmental issues and be able Sr. Supervisor, System to apply those techniques in the Supervisor practice. 32 18 Strategy for To understand the 5'S principles, 5'S Committee May 2015 6 30 Management and the procedures and the correct 5's Committee scoring method for the 5'S 19 ISO14001:2015 1. To be prepare for the new Management, Senior Nov & Dec 2015 12 82 Requirement standard of ISO14001:2015 Supervisor-Engineer, 2. To be able to apply to work Supervisor-Engineer Human Resources 20 Training for the To be aware of the proper Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Nov 2015 6 40 Trainer qualification for the Trainer Sr.Supervisor, Supervisor 21 Team Power To understand the true concept of Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Sep 2015 6 37 Team power Sr. Supervisor, Supervisor 22 Knowledge regarding To explain basic information All employee levels Aug 2015 6 34 Social Security Fund, regarding Social Security benefits Self-sufficient and other related laws, and to be economy, drug abuse able to apply the philosophy to prevention work. 23 Anti-corruption for To be aware of corruption and the All Managements Mar 2015 6 68 Management Anti-policy in place for KCE group. 24 Developing KPI and 1. To educate KPI concept and พนักงานทุกท่าน Jul & Nov 2015 8 45 the Anti-corruption guideline for developing KPI policy 2. To be aware of the importance of the Anti-corruption policy. 25 Resilience quotient To explore a methodology of RQ to All Managements Mar 2015 6 45 (RQ) create a happiness in working, in order to improve work performance 33 Supervisor, Mar 2015 6 21 Sr.Supervisor, Engineer, Sr.Engineer, foremen, officers 26 Communication & Co1. To learn how to effectively Supervisor, Nov 2015 6 52 ordination technique assign the work to subordinate SR.Supervisor 2. To get the skill in evaluating the Engineer, Sr. subordinate, and the needs for Engineer, foreman, coaching. leader, officer 27 Creative Employee To understand the labor relation Supervisor, 18-Nov-15 6 66 Relation with management toward subordinates, Sr.Supervosor, Subordinate including the creation of work Engineer, Sr.Engineer, incentive and disciplinary foremen, officers punishment. 28 Labor law for To be aware of the Labor law and All Managements Mar 2015 6 20 Management regulations, and understand the duty and responsibility of the employer and employee according to the labor law. Supervisor-Engineer Mar 2015 6 41 Sr.SupervisorEngineer 29 Proactive Mind To be aware of the nature of the Management Sep 2015 6 22 change and accept the change, to learn the proactive working, and to be able to apply the concept in practice. 34 Appendix 3: CSR activities In 2015, the Company together with its employees participated in the following activities to contribute to the community and the public: ACTIVITY 1: Mangrove planting at the Mangrove Forest Development Station 1 Tambon NoenKho, Amphoe Klang, Rayong province Saturday, July 25, 2015 (Number of participants: 45) The Company participated in an environmental conservation project with help from a team of 45 persons to reforest the mangrove area by planting 2,000 trees to replace trees that have died, collect garbage in the surrounding area to restore the ecosystem and protect the top soil from erosion. The team also released fish and donated necessary equipment such as hoes, shovels, spades and black garbage bags to the Mangrove Forest Development Station 1. Mangrove Forest Development Station 1, a division of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, is located at Tambon NoenKho, Amphoe Klang, Rayong province. It is responsible for marine and coastal resources in combination with work of the Department of Fisheries, the Department of Forestry and the Land Development Department. Its main duties are as follows: • Establish a policy for the management, conservation and recovery of marine and coastal resources. • Update, amend and add in rules and regulations, and measures related to conservation. • Oversee and assess the results and monitor compliance to such rules and regulations as well as preset measures. • Study, research and development regarding the conservation and recovery of marine and coastal resources, including endangered plant and marine life. 35 36 ACTIVITY 2: Refurbishment of PrasertWittayatarn SuksaSongkraw School Tambon Champa, Amphoe Tharuea, Phra Nakhon Sri Ayutthaya province Saturday, September 19, 2015 (Number of participants: 56) The Company together with its employees participated in the following activities for the community at PrasertWittayatarn School, Ayutthaya: • Extended the roof in front of the bedding building, replaced the floor mat with linoleum, provided maintenance for the toilet doors, made shoe racks, repainted the bedding building and made shelves for cleaning tools. • Replaced mosquito nets, cleaned and repainted the curved steel. • Repainted the outer and inner building and cleaned the toilets. • Provided maintenance of the school's kitchen, i.e., repainted, shelves for cooking utensils. • Donated teaching aids, i.e., computers, teaching tools. • Offered scholarships, provided funds for lunch and donated consumer goods. • Provided lunch, ice cream and snacks to students. PrasertWittayatarn School, under the Ministry of Education, is located at 53/13 Soi Wat Cokekratai, Champa-Tharuea Road, Tambon Champa, Amphoe Tharuea, Ayutthaya province. It is a boarding school for disadvantaged students mostly from poor families in Nan and Chaiyaphum provinces. The school provides classes for students of Mathayom levels 1-3. There are 102 students in the school comprising 50 boys and 52 girls. 37 38 39
