Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 2 Έκθεση Εταιρικής ΥπευθυνότηταΣ 2015 Έκθεση Εταιρικής ΥπευθυνότηταΣ 2015 3 44 YEARS MOTOR OIL The growth of MOTOR OIL: Important milestones 2005 2011 1996 2001 The Hydrocracker Complex is commissioned, 2007 Registration of the 2009 Completion of the construction of 5th gas turbine in refinery’s Purchase of 50% of the company’s shares Increase of the company’s equity facilitating the production of “clean company in the Hellenic Register Increase of the participation in the power cogeneration plant, which now has a 2015 1972 by Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi capital through public offer of shares and fuels” conforming to European Union of EMAS (EcoManagement and share capital of OFC AVIATION FUEL total capacity of 85MW. MOTOR OIL achieves, for Commissioning of the refinery. It comprises a Crude Oil Distillation 1978 Commissioning of the 1984 Aramco). Relocation of the Head listing on the Athens Stock Exchange. 2004 Commissioning of the specifications for 2005 and 2009. Audit Scheme). Issue of the first voluntary Environmental SERVICES S.A. from 28.0% to 92.06%. Construction completion of KORINTHOS POWER S.A the eighth year in a row, sales and production Unit, a base oils Catalytic Reformer Construction of a Office to a modern Upgrading of the new Truck Loading Repurchase of Saudi Statement, conforming Entry into natural gas power plant, located in record (12.8 and production unit and Unit for gasoline Power Plant, burning Offices Complex in Lubes Vacuum Terminal at the Aramco’s stake in the with EU Regulation trading in collaboration the MOTOR OIL refinery 11.7 million MT port facilities. production. fuel gas. Maroussi. Distillation Unit. refinery. company. EMAS ER 761/2001. with MYTILINEOS S.A. premises. respectively). 1975 Construction 1980 Commissioning of the 1993 ISO 9002 quality 2000 Construction of new 2002 Acquisition of 100% of 2006 Certification of the 2008 Certification of Health 2010 Commissioning of the new 2014 Acquisition of 100% of completion of the Catalytic Cracking Unit certification for units and upgrading of the retail oil marketing refinery’s Chemical and Safety Management 60,000 barrels/day Crude the retail oil marketing 100,000 barrels/day (for converting fuel oil the entire range the Naphtha Reformer company AVIN OIL. Laboratory, according System, according to Distillation Unit, and of two company Cyclon A.B.E.E. Crude Distillation to higher added value of the company’s into a continuous to ISO 17025:2005 OHSAS 18001:2007. additional Sulphur Recovery Complex. Construction products). commercial and 103-octane number Units, of a combined 170 Recertification of the completion of the 1.5 manufacturing catalyst regeneration ΜΤ/day sulphur production Quality Management million cubic metres activities. unit for the production capacity. System according to tank farm. of fuels conforming to the ISO 9001:2008, the EU specifications. Completion of the acquisition Environmental Management of the shares of the System according to ISO New Central Control companies SHELL HELLAS 14001:2004 and the Health Room and installation S.A. (renamed to Coral S.A.), and Safety Management of a Distributed Control and SHELL GAS A.E.B.E.Y. System, according to System. (renamed to Coral GAS OHSAS 18001:2007. A.E.B.E.Y.), as well as of 49% Certification of the of the aviation fuels trading Environmental company. Management System, according to ISO 14001:1996. 44 Sustainability Έκθεση Report Εταιρικής 2015 ΥπευθυνότηταΣ 2015 Sustainability Έκθεση Εταιρικής Report 2015 ΥπευθυνότηταΣ 5 Management Message For the Motor Oil Group, 2015 was an excellent year in terms of financial results. After a series of challenging years, the market showed signs of improvement and developed favorable conditions for the sector with high refinery margins, despite the negative impact of the reserves evaluation caused by the international fall of crude prices. Our Group managed to exploit the circumstances in the best possible way by putting into action an effective combination of strategic choices and by continuing our traditional focus on exports. And all the above, in spite of the especially difficult business environment in the country with the banks being closed for a long period of time and with the imposed capital controls stressing even more the market and the consumers. In this context, we continue to operate on a constant base focused on our goals and aiming for growth. Our priority is to deliver service and support to our customers, our shareholders, our employees and all our various other stakeholders. For all the above, we ensure high productivity, constant growth and the delivery of a positive financial and social footprint. In 2015, we managed to achieve, for 8 years in a row, a record in sales and in production while our exports reached 76% of our sales. Our operating profitability reached 492 million euros and our net Group profits reached 205 million euros. The total evaluation of our social product reached 482.2 million euros. Our commitment to sustainable growth lays in the epicenter of all our business activity. We continuously develop new training programmes and modern procedures for the management and evolution of our workforce that counted to 1,924 employees at the end of 2015. Additionally, we invest in the development of particular sensitivity towards Safety, which constitutes a major priority for us and we continuously build the “Goal Zero” culture, that aims for zero accidents and zero incidents in all our operations and especially in all our depots and facilities. We continuously invest to reduce our environmental footprint by adopting Best Available Techniques that lead to the reduction of our emissions and to the enhancement of our energy efficiency, as well as the management of all byproducts or waste. In addition, the support we offer to the society remains an integrated part of our operations. In 2015, we distributed 3.1 million euros for various programmes and initiatives to support the wider society, the sensitive groups that are affected particularly harshly by the crisis and also the local communities residing near our installations. All the above are described in detail in this “Sustainability Report 2015”, the fourteenth such report, which describes in detail our Group’s activities. Once more this year, this edition has complied with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative under the G4 scheme, focusing on the materiality of the data presented and on an objective and transparent presentation of our results. In this context, this Report serves as our “Communication On Progress” on the basis of our commitment to disclose information according to the principles of the UN Global Compact which we endorse and support. With 44 years of operation in Greece, we stand firm at our commitment for responsible entrepreneurship and we strive continuously to produce and distribute financial and social value. Motor Oil Group Management 66 Έκθεση Εταιρικής Sustainability ΥπευθυνότηταΣ Report 2015 2015 Έκθεση Εταιρικής ΥπευθυνότηταΣ Sustainability Report 2015 7 Contents i Vision, Mission, Strategic Targets, Values and Principles ii Key Group data for 2015 2 The growth of MOTOR OIL: Important milestones 5 Management Message 6 Contents 9 On the Sustainability Report 2015 10 28 40 56 78 90 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS HEALTH RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE SOCIAL GLOBAL COMPACT: RESPONSIBILITY OUR EMPLOYEES AND SAFETY ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 12 Profile of the Motor Oil Group 30 Human resources management 42 Health and Safety management 58 Environmental management 80 Economic benefits to society Social 13 Refinery system framework 60 Environmental impact management product 14 Results 2015 30 Equal opportunities and human 44 Safety indices 61 Environmental investments and 82 Customer service and Respect 17 18 Corporate governance Participation in international national agencies and networks rights 31 Labour relations relations with trade unions 46 Health and safety investments 47 Inspections 48 Procedures expenses 63 Best Available Techniques 65 Energy efficiency 83 Social solidarity and sponsorships 91 20 Awards and recognition 31 Basic employment data 50 Planned shutdownsNew 69 Air quality management GRI COMPLIANCE LEVEL 20 Managing corporate responsibility 34 Remuneration system and additional projects 73 Liquid waste management 22 Responsible growth and investments benefits 50 REACH and CLP regulations 74 Solid waste management Recycling 23 Responsibility for the Environment, 36 Education and training 51 Emergency response plans 76 Water management Health and Safety 52 Safety of port installations 76 Noise management 24 Responsible quality management 52 Safeguarding workforce health 77 Protection of the marine 26 Communication with stakeholders 53 Training on Safety issues environment 88 Sustainability Έκθεση Report Εταιρικής 2015 ΥπευθυνότηταΣ 2015 Sustainability Έκθεση Εταιρικής Report 2015 ΥπευθυνότηταΣ 9 On the Sustainability Report 2015 This Sustainability Report of 2015 is the fourteenth such record of the annual activities of the MOTOR OIL Group (1 January 2015 31 December 2015). The primary concern of the Report is to provide comprehensive information for all stakeholders in the Group: workforce, customers, suppliers, shareholders, investors, creditors and local communities. The Report underlines the Group’s sincere commitment to a responsible and sustainable growth. As an active member of the community, the MOTOR OIL Group strives to achieve sustainable development by responding to the environmental challenges deriving from its operations while at the same time tries to meet the needs of the local and wider society. The structure of the Sustainability Report 2015 complies with the totality of aspects of corporate responsibility. It focuses, therefore, on actions that demonstrate respect for human values and the environment, the implementation of an effective health and safety policy and support for efforts to achieve sustainable social development. The various sections of the Report describe in detail the Group’s activities, with presentations of the latest quantitative figures and data. The terms ‘Group’ and ‘MOTOR OIL Group’ refer to the MOTOR OIL Group and its constituent subsidiary Groups and companies, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and OFC. The term ‘company’ refers to the parent company ‘MOTOR OIL’; the terms ‘other companies’ and ‘remaining companies’ refer to the aforesaid set of companies, while the term ‘commercial companies’ refers, once again, to the aforesaid set of companies, not however including OFC. Global Reporting Initiative UN Global Compact The selection of topics for the Sustainability Report 2015 was based on the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), on the oil & gas sector supplement and on the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. At the end of the Report there is a summary table matching the contents of the current Report to the GRI indicators and Global Compact principles. In this sense the Sustainability Report 2015 also serves as a “Communication on Progress” for the Global Compact, setting out the way in which its ten principles have been implemented. Supplementary data for the Group’s activities can be found in the Annual Financial Report 2015 and the Environmental Statement 2015, as well as at the company website, www.moh.gr Communication The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report 2015 has been edited and compiled by the Group’s Communications, Corporate Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility Department. We wish to extend our heartfelt thanks to all other Divisions and Departments whose contributions of data have allowed us to produce a comprehensive Report. We welcome all views and observations on the structure and content of the report your input will help us to keep improving its quality. Please contact us on +30 210 8094004, or send your comments to csr@moh.gr. 01 IDENTITY AND We produce energy and create value reliably and responsibly. In all the years during which the MOTOR OIL Group has been operating as an oil refiner and oil products CORPORATE marketing company, it has always functioned with a strong sense of corporate responsibility, aiming at sustainable profitability and development in a socially responsible manner. It implements targeted investment programs aiming at the continuous development and optimisation of its productive activity, always bearing RESPONSIBILITY in mind the Vision and the corporate values that form the framework of its operation and business activity. 2015 was a very positive year for MOTOR OIL with exceptional financial results. Conditions in the sector and low prices internationally led to an increased demand for petroleum products, leading to high refinery margins. The Group’s consolidated results were higher that the respective ones from the mother company FULL ADVANTAGE OF FAVOURABLE as a result of the integration of Cyclon’s retail station that was completed in the end of 2014 and enhanced INTERNATIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES even further our market share in the retail fuels sector. FURTHER NET BANK DEBT REDUCTION For 2015 as well, company strategy has focused primarily on attaining a high degree of refinery employment, MATURING OF INVESTMENTS AND on optimal distribution of products, on the 3 main markets in which it does business (domestic market, ACQUISITIONS exports and shipping/aviation), and on creating positive cash flows. As a result of all the above, MOTOR OIL managed to achieve record sales and fuel production figures (12.8 million and 11.7 million MT respectively) for the eighth year running. Actually, its total volume of sales significantly exceeded the refinery’s annual production capacity. 12.8 At the same time, overseas sales in 2015 (including shipping and aviation) accounted for 76.1% of the company’s total volume of sales, compared with 75.1% in 2014, owing to the fact that the company exploited to million tons MOTOR OIL SALES the full its export capacity. HIT HISTORIC NEW RECORD Finally, regarding our financial overview, the creation of positive cash flows allowed on one hand an uninterrupted funding of our turnover and operating activities, while on the other hand further reducing our net 76% bank debt, actually achieving the lowest net debt since 2005. OF SALES ARE EXPORTS FURTHER REINFORCEMENT OF EXPORT ORIENTATION 12 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 13 1. PROFILE OF THE MOTOR OIL GROUP The MOTOR OIL Group had an average workforce size of 1,924 and a consolidated turnover in 2015 representing around 4% PERCENTAGE SHARE of the Greek GDP, as well as total assets on a consolidated basis of 2.57 billion euros. It plays a leading role in the sectors NAME ACTIVITY DIRECT INDIRECT of crude oil refining and marketing of petroleum products in Greece, as well as the greater eastern Mediterranean region, supplying its customers with a wide range of high quality products. AVIN OIL S.Α. Marketing of petroleum products 100% The MOTOR OIL parent company was founded in 1970 and • The Group has already established a presence in the natural CORAL S.A. Marketing of petroleum products 100% the refinery commenced operations in 1972. The company gas market through M & M NATURAL GAS S.A., in which CORAL GAS S.A. Marketing of liquefied petroleum gas 100% has been quoted on the Athens Stock Exchange since 2001. MOTOR OIL holds an equal stake with MYTILINAIOS S.A. It is listed on the index of 25 companies with the highest Group of Businesses. In 2011, M & M received a license to LPC S.A. LUBRICANTS & PETROLEUM Processing and marketing of lubricants and petroleum products 100% capitalization (FTSE/ATHEX Large Cap), the General Index supply natural gas from the Ministry of the Environment, PRODUCTS (ATHEX COMPOSITE INDEX) and on individual sector indices. Energy and Climate Change, under which it has the right to sell natural gas for the next twenty years. OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.Α. Aviation Fuel Supply Systems 46.03% 46.03% • The refining of crude oil and marketing of oil products are the main activities of the MOTOR OIL Group, whose • The Group is active in the aviation fuel services sector Μ AND Μ NATURAL GAS S.A. Marketing of natural gas 50% refinery is one of the most technologically sophisticated, through OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.A. in which complex and flexible (in terms of production processes) MOTOR OIL and subsidiary AVIN OIL hold an equal stake SHELL & MOH S.A. AVIATION FUELS Marketing of aviation fuels 49% refineries to be found anywhere in Europe or elsewhere. of 46.03% each. OFC is the company which constructed and operates the existing, automated system for supplying KORINTHOS POWER S.A. Production and marketing of electrical energy 35% • In the area of trade, the Group has achieved in recent years aviation fuel to the Eleftherios Venizelos Airport, Athens, further development of its activities and an expansion of as well as the fuel storage facilities at the same airport. ATHENS AIRPORT FUEL PIPELINE COMSupply of aviation fuel via pipeline to E. Venizelos Airport 16% its domestic market share. The basis for this development PANY S.A. are the liquid fuel retail networks of its subsidiaries AVIN • Finally, the Group has a stake in companies providing MOTOR OIL (CYPRUS) LIMITED Holding Company 100% OIL and Coral (formerly SHELL HELLAS S.A.). Moreover, support for its operations, such as MOTOR OIL Finance since June 2015, the liquid fuel trade activities of CYCLON plc, supplying financial services, MOTOR OIL Cyprus MOTOR OIL FINANCE plc Financial services 100% were transferred to AVIN OIL, continuing under the same Limited, a holding company, and the company Building trade mark. Together, the 3 networks consist of a total of Facility Services, which supplies facility management and MOTOR OIL MIDDLE EAST DMCC Marketing of crude oil and oil products 100% approximately 1,350 service stations selling liquid fuels, operation services. accounting for about 35% of the domestic market. BUILDING FACILITY SERVICES Provision of facility management and operation services 100% The table on the next page sets out major subsidiary and • In the lubricants sector, LPC S.A. was established in June affiliated companies comprising the MOTOR OIL Group, as This Report includes results only for the parent company MOTOR OIL and for the subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, of 2015 (after the split of the operations of CYCLON HELwell as the stakes held in them (directly or indirectly) by the LPC and OFC. LAS S.A.), at the same time transferring to it the entire parent company. More detailed information on the companies lubricants segment of AVIN OIL. LPC is responsible for can be found in the Annual Financial Report 2015. the production and trade of various lubricants and is the core of this activity in the Group. • The Group enjoys a presence in the liquefied gas sector 2. REFINERY through Coral Gas SA. The company stores, packages and The Refinery is located in Agioi Theodoroi, Corinth, about 70 km from the center of Athens. The Refinery with its ancillary markets bottled and bulk liquefied gas and liquefied gas plants and fuel distribution facilities forms the largest privately owned industrial complex in Greece, and is considered for vehicles, and has a market share of around 30%. one of the most modern refineries in Europe. The complexity of Motor Oil’s refinery stands at 11.54 according to Nelson’s Complexity Index. • The Group has laid the foundations for its presence in the electricity generation sector, through a 35% stake acquired It has the capacity to process various types of crude oil refinery allows MOTOR OIL to manufacture products with by the MOTOR OIL S.A. in KORINTHOS POWER S.A. (the and manufactures a wide range of oil products. It supplies high added value, adjusting the final product mix to market other 65% stake is held by MYTILINAIOS S.A. Group of commercial oil companies in Greece, but the bulk of its proneeds, ensuring better distribution prices and achieving Businesses). The company has a combinedcycle, natural duction is sold abroad. Moreover, it is the only refinery that better refining margins than other composite refineries in gas fuelled, power station, with a capacity of 436.6 MW, located next to the MOTOR OIL facilities at Ag. Theodoroi, produces base oils in Greece. Refinery products meet the the Mediterranean region. Corinth, which came on line in 2012. European Union specifications, as well as the most stringent international standards. The technical sophistication of the 14 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 15 in the value of the stocks had a negative impact on our more than 45 countries (the main destinations being Egypt, results, which was however a lot smaller than that of 2014. Saudi Arabia, USA, Lebanon, Italy and Turkey) accounted Characteristics of the refinery In this context, the Group managed to achieve record sales for 76.07% of all sales, compared to 75.14% in 2014. Exports against, to slightly increase exports and to cut its net bank are beneficial to the company also on an operational level, • Processing capacity: 185,000 barrels of crude oil per stream day (BSD). debt a little further, reaching its lower levels in fact since 2005. allowing it to finance the purchase of crude oil at the current • The refinery produces all types of fuel and is one of the most advanced and complex in Europe, with price levels, ensuring a continuous supply of raw material Hydrocracker and Catalytic Cracking units and an 11.54 rating on the Nelson Complexity Index. • It is highly important that MOTOR OIL product sales have to the refinery, remaining unaffected by the capital controls • It produces refined fuels (gasoline and automotive diesel) in accordance with the EU specifications. been rising steadily in recent years, reaching 12.85 million in Greece. • It has ISO 9001:2008 certification for Quality, ISO 14001:2004 and ΕΜΑS III ER 1221/2009 certification for the tons in 2015 – a new historic record. Its products are deEnvironment, OHSAS 18001:2007 certification for Health and Safety, ISO 17025:2005 certification for its Chemical livered to the three markets in which it operates (domestic Labs and CE Marking certification for its asphalt products, in accordance with EU Regulation 305/2011 and market, exports and the shipping/aviation sector) through a the requirements of European standard ΕΝ 12591:2009. This is a combination of standards found in very few powerful sales network and with the help of long-standing European refineries. relationships with customers. The quantities supplied to each • It is the only refinery in Greece with a unit producing base oils and finished lubricants, approved by such of these markets are determined by the relevant demand, international agencies as the American Petroleum Institute (API), the European Automobile Manufacturers but also by the company’s aim of supplying its products to Association (ACEA) and the United States Army and Navy. the markets that offer the highest margins. The sales figures • It possesses a power and steam cogeneration unit, which now has a capacity of 85MW following the recent show the company’s steady export orientation, based on addition of a fifth gas turbine. which foreign sales, including shipping/aviation sales, to • It uses natural gas as a fuel and as a raw material for the production of hydrogen. • It has a storage capacity of 2,500,000 m3 (Crude Oil: 1,000,000 m3, Intermediate & Finished Products: 1,500,000 m3). • It has modern port facilities for tanker docking, suitable for tankers of up to 450,000 tons DWT, which can serve more than 3,000 vessels annually. MOTOR OIL sales by market • It has a modern truck loading terminal, which can serve 220 road tankers per day. (thousand Mt) 12,852 11,984 12,672 12,000 11,654 10,756 10,000 The operation of a refinery requires auxiliary supplies of Liquid waste is collected and treated in the Industrial Waste electric power, water and steam. The refinery’s requirements Water Treatment Plant and the Urban Liquid Waste Treatment 8,000 in terms of electricity are met by the five gas turbines of Plant. The refinery has a modern Truck Loading Terminal, 6,000 the Power Cogeneration Plant, which make it energy selfwhich significantly strengthens the competitive position of 4,000 sufficient. High-pressure steam is provided by the four MOTOR OIL in the southern Greek market. 2,000 steam-producing boilers, as well as the steam generated by Shipping-Aviation certain units within the refinery. The sea water desalination Foreign Markets 0 Public Power Corporation (PPC) units provide sufficient water of suitable quality to feed the Domestic Market 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 boilers and fully meet the needs of the refinery. The refinery is connected to the national natural gas network, allowing it to use natural gas as a raw material for the production of hydrogen and as a fuel for its thermal and energy needs. This grants it valuable flexibility in selecting 12,852 MOTOR OIL sales by product 11,984 12,672 the optimal mix of raw materials and fuels, while further 11,654 (thousand Mt) 12,000 improving the refinery’s environmental performance. 10,756 10,000 3. RESULTS 2015 8,000 6,000 2015 was a great year for the refinery sector worldwide. The great sophistication of our refinery did, however, allow the Other 4,000 Group to make continual adjustments to the crude supply mix in order to take advantage as effectively as possible of the Lubricants LPG circumstances. Gasoline 2,000 AVIATION FuelS Automotive DIESEL – Heating Oil Low prices internationally throughout 2015 led to increased oil supplies at competitive prices and especially favourable 0 Fuel OIL demand for petroleum products in the Mediterranean basin financial conditions. This meant that we achieved exceptionally Asphalt 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and the broader area. Our refinery managed to get its crude high refinery margins throughout the year. The depreciation 16 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 17 • The Group’s turnover decreased by 22% in 2015 compared to 2014, standing at 7.06 billion euros. The fall in the average very high refining margins during the course of the year, in combination with the appreciation in the value of the 4. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE prices for petroleum products by 45% contributed to this US dollar against the euro. These good results were The management and control the MOTOR OIL Group of companies is based on contemporary principles of good corporate decrease; to some extent this was countered by a 3.45% further reinforced by the positive contribution of the retail governance, as prescribed by legislation and the relevant regulations, and by other international codes of best practice increase in the volume of sales and the appreciation of subsidiaries which benefited from the strong tourism and auditing standards. Corporate governance runs through the daily operations of the Group on issues such as: the US dollar against the euro by 16.48%. period and were not operationally affected by the capital • the appropriate structure of its Board of Directors, controls. • The Group’s EBITDA was also substantial, amounting to • respect for, equal treatment and protection of the interests and the rights of all shareholders, 492 million euros in 2015, compared to 51.5 million euros • compliance with legal and regulatory provisions, in 2014, recording an increase of 855.74%. Similarly, the • transparency in decision-making procedures, Group’s net results after tax for 2015 reached 205 million • the reliability and adequacy of all disseminated information, regarding the Group’s strategy and financial results, or its euros compared to 83 million of losses in 2014, recording financial transactions, a 345.87% increase. These results were the product of • the management of personnel and remuneration matters, and • the identification, assessment and control of all inherent risks. The company has its own Code of Corporate Governance is elected by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (CCG), prepared and approved by the Board of Directors. and which represents a broad range of knowledge, experiConsolidated It sets out the framework for the basic operating areas of ence and qualifications, tailored to match the objectives of Financial RESULTS the company, as well as the best practices in corporate the company while ensuring, as far as possible, a numerical (million EuroS) governance which it has adopted. The Code is revised as balance between executive and non-executive directors. 492 appropriate (amendment of articles of association, change 9,682 9,282 8,739 9,050 in organizational chart, etc.) and is always available in its current form on the company website. The company’s most 340 7,060 senior decision-taking body is the Board of Directors, which 272 185 205 143 79 Composition of Board of Directors 52 Turnover NAME BOARD POSITION MEMBER IDENTITY* -5 EBITDA -83 Net profit after tax 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Vardis J. Vardinoyannis Chairman and Managing Director Executive Ioannis V. Vardinoyannis Vice Chairman Executive Ioannis Kosmadakis Deputy Managing Director Executive • MOTOR OIL’s share in the domestic market has been steadily on the rise in the past years, with a small drop in 2015 reaching 32.6%. Overall, the very good shares are due to the efficiency of the AVIN OIL and Coral retail networks, with Petros Tzannetakis Deputy Managing Director Executive the 2015 drop caused by the decreased sales of fuel oil to industry, which of course have a very small profit margin. Nikos Th. Vardinoyannis Member Non-executive George Alexandridis Member Non-executive MOTOR OIL’s DOMESTIC MARKET SHARE Theofanis Voutsaras Member Executive 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Michael Steiakakis Member Executive Fuels 32.0% 35.0% 37.5% 37.9% 35.1% Niki Stoufi Member Non-executive Shipping/Aviation 23.2% 25.2% 25.7% 28.7% 26.2% Lubricants 34.8% 46.9% 36.8% 40.4% 36.8% Anastasios Triantafyllidis Member Non-executive/ Independent TOTAL DOMESTIC MARKET 29.5% 32.1% 33.9% 35.3% 32.6% Antonios Theoharis Member Non-executive/ Independent * In accordance with Law 3016/2002 18 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 19 Two committees, established in 1996 and each made up of Lastly, the company’s financial statements are also audited MOTOR OIL also participates in the following organisations: • Cooperates with the National Centre for Research and three members, operate within the framework of the Board by independent chartered auditors, in compliance with its • CONCAWE (CONservation of Clean Air and Water in Europe), Technological Development and the YPSILON Company of Directors: the Compensation Committee and the Audit statutory obligations. which provides technical support to European refineries in implementing the JONAH-FUEL project, whose aim is Committee. Both are chaired by the non-executive director on Health, Safety and Environmental Protection issues. the determination of varieties of castor oil plant suitable Mr. G. Alexandridis, and on each committee the other two CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS for growing, and also the collection of data to facilitate the members are the non-executive and independent directors In respect of the operation of the company’s Internal Control • Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF), which growing of even better varieties. The project focuses on of Mr. A. Triantafyllidis and Mr. A. Theoharis. and Risk Management ICRM Systems, in relation to the is an association of petroleum companies with an interest the search for and exploitation of possible uses of castor procedure for compiling financial statements, we should in promoting the safe and environmentally friendly marine oil and castor bean residue in the production of fuels. The Compensation Committee advises the Board of Directors state that the MOTOR OIL financial reports system uses a transportation of crude oil and petroleum products. within the competences assigned to it by the latter. It deals sophisticated software package to produce reports to the • Cooperates with the National Centre for Research and with staffing issues and recommends policies on salaries, administration and to external users. • Mediterranean Oil Industry Group (MOIG), which is an oil Technological Development and the Aristotle University benefits and incentives for management and staff, also industry forum on issues relating to prevention and timely of Thessaloniki, the Turin Polytechnic and the Italian overseeing implementation of the said policies. Financial statements and other analyses are submitted to the response to marine pollution, intended to coordinate the companies BIOCHEMTEX SPA and HYSYTECH SRL in The members of the Audit Committee are recommended administration on a monthly basis, and compiled in simple industry in the event of major oil spill incidents in the implementation of the CARDIOSOL project. The objective by the BoD and elected by the Annual General Meeting of and consolidated form, in accordance with the International Mediterranean Sea. of the CARDIOSOL project is the use of CO2 as a primary Shareholders, in accordance with the provisions of Law Financial Reporting Standards, for submission to the material and its conversion into bio-generated syngas 3693/2008, and all have substantial knowledge and experience administration or for general publication, under the current Moreover, we support the academic community in research for further transformation into final products, such as in matters relating to finance, accounting and auditing. regulations, on a quarterly basis. Both reports submitted exploring refining industry issues relating to health, safety bio-fuels, using renewable sources of energy (solar) and to the administration and financial information released to and environmental protection. biogas originating from fragmented residue of bio-mass, The Audit Committee is of considerable assistance to the the public, contain all the necessary information expected In this context, MOTOR OIL: thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions. MOTOR OIL, Board of Directors in performing its duties, acting as recipient from an updated internal audit system, featuring analyses of • Continues to cooperate with the Applied Geochemistry AVIN OIL and CORAL are participating in the project as of all reports on audits carried out by the company’s Internal sales, costs and spending, operating profits and other details. Laboratory of the Geology Department, Patras University, associated partners. Audit Department. The legal auditor or auditor’s office reports for the determination of chemical conditions prevailing in to the Committee on all matters relating to the progress and All reports to the administration contain details for the current the refinery’s coastal zone. • Cooperates with the National Centre for Research and results of the regular mandatory audit, submitting a special period, for purposes of comparison with the corresponding Technological Development, Alicante University, Utrecht report on any weaknesses in the internal audit system, figures in the budget, as approved by the Board of Directors, • Cooperates with the Technical University of Crete in the University, the University of Ghent, the National Interparticularly any shortcomings found in procedures relating and with the figures for the same period in the previous context of the European PROTEAS programme, which University Consortium of Science and Materials Technology to the provision of financial information and the compilation year. All published interim and annual financial statements has been set up to develop a protocol of best practices and the company PROCESSI INNOVATIVI in implementation of financial statements. are compiled in accordance with the International Financial in order to prevent environmental impact and accidental of the European WAVES project. The purpose of the Reporting Standards, contain all necessary information leaks at all stages of the transportation and movement of WAVES project is to explore new heterogeneous catalysis Since 1990 the company has had its own Internal Audit and opinions on the financial statements, are reviewed by petroleum products and other hazardous substances. technologies for production of bio-fuels (aviation and diesel) Department, which reports directly to the Board of Directors the Audit Committee and approved in their entirety by the from organic waste (plant oils, candle wax, seaweed, etc.) and is overseen by the Audit Committee. The company’s Board of Directors. • Cooperates with the research agencies National Technical through the development of new and selective catalysts. independent internal audit system aims at ensuring compliance University (NTUA), National Centre for Research and MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL and CORAL are participating in the with the company’s procedures for managing financial and Technological Development (EKETA), University of Thessaly project as associated partners. operational matters, as well as ensuring that issues related and University of Athens (UoA) in implementation of the to the efficient management of business risks are given SIMPLE project. The SIMPLE project has been set up to proper attention. design an integrated process for production of bio-ethanol from lignocellulosic materials, residues from cultivation of maize, cotton and wheat, as well as plants cultivated 5. PARTICIPATION IN INTERNATIONAL NATIONAL AGENCIES as energy sources, which will be economically and AND NETWORKS environmentally sustainable. MOTOR OIL and the Group’s other companies support and maintain lasting relationships with international and national • Cooperates with the research agencies Aristotle University bodies, and are members of: of Thessaloniki (AUTh), the National Centre for Research • The Global Compact Network Hellas. and Technological Development (EKETA) and AVIN OIL in • Τhe Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility. implementation of the HYDROSOL-PLUS project, which • The Hellenic Federation of Enterprises. was set up to create a viable method to store solar energy, • The Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Hellenic-American and Arab-Hellenic Chambers, as well as other to be used in the generation of solar synthesis gas and regional Chambers. renewable carbon-neutral solar fuels. • The Hellenic Association of Independent Power Producers. • The Union of Listed Companies, etc. 20 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 21 6. AWARDS and RECOGNITION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Group’s companies have received significant recognition for their work and activities from the international and national MANAGEMENT MODEL business communities. The distinctions awarded them underline the superb quality of their products and services, and highlight the importance attached by the Group to effective meeting of social needs. EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT • Health and Safety • Best Available Techniques CHRIMA Business 2nd prize in “Investment Relations” category. • Equal opportunities • Energy Savings Awards 2nd prize of best company FTSE Large Cap. • Training and Development • Reduction of Emissions • Competitive Remuneration System Joint Inspection Group OFC was awarded for the eighth consecutive year with the JIG “Certificate of Excellence”. IMPROVEMENT IMPROVEMENT OF CONDITIONS OF PERFORMANCE The new Coral Gas small canister with an ILL safety valve, was chosen among the 10 most World LPG Association innovative applications in the liquefied gas sector globally. PROMOTION OF IMPROVEMENT RESPONSIBLE OF QUALITY OF AND ETHICAL LIFE PRACTICES Coral won 1st prize in the Petroleum product category for the integrated Health and Safety management system it implements. MARKET SOCIETY • Corporate Governance • Contribution to culture, sports and Coral won the Gold Prize in the Safety in work campaign category for the Bus Rides • Quality & Reliability the environment • Service • Support of socially vulnerable groups program it implements in service stations across the country. • Monitoring & Evaluation • Responsible Growth Safety Awards • Risk Management • Responsible Employment AVIN won the Gold Prize in the Reducing Risk in Road Transport category, for the integrated plan it implements in relation to road transport. Coral Gas received the Gold Prize in the Safety Culture category for the integrated plan it implements in creating a culture of safety among all its employees. MOTOR OIL: WITH RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS ITS EMPLOYEES, adopts the four principles: attract, identify, develop, retain, cultural life, and becomes involved in similar activities that in order to develop its human resources, by investing in benefit society as a whole. 7. MANAGING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY their training, and providing a workplace environment that is characterized by good team-work, mutual respect and is WITH RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE MARKET, The MOTOR OIL Group is engaged in the energy sector, mainly in the oil sector, which is an area requiring special respect conducive to individual initiative. In such a workplace, Health respects market rules and produces top quality products; it for and compliance with the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainable growth. This is because crude and Safety constitute a major priority which is assured focuses on relations of trust with its customers, suppliers and oil, from extraction and transportation to refining and use of refined products, has environmental effects that must be through state ofthe-art infrastructure and contemporary partners, and strives through the systematic and consistent effectively managed, utilising available technology. management practices. achievement of its business targets to ensure the best possible return for its shareholders without compromising WITH RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT, its principles of corporate responsibility and sustainable In implementing the principles of corporate responsibility, We fully acknowledge the importance of these issues and strives to ensure that its activities have the minimum possible development. we seek: demonstrate our corporate responsibility by our commitimpact on the environment, by having in place an effective ment to pursuing our business activities with due respect Environmental Management System and implementing • to achieve a balanced approach to the economic, social for people, the environment and society. MOTOR OIL has Best Available Techniques, as well as the most advanced and environmental impact of the Group’s operations, adopted a Corporate Responsibility Management Model systems for environmental protection, energy management • to create value for our shareholders, while also serving that incorporates the four sectors of action inspired by the and energy saving. the interests of other stakeholders, UN Global Compact and the internationally accepted Global • to show concern for our employees and for society at Reporting Initiative (GRI). WITH RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS SOCIETY, large. pursues constructive social dialogue with the local communities in which it mainly operates, in a climate of mutual trust and respect. It supports these communities by participating in programmes that enhance their economic, social and 22 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 23 Our vision is the consolidation of MOTOR OIL’s position as a equipment, in order to increase and improve production leading refining and oil products marketing company in the capacity and enhance safety and environmental protection. REPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN broader region in which we operate. In order to succeed in this objective, we implement a consistent and flexible Over the last decade we have completed a series of substantial A key element in our corporate responsibility is the proper management of our supply chain, aware as we are business strategy, which is focused on the following three investments for MOTOR OIL concerning both organic growth that a sustainable supply chain not only reduces social and environmental risks but can also enhance values key targets: and acquisitions. The company has now entered a period of and success on the business and social levels. We thus carry out detailed evaluation of our potential suppliers, maturing investments and optimization of their exploitation. At on the basis not only of their economic viability but also of qualitative and environmental criteria. Would-be • Maximization of financial returns and profit margins of the same time, 5 years after the purchase of Shell operations suppliers are asked to complete questionnaires detailing their ability to safeguard the quality of the products refinery. in Greece, a significant increase in our domestic market share and services they aim to provide, as well the environmental impact of their activities and the health and safety is clear to see, demonstrating the increased efficiency of the systems they employ. • Maximisation and optimisation of sales, by effectively Coral and AVIN OIL networks, as well as that of Cyclon which marketing the refinery products and exploiting opportunities was fully bought out by MOTOR OIL in late 2014. In respect of the contractors we employ at the refinery and our other installations, we follow a comprehensive in our three available markets (domestic, aviation/shipping, programme of safety training, the objective always being to achieve GOAL ZERO, i.e. zero accidents. We and exports), for achieving the best possible profitability. Our most recent major investment, the construction of indicatively mention that in 2015 we carried out 4,124 hours of safety training for contractors’ employees. Detailed the new Crude Distillation Unit completed in 2010 and evaluation and training programs are also implemented for the tanker truck companies which meet our land • Striving for the highest standards of Health and Safety, which cost, together with the peripheral units, a total of 200 transport needs. We are aware that every day dozens of tanker trucks are travelling the roads on our behalf, Environmental Protection and Quality, through the application million euros has strengthened our competitive position and are committed to minimizing the risks inherent in road transport. For this reason, we have developed very of technical, operational and organizational adaptations. and improved our profitability, having now been on-line for detailed programmes in which transporters are assessed and given rigorous improvement targets; if they fail more than five full years. to meet them, their contracts are not renewed. As a result of this ground-breaking programme, by the end of 2015 the tankers we use had travelled a total of 19,000,000 km without a single accident. 1,477 million EUROs TOTAL INVESTMENTS AND Moreover, our largest investment in the last decade has been the installation of the hydrocracker complex (2005), which made possible generation of clean fuels to meet European Union specifications. 767 million EUROS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION The rest of our investment programme has been designed 8. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH AND INVESTMENTS to upgrade the technological capacity and efficiency of the PROJECTS OVER THE PERIOD refinery, and to introduce vertical integration, automation, Responsible growth and creation of value for the benefit of all stakeholders is at the core of MOTOR OIL Group’s business 2000-2015 energy autonomy and environmental protection. The result model. We therefore adopt an ongoing and targeted investment program allowing the attainment of a good operating has been that the refinery is now regarded as one of the performance in all sectors, with substantial financial results as the final outcome. Total investment expenditures by the Group in the period 2000most efficient and sophisticated installations of its kind 2015 have amounted to 1,477 million euros, not including capital anywhere in the world. used for acquisitions. The Group’s investment expenditures in 2015 amounted to 42.4 million euros, and involved, in relation to the refinery, replacement and maintenance of existing RESPONSIBLE GROWTH OF GROUP VALUE OBJECTIVE VALUE CREATION 9. RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY MAXIMISING FINANCIAL MAXIMISING / OPTIMISING SAFETY Ensuring occupational health and safety and environmental protection is part of our corporate Principles and Values STRATEGY OPTIMISING AND ENVIRONMENTAL and constitutes a fundamental strategic aim. Thus, we strive to conduct our operations without compromising the health PERFORMANCE SALES PROTECTION and safety of our employees and associates, while maintaining the highest standards of environmental protection and respecting the quality of life of those living in the vicinity of our industrial facilities. TARGETED EFFECTIVE TRANSPARENCY / EFFECTIVE DEDICATED METHODS INVESTMENTS COST MARKETING STAFF CORPORATE The importance we attach to the management of health, compliant, first certified in 2007) and the Health and Safety MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE safety and environmental protection, and our commitment Management System (OHSAS 18001:2007 compliant, first to continuous improvement in these areas, is set out in the certified in 2008), which interpret this Policy into detailed BASE COPRORATE RESPONSIBILITY relevant policy that governs the operation of the Environmental programmes and measurable targets. Management System (ISO 14001:2004 compliant, the first such certification dating back to 2000, and EMAS ΙΙΙ ER 1221/2009 24 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 25 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION POLICY INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM MOTOR OIL operates with due respect for Health, Safety and the Environment. To achieve this, the company is committed to: QUALITY MANAGEMENT • Setting targets and aims compatible with the continuous improvement of its Health, Safety and Environmental HUMAN ISO 9001:2008 PROCUREMENT management systems. RESOURCES MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT • Complying with, or exceeding, the requirements of relevant legislation or other obligations. QUALITY CONTROL ISO 17025:2005 • Producing guaranteed quality products in accordance with, or exceeding, Health and Environmental Protection specifications applicable to each, efficiently making use of raw materials, energy and technology. • Reporting its performance, good or bad, as a responsible corporate citizen. • Maintaining emergency action plans and systems which are regularly rehearsed with the appropriate drills. Marketing Production • Applying a coherent Integrated Management System that takes Health, Safety and Environmental Protection factors into consideration when business decisions or plans are being prepared, and in the operation of its MARKETING – STOCK OPERATING SALES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM facilities. • Offering advice, information and training to its own employees and to subcontractors and others working on its behalf, so as to ensure their commitment to and raised awareness of safe working practices. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT • Actively and uncompromisingly complying with environmental operating standards that set limits on waste ISO 14001:2003 and polluting emissions. EMAS III ER 1221:2009 • Cooperating with all stakeholders in developing and applying balanced Health, Safety and Environmental DELIVERY OF PRODUCTS Protection programmes that take into account the needs of all parties involved. HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT OHSAS 18001:2007 CUSTOMER SERVICE MAINTENANCE 10. RESPONSIBLE QUALITY MANAGEMENT Our commitment to quality is a fundamental element of our strategy. Our quality policy is summed up in two key principles, to which both management and employees are fully committed: • MOTOR OIL will produce and sell products that satisfy its related processes which affect them, thus maximising their customers, always taking into consideration all stakeholders’ effectiveness. CERTIFIED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS OF THE GROUP’S Management System certified under OHSAS 18001:2007. interests. SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES These certifications relate to the main activity of the company • MOTOR OIL focuses on its customers, examines and The Quality Control process meets the requirements of the ISO • AVIN OIL operates a Quality Management System certified which is the delivery, storage and distribution of aviation evaluates their requirements and applies all necessary 17025:2005 standard, and the Hellenic Accreditation System according to ISO 9001:2008 covering fuels and lubricants fuel, as well as the provision of technical consultancy technologies and actions, aiming at avoiding compromises (HAC) has certified the refinery’s Chemical Laboratory as storage, marketing and distribution, and retail network services and training in aspects of the refuelling of aircraft. in quality matters and constantly improving the effectiveness capable of conducting tests in accordance with requirements management. In 2013, a Fire Safety recertification was granted for the of its Quality Management System. of the standard, and issuing Quality Certificates endorsed by • Coral has been certified across all its activities since next five years. HAC for virtually all the company’s products. This certification 2012. Specifically, ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and • LPC has a Quality Management System in place, certified The Integrated Management System, used to implement offers us an additional competitive advantage, ensuring that OHSAS 18001:2007 certifications were secured for Coral’s to standard ISO 9001:2008 for the design, production, sale our quality policy, is oriented to the customer and his needs, of our products is guaranteed. The refinery has also been procedures for taking delivery, storage, mixing, loading, and distribution of base lubricants, antifreeze, greases covering systematically all operational and organizational awarded CE Marking in accordance with standard ΕΝ 12591 transportation and delivery to customers of various fuels and chemical products and to EMAS (EL 00051) and ISO processes relating to quality. The System was re-certified for asphalt products, the certification remaining valid until products, lubricants and chemicals. 14001:2004 for the waste lubricant oil regeneration proin 2014 by Bureau Veritas, in accordance with standard ISO 2017. All management systems are subject to bi-annual or • Coral Gas operates an Environmental Management System, cedure. 9001:2008, valid until 2017, while the first relevant certification annual audits by certification bodies in order to confirm their with ISO 14001:2004 certification, and a Health and Safety dates back to 1993. consistent operation, and are re-certified every three years. Management System with OHSAS 18001:2007 certification, for all its facilities and ISO 9001:2008 certification for its The consolidation of the Environmental Management System The appropriate development of these management systems Quality Management System. and the Health and Safety Management System into the Inteis realised by achieving certification for their updated versions. • OFC has a Quality Management System, certified to standard grated Management System confers the necessary internal In addition, audits by customers and insurance organisations ISO 9001:2008, an Environmental Management System coherence and links these management systems with other are carried out with excellent results. certified under ISO 14001:2004 and a Health and Safety 26 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 27 11. COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS IDENTITY MAIN ISSUES OF INTERACTION COMMUNICATION APPROACH We recognize that our business operations and decisions affect and are affected by – various groups of stakeholders. The long-standing communication and cooperation we have developed with stakeholders indicates the importance we Partners and Suppliers of products We are closely collaborating with We have long-standing and close attach to this issue, and our desire to openly discuss that any arising issues can be handled in mutually acceptable ways. suppliers and providers of contract our partners and suppliers for the relationships with our partners and Direct stakeholders and, in summary, their interaction with the Group companies, as well as the communication approach services at the refinery, at provision of products and services suppliers. There is a structured applied to each of them, are shown in the following table: the other facilities and at our based on rigid quality and safety communication and training programme service stations. criteria. Consequently, they are at the refinery, as well as all of our fairly rewarded, without problems, facilities, offering them appropriate STAKEHOLDERS IDENTITY MAIN ISSUES OF INTERACTION COMMUNICATION APPROACH for the provision of products and information on health, safety and services, ultimately resulting environmental protection issues, for in contribution to economic which compliance requirements are Employees 1,924 direct employees, with Employees offer their labour, Ongoing, two-way communication development. exceptionally strict and closely monitored about 51% of them working knowledge and experience between employees and management (see Chapters 1 and 3). in the refinery in return for a safe working through corporate announcements, (see Chapter 2). environment, competitive and fair briefings, intranet, working groups and salaries and additional benefits various events. The refinery employees as well as opportunities for are represented by their Trade Union Shareholders, The company’s equity is held Shareholders invest capital in The company operates a Shareholder professional advancement and and the Health and Safety Committee. Investors and by private and institutional MOTOR OIL, as in any other Services Department. Regular personal development. Official dialogue is regularly conducted; Analysts investors, both Greek and company, in the expectation that communication with shareholders is employees are also encouraged to foreign. At the end of 2015 there will be long-term financial conducted in various ways: roadshows submit their individual proposals for the main shareholder was returns, including dividends and an 7-8 times a year; an Annual Analysts’ improvements in working conditions. Petroventure Holdings Ltd, increase in value of their shares. Briefing once a year; 4 quarterly with a stake of 40%. The free teleconferences with financial analysts; float percentage was 52%. on the company website; press releases The business activities of and announcements; the Annual Financial Customers The refinery, due to the The refinery is in continuous Long-standing and close relationships MOTOR OIL are monitored Report, the Sustainability Report, and nature of its activity, has communication with its customers with our customers, based on the quality by both Greek and foreign regular attendance at investment relatively few customers. in order to satisfy their requireof our products, the service we offer, our financial analysts. conferences. The Group’s commercial ments and provide high quality experience, and our reliability. We maincompanies have an extenproducts, and is duly rewarded tain ongoing communication with refinery sive network of customers, with the income it receives. The customers, and once a year conduct a from industrial facilities and Group’s commercial companies satisfaction survey. In the commercial State Public authorities on a local We are in close interaction with the We always operate within the confines of commercial companies to place customer service at the very companies, the customer service departand national level. State and create revenues through the law. There is an open and honest, twofinal consumers. heart of their strategy, offering ments and staff of our service stations the payment of taxes and duties. way communication and cooperation with them products and services of the are the public face of the company. We Public authorities protect the public competent Public Authorities, ensuring highest quality. organize mystery shopping programmes interest with laws and regulations, the supply of information required by each for all our service stations and market ensuring their enforcement, issuing body, as well as documented discussion surveys. operating licences and providing on any issues arising. support in emergency situations. Local communities Our industrial activities We closely collaborate with the Continuous communication and interimpact local communities local and regional communities, action with local communities through in the vicinity of the refinery whose key concern is the creation local councils and other agencies such (Ag. Theodoroi, Corinth) and of jobs and the return of the soas private associations and organizations the facilities of the commercalled social product through the (see Chapter 5). cial companies (Perama, Kacompany’s social contribution. lohori Thessaloniki, Kavala, Our sustained commitment and ongoing Hania, Alexandroupoli). communication allow us to listen to the local community’s needs and respond promptly and meaningfully. 02 Responsibility At the MOTOR OIL Group we believe that our value is generated by our employees. Towards our We recognise that they are our most valuable resource, essential to the achievement of our strategic goals, to the successful implementation of our growth business plans and in ensuring our long-term competitiveness. Employees That is why we have established an organised and modern Human Resources Division for the entire MOTOR OIL Group aimed at identifying, attracting, developing and retaining qualified employees and executives who can be utilised by all the companies. We aim to provide a safe and fair workplace, which promotes trust, team spirit and respect for people, along with effectiveness. We are committed to providing the best working conditions, securing respect for human rights and for the 1,924 freedom of association, upholding non-discrimination and providing equal opportunities for learning and personal development. During 2015, the MOTOR OIL Group had an average workforce of 1,924 employees. Employees at Group level In the midst of the profound economic and social crisis afflicting our country, we continued to renew our 27,000 workforce through 300 recruitments over the last five years, offering an extended training programme and continuing the provision to our employees of a structured discretionary benefits package. Training hours in 2015 300 Recruitments in the five years 2011-2015 30 02 Responsibility Towards our Employees 02 Responsibility Towards our Employees 31 1. HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM MOTOR OIL fully respects international principles of human rights, in particular those set out in the United Nations territory, where the legislative framework is consistent with the requirements of the 1998 Declaration of the International MOTOR OIL Group has grown significantly over the last few years and has adopted a contemporary, fully integrated Human Declaration of Human Rights, and in the UN Global Compact’s Labour Organisation (ILO) on Fundamental Principles Resources Management System. The System is designed to allow proper management of the Group’s human resources, ten principles, to which we are signatories. The Group is and Rights at Work, to which reference is made in the with ongoing development and advancement of individual employees. This system is founded on the principles and values opposed to any practice which might encourage the imposition Constitution and in labour law. The Greek legal provisions of the Group and defined by its vision and strategic objectives. of any form of forced or child labour. It complies fully with include conventions concerning the protection of freedom national legislation on child labour; there are no instances of association and the right to collective bargaining. The purpose of the Human Resources Management System is to identify and attract the most talented executives on the of forced or child labour anywhere in the Group’s activities, market, develop them and retain them within the Group. nor would they be acceptable. It should be noted that all MOTOR OIL’s activities take place exclusively on Greek All of the above are implemented by the Group’s HR Division within the following framework: 3. LABOUR RELATIONS RELATIONS WITH TRADE UNIONS • Compliance with applicable legislation, and universally established principles of human and labour rights. At MOTOR OIL, the terms and conditions of employment are regulated by a Collective Labour Agreement, which was • Fairness and meritocracy in employee relations. drawn up in September 1974, and is approved by the Labour Ministry. • Attracting competent young people having a professional approach to work, who share our values: reliability, dedAs is made clear by the recent materiality analysis described Since 2006, there has been a Company Collective Labour ication, integrity and personal responsibility. at the end of the Report, it is extremely important to our Agreement between the company and the union, which is • Providing equal opportunities and possibilities for the Group – and particularly to the refinery due to the complex renewed every year and is then submitted to the Corinth professional and personal development of employees. nature of the work it entails – that employees can join unions Labor Inspection. • A competitive and fair remuneration system linked to and professional associations freely and without restraint. HUMAN employee performance and consistent with prevailing RESOURCES Refinery employees are represented through their trade We believe that smooth cooperation between the Company and market conditions. MANAGEMENT union and the Health and Safety Committee. Formed in the employees’ union is extremely important particularly so SYSTEM 1975, the refinery employee trade union celebrated its 40th in difficult times like the present, when we are experiencing • Offering pay and benefits exceeding those provided for by law and by collective labour agreements. anniversary this year. the effects of the severe economic crisis. We, therefore, hold • A programme of targeted education and training, covering regular meetings with union representatives, the common Identification The union has had a Collective Labour Agreement with aim being to ensure harmonious bilateral relations, avoid subjects relevant to the Group’s strategic development goals, and aiming at the effective and safe discharge of the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises since 1986. This disputes and preserve labour peace, while continuing to duties. agreement lays down the terms of employment and pay achieve improvements in working conditions. • Fostering corporate culture and corporate values. levels at the refinery. Retainment Attraction Development 4. BASIC EMPLOYMENT DATA In 2015, the size of the combined human resources of the Group (MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, OFC and LPC) averaged over the year was 1,924 employees. 2. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND HUMAN RIGHTS This year’s figures were slightly up on preceding years due of the Group, a significant number are indirectly employed to the absorption of LPC (former Cyclon), while the 2010 through sub-contractors. All aspects of human resources management are pursued with transparency and are based on meritocracy. We offer a figures were up significantly on preceding years, because workplace of no exclusions, in which all are treated fairly and are offered equality of opportunity, and where diversity is Coral and Coral Gas employees were included in the Group’s valued. Recruitment, transfers, promotions, benefits, education and training, etc., are governed by the principles of our equal opportunities policy, the avoidance of any form of discrimination, and respect for employees’ dignity. workforce, following completion of the acquisition of these two companies. 96.4% OF GROUP EMPLOYEES AT THE END OF 2015 WERE ON In addition to personnel directly employed by the companies OPEN-ENDED CONTRACTS In applying the equal opportunities policy, we have ensured: We support attempts to build a society free of exclusion, in • That the composition of management almost reflects the which persons with disabilities can be productively integrated composition of the workforce. into the community. We ourselves employ 18 people with • That education and training programmes are available to disabilities, who enjoy equal opportunities in employment all personnel, in accordance with business needs. and education. • Equal pay for men and women. 32 02 Responsibility Towards our Employees 02 Responsibility Towards our Employees 33 LEVEL OF EDUCATION further education and vocational training programmes are We attach great importance to the educational level of our organised in new technologies and systems, while employees Workforce personnel, and our aim is to attract, develop and retain suitare encouraged to participate in long-term external courses (yearly average) able and competent employees. All of the employees hired leading to recognized degrees. 1,983 for executive positions in 2015 were university graduates. 1,928 1,834 1,924 1,800 1,797 1,485 1,507 AVERAGE AGE AGE RANGE 1,430 1,470 The average age of the Group workforce is around 43.3. It should be noted that in 2015 58% of the workforce were Level of education under 45. 2015 12% 26% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Age range 2015 42% MOTOR OIL’s main area of activity is the refinery at Agioi Theodoroi, Corinth, where in 2015 an average of 994 persons were employed. Approximately 55% of the refinery personnel live in the greater region of Corinth, where MOTOR OIL is 1% the biggest employer. GENDER PROFILE WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN AND PROFESSIONAL 1% We support equal treatment for men and women, with equal ADVANCEMENT University edu. opportunities for all, without discrimination. However, owIn 2015, management comprised 11% of the total personnel College edu. ing to the nature of the work and the skills required at our of the Group, while technicians-operators and administrative Technical edu. 61% Secondary edu. refinery, the percentage of women employees is relatively personnel accounted for 89% of the total number of employees. > 45 years old low. Thus, in 2015, on average, 16% of all employees were 25-45 years old female, while at the Group Head Offices, the number of Each employee has the opportunity for promotion within < 25 years old 57% women rises to 37.7%. the management hierarchy, according to his qualifications, In order to further develop the skills of our personnel and performance and skills, as the main objective is to fill vacant to maintain a high-output culture in the workplace, various Among management, women made up 14% of the total, a managerial positions from within the Group wherever and satisfactory reflection of the overall participation of women whenever possible. In fact, each vacancy is first advertised in the total workforce, while in other office and technical internally; the position is opened to external applicants only LENGTH OF EMPLOYMENT AND TURNOVER OF EMPLOYEES jobs the percentage was 16%. if no suitable internal candidate can be found. Length of employment with the Group was, on average, 15.3 years in 2015, which represents a low rate of turnover. 64.4% of employees have been with the Group over ten years, while only 11.9% have less than five years of service. Distribution by gender Workforce Breakdown Length of service 2015 2015 2015 24.1% 23.7% 20.1% 58% 16% 14.1% 9.4% 6.1% 11% 2.5% 84% Technical staff Women Men Administrative < 1 year 1-5 years 5-10 years 10-15 years 15-20 years 20-25 έτη > 25 έτη Management 31% 34 02 Responsibility Towards our Employees 02 Responsibility Towards our Employees 35 These figures indicate a healthy balance in the service profile of In 2015, the permanent staff increased by 76 new employees • Personal development and welfare. our personnel, combining the experience of older employees while 46 persons left for various reasons. • Covering medical treatment cost in case of health issues. with the renewal and dynamism brought by more recent Breakdown of workforce • Family assistance. recruits. The low level of turnover of employees in 2015, We ascribe great importance to attracting and hiring new remuneration expenditure 2015 • Provision of various other facilities. which was 2.4%, is a reflection of the reciprocal confidence management executives. In the last two years, we have (million euros) • Strengthening corporate culture, and cultivating cooperation between staff and management, and the commitment and embarked upon new collaborations with top universities and team spirit. level of job satisfaction of our employees representing around the world, through which we seek to attract new 27.0 one of our main competitive advantages. candidates. These candidates are assessed through a 23.6 thorough and detailed process that includes behaviour In 2015, the Group’s budget Long-term employment at MOTOR OIL is rewarded by and skills measuring tools, in-depth interviews and a final additional salary increments. In addition at the refinery, at selection panel. for discretionary benefits Coral and at Coral Gas commemorative gifts of value are made to employees completing periods of long service; these gifts vary from company to company and are commensurate to employees and their families amounted to million euros 6.7 with the years of service. 69.4 STAFF MOBILITY* Additional remuneration Such employee benefits are: insurance policies providing Employer’s contributions both pension and medical treatment coverage for employees, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Gross pay not including additional remuneration schemes helping employees with the costs of their chilRECRUITMENTS 75 70 53 26 76 dren’s education, Christmas parties for employees’ children, STAFF DEPARTURES (CLASSIFIED BY REASON) long-service awards, support for employees participating RETIREMENT 46 75 28 29 20 ADDITIONAL DISCRETIONARY BENEFITS in sporting activities, etc. RESIGNATION 20 17 11 15 9 The Group introduced many years ago a wide range of supplementary, discretionary allowances and insurance VARIOUS 14 15 11 12 17 benefits for employees and their family dependants. These TOTAL 80 107 50 56 46 discretionary employee allowances cover five main areas: STAFF MOBILITY * 4.1% 5.8% 2.8% 3.1% 2.4% *STAFF STAFF DEPARTURES MOBILITY = Χ100 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES SPORTS ACTIVITIES FOR STAFF 5. REMUNERATION SYSTEM AND ADDITIONAL BENEFITS To promote and improve team spirit and employee involvement, we encourage their participation in various sporting activities. One of the Group’s main objectives is to offer its employees competitive remuneration, both to reward their contribution and to maintain a high level of employee satisfaction. ATHENS CLASSIC MARATHON This year marked the first time that MOTOR OIL supported employees from the entire Group taking part in the biggest athletic event in Greece the 33rd Athens Classic Marathon, which took place on 8 November. 120 million euros total The factors determining wage/salary levels are mainly the employee’s grade and performance, the responsibilities and accountabilities of the position held, the educational level To help the entrants better prepare, training sessions were held a few months before at OAKA Olympic Stadium and at Andreas Sygros Park with the help of an experienced trainer. On the day of the race, 89 people took park in the 5K, 53 people in the 10K, and 19 people ran the 42K Classic workforce remuneration and the seniority/ length of service. Marathon, all finishing in the packed Panathenaic Stadium. expenditure in 2015 Note that MOTOR OIL secured 110 of the 161 entries through the Desmos non-profit organisation, thus The Group’s total expenditure on wages/salaries in 2015 supporting its worthwhile work. The system we implement in order to set, manage and amounted to 120 million euros. This includes pay for regular review salary levels is in line with current company and and overtime work, mandatory employer contributions to FOOTBALL AND BASKETBALL TEAMS sector-specific agreements, and is consistent and transparsocial security funds and other additional allowances over In 2015, the MOTOR OIL employees’ football team performed exceptionally well, winning the championship ent. Negotiations covering collective agreements on salary and above those laid down in either labour legislation or once again in the 45-team Amateur Athens Corporate Games League. The team has won a total of 18 titles, adjustments are in line with sector practices that are applied collective agreements. These additional, non-statutory alincluding 9 doubles, and has also performed very impressively in foreign fixtures. at national level. Moreover, the structure of the remuneration lowances are discretionary payments to employees intended Meanwhile, the basketball team competed in a corporate league that featured 40 company teams and took system ensures equal pay for men and women doing the to reward productivity and acknowledge the contribution of 4th place in the event. same work, and rules out any other form of discrimination. individuals to the Group’s performance. 36 02 Responsibility Towards our Employees 02 Responsibility Towards our Employees 37 VOLUNTARY BLOOD DONATION total workforce), of which 111 were managers and 1,239 other other Group facilities. However, it does not include training Blood donations by employees of MOTOR OIL have become needs of the blood donors themselves, their families or close personnel. The figure of training man-hours includes training hours associated with emergency preparedness exercises. a tradition, now with a 30-year history. The programmes relatives, and other people, in the event of an emergency. One related to fire safety, use of Personal Protective Equipment are run in association with the Corinth General Hospital (for hundred and forty-one units of blood were donated during and other related subjects throughout the refinery and the employees at the refinery), the Metaxa Specialist Cancer 2015 and the total amount donated since 1991 is 3,473 units. Hospital (for employees at the MOTOR OIL head offices), and the Laiko Hospital (for employees of Coral and Coral Gas). Overall, the resulting blood reserves are used to cover the PERCENTAGE of trainees over total workforce 6. EDUCATION AND TRAINING 78.8% 72.3% 72.4% Investment in ongoing training for our employees is a strategic choice and a key element in the process of aligning our 67.8% 61.4% workforce’s skills with the full range of objectives and ambitions of the Group. Therefore, given the critical importance of the issue, the • More general needs to improve workforce skills. MOTOR OIL Group designs and implements each year, a comprehensive programme of education and in-house The education and training programmes cover training for employees. The basic objective served by our the following areas: education and training programme, is to ensure our employ• Training in business and administrative skills, computer ees have the background knowledge necessary to perform skills, as well as personal development issues. their specialized duties, allowing them to carry out their • Introductory training for new operators and maintenance 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 everyday tasks, while also preparing them for employment technicians, and for new engineers. requirements in the longer term. • Skills training for technical staff in their particular areas of employment, as well as in use of personal safety equipment We thus seek to continually enrich the vocational knowledge and working machinery/equipment. of our employees, expanding their range of skills, while also • Training regarding Health, Safety, Environmental Protection upgrading their level of technical training. and Quality, with an emphasis on the special features of each workplace. Average number of hours per • Training of non-technical staff in basic Health and Safety trainee 6 million euros for education regulations, use of fire-fighting equipment and first aid provision. 17.7 20.0 and training programmes • Instruction in safe driving techniques and in the procedures 16.2 15.2 14.5 over the period 2011-2015 for the safe loading, unloading and transport of fuels. • Emergency preparedness exercises, including scheduled or unscheduled drills. EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMMES • Learning foreign languages. The main parameters determining the planning and imple• Health and Safety training for subcontractor personnel. mentation of the individual education and training programmes are the educational needs of the workforce as identified in The education and training programmes are implemented the working environment each year. either through in-house seminars or by attending international seminars run by internationally recognized educational 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The planning of such programmes is based on: centres. Also, Group managers attend conferences both • The Group business objectives. in Greece and abroad, participate in undergraduate and • The training programmes organized in previous years. postgraduate courses and are kept up to date through the • The training required in areas of technical specialization. purchase of books and subscriptions to specialist technical • Training needs in the areas of health and safety, with journals and professional associations. Occupational health and safety, environmental protection and quality were the principal subjects covered by training emphasis on the technical side, but also on raising activities in 2015. awareness of all levels of workforce and management of Training in 2015 the vital importance of workplace safety. In 2015, a total 27,000 man-hours were devoted to education In these areas training was provided to cover the relevant management systems, the REACH Regulation, preventing sea • Training needs in the areas of quality and environmental and vocational training -at an overall cost of 1.3 million eurosand air pollution and avoidance of related incidents, process safety, occupational health, fire safety, the use of Personal protection. involving the participation of 1,350 employees (72.4% of the Protective Equipment, rescue methods in cooperation with the Disaster Response Team (EMAK), safe driving and fuel transport, the provision of first aid and other more specialized topics. 38 02 Responsibility Towards our Employees 02 Responsibility Towards our Employees 39 The other education programmes were designed to provide Leadership Academy Step 1: The objective of this training TRAINING SUBJECTS AT THE REFINERY IN 2015 are simulators in the Catalytic Cracking Unit, the Hydrogen the existing technical staff with further training, in order to was to develop the skills necessary for all new managers to Internal training at the refinery is provided by instructors who Cracking Unit and the new Atmospheric Distillation Unit. develop and further improve their skills in various specialenable them to lead their teams and cultivate relationships may be refinery managers or highly specialized external ized technical areas, and to instruct staff of the commercial with their colleagues and supervisors while aligning their instructors from Greece or abroad. The Technical Training Manuals prepared entirely by our companies in tax and IT issues, etc. own goals with those of the company. own refinery engineers are written to reflect the current The main training areas were as follows: structure of the refinery and meet its current production Training was also organized in management and leadership, Leadership Academy Step 2: The purpose was to further • Training of shift workers in the use of fire-fighting equipment needs. They provide the necessary theoretical and technical internal audit, workforce management and assessment, develop the skills required of every manager in order to and personal protection equipment, with weekly drills. documentation, while at the same time offering a valuable negotiation skills, creating a safety culture, accounting, handle a variety of business challenges that have a direct • Training of rescue teams by the Elefsina Disaster Response source of information. They fully cover the training needs finance, communication and law. impact on the success of their work. Team in the rescue of persons at risk in inaccessible parts of the refinery workforce, and can also be used in other of the refinery, at a great height from the ground. activities where information on the structure and operation The contribution and significant involvement of Group exLeadership Academy Step 3: This training programme • Training of refinery foremen to secure Work Performance of the refinery is required. In 2014, the new manuals were ecutives in the in-house training and education programme is a suite of interactive leadership skills development License. In 2015, all employees were re-certified. published in electronic form, as part of ongoing improvewas also very important. In 2015 this involvement accounted programmes. It is designed to enable midto senior-level • Training of staff of Equipment Inspection Service for ment efforts. for about 2,344 hours. managers to build and apply their leadership skills through certification and re-certification. hands-on activities. • Training of new refinery foremen (2nd class) on staff Moreover, during 2015, in line with the policy on reimburseThe following were also held to teach additional skills: management. ment of tuition fees, 6 employees were assisted in their • Training of all refinery supervisors on staff management. efforts to specialise in particular subjects, or achieve first Presentation Skills: This sessions aims at an understanding • Training of refinery engineers on Advance Process Control. degree or postgraduate qualifications in areas relevant to of key presentation tools so that participants can present • Participation of refinery engineers in international the Group’s current operations. with brevity, clarity, coherence and vision while maintaining conferences and seminars. the interest of the audience. MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEE TRAINING IN 2015 Negotiation Skills: The goal here was to understand the During the year we also continued to add to the Digital We strive to continually develop our management staff key structural elements of negotiation and to upgrade the Educational Material File, on the company intranet, posting by offering innovative, skills development programmes in negotiating performance of participants. material like e-books, conference presentations, training cooperation with top educational institutions and bodies. In videos and so on. this context, the main training areas were as follows: The following programmes were held under the certification The File is freely available to all, so that both management of Harvard University to teach leadership skills: and workforce can stay abreast and study various areas of interest. TRAINING TOOLS AT THE REFINERY The training simulators are extremely valuable training Man-hours devoted to each tools, which contribute to the safe operation of the refinery. educational training area 2015 2.1% They are used to train operators of all grades, helping them 0.4% Total hours = 27.000 develop their skills, expand their knowledge and improve 16.3% performance through constant repetition and reminder. There 11.4% Technical matters Management IT 69.8% Finance Health, safety and the environment 03 HEALTH The ongoing improvement of our health and safety performance will always be one of our main priorities. AND SAFETY The nature of the Group’s business operations refining, storage, transportation and marketing of fuels combined with our corporate principles and values, make occupational Health and Safety a matter of exceptional importance, and a priority to which our commitment is absolute and permanent. In order to ensure a safe working environment, and achieve ongoing improvement in workplace health and safety conditions, we implement a rigorously structured Management System, fully aligned with European Union Directives and other, additional measures. 15.7 In pursuit of our established objective of Zero Accidents, we reinforce and safeguard our management system with: • Ongoing training and presentations on safety issues, involving the entire workforce. • Regular maintenance of equipment to ensure it functions properly and safely. MILLION EUROS • Investment in new technology equipment and control measures. SPENT ON SAFETY (INVESTMENTS • Risk assessment of critical tasks, in order to ensure that the proper precautions are taken before tasks AND OPERATING EXPENSES) are carried out. • Introducing an annual safety day across the whole Group, with presentations of relevant material to the 2.1 entire workforce. Throughout 2015, the actions and implementation of systems aiming at reducing risk and eliminating the consequences of any undesirable incidents continued, with the ultimate goal of constantly improving our THE GROUP’S INJURIES performance in Health and Safety. FREQUENCY INDEX The effort to upgrade the safety culture and raise the awareness on safety-related issues is also ongoing. Lessons learnt from international incidents in the refinery sector were presented, focusing in particular on the training of personnel and external associates. Moreover, a range of investments were made on projects that reduce the possibility of an accident and upgrade the fire safety equipment. 42 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 43 1. HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Component Parts of the Health and Safety Management System Health and Safety at work and the prevention of occupational hazard is a moral obligation and a business necessity, which goes beyond the narrow limits of a simple legal obligation. Our primary concern is to take measures, and implement Policy • Description of MOTOR OIL’s commitment to Health and Safety and arrangements for implementing projects and programmes, to ensure we attain our permanent objectives for workplace health and safety, which can be the policy. formulated as follows: Planning • Strict compliance with relevant legislation, international standards and codes of practice and established operational rules. • To reduce the risk of major technological accidents to the as in establishing regulations, identifying hazards and • Specification of annual goals, programmes and investment projects for equipment upgrades, to lowest possible level. assessing risk. ensure optimum performance with respect to both productivity and safety. • To eliminate occupational accidents “Goal Zero”. • Frank and open communication between workers and • Designation of responsibilities and accountabilities. • Constant monitoring and upgrading of the quality of management in health and safety matters. • Systematic identification and recognition of occupational hazards and assessment of risk across all equipment so as to ensure that conditions conducive to activities at the refinery and other facilities. safe work operations are continuously improved. At the refinery, delivering on this commitment relies on • Effective protection of people (our personnel, contractors’ the effective operation of the integrated Health and Safety Implemen• Visible and systematic management by competent executives at all management levels. personnel, our neighbours, associates and site visitors), as Management System, which is certified compliant -since tation and • Provision of appropriate and full training to all employees. well as the environment and our own installations, from 2008with the internationally recognised Health and Safety operation • Understanding and analysis of operational risks in course of work and appropriate precautions, by the hazards that may arise from the company’s activities. standard OHSAS 18001:2007. all employees and at all levels of management. • Strict application and documentation of procedures for operational safety and efficiency. • Ongoing training of personnel and briefing on health and • Ensuring that all operations are carried out in full compliance with safety rules and regulations. safety issues in order to prevent accidents and occupational The same certification has been secured by OFC (in 2006), • Systematic reporting of incidents. health problems. Coral and Coral Gas (in 2013). • Excellent cooperation and communication with public authorities and other stakeholders, including • Full compliance with regulatory requirements. providing them with all relevant information. • Active involvement of all employees in finding acceptable • Systematic measurement of results and target setting, using established industry indicators, and effective solutions for protection and safety, as well so as to ensure constant improvement in performance and identification of malfunctions and vulnerabilities. • Carrying out of exercises for the updating of the company’s Emergency Response Plan. Compliance • Ongoing inspections of machinery and other equipment to ensure its proper function. HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT monitoring • Regular auditing of safety procedures. and correc• Systematic investigation and analysis of all incidents. SYSTEM (HSMS) ohsas 18001:2007 tive actions • Measurement, assessment and communication of results. • Rewarding of positive results. Ongoing • Ongoing review of management system. Management’s improvement • Recommendations for improvement and revision of current arrangements. Commitment • Commitment to implementation of recommendations. • Ongoing personnel training. Health Safety and Environment Policy The operation of the Health and Safety Management System The above Committees are intended to oversee control of is assigned to the refinery’s Health, Safety and Environment health and safety conditions, making recommendations for Procedures Equipment Section. Moreover, the health and safety organisation includes changes and improvements as necessary. Continuous HSMS Planning in-house safety engineers, occupational physicians and Integrity Improvement nursing staff both at the refinery and at MOTOR OIL’s head Similar arrangements operate in the other companies of the office at a level that goes beyond the requirements of the Group, taking appropriate account of the particular conditions relevant Greek legislation. of each workplace. Control and Implementation corrective and There are also two statutory committees: actions operation • The Safety and Environment Committee, made up of Workforce the refinery section heads and representing the entire Participation workforce. • The five-member Employee Health and Safety Committee, whose elected members are appointed every two years by the refinery employees. 44 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 45 During 2015, our efforts to achieve our Health and Safety recording and inspection of dead legs and the risk analysis goals were focused on the following: for change of operating parameters. • Installation of a Refinery Equipment Machinery Information Lost time injuries (LTI) 1. Improvement of safety culture and increasing the awareness System, that ensures the central management and for MOTOR OIL Group1 of the personnel monitoring of information and data related to the refinery 17.7 • Safety inspections, observations of unsafe behaviours, equipment, improving management of change. 14 interviews, investigations of main and secondary causes • Strengthening safety measures in the storing and handling 11 10 9 9 of an accident, risk evaluation in each task, monitoring of of chemicals, on the basis of the evaluation of risks posed 8 8 7 safety indices, etc. by their particular properties. 6 5 • Frequent awareness actions on safety issues and meetings • Implementation of Scaftag system. 3 with the participation of all members (section heads, • Revision of daily bump test of 4-gas control devices (H2S, engineers, supervisors, foremen) aiming at the prevention O2, CO, combustible gas) with use of automated device. of accidents and managing risk at work. • Strengthening of hydrogen sulphide detection systems with 1999-2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 • Implementation of“Lessons learnt from accidents” training installation of fixed laser-technology detection systems in program including presentations of large accidents in high-risk critical areas of the refinery. facilities, with analysis and exchange of opinions of the • Participation in working group with competent bodies for Nine (9) lost time injuries were recorded at the facilities of the MOTOR OIL Group in 2015. All the above took place in participants. the harmonisation of the SEVESO III directive in Greek MOTOR OIL’s refinery. There was no injury in the commercial companies and the other companies of the Group. • Enhancement of electronic library with incidents/accidents legislation. related to operations of the refinery or other facilities. • Participation of members of the refinery in a seminar There were no serious safety incidents during the course of our activities. • Organisation of Safety Day campaign. conducted by the General Chemical State Laboratory on • Posting of safety signs throughout the refinery premises. the implementation of the regulation for classification, • Briefing of competent personnel regarding the new labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (CLP Corporate Contingency Plan. regulation). Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index (LTIF) • Training of contractors on subjects of receipt of Work • Participation in Concawe in safety issues, in order to for MOTOR OIL Group1 Frequency Index = Execution Permits and their evaluation. optimize response to safety issues through collaboration Number of injuries per million working hours • Training and presentations to personnel with regard to risks with representatives of European refineries. 8.0 of works close to areas with inert atmosphere, risks from • Participation in European programme ‘Proteas: REACH hydrogen sulphide, as well as training of new operators. Protocol for Emissions and Accident Scenarios in Supply • Retraining of personnel on the issue and receipt of Work and Distribution of Fuels and Petrochemical Products’. 5.5 Execution Permits (WEP) with new material and new • Revision of Safety Data Sheets in implementation of the 4.0 2.8 2.7 upgraded examination questionnaires. This training was CLP regulation. 2.3 2.2 2.0 1.8 2.1 implemented in two stages and all issuers and recipients 0.9 1.3 (250 individuals) were recertified. • Assignment of the training and certification work for the 1999-2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 entire contractor’s personnel employed in the refinery, to a company recognised with regard to training and certification issues. The Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index, which has shown particularly low values in the past decade, was at 2.1 in 2015. The corresponding LTIF figure for the refinery was 4.3. 2. Strengthening and improvement of the safety system • Adoption of inspections with prioritisation of risks and goals for reducing possibility of failure, determination of Lost Time Injuries Severity Index (LTIS) Severity Index = Number frequency of equipment inspections and intensification of of working hours lost per for MOTOR OIL Group1 thousand working hours specific inspections such as the recording and inspection of equipment due to corrosion under insulation (CUI), the 1.5 1.1 1.1 1.0 0.8 0.7 2. SAFETY INDICES 0.4 0.5 0.3 0.5 0.6 0.1 The extent, to which the Health and Safety Management System operates successfully, is reflected in trends in the most important safety indices, i.e. the number, frequency and severity of lost-time injuries. 1999-2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1. Note: Includes the companies MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL (since 2006), Coral and Coral Gas (since 2010), OFC (since 2012) and LPC (since 2015). 46 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 47 The Lost Time Injuries Severity Index recorded a value of equipment improvements, arising from investigation of LTIs, 0.6 across the whole Group in 2015, with a value of 1.2 for were implemented immediately. the refinery. HEALTH AND SAFETY INVESTMENTS These statistics relate to accidents involving the company’s AND OPERATING EXPENSES These values, in combination with the large number of new own employees and do not include Lost-time accidents (MILLION EUROs) projects and extensive programme of maintenance, continue involving subcontractors’ employees, the level of which 19.3 19.0 on average the steady downward trend of the last twenty remains very low. Accidents involving subcontractors’ em15.8 15.7 years, demonstrating the ongoing effort to reach our Zero ployees numbered 1 in 2011, 4 in 2012, 5 in 2013, 2 in 2014 Accident target. and 3 in 2015. 10.9 The Group’s management is offering its steady support Finally, we should note that, as in previous years, no case to programmes to educate the workforce and strengthen of occupational illness was recorded. technical and organizational measures, in order to ensure we remain committed to our ‘Zero accidents’ objective. The LTIs have been analyzed in depth to identify their causes 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and establish the most appropriate corrective measures, which were then communicated to the personnel through training sessions and briefings. Recommendations for 4. INSPECTIONS 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY INVESTMENTS It is our standing practice to carry out regular health and safety inspections, which involve scrutiny of production and distribution equipment, working areas and fire safety systems. The inspections allow us to identify hazards and recognize risk. Improvements in working conditions and in the safety of the work environment are achieved by making the necessary investments in equipment, through the upgrading of procedures, and by means of Health and Safety inspections. At the refinery, planned Health and Safety inspections are Recommendations for improvements in working conditions carried out by both internal inspection teams and external and safety also arise following meetings of the Safety and The refinery’s design, construction and operation is in arm in the isomerization unit, the upgrade of personal safety auditors, including specialist Greek and foreign Environment Committee and the Employee Health and accordance with Greek and international regulations and protective equipment, the installation of independent level consultants. Safety Committee. standards. Nevertheless, a comprehensive investment meters to avoid the overflow of tanks, the optimisation of programme in the proper maintenance of electrical, fire-protection with sprinkler system in production unit Hot-works and work in confined spaces are subject to a The findings of the above-mentioned horizontal inspection mechanical and electronic equipment and in technical containers, the arrangement of cables and their fire-protection, programme of intensive auditing and inspection. The Health, procedures and recommendations arising from meetings upgrading and renewal of that equipment is continually the installation of operating parameter control instruments, Safety and Environment Section carries out on average of the two committees, after evaluation, lead to appropriate implemented, taking account of developing technology, so insurance valves, etc. 6 inspections a day, with the total number of inspections technical or organizational measures being taken. In 2015, as to maintain the highest possible standards of safety and approaching 1,600 in 2015, not counting checks carried out in total 296 new recommendations were put forward, while during maintenance periods. 266 were implemented (including some pending from the accident prevention. Additionally, all our commercial companies proceeded to previous year), with another 276 recommendations pending investments for improvements of the safety systems in service Projects under construction are subject to daily inspections, at the end of the year. In 2015, the total cost of the investment programme of all stations and their facilities. These included the installation while planned horizontal inspections carried out by teams Group companies on projects to improve health and safety of camera devices in service stations, maintenance of fire of different composition and mandate, comprising refinery Vertical inspections were introduced in 2009. These are and to procure safety and medical equipment amounted to extinguishing means, maintenance of critical equipment executives and other competent personnel are performed conducted on a quarterly basis by the section head, the 10 million euros, while the cost of operating expenditure of and tankers. according to an annual schedule, as follows: engineers and supervisors of the various sections. Each all kinds in this area was 5.7 million euros. section of the refinery will undergo four such inspections each • Safety and Environment Inspections: carried out by a fouryear, one for each shift. In 2015, 114 new recommendations The greatest emphasis was laid on projects to reduce the member team headed by a Head of Section and comprising were put forward, following vertical inspections covering all risk of accidents and to improve working conditions, as well engineers and supervisors. There are 24 of these teams, refinery sections; 126 were implemented (including some as projects aimed at upgrading fire safety measures at our each undertaking every year to inspect six of the 24 sections outstanding from the previous year) and 72 remain pending. facilities. More specifically, the most important projects into which the facilities have been sub-divided for the It is self-evident that technical inspections and monitoring for 2015 were the expansion of platforms and stairs, the purposes of more effective and comprehensive control. of equipment carried out by the Technical Department, will reinforcement of foundations and the fire resistance protection • Executive Safety and Environment Inspections: carried out lead to findings and the taking of measures which reduce of equipment, the installation of new and supplementary by teams headed by the refinery Deputy General Manager hazard and risk and contribute to the improvement of lighting in production units, the installation of a new loading and including departmental managers and the Head of the occupational health and safety conditions. The programming and management of these results of inspections are based on Health, Safety and Environment Section. the use of computer systems like the PCMS (Plant Condition Management Software), designed to generate optimal safety results and saving of resources. 48 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 49 Finally, the company takes special care to ensure the this equipment is carried out according to a very carefully programme is implemented. HAZOP studies were conducted so that they can be updated in line with the new technological operational readiness of the equipment of the fire safety planned annual programme under the supervision of the in 2015 in the hydrocracker unit, the acid waste management developments. system. The routine and periodically scheduled checking of Fire Safety Service. unit and the alkylation unit. In this context, the following took place in 2015: Likewise, the studies required by the regulations on fire • Improvement of alkylation unit suits for greater comfort safety are conducted; other safety studies are prepared and of the use during the performance of works. 5. PROCEDURES communicated for approval and registration as appropriate • Supply of full-face mask with incorporated intracom system. with the competent authorities. • Supply of personal filter escape devices for all refinery Technical integrity of equipment, compliance with international standards/regulations and safe working conditions are workers in the field. amongst the primary factors ensuring safety in the workplace. Even more important is how individuals behave (the “human In respect of health and safety equipment (personal • Supply of retractable, fall arrest system consisting of a factor”). Refinery employees are able to perform their work safely not only as a result of the strict work procedures they protective equipment, fire-fighting equipment, etc.) we strap with an integrated energy absorber for protection are required to follow and of having been provided with appropriate skills and competencies, but also because they have implement rigorous specifications based on recognized from fall from great heights (>12m) when used with a full been trained in safety awareness. European standards in order to optimize workforce health body 5-point harness. and safety precautions. A particular effort has been made to • Supply of safety barriers for protection from fall in small COMPLYING WITH LEGISLATION codes of practice. Across the whole range of refinery activities, standardise specifications for personal protective equipment openings such as wells, or for excavations and unsafe The company is fully aware of, and strictly complies with, all studies have been conducted to assess risk for each work at all companies and facilities within the Group. In addition, points with a large area. relevant Greek and European Health and Safety legislation, station and task; the necessary measures have been taken safety equipment specifications are monitored continuously while it also applies any relevant international standards, to eliminate or minimize all risks identified. codes of practice and other operational norms, where these are judged likely to help achieve even higher standards of Whenever changes are made to workplaces or to working protection than would be achieved by legal compliance alone. practices, these risk assessments are reviewed so as to An independent third party certifies full and comprehensive ensure they are always relevant and up to date. Moreover, INDICATIVE ACTIVITIES IN 2015 IN THE AREA OF PROCEDURES implementation of legislation in our internal procedures in the context of the requirements of OHSAS certification, • We continued implementation of the programme to monitor and assess contractors in respect of their and operations. the whole monitoring process of our procedures has been compliance with health and safety rules when working in the refinery facilities. made more methodical and effective. Within each refinery • We reviewed procedures in the Health and Safety Management System. We have also developed an intranet database containing section, risks identified are classified into three categories • We continued to update the Safety Data Sheets for refinery products, adding new information, as part of all health and safety provisions of Greek law relevant according to the hazard level: low, medium or high. For each our implementation of the provisions of the European REACH and CLP Regulations. to the refinery’s operations. It is constantly updated and category of risk we prepare a timetable for taking action to • Participation continued in international organizations dedicated to exploring and achieving continual made available to all employees on the company intranet. eliminate or reduce the risk, and appoint a manager to be improvement in rules and practices. This database is exceptionally important, not only for responsible for the necessary action. the legality of our operations, but also for the wealth of information it contains on a wide range of issues, including We provide appropriate and adequate training to all our hazard identification and control, the drafting of emergency workers covering: information and instruction relevant to the REPORTS, MEASUREMENTS, INDICES The security system is fully automated and includes an preparedness plans, maximum acceptable levels of exposure hazards arising from their work, measures for the elimination We regularly report, record, investigate and analyze incidents automatic identification system of incoming employees and to hazardous substances, the use of chemical substances of hazards or control of risk, correct use of personal protective (fires, accidents, near-misses) using internationally recognized vehicles with the issue of RFID cards during entry, security and the relevant precautions, etc. equipment, safe working practices, appropriate emergency indices in order to take the appropriate corrective and cameras in the perimeters of the refinery and the port, a response procedures and first aid provision. preventive measures, while enhancing our experience by motion detection system at the enclosure and an automatic Besides data on legislation, the database contains other monitoring investigations of serious accidents at comparable monitoring and notification system (video analytics) in case significant resources relating to refinery safety, including: all We ensure that all operations are carried out in full compliance facilities abroad and incorporating their findings in our own of breach of the refinery’s perimeter. training material; the complete internal safety regulations for with safety rules and regulations by taking all necessary practice. the refinery; hazard and risk assessment reports covering all precautionary measures and by establishing and adhering Those of our personnel responsible for this protection are individual workplaces; specifications for all safety equipment to specific procedures. Of particular importance during We systematically record all elements in our health and safety suitably trained, both in security and safety matters, so as to (e.g. personal protective equipment -PPEand fire-fighting maintenance and repair work is the procedure for issuing performance, for monitoring purposes, and at the same time be able to effectively and swiftly fulfil their responsibilities, equipment), and material safety data sheets (MSDS), accidents/ of Work Permits, within a stringent statutory framework of we use internationally recognized indices suitably targeted being fully aware of the duties assigned to them, while at event/near-misses investigations, etc. rules and procedures. For this reason, the issuing of these to provide a basis for checking ongoing improvement and the same time fully respecting individual freedoms and Permits is the subject of continuous training activity, covering identifying any shortcomings or irregularities. fundamental human rights. In this context security guards HAZARD IDENTIFICATION , RISK ASSESSMENT AND both those who issue them and those who receive them, are certified by the National Organisation for the Certification CONTROL both company employees and any sub-contractor personnel PROTECTION (SECURITY) of Qualifications and Vocational Guidance (EOPPEP) in the We are continuously engaged in establishing best practices who may be involved in work activities on the refinery site. We take all necessary preventive measures to protect our specialisation “Private Security Personnel”. for identification of health and safety hazards in all areas and In respect of the need to assess and minimize operational installations against possible malicious or not security in implementing procedures for immediate response. The risks, the HAZOP Hazard and Operability Study is used threats. framework for identifying and controlling risk is laid down to analyze risk and operability in all new units or whenever in Greek legislation and in other European and international changes are made to an existing unit, and a five-year revision 50 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 51 6. PLANNED SHUTDOWNS NEW PROJECTS 8. EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLANS Every year, planned shutdowns of refinery units take place, which are necessary to allow for periodic maintenance to be Our emergency response arrangements are based on the Emergency Response Plan, which is regularly reviewed and carried out and thus ensure their reliable operation, both in respect of efficiency and in respect of safe operation, while updated to take account of expansions and other changes to the refinery’s configuration, changing legal requirements, construction work on new projects is constantly being carried out. To avoid accidents during planned and unplanned and changes to “best practices” resulting from technical developments or experience gained by others in dealing with shutdowns, a methodical approach is required, with continuous supervision while work is being carried out. major or non-major accidents. We have also prepared and submitted studies to the competent authorities, in line with the requirements of the SEVESO II EU Directive, which describe significant potential accident scenarios and related prevention Such extended shutdowns of refinery units require vigilance examined in detail, in order to identify any critical works and and response measures, whereas in 2016 the safety study will be updated in line with SEVESO II. and special precautionary safety measures, because of the potential risks and take measures. Training sessions and greatly increased risk of accidents, which include: provision briefings are also organized, involving meetings between of information to all personnel involved in order to ensure refinery and contracted personnel to ensure smooth The Emergency Response Plan describes, with particular during which the Major Incident Response Procedure is they are aware of the necessary safety measures and to cooperation and avoidance of unsafe actions. reference to a major accident situation, the public health activated. Safety drills and major exercises contribute increase their safety awareness; daily co-operation with protection measures -including warnings for neighbouring greatly to the training and preparedness of employees, project managers to identify unsafe conditions and for the Throughout the duration of the works there is close cooperation communities, and related advicethat would be put into and to the evaluation and modification of the plan itself. concomitant implementation of corrective measures; and between the contractors, the Health, Safety and Environment effect in the event that the Major Technological Accidents They also help us to evaluate and upgrade the fire safety daily site safety inspections. Section and all the competent departments, in order to have Response Plans were activated; these plans are drafted equipment, because the exercises prompt suggestions for direct information about any potential problems and actions by the competent authorities and determine how the state new means of improving fire safety, the progress of which The Health, Safety and Environment Section plays an active part for their immediate remedy and the extraction of conclusions might intervene in emergency situations. is monitored by the management on a monthly basis. in the shutdowns of units for maintenance work, depending on safety issues, which will help in the planning, organisation • The fixed and portable equipment for leak detection and on the type of work being done, carrying out continual and implementation of future shutdowns. The purpose of the Emergency Response Plan is to offer fire-fighting, which are upgraded according to a regular monitoring and evaluation of the work in accordance with the involved personnel an overall emergency response plan, annual investment plan. The design and installation of safety rules and good industrial practice. which may arise from the operation of the Refinery. The plan autonomous, permanent fire-extinguishing systems at provides the necessary guidelines for taking and executing key points around the refinery offer the ability to respond In 2015, planned and unplanned maintenance works took the correct decisions and actions, providing information for: to incidents immediately and ensure the greatest possible place in various units of the refinery that lasted in total 52 days. • the operational organisation for addressing the event / protection for personnel and operating equipment. In 2015, Before the start of the maintenance works the schedule is emergency. in order to improve the fire protection of the refinery, we • the Action Plans planned, and will implement in 2016, the conversion of • the communication with the company’s staff and the Public five semi-permanent foam monitors, on corresponding Authorities and/or other competent services that must be permanent systems, which will increase the readiness 7. REACH AND CLP REGULATIONS notified in each case. • the communication actions with the other stakeholders and improve the reaction time in case of an incident. All breathing apparatus were also upgraded in 2015, by fitting The European Union REACH Regulation (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals) came into force on June them with excess flow valves, for use with autonomous 1st, 2007. The Regulation is intended to rationalize European legislation on human health safety and environmental protection Features of the plan include: breathing apparatus. from the potential effects of various chemical substances. At the same time, the Regulation has shifted responsibility for • The Mutual Aid Agreement whereby all Greek refineries • The availability on the refinery site of six fire engines and investigating the impacts of production, distribution and use of these substances to the industry itself. co-operate in the event of an emergency, which dates from one 12,000-litre bulk foam tender, that are available on 1988. The effectiveness of this collaboration plan is ensured 24-hour standby, and are operated by trained firefighter through joint exercises involving MOTOR OIL, the local fire crews. The legal framework introduced by the Regulation directly The CLP (Classification, Labelling and Packaging) Regulation brigade and the other refineries. Within 2015, MOTOR OIL • The existence of alternative locations for the Incident Control affects producers, importers and final users of chemical of the European Union came into effect in January 2009, participated in a fire safety exercise in the refineries of ELPE Room at four different strategic points on the refinery site, substances and preparations in the European Union. The ensuring that risks associated with chemical products are Aspropyrgos in the context of this program. Additionally, and the availability of a state-of-the-art emergency telephone objective is to prohibit the import into, or the production clearly communicated to employees and consumers in the MOTOR OIL is in constant communication with the Corinth system that provides for refinery staff to be contacted at within, the EU of any substance at any quantity above one European Union through proper classification and labelling of Fire Brigade regarding training matters on how to address times of emergency outside of normal working hours. ton a year, unless the substance has been entered on the chemical products. The risks which may be posed to human an incident inside the refinery’s facilities. • A significant addition to the refinery’s communication European Register of Chemical Products. health and the environment are labelled using a standard • Development of the Corporate Contingency Plan for reciprocal resources is the introduction of satellite phones at the system of declarations and pictograms on packaging and assistance between companies in the Group in the event refinery itself and in the administration offices. These phones After successful completion of the first phase of substance on safety data sheets, so that workers and consumers are of an emergency. This has also been integrated into the make communication possible and allow coordination registration in 2010, MOTOR OIL, through its participation in aware of the possible consequences of handling these Emergency Response Plan of each individual company. between administration and refinery even in extreme various recognized organizations and consortia (CONCAWE, products. MOTOR OIL has completed the above process of In this context, MOTOR OIL participated in fire safety drills circumstances, such as a natural disaster, when ordinary FERC, MERC), remains ready to respond to any requirements labeling its products on all safety data sheets. at the facilities of OFC. landlines and mobiles may be rendered useless. that may arise, is monitoring developments and preparing • Drills carried out every week and major industrial accident • The installation of a digital radiocommunication system for the subsequent second phase of substance registration response drills carried out regularly during the year, (TETRA) started in 2015 to be completed in 2016, in (2018). 52 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 53 replacement of an existing analogue system, aiming of personal hydrogen sulphide equipment as well as the medical procedures and screening examinations are also Group (AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and OFC). to improve communication. It will be accompanied by use of personal filter escape devices, by all workers in in place for the benefit of all subsidiary companies of the integrated GPS, Man Down and Panic Button for protection the field (ΜΟΗ personnel and contractors). of the personnel. • In the context of protecting the personnel against any unplanned incident, we implemented the mandatory use 11. TRAINING ON SAFETY ISSUES The continuous training of our employees and the creation of a high level of safety awareness, together with the technical and organisational measures, form the essential pillars for accident prevention and the maintenance of a safe work 9. SAFETY OF PORT INSTALLATIONS environment. Our commitment is to train the workforce on safety issues • Fire safety use of fire extinguishing means. Safety measures at port facilities are of great importance to us, because they ensure the smooth flow of the works in the regarding the entire spectrum of their work, in order to • Work Permits. refinery, as well as the protection of the marine environment from any pollution. increase productivity and reduce risks and the frequency of • Work in confined spaces. It should be noted that, in 2004, MOTOR OIL became the are conducted with the permission of the Port Authorities, accidents. We also see that our contractors’ employees are • Identification of occupational hazards and risk evaluation. first Greek company to be certified by the Ministry of pursuant to the terms and conditions laid down in the kept aware of health and safety issues, with the emphasis • Personal Protective Equipment. Mercantile Marine and the Aegean for compliance with the approved Port Facility Security Plan, which is based on the on general principles of accident prevention and the com• Material Safety Data Sheets. International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code, International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS Code). pany’s procedures ensuring safe execution of the work they • Emergency response procedures and participation in undertake. Visitors are given safety instructions in the form relevant drills. which is applied according to the requirements of chapter The Code requires that drills be held at least every sixteen of a special leaflet, while a special briefing film is screened • First-aid. XI-2 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at months, using security scenarios that are often combined for them on entry to the refinery facilities. • Presentations analyses of Major Technological Accidents. Sea (SOLAS). The accreditation is reviewed each year, in with sea pollution and/or fire scenarios. The last drill was • Safe road transport of fuels (for the Group’s commercial accordance with the existing legislative provisions. held in September 2015 with the cooperation and participation The general content of health and safety training includes companies). of the local Port Authorities. the following subjects: In all areas of the port facilities security checks are carried out on crews, visitors, supplies, as well as checks on access. 1,715 ships berthed at the quays of our port facilities in 2015. In 2015, 8,827 people and 1,729 vehicles entered the port Figures for health and safety training in 2015 facilities, after passing security checks. The security checks MOTOR OIL Other companies in Group1 Total Workforce 1,192 741 Workers undergoing training 800 422 10. SAFEGUARDING WORKFORCE HEALTH Man-hours of training 14,439 3,601 The health of our workers is a key area of care and concern. Therefore, the personnel at the refinery and the facilities Contractors undergoing training 336 228 undergo regular check-ups, while all Group employees are covered by group hospital care programs. Man-hours of training 2,688 1,436 The refinery provides full coverage to personnel and protective equipment, which is always kept up to date, in 1. AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and OFC.. infrastructures for the provision of medical services and line with technological advances and changes in European first aid, which includes: specifications. • Central Medical Centre staffed by an occupational phy• The quality of drinking water is tested through regular sician and nurses, provided with the necessary hospital analysis by independent laboratories. • The restaurant staff undergo regular medical checks in Safety Day 2015 equipment to deal with emergencies. We achieve “Goal Zero” because we care • Pharmacy. accordance with the requirements of the law. • Fully equipped first-aid station at the Alkylation Unit, with • Measurements are taken to establish levels of concentration In recent years, the Safety Day has been organised on an annual basis in the Group. In 2015, the Safety Day nurse on 24-hour call. of chemicals in the workplace, in line with the requiretook place on the 6th of May with the subject “We achieve Goal Zero because we care”. This Day is organised • Three fully equipped first aid stations. ments of the relevant legislation. A study was conducted simultaneously throughout the Group, in all the companies, offices, facilities and service stations, and the workers • ECG, allowing dispatch of data to a specialist cardiology in 2013 confirming once again that the levels of chemical dedicate some time from their work to participate in scheduled meetings. In 2015, there were 65 meetings centre for immediate diagnosis and provision of instrucsubstances were below the limit values. throughout the Group with the participation of more than 1,000 workers. Videos and slides are presented tions. • At the head offices there is a fully equipped clinic, staffed during the meetings on the subjects of Safety for People, Safety of Procedures and Road Safety. A discussion • Three fully-equipped ambulances. by doctors and capable of responding to serious incidents, follows on how each individual can contribute towards the Goal Zero, for Zero Accidents and Zero Lost Time managing chronic conditions, offering advice and informaIncidents, with participants showing great interest and making personal safety-based commitments. These In addition: tion on health issues, organizing seminars, blood donation days have the broad support and the participation of the Group’s leadership, and they play an important role • Fire-fighting crews are also trained in rescue practices and preventive check-ups, and supporting the surgeries in forming a uniform culture regarding the importance of Safety. and in first aid provision. of the other companies in the Group. • Employees are supplied with the necessary personal • Finally, company doctors and arrangements for general 54 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 55 WORKFORCE TRAINING BRIEFING FOR CONTRACTORS’ EMPLOYEES The objective of the programme was to develop Safety There is also an ongoing training programme focusing on In order to raise safety awareness among refinery personnel, Briefing of contractors’ employees working in our facilities Data Sheets for petroleum products, in accordance with the defensive and safe driving, loading/unloading procedures safety messages and posters, the results of accident and continued in 2015 with the training programme (provision of European REACH and CLP Regulations, as well as a Protocol and fuel handling, anti-skid and anti-roll over manoeuvres, near-miss investigations, etc., are displayed on 13 Health literature, daily training, certification through examinations, of Best Practices in Health, Safety and the Environment for fuel chemistry, handling of customer complaints, vehicle and Safety notice boards, reserved for this purpose, and recording of results on special data base, issuing of special handling of petroleum products throughout their whole life safety equipment, fume recovery, etc. located throughout the refinery site. card) for recipients of the Work Execution Permits for cycle. contractors’ employees. The training is based on informational In 2015, AVIN OIL organized a training seminar in safe Fire safety drills continued to take place in 2015 as in every material consisting of a general unit covering workplace ROAD SAFETY transport and loading/unloading of hazardous substances year, and were carried out by the immediate intervention health and safety issues at the refinery and a special unit Road safety is a priority for the Group’s commercial in the context of the PROTEAS programme. teams made up of refinery training staff. Rescue teams covering issues relating to 29 separate special skill areas. companies, which every day transport more than 10,000,000 received training from the First Search and Rescue Team This briefing programme lasts eight hours, and in 2015 the litres of liquid fuel and 135,000 MT of gas across Greece In recent years, the programme has also incorporated a (EMAK) of the Elefsina Fire Brigade in rescue of persons at sessions were attended by 336 persons. and the Balkans. On an annual basis, they travel more than detailed analysis of the routes taken by our tanker drivers, risk in inaccessible parts of the refinery, at a great height 17 million kilometres delivering fuel in Greece and abroad so that the safest route is always taken for each journey. from the ground. Moreover, the structured efforts to educate without accident or injury to drivers or others, demonstrating GPS tracking devices have also been fitted to tankers to the technical staff of our facilities were continued through in practice our commitment and dedication to road safety, allow closer monitoring of driver behaviour (speed, route films and presentations/discussions on incidents, analyzing and our contribution to the common good. taken, stops etc.). causes, effects and the corrective measures taken. In 2015, more than 400 drivers of private and public use tank As a result of the analytical and innovative work in the road trucks received training in their special skill areas. safety sector, AVIN OIL received the GOLD award in the Health & Safety Awards 2015 in the REDUCING OCCUPATIONAL ROAD Fuels fall under the category of hazardous materials and RISK category, namely for the integrated plan it implements TRAINING IN FIRE SAFETY their safe transport requires precautionary measures to be in road transport. In order to improve the readiness of refinery personnel to respond to emergency situations, as well as to taken at three levels, i.e.: rehearse the procedures of the Emergency Response Plan and check the operability of equipment, regular • The maintenance of a high technical standard of transport emergency preparedness exercises are carried out. In 2015, the programme in question involved 8 training equipment. i.e. road tankers. sessions on the drill field and 44 drills, 24 of which were based on Major Industrial Accident scenarios. • The promulgation of strict safety procedures and the constant monitoring of their implementation. The pre-scheduled drills took place in various areas of the refinery and the fire crew training field, involving • Ongoing training of our own tanker drivers and drivers of rehearsal of fire crews in the theoretical and practical aspects of their duties, and their familiarisation with the transport companies working with us. fire-fighting equipment and related Personal Protective Equipment. Theoretical drills were also organized in the section control rooms (for all shifts) in the presence of the personnel of each area and the fire safety crews. The Group’s commercial companies, carrying out their activities with a keen sense of responsibility, are continually The refinery engineers also participated in the fire safety drills to receive further training in the handling of engaged in striving to meet the above requirements, in the scenarios of this kind. In 2015, the fire safety drills gave rise to 2 recommendations for new measures to context of the rules laid down by the state, the Greek and improve protection for unit equipment, all of which were immediately implemented in full. global petroleum industry, and their own company policies and procedures. To succeed in this objective they operate In addition, in 2015: integrated systems for recording and monitoring of road • All shift-workers passed the annual training in the use of Respiratory Protective Equipment. tankers carrying fuel on their behalf (company-owned • Training of the rescue team continued. or belonging to partner companies), as well as training • Training sessions were held to maintain training levels for fire engine drivers and reserve drivers, familiarizing programmes for drivers, while also undergoing tests and them with access to various areas and the equipment in new units. certification from external accreditation agencies under • There were also training sessions for new crew leaders, as well as all the new drivers, to familiarize them the standards ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 with the fire engines and the access roads around the refinery. (Environmental Protection) and OHSAS 18001 (Health and Safety Management). The road tankers undergo a thorough annual safety check PROTEAS PROGRAMME in accordance with the «Regulations on Safety of Loading of MOTOR OIL and AVIN OIL continued their participation, in The PROTEAS programme was launched in 2011 and was Tankers with Liquid Fuels at Petroleum Facilities». This check collaboration with the Technical University of Crete, in the completed in December of 2015, funded by the European extends to the full compliance with the terms included in the European programme PROTEAS, under the title «REACH LIFE+ programme. Its main objective was to support European Agreement concerning the Carriage of Dangerous Protocol on emissions and accident scenarios in the supply implementation of the new European REACH and CLP Goods by Road (ADR). and transportation of fuels and petrochemicals». Regulations in Greece and Cyprus. 04 Responsibility Protection of the environment and energy-saving are among our primary concerns. for the Respect and care for the environment is a common denominator in all activities of the MOTOR OIL Group. We operate competitively but, at the same time, as a responsible corporate organisation we espouse the Environment principles of sustainable development; that is, development which is based on environmental protection, mutual respect and responsibility towards future generations. For these reasons we continue with investments aimed at the steady improvement of our environmental performance. WE USE BEST AVAILABE TECHNIQUES AND STATE-OF-THE-ART In 2015, we spent 14.1 million euros in our investment programme, featuring both large and smaller scale ANTI-POLLUTION TECHNOLOGY projects, making a direct or indirect contribution to environmental protection. In 2015 we completed the construction of a unit to process contaminated soil by the method of bioremediation, through which we biodegrade petroleum substances and further manage contaminated soil as nonhazardous waste. We also made investments to upgrade and replace furnaces with the goal of further enhancing our energy savings. We expanded our application of the Advanced Process Control system to the 24.6% hydrodesulphurization units, achieving optimal control and ongoing automated regulation of their operation. Also, as part of general equipment maintenance, we completed projects to reduce energy consumption and emissions. THE REDUCTION IN THE SPECIFIC CO2 Our commitment to continue to decrease our environmental footprint, as can be seen in the diagrams of EMISSIONS INDICATOR (2009-2015) the related indicators, remains steady and unchallenged, even though in 2015, due to a series of factors that are analysed thoroughly in the subchapters, an occasional increase to the specific values of the energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions and sulphur dioxide indicators was noted, whereas the specific 22.7% THE REDUCTION IN THE SPECIFIC water consumption was at the same levels as 2014. Finally, in 2015, the Environmental Management System was updated with revision of five communication procedures and two operational processes, and the annual Environmental Statement 2014 was issued in accordance with Regulation EMAS III ER 1221/2009. ENERGY CONSUMPTION INDICATOR (2009-2015) The indicators and texts contained in this chapter pertain only to the MOTOR OIL refinery except the subchapters 3 and 8 which include all of the Group’s companies. 14.1 MILLION Euros IN INVESTMENTS AND OPERATING EXPENSES FOR THE ENVIRONMENT IN 2015 58 04 Responsibility for the Environment 04 Responsibility for the Environment 59 1. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT regard for the need to minimise environmental impacts. • Applying Best Available Techniques to the greatest possible about its environmental performance in the form of an Environmental Statement, as required by its membership Our principal aim is to operate within the framework of our environmental licensing and to rigorously adhere to the relevant extent. to the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme System, an Greek and European legislation, and to implement projects and actions that go beyond basic legal compliance, aiming at • Monitoring and continually minimising the emissions of arrangement that has to be endorsed annually by decision of the constant optimisation of the energy performance of our facilities and at minimizing emissions of greenhouse gases greenhouse gases, as well as those of other pollutants, the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change. and other pollutants. and of solid and liquid waste, as far as technically and In 2015, MOTOR OIL issued its BV certified Environmental economically possible. Statement 2014, its ninth such annual report. Selection of the most efficient means and measures to reduce environmental impact covers the entire spectrum of our • Monitoring and, as far as possible, minimising, the activities; from the selection of technologies when building new processing units, to the practices applied during the refinconsumption of energy. It should be noted that, in the oil refining sector, the triple ery’s daily operation, and from the use of advanced control systems in our facilities to the training provided to employees • Pre-empting risks of environmental pollution, reducing combination of certified compliance with ISO 14001:2004 and working in them. the probability of environmental accidents, and preparing, EMAS, in respect of environmental performance, and ISO implementing and testing the appropriate emergency 9001:2008 in respect of quality management, is particularly response procedures. significant and provides advantages at many levels. Such a ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM • Training of, and awareness-raising among, all our personnel multiple certification is unusual among European refineries The focal commitment of the company to the minimization with international standards. This system ensures that enand contractors’ employees who work on our premises, with such high complexity as MOTOR OIL’s. of the environmental impact, resulting from its operation is vironmental performance is measured systematically and on the implementation of our environmental protection expressed through our Health, Safety and Environmental that activities requiring intervention and improvement are policy. The environmental terms of operation of the refinery, approved Protection Policy. Our commitment could not be realized identified. Thus, the principle of prevention is successfully • Evaluating our environmental performance and continuously and implemented in 2009 and amended in 2011, 2013 and without the application of an effective environmental implemented and resources are allocated so as to achieve improving our Environmental Management System. 2014, place all the refinery facilities, including auxiliary units management system that has been certified as compliant the maximum possible environmental benefit. • Developing communication and dialogue with all like the Tanker Loading Terminal and the port facilities, stakeholders, especially with local communities in areas under the provisions of Directive 2010/75/EC on industrial around the company’s facilities. emissions. Finally, under the environmental terms, the refinery is subject to the provisions of Directive 2003/87/ΕC ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT The company’s Environmental Management System was on introduction of a scheme for greenhouse gas emission SYSTEM first ISO-certified in 2000, according to ISO 14000:1996. In allowance trading within the Community. 2004, it was certified compliant with the updated version ISO 14000:2004, in 2007, it was re-certified compliant with the The environmental terms require the operation of an integrated Continuous Improvement new version ISO 14001:2004, while in 2008 the certification monitoring and control system, aiming at the prevention and expanded to include the production, trade and delivery of fuels, avoidance of air and surface or underground water pollution, Management Review biofuels, lubricants, waxes, asphalt and special petroleum or the contamination of soil, and ensuring the most effective • Improvement Proposals • Implementation commitment products. In 2014, the Bureau Veritas re-certified our System as means are adopted to deal with all environmental protection Health, Safety and compliant with ISO 14001:2004. The Environmental Management aspects of the refinery’s operations. ISO 14001:2004 Environmental System is part of the Integrated Management System, which EMAS III ER 1221/2009 Policy Control • Monitoring and measurement is ISO 9001:2008 certified for quality. Therefore, the various In 2015, as part of efforts to secure the ongoing evolution and • Non-compliance • Corrective and preventive action internal operations and procedures of the Environmental improvement of the Environmental Management System, • Records • Inspections Management System are themselves subject to the strict five communication procedures and two operating processes Planning documentation imposed by the standard. were reviewed. • Environmental aspects Implementation and operation • Legal and other • Structure and responsibilities requirements • Education – awareness raising • Purposes and goals Our commitment to publish our environmental performance COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION • Communication • Environmental • Documentation program figures and the impact of the operations at our facilities, as A key element in our environmental policy is to comply fully • Document inspection • Operational control explicitly set out in our Policy on the Environment, led to our with the environmental terms laid down by the competent • Emergency response voluntary adoption and implementation of the Community authorities, and to operate within the framework of current Eco-Management and Audit Scheme ΕΜAS ΙΙΙ, provided for Greek and European environmental legislation. by European Regulation 1221:2009. In this context, in line with our obligations in respect of the This system allows us to ensure that we are implementing disclosure of information relating to our environmental the suitable procedures to identify material environmental licensing, in 2015 we submitted to the competent authorities, impacts of our activities, and that we are drawing up strategies regarding 2014: ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES • Operating the refinery facilities within the framework of and implementing programmes to limit such impacts as far • Annual report of greenhouse gas emissions. The Environmental Management System is an effective approved environmental terms. as possible. • Annual report on generation of hazardous and nonmanagement tool for implementing the various environmental • Distributing products that comply with the European quality hazardous solid waste. protection policy objectives, which are: and environmental protection norms, by taking steps to Additionally, within the framework of EMAS, the company • Annual report on environmental quality. • Complying fully with all Greek and EU environmental upgrade production facilities accordingly. is committed to publishing, on an annual basis, information • Six-monthly reports on emission of pollutants from the protection legislative requirements. • Planning and implementing investment projects with due 60 04 Responsibility for the Environment 04 Responsibility for the Environment 61 central flue of the Hydrocracker Complex. Besides briefing Local Authorities, the company also The above environmental impacts are recorded on a • Annual final report for the European Pollutant Release and maintains open communication lines with refinery neighbours, regular basis, and suitable environmental indices are Transfer Register (EPRTR), in implementation of Regulation listening and responding to any complaints they may have. used for their monitoring, on the basis of which the ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT EVALUATION 166/2006/ΕC. Recording, investigation and evaluation of complaints from appropriate actions are planned and implemented so as CRITERIA • Annual report on taking delivery of waste products of ships local people are all covered by a specific procedure to ensure to ensure that proper measures are taken, and that there arriving at the MOTOR OIL port facilities. the appropriate immediate or long-term corrective action is is effective management and continuous improvement • Data on the main combustion plants and in the framework taken, in line with the causes of the nuisance. of the company’s environmental performance. of Annex VIII (B) of Directive 2001/80/EC. The fact that in recent years the number of complaints from When new projects are being planned, alternative The following were also submitted to the Ministry of the local community has been kept at low levels demonstrates designs are evaluated, taking account of their respective Environment and Energy: the efficacy of the aforesaid measures. Specifically for 2015, environmental impacts, with the aim of minimising these • The main report on soil and underground water status, in we received 15 complaints by neighbours, with 10 of them impacts as far as practicable, incorporating Best Available compliance with Article 22 of Directive 2010/75/EU. concerning nuisance from emissions, 3 from noise and 2 Techniques and choosing the most environmentally • The Annual Environmental Statement 2014, in accordance from odours. friendly solution. with the requirements of EMAS ER 1221/2009. The company is registered with the European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), and in the corresponding Hellenic Register, under number EL 000067. Finally, in the context of implementing programmes of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the location and data of the measurements of the atmospheric quality stations operating at the refinery as well as the refinery’s flues were submitted, for project “Updating of map imaging of the atmospheric pollution through recording atmospheric emissions of the sources and developing an appropriate computational tool”. 3. ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS AND EXPENSES REFINERY COMMUNICATION WITH LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS The company’s investment policy is oriented towards producing products that comply with European quality specifications, MOTOR OIL uses various means of keeping Local Authorities using technologies that minimize environmental impacts, and towards capital investments aiming at improving and and other stakeholders informed of its activities, either by enhancing the refinery’s environmental performance. involving its own staff in conferences and meetings, or keeping local organisations informed about its investment plans and Between 2000 and 2015, the Group realised a massive From 2000 to 2015 investment related to the environment its programmes relating to environmental protection. investment programme, totalling 1,477 million euros (as amounted to 767.5 million euros, i.e. 52% of total investment. shown in the relevant table), the major part of which related In 2015, total investments amounted to 42.4 million euros, to the construction of the new Crude Distillation Unit, as well of which 14.1 million euros concerned projects, whose as the Hydrocracker Complex, which produces “clean fuels” main purpose was the improvement and protection of the 2. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT (i.e. of low sulphur content) satisfying EU specifications. environment. MOTOR OIL, in striving to continuously improve its environmental performance, over and above consistent legal compliance, implements a programme of measures for the prevention and management of the environmental impacts that are unavoidably associated with its operations. GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS AND OPERATING EXPENSES 2000 2015 (MILLION EUROS) An important tool in this endeavour is the measurement, This procedure for classifying the environmental impacts regular evaluation of results, and the systematic assessment associated with the refinery’s operation, and their significance Year 2000-2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total of the environmental impacts at all stages of the production classification, has led to the following impacts being classified Total level of investment 1,043.1 123.3 71.3 67.6 68.7 60.7 42.4 1,477.0 process. This assessment is based on a set of criteria -including as significant, therefore constituting the challenges we are legislative requirements and stakeholder views, which lead called upon to manage: Investment relating to environment 591.1 33.0 36.1 16.4 18.7 11.0 8.4 714.7 to the classification of impacts according to their significance • Gas emissions from fixed combustion sources and from Environmental operating expenses 26.7 4.6 4.0 3.3 4.0 4.5 5.7 52.8 and their characterisation as significant or non-significant. This the refinery’s production processes. classification procedure is also carried out whenever there • Energy and water consumption. TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS 617.8 37.6 40.1 19.7 22.7 15.5 14.1 767.5 are any changes to the refinery’s configuration, re-evaluating • Hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste. AND OPERATING EXPENSES the classification and characterisation of the impacts. • Liquid industrial effluents and urban liquid waste. • Noise. 62 04 Responsibility for the Environment 04 Responsibility for the Environment 63 The construction of a new contaminated soil treatment unit by the method of bioremediation was completed in 2015, with the following results: • Optimization of Energy Efficiency 4. BEST AVAILABLE TECHNIQUES costing 170,000 euros. The unit, which constitutes Best The thermal efficiency of the new furnace is as high as Best Available Techniques (BAT) are techniques that can prevent (primary prevention measures that are intrinsic to the Available Technique, allows processing of hazardous waste 90%, making an important contribution to optimizing energy production process itself), or control (secondary measures or “end-of-pipe” techniques) -in the most efficient mannerat the place where the waste is generated, eliminating the efficiency. the pollution caused by an industrial activity, while being economically feasible and technically practicable. Best Available risks that would arise during transportation to another site • Energy-Saving Techniques per sector are described in the corresponding Reference Documents (BREFs). The revised conclusions of the for processing. The burners of the new furnace incorporate forced draft BREFs for refineries were issued in October 2014. technology, and use less energy than conventional burners. Also in 2015, the pipelines in the port area were cleaned • Reduction in Point Emissions of Pollutants The new Directive 2010/75 aims at the integrated prevention In order to minimize environmental impacts, MOTOR OIL and laid out, and various projects for the management of The enhanced energy efficiency achieved by replacement of and control of pollution that can be caused by industrial incorporates the aforesaid BATs either into the original rainwater and installation of new heat recovery exchangers the old furnace has a direct impact on reduction of atmospheric activities, and the assurance of a high level of protection plans for a unit, or in cases of modernization, expansion or in the desulphurisation units were carried out. Moreover, as emissions (because of the improved combustion process of the environment and links the legislated limit values of modification of existing units and processes. At the same time, part of our programme to upgrade equipment, improvements and reduction in use of fuel). The burners in the new furnace industrial emissions with the levels that are ensured with the company incorporates automations and control systems were carried out in the processing of alkaline wastes by are low NΟx burners, which helps reduce the quantity of the use of the Best Available Techniques. The integrated into the operation of the refinery, that contribute to efficient upgrading the neutralisation unit in order to reduce the load NΟx emitted in the furnace fumes. approach is based on the overall environmental performance management of raw materials and energy, while ensuring of noxious substances. • Reduction of the produced solid waste and particle emissions of a facility and covers emissions into the atmosphere, water high levels of reliability and safety in the units. Finally, Best The increase in energy efficiency leads to an indirect reduction and subsoil contamination, generation of solid wastes, use Available Techniques that reinforce pollution prevention In addition, a series of other projects were implemented in waste generation, since the more efficient combustion of raw materials and energy, noise, accident prevention and have been adopted, and are applied in the refinery’s daily during the year, within the framework of the refinery energy means that less coke is formed. Subsequently, reducing the the rehabilitation of worksites. operations. Some typical examples of BAT applications in efficiency improvement programme, concerning the reduction number of these processes to the current 12-month interval the refinery are shown in the following table. of energy consumption, and subsequently of carbon dioxide will entail a reduction in particle emissions. emissions as well. Within the Group there is no production of renewable sources For 2016, in the context of the effort to further reduce of energy, and thus there was no investment in this area. emissions, there are plans to expand the existing loss monitoring system by tripling the available flow meters in Α. ENERGY SYSTEM FURNACES, BOILERS, GAS TURBINES the flare circuit. In 2015, we started designing the upgrade of the vacuum 767.5 million euros in 1. Use of efficient energy generation techniques, e.g. generating energy by gas turbines, combined-cycle facilities, efficient operation of boilers and furnaces distillation units by replacing the 3 old furnaces with 2 new environmental investmentS and technologically advanced and more efficient ones, which 2. Increasing the energy efficiency of the refinery by: will have a shared system that heats the combustion air, and operating expenSES from • Upgrading of furnaces and boilers. thus increasing the thermal performance. With this energy 2000 to 2015 • Use of optimal combustion programmes. upgrade, fuel consumption in the units furnaces will be • Balancing generation and consumption of energy using automated control systems. significantly decreased, and in combination with the option • Optimal use of steam in the stripping process and use of steam traps. for simultaneous combustion of liquid and gas fuel, it is • Promotion of energy integration in production processes, through analysis of optimal energy use. estimated that the emissions of pollutants will be noted. • Promotion of heat and energy recovery at the refinery. • Use of heat recovery boilers to reduce use of fuel in generation of steam. In 2015, as in 2014, we expanded our application of the Advanced Process Control system to the hydrodesulphurization 3. Use of refinery clean gas fuel and, if a supplementary supply of energy is required it can be achieved units, achieving optimal control and ongoing automated through the use of liquid fuel in combination with techniques to control pollution, or use of gas fuels regulation of their operation. There are multiple benefits (natural gas, LPG), for example: from the operation of the new system, in terms of operations, • Optimization of the use of refinery gas fuel, or natural gas (with low sulphur content). safety and the environment, the most important being the • Balancing and control of the system for generation of refinery gas fuel. saving of energy and the consequent reduction of our carbon • Increasing use of gas fuels with higher ratio of hydrogen to carbon. footprint in the production process. • Use of good combustion techniques. • Reduction in fuel consumption through the introduction of forced-draft furnaces (increased energy Another important project worth mentioning is the replacement, efficiency). back in 2014, of the furnace of the thermal pyrolysis unit, with a total investment of 11 million euros. Installation of the 4. Control of ΝOx emissions new furnace was intended to modernize and upgrade the • Introduction of Low-ΝOx burners. Thermal Pyrolisis Unit, purely for environmental reasons, • Use of high thermal efficiency techniques, with optimal control systems. 64 04 Responsibility for the Environment 04 Responsibility for the Environment 65 5. Control of particle emissions • Reduction in volume of solid wastes and recovery or regeneration of catalysts. • Use of steam injection techniques. • Solid waste management using specialist companies. • Use of a catalyst which will resist wear caused by friction in the catalytic pyrolysis unit. • Recycling of solid waste where possible. • Use of fuels with low sulphur content. 6. Limiting emissions through continuous monitoring of the sulphur content in fuel Β. MANAGEMENT AND AUTOMATED CONTROL SYSTEMS 5. ENERGY EFFICIENCY • The company has installed a distributed control system DCS to oversee its production process. The Rational use of energy – as well as other scarce resources, like water – is for us an important parameter in our exercise DCS system makes a significant contribution to reducing the environmental impact of the production of responsible business activities and our commitment to the principles of sustainable growth. process, through automation of the process and optimal monitoring of operating parameters. • Application of Management Systems for quality, the environment, health and safety (ISO 9001, ISO Therefore we are committed to: 14001,OHSAS18001). • Measuring and improving, on a continuous basis, our feasible and financially viable environmental protection • Use of Advanced Process Control systems to minimise operation fluctuations and decrease energy performance with respect to the use of energy and the policies. In this context we participated in the national requirements. reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. research projects SIMPLE and HYDROSOL PLUS to promote • Investing in the application of economically feasible research and develop cutting-edge technology in the area C. ANTI-POLLUTION TECHNOLOGY UNITS technologies that contribute to the reduction of emissions. of climate change. • Units to treat gases with amine in order to remove hydrogen sulphide. • Cooperating with the competent state authorities and other • Reporting our actions and results to all stakeholders. • Sulphur recovery units, with an efficiency level of ≥99.9%. stakeholders in planning and implementing technologically • Sour water stripping units with an efficiency level of ≥99.9% in respect of hydrogen sulphide. • Organic treatment unit for liquid industrial waste. • Activated sludge sewage treatment unit. 5.1. ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT • Sludge de-oiling/de-watering units, in which the volume of sludge is significantly reduced. • Electrostatic filter at the Fluid Catalytic Cracking unit. The process of refining crude oil into final products is highly energy-consuming. Requirements for energy (i.e. electric power, • Vapour recovery system at the Truck Loading Terminal. fuel oil, fuel gas and natural gas) are such that its rational use is of paramount importance, both for the environment and • Availability of emergency systems for maintenance work and response to system disruption (load-shedding for the company’s economic results. The refinery’s “energy footprint”, therefore, is an important consideration that leads systems, emergency amine systems, multiple wash down systems). us actively to seek to identify areas where there is potential for enhancing energy efficiency, and to implement appropriate projects through the use of Best Available Techniques or equivalent technologies. D. ANCILLARY FACILITIES • Desalination of water using reverse osmosis technology, using less sea water and feeding the units with The projects completed in 2015 and preceding years, as part the separate increases of raw materials (vacuum distillation, recycling of cooling water. of our ongoing programme to improve the energy efficiency pyrolysis units) and the increase of the processing conditions • Cogeneration of electricity steam with the maximum possible efficiency. of the refinery (new furnace for thermal pyrolysis unit), as for the quality upgrade of products (naphtha reforming, • Recycling of cooling water. well as the expansion and upgrading projects (new Crude isopentane distillation). These particular choices are mainly • Partial use of cooling tower with desalinated water aiming at decreasing the use of sea water. Distillation Unit, with special emphasis on reducing energy due to the international circumstances regarding the prices consumption, use of new generation catalysts in Sulphur of products and the general instability of prices. Ε. PREVENTION AND MONITORING MEASURES Recovery Units, introduction of natural gas into refinery fuel • Limiting fugitive emissions from various sources (oil separators, unit equipment, tanks, piping, etc.) by mix, replacement or major maintenance of gas turbines, Nevertheless, we stand by our commitment for constant placing second-tier seals on floating-roof tanks, using special valves (low leaking) and double-seal pumps, upgrading or replacement of pre-heat furnaces, increase in decrease of energy consumption, which is apparent in the implementation of international construction and piping codes, and so on. condensate recovery rate, installation of Advanced Control following diagram, where the specific energy consumption • Implementation of leak detection and repair programme (LDAR) to detect and respond to fugitive emissions System, maintenance and upgrading of the steam trap in 2015, compared to 2009, dropped by 22.7% (2.49 TJ per and volatile organic compounds from all kinds of equipment. network, installations of new exchangers to maximize heat thousand tonnes of raw materials, compared to 3.22 TJ). • Automated tank cleaning method. recovery, etc.), in combination with systematic monitoring of • Heat exchanger maintenance and cleaning programme. energy efficiency and preventive maintenance programmes • Equipment inspection programme. all these have contributed to the achievement of a steady • Atmospheric emission monitoring programme, through use of automated, highly accurate analysing reduction in the refinery`s energy consumption. The reduction devices, as well as model laboratory methods. in energy consumption has been achieved despite the • Liquid waste monitoring programme, using model laboratory methods. increase in volume of production. Both the overall energy • Use of techniques to reduce production of wastes at source. consumption and consumption per ton of raw material increased in 2015. This is due to factors such as consumption of alternative raw material (naphtha instead of gas) in the hydrogen production and catalytic pyrolysis units, as well as 66 04 Responsibility for the Environment 04 Responsibility for the Environment 67 Avoiding CO2 emissions (tons) by cogeneration of electricity and steam ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2012 345,000 30,825 2013 336,000 2014 332,000 2015 310,000 28,774 27,848 26,952 26,912 27,139 UPGRADING OF PREHEATING FURNACES AND BOILERS 26,146 The upgrading of the furnaces is intended to ensure more The Advanced Process Control system, through continuous -22.7% effective use of the heat from the exhaust fumes, thereby monitoring, achieves the optimisation of energy use in the 3.22 ENERGY reducing consumption of fuel, CO2 emissions and emissions units, where it has been installed. The APC system is fully CONSUMPTION (τj) 2.81 2.79 of other atmospheric pollutants. A rolling programme is operational for the crude distillation units and is now in active 2.50 2.46 2.49 under way to upgrade the refinery furnaces, introducing use at the catalytic pyrolysis units, the vacuum distillation 2.37 SPECIFIC ENERGY forced draft technology – which increases the efficiency of a units, the hydrocracker and hydrogen production units and CONSUMPTION (TJ/ 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 THOUSAND MT OF furnace by more than 6% – and replacing the existing boilers the Diesel hydrodesulphurization units, making a significant RAW MATERIALS) with new, more energy efficient boilers emitting less NOx. contribution to optimizing operations and providing direct For example, upgrading of the crude oil preheating furnace control of their most important operational parameters. (the refinery’s largest) at the Crude Distillation Unit in 2007 Automated sulphur analysers have also been installed and resulted in an increase in thermal efficiency from 80% to 87%. are used by the APC, to accurately adjust the processes and minimise energy consumption. USE OF NATURAL GAS In mid-2014, with the completion of upgrading of the Introducing the use of natural gas to the refinery in 2008 was reducing electricity consumption from the national grid, Visbreaker unit, a new improved-efficiency pre-heating With the same aim, the refinery’s preventive maintenance an important step towards reducing its energy footprint, while the production of which would require a different fuel mix. furnace was installed, allowing a saving of up to 30% in fuel programme provides for: also improving financial and environmental results, given Moreover, heat recovery and steam generation at the refinery use compared with previous years. • The systematic re-tubing, repair and cleaning of heat that the use of natural gas usually reduces CO2 emissions reduce the use of boilers. exchangers and air coolers in order to increase the and is the economically most efficient way of generating Moreover, in 2015 the study for the replacement of the percentage of heat recovery. electricity and producing hydrogen. The resulting benefit for the environment in terms of furnaces of the vacuum distillation unit was launched, with • Replacing, through annual programmes, of pipeline and lower CO2 emissions due to own generation of electricity is an anticipated decrease in the consumption of fuel of the unit, equipment insulation, thus minimizing losses to the Natural gas is used: indicated in the table below: which corresponds to a decrease of the overall consumption environment. • As an alternative raw material for the hydrogen production of the refinery. • The maintenance and/or replacement of rotating equipment, unit (instead of naphtha or LPG), which allows the quantities whose energy performance has fallen below specified 22.7% LESS ENERGY PER TON of carbon dioxide emitted to be reduced by approximately RECOVERY OF GASES AND CONDENSATES levels, as a result of length of use. 8% and 19%, respectively. The recovery of condensates, which are then used in the • Repairing and/or replacing of the refractory material, • As an alternative fuel for the Power Cogeneration Plant gas turbines, instead of either fuel gas or propane, achieving a OF RAW MATERIALS IN 2015 THAN steam boilers to produce steam, was maintained at high burners and tubes of pre-heat furnaces. reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 16%. IN 2009 levels. Using the energy content of the condensates means • The installation of separate meters on the flare system reducing the gas and liquid fuel required to generate steam is under way, in order to continuously monitor and avoid • As an alternative or supplementary fuel for the refinery’s in the steam boilers. the loss of carbon, with a direct impact on the decrease pre-heat furnaces and steam boilers in the place of heavy of CO2 emissions. fuel oil fractions, thus both increasing energy efficiency and In addition, the Power Management System (Best Available Continual care is also taken to maximize recovery of gases, significantly reducing emissions of air pollutants. Technique), which was upgraded in 2011, protects the refinery so that they can be used as fuel and their combustion in the from partial or complete shutdown owing to a failure of the flare minimized. POWER AND STEAM COGENERATION PLANT internal or external power network, significantly increasing the The Cogeneration Plant, following completion of installation of level of safety and reliability, thereby improving environmental DESALINATION the new turbine in 2011, now includes five gas turbines, with efficiency. Desalination of seawater, using reverse osmosis technology a total active power of 85MW, and three boilers recovering is the most energy-efficient method. Extensive use is made heat from the exhaust fumes generated. These boilers of this technique, with four units in operation (the most recent generate about 140 tons of high and low pressure steam per was installed in August 2013). hour, making the refinery self-sufficient in electricity as it eliminates the need to draw power from the Public Power MONITORING AND DAILY PRACTICE Corporation grid – and meeting most of its need for steam. The energy performance of production units is constantly The operation of the Plant also contributes to the reduction of monitored, so as to correct any malfunctions that come to light. greenhouse gas emissions at a national level by drastically 68 04 Responsibility for the Environment 04 Responsibility for the Environment 69 5.2. CO2 EMISSIONS 6. AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT 2015 was the third year of implementation of the new system for monitoring emissions of greenhouse gases, for the It is a fundamental duty of our company to assure air quality at and around our refinery. Our commitment to ongoing period 2013-2020. Apart from the need to reduce CO2 emissions, this phase of application will also be subject to rigorous improvement in this area is not just a response to legal obligation; it is also required by implementation of the principles specifications relating to accuracy of measurements and assessment of their relative uncertainty. of Corporate Responsibility we have adopted, which mean that we regard atmospheric quality as an important issue. In order to comply with these requirements, MOTOR OIL: • As required by legislation, submits to the competent ministry • Uses the appropriate methodology to monitor CO2 emissions annual reports on CO2 emissions, which are verified as to from its facilities, the methodology resting on methods their reliability and validity by a certified external agency. of calculation based on flow analysis measurements and analyses of fuel quality. • Furnaces CO2, NOX, SO2, Suspended particles. Gaseous • Calculates at the refinery chemistry laboratory – certified to ΕΝ 17025:2005 standards – the quantity of carbon contained 24.6% FEWER CO EMISSIONS 2 • Boilers Burners emissions from point sources of combustion in the refinery gas fuel using the gas chromatography PER TON OF RAW MATERIAL • Gas Stripping Unit method. IN 2015 THAN IN 2009 • Sulphur Recovery Units (Catalytic SO2, H2S conversion of hydrogen sulphide into Hydrogen sulphide emissions of H2S are sulphur, followed by combustion of minimal, due to their full conversion into solid residual gases) sulphur • Fuel storage VOCs Emissions CO2 EMISSIONS • API oil separators Emissions of volatile organic compounds • Loading-unloading of feedstock and originate from the fuel storage tanks, from 2,216 products operation of the API oil separators, and from • Distribution network leakages leakages which may occur during intrarefinery fuels movement. 2,111 1,977 1,968 1,945 1,965 1,881 EMISSIONS MONITORING -24.6% To protect and improve air quality, air pollutant emissions are cracking and Lubricants complexes are continuously 0.236 monitored using a wide range of techniques; state ofthe-art monitored by online analysers. The parameters monitored 0.202 0.195 measurement equipment is employed. The measurement are: concentrations of oxygen, nitrogen oxides, sulphur ANNUAL EMISSIONS 0.183 programme, including continuous as well as intermittent dioxide and suspended particles, as well as temperature, (THOUSAND MT) 0.178 0.174 0.178 readings, covers both point and diffused emission sources. flow and pressure of flue gases. SPECIFIC ANNUAL EMISSIONS (MT CO2 PER MT OF 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In the peripheral zone of the refinery, air quality is monitored As in the case of the main refinery stacks, the main pipelines RAW MATERIAL) at four stations: channelling gases to the flares of the Combustion, Lubricants • Three fixed monitoring stations are capable of continuously and Hydrocracking units are subject to continuous flow measuring the concentration of hydrogen sulphide (Η2S) measurement. and sulphur dioxide (SΟ2). • A mobile station equipped with automated state-of the-art At the Catalytic Cracking Unit there is continuous monitoring Total CO2 emissions for 2015 were 2,216 thousand tons. As part of our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions we have been measuring and recording devices, which can perform a of the flow, humidity, pressure and temperature of the flue This year we see an increase of total emissions and a participating since 2013 in the national research project wide range of measurements, including meteorological gases, the concentration of oxygen and carbon monoxide, of slight increase of emissions per ton of raw material. This is HYDROSOL PLUS, whose aim is to develop cutting-edge parameters (wind speed and direction, air temperature sulphur dioxide, of nitrogen oxides and of suspended particles. mainly due to the stricter method for calculating emissions, technology for the use of industrial waste streams rich in and relative humidity), and the concentrations of nitrogen It should be noted that all analysers are connected to the as imposed by international laws. Specifically, in 2015 the CO2 as sources for the generation of fuels with the use of oxides (ΝΟ, ΝΟ2 and NOx), sulphur dioxide (SO2), hydrogen refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS), a configuration calculate coefficients were increase due to combustion of solar energy. sulphide (H2S), carbon monoxide (CO), methane, total that allows for the complete control of the combustion taking liquid fuel, resulting in an increase of CO2 emissions from hydrocarbons, hydrocarbons excluding methane (CH4, place in the furnaces. its combustion by 2.2%. NMHC, THC), benzene, and particulate matter PM10. Emissions from the refinery’s other stacks are monitored every Within the refinery flue gases from the stacks of the main three months by a suitably accredited external organisation. combustion plants (point emissions) of the Fuels, HydroAn automated performance control system operates at the 70 04 Responsibility for the Environment 04 Responsibility for the Environment 71 Sulphur Recovery units, which continuously monitors and Controlling emissions records H2S concentrations at the entry points, and H2S Apart from the measures to control concentrations of airborne and SΟ2 concentrations at the exit points of these units. pollutants, a range of measures has been taken within the LEAK DETECTΙON AND REPAΙR (LDAR) Also, the H2S/SΟ2 ratio is continuously measured, recorded refinery to limit atmospheric pollution, such as: and adjusted, so as to ensure maximization of recovery • Installation of an electrostatic filter on the outlet of the A modern refinery comprises many different types of installed equipment, through which large quantities performance (which is of the order of >99.5% in the case Catalytic Pyrolysis unit, intended to reduce emissions of of raw materials circulate, as well as intermediates and final products. In such a system, it is to be expected of the new, SCOT-type units). The smooth operation of the suspended particles from the catalyst. This reduces total that there will be particular points with a higher risk of hydrocarbons being accidentally released into the afterburners (incinerators) associated with these units is emissions of suspended particles to levels far below the atmosphere. In order to limit fugitive emissions from the equipment, a programme has been implemented achieved through continuous monitoring of SΟ2 and Ο2 at permitted limits. featuring regular controls at selected points (better known as LDAR – Leak Detection and Repair) in order the exit points, and of the temperature at the radiant section • Desulphurization of gases used as fuel in the refinery to identify and repair possible leaks. of the furnaces. Operation of both the Sulphur Recovery before they enter the gas fuel system, reducing emissions units, and the afterburners, is automatically controlled via of sulphur dioxide. Fugitive emissions may arise from leaks in valves, pumps, flanges and other related equipment installed on the refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS). • Installation of burners with low NOx emissions, both in the pipelines, pressure vessels, reactors or storage tanks. design of new furnaces and in the upgrading of old ones, Clean fuel Integrated Sulphur Management System in order to reduce their emissions. In this context, the new In 2015, 6,171 points were inspected as part of the LDAR programme at the MOTOR OIL refinery, covering all Refineries are faced with the following paradox: the amount furnace of the thermal pyrolysis unit has incorporated production units, the Truck Loading Terminals, port facilities, storage tanks and oil separators. The various of sulphur in the available crude oil types is increasing over burners with low NOx emissions. points were checked by refinery staff at least once a year, using portable equipment to measure volatile time, while the specifications for allowable sulphur content in • Furnace cleaning (with urea) in operation, aiming at carbon concentration. In the event that concentrations are found to exceed 5,000 ppm, a repair request for the the fuels produced have reached extremely low levels (e.g. increasing heat induction, saving fuel and decreasing fuel equipment checked is issued. In 2015 15,373 checks were carried out, identifying 3 points requiring attention. for petrol and automotive diesel, the 2009 specification for temperature. sulphur content is a maximum of 10 ppm or the equivalent • Installation of closed circuits in the gas processes, relieving of 0.001%). Moreover, the maximum acceptable level of pressure of gases by safety valves to the flares, placing sulphur emissions is also low, since the content of sulphur of second-tier seals on floating-roof tanks, placing of IN NUMBERS dioxide in the atmosphere around a refinery, on an hourly floating tops on the oil separators and installation of a The diagram below shows total annual emissions of sulphur dioxide, as well as emissions per ton of raw material. In 2015, basis, should not exceed 350 mg/m³. In this context, the steam recovery system at the Tanker Loading Terminal, there was an increase of the total emissions and the emitted SO2 value per ton of raw material compared to 2014. This removal of sulphur coming into the refinery with crude as well as measures to reduce emissions of hydrocarbon increase is due to more general economic factors, which shaped the refinery’s market in 2015, keeping natural gas prices oil -at a concentration varying between 0.4 and 4.0%is a gases, in tandem with the implementation of the system at very high levels and leading many refineries to cut its use in their fuel mix in favour of other traditional fuels (fuel oil). significant challenge. of bottom-loading tankers. However, the long-term downward trend remained, as did our commitment to achieve ever lower levels of emissions. • Installation of steam recovery units for loading of petrol at MOTOR OIL, as a responsible corporate citizen with respect for all Avin Oil and Coral facilities, as provided for in legislation, the environment, has in place a particularly effective system and at all service stations for use in unloading of petrol which incorporates Best Available Techniques, in order to from tankers to tanks (in accordance with the provisions achieve the best results, both in terms of maximising the of Directive 94/63 (Stage I)). SULPHUR DIOXIDE EMISSIONS degree of sulphur removal and minimising the amount of • Bottom-loading of tankers. energy consumed. In this way, and through the Hydrocracker Complex, MOTOR 4.6 OIL produces and markets petrol and diesel with a sulphur content below 10 ppm. 3.7 3.4 3.5 3.3 This results in reduced sulphur emissions from the refinery, 3.0 2.8 while the overall rate of hydrogen sulphide conversion into elemental sulphur in the new SCOT-type Sulphur Recovery -49.1% units is in the order of 99.95%. 0.55 ANNUAL Elemental sulphur is initially produced in liquid form, which EMISSIONS (THOUSAND MT) 0.40 by cooling and appropriate processing, is converted to a solid 0.28 0.31 0.28 0.28 0.27 granular form, stored in silos for sale as a raw material for SPECIFIC ANNUAL EMISSIONS (KG the production of sulphuric acid and fertilisers. The whole SO2 PER MT OF RAW MATERIAL) process is carried out in a completely closed circuit, thus 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 avoiding the dispersing of sulphur particles in the air, and minimising entirely any environmental impacts. 72 04 Responsibility for the Environment 04 Responsibility for the Environment 73 As far as air quality during 2015 is concerned, the processing (on January 31st and 1 February 1st) due to the meteorological of the recordings at the four air quality monitoring stations, conditions prevailing in the area (transfer of dust from Africa). in the context of the emissions monitoring programme, has These excesses, as set out by the environmental terms, AVERAGE ANNUAL shown, as in previous years, that air quality in the vicinity of were declared to the competent authorities. CONCENTRATION the refinery remains highly satisfactory. Detailed figures for OF SUSPENDED 70 the last five years show that there has been no exceeding PARTICLES pm10 60 of the hourly limit values and daily levels permitted by Daily limit value 50 49.1% FEWER SO EMISSIONS legislation, and the recorded values are much lower than the limit values allowed. 40 μg/m3 2 The following diagrams show the average annual values of the PER TON OF RAW MATERIAL 30 last seven years for SO2, NO2 and suspended PM10 particles. IN 2015 THAN IN 2009 20 10 We note that in 2015, the average daily concentration of suspended PM10 particles exceeded the legal limits for 2 days 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 AVERAGE ANNUAL Further related information on control of emissions during 2015, can be found in the Environmental Statement 2015, which CONCENTRATION OF so2 presents diagrams relating to all air pollutants. 140 Daily limit value 120 7. LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT 100 Liquid waste produced by the refinery’s various processes fall into two categories: industrial waste and urban waste. μg/m3 80 60 The management and processing of liquid waste is a material The effectiveness of operation of the Industrial Waste Water 40 issue for the company, which incorporates Best Available Treatment Plant is evidenced by the fact that concentrations 20 Techniques, while due to their different pollutant load, the of various pollutant substances at the plant outlet are clearly industrial and urban waste streams undergo different types below relevant limit values. In the case of some substances 0 of processing prior to their final disposal. Industrial liquid (including benzene, toluene, ethyl benzene, xylene and a 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 waste is pre-processed and then taken to the Liquid Industrial number of heavy metals), their concentrations are very much Waste Treatment Plant, while urban waste is removed to below corresponding limit values, approaching the limits of the Urban Waste Treatment Plant. The residual sludge left detection in some cases. after the waste is processed, is dehydrated and compressed prior to final disposal, according to the approved refinery environmental terms. AVERAGE ANNUAL CONCENTRATION OF νo2 Supply and concentrations of pollutant parameters at outlet of Liquid Industrial Waste 250 Treatment Plant (average annual values) Hourly limit value Average value Limit 200 Parameter 2012 2013 2014 2015 value 150 Supply (m3/day) 10,968 9,485 9,817 10,070 μg/m3 pH 8.0 7.4 7.5 7.6 6-9 100 Temperature (οC) 24.1 25.4 25.4 27.5 35 50 Oil (mg/l) 2.5 2.2 2.5 2.1 10 BOD5 (mg/l) 23.7 24.5 24.5 23.8 40 0 COD (mg/l) 104.6 104.9 106.0 105.3 150 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 NH3 (mg/l) 13.3 13.4 13.5 13.4 15 Phenols (mg/l) 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.5 Sulphurs (mg/l) 1.0 1.1 1.1 1.1 2 Suspended solids (mg/l) 17.2 16.7 17.7 19.0 40 74 04 Responsibility for the Environment 04 Responsibility for the Environment 75 • Monitoring and control of subsoil and aquifer quality, based near the refinery. The study was conducted by the Applied on hydro-geological studies submitted to the Ministry of Geo-Chemistry Laboratory of the Geology Department, not only a non-hazardous waste, but in the majority of the controlled parameters in wash down tests, the the Environment, Energy and Climate Change, takes place University of Patras. According to the result of the study results are lower than the limits for inactive waste. The processed waste, as a non-hazardous materials now, at 10 boreholes. According to the approved environmental “the environmental conditions prevailing in the coastal area is made available to appropriately authorised management authorities. terms, during 2015, two sets of samples were taken at these of the study, show the normal characteristics of a coastal boreholes – one every six monthsin order to determine the area for the season of the measurements and are in line With the above procedure, 388 tons of contaminated soil were processed and disposed in 2015. value of a number of parameters, such as concentrations with the area’s geomorphological characteristics”. of heavy metals and hydrocarbons, the results of which Use of this method minimizes environmental impact, because: were found to meet legislative requirements. • It is a Best Available Technique, which allows processing of hazardous waste at the place where the waste • Sampling and measurements continued in 2015, to is generated, eliminating the risks that would arise during transportation to another site for processing. monitor conditions in the seawater of the coastal area • The basic pollutants (petroleum-based substances) are processed efficiently, eventually being completely eliminated. • Mixing of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes is avoided. 8. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT RECYCLING • No hazardous substances are used, nor is there any need for significant consumption of water or energy. • Suitable techniques are used to avoid contamination of the ground, sub-soil, water table or atmosphere. Management of the solid waste generated by refinery operations is a material issue for the company. Waste management is based on an integrated process, covering all stages in the life cycle of the waste in one of the following ways: or processing within the refinery and re-use; recycling outside the refinery; recovery outside the refinery; final disposal outside the refinery. Recycling and/or disposal of solid waste (MT/year) The main aims of the solid waste management programme are: The company, as a solid waste producer, submits an annual 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 • Reduction of quantities produced, at source, report to the competent departments of the Ministry of the Batteries 11.3 5.2 4.5 11.1 1.04 • Separation into hazardous and non-hazardous waste at Environment and Energy, which records all types of solid Tires 8.1 7.1 4.0 2.9 0.7 source, wherever possible, waste arising from its operations and how solid waste is Lubricants1 45.4 2.2 192.1 27.5 1.4 • Maximum exploitation prior to final disposal, through handled, while identifying the legally-approved recipients. Wooden packaging 58.4 39.5 88.7 98.4 115.7 recycling or re-use or recovery of useful components or As far as used lubricants and their packaging is concerned, Paper and paper packaging2,3 34.9 38.3 156.6 171.8 203.0 regeneration, and finally, contracts are in place with a firm specialized in used mineral Plastic and plastic packaging 14.4 44.1 228.2 233.4 214.8 • Safe transportation and final disposal without putting at oil recycling and with a firm specialized in handling packMetal (scrap) 2,219 1,000 1,431 1,597 2,198 risk human health or the environment. aging materials. These two contracts provide for recycling Electrical/electronic equipment 0.8 1.2 0.9 5.7 1.9 of used lubricants and their packaging, thus contributing to Contaminated soil 11.0 0 0 0 403.4 Only licensed companies specializing in the handling of solid the protection of the environment and the rational use of Contaminated packaging 44.8 27.1 20.6 13.8 8.7 waste are used for carrying out disposal of such waste. raw materials. We also collaborate with accredited firms Asbestos-containing materials 0 13.3 0 0 12.7 Spent catalysts, which, depending on the particular case for recycling other categories of solid waste. Printer cartridge packaging (items) 949 2,183 369 825 712 may be classified as hazardous solid waste, are disposed Exhausted catalysts for recycling 0 44.3 1,133 2,818 2,747 of in a number of ways (either exported, or regenerated 1. These quantities refer to the refinery alone, since corresponding reliable figures for the AVIN OIL and CORAL retail networks are not available. for re-use by specialised firms abroad, or used in cement 2. Recycled and non-chemically bleached paper is being used by all the companies of the Group. manufacture). Empty hazardous substance containers are 3. Money raised from paper and toner cartridges recycling at the Group Head Office is donated to the “ELPIDA” Foundation. also disposed of by licensed companies. REPROCESSING OF RAW MATERIALS The various stages of refining create by-products with specifications that deviate significantly from the desirable ones, in which case it is necessary to reprocess. The effort made, is towards the direction of utilising them as much as possible in Contaminated soil processing unit later stages of refining, in order to minimise the consumption of energy and the capacity that is committed for reprocessing. The goal is to restrict the overall reprocessing to the crude oil units. The quantities that were reprocesses are presented In 2015 the contaminated soil waste treatment by the bioremediation method was completed and it was put below: into operation. The investment involved the construction of a unit for the processing of contaminated soil to allow its biodegrading using the biopile method, and the further management of the processed soil as Reprocessing of raw materials (Mt) non-hazardous waste. 2012 56,600 The experience to date, based on the records of the biodegrading unit and the results of the analyses of 2013 87,300 approved external laboratories, showed that excellent results are achieved. The biodegrading product is 2014 64,700 2015 88,200 76 04 Responsibility for the Environment 04 Responsibility for the Environment 77 9. WATER MANAGEMENT Results of measurements for 2015 are set out in the table below and show that noise levels are lower than the legal limits laid down in the environmental operating conditions of the refinery. MOTOR OIL views water resource management as a material issue and has consistently implemented measures to reduce and rationally manage water consumption at its refinery. AVERAGE AVERAGE AVERAGE LEGAL LIMITS MEASUREMENT FOR MEASUREMENT FOR MEASUREMENT FOR (dBA) The water used in the various parts of the refinery is sea It should also be noted that since 2008, the refinery has been FEBRUARY 2015 JUNE 2015 OCTOBER 2015 (DBA) (DBA) (DBA) water processed at desalination units. The desalination is steadily reducing the quantity of water consumed for each ton effected using both Multi-Stage Flashing and Reverse Osmosis of raw materials, with this value at the end of 2015 standing Perimeter of refinery facility 54.7 54.4 54.6 65.0 techniques, the latter being the preferred method from an at 0.289 cubic metres of water for each ton of raw material. Southern refinery perimeter 52.3 53.1 52.2 55.0 environmental and economic perspective. The refinery’s This good performance is due to the major efforts made by desalination system has 3 MSF units and 4 RO units. This the company and the substantial investment in projects to system allows full coverage of the refinery’s water needs, improve energy efficiency at the refinery (reduction of steam Particular care is also taken with the new projects being of equipment with low noise emissions, in order to add as eliminating the need to purchase additional fresh water on consumed, operational improvements, etc.). carried out at the refinery. In the design of each new project little as possible to the overall noise pollution caused by the open market. special measures are taken, such as the installation of the refinery. silencers, the placing of sound curtains and the procurement ANNUAL WATER CONSUMPTION 11. PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT Due to its location, the operation of MOTOR OIL’s refinery is completely linked with the marine environment. Owing to 0.375 0.321 0.285 0.289 the extensive impacts of a potential pollution incident, both for the marine ecosystem and the economic and social life 0.328 0.304 of adjacent areas, as well as the tremendous expense that rehabilitation would involve, extensive prior planning and 0.317 preparation for prevention of, and successfully responding to such incidents is imperative. -22.9% It should be noted that no parts of the refinery abut on natural • Checks the readiness for implementation of the existing 3,129 2,962 3,166 3,451 3,355 3,462 3,576 habitats or protected areas which might be affected by its anti-contamination plans and maintains a high degree of 3,137 3,044 3,166 3,455 3,355 3,462 3,576 INCOMING WATER (THOUSAND Μ3) operations. readiness among staff to use the equipment involved, with DESALINATED WATER (THOUSAND Μ3) 8 an annual programme of drills. It should be noted that the TOTAL CONSUMPTION 4 0 4 0 0 0 In this context, MOTOR OIL: scenario in the above drills involves more general refinery (THOUSAND M3) • Implements all necessary active and passive protection safety issues as well as security issues for the port and 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 SPECIFIC WATER CONSUMPTION (M3/MT measures to minimize the risk of oil spills during the vessels. OF RAW MATERIAL) operation of its refinery. In 2015 not a single leak was • Is a member of international and regional organizations, reported. whose aim is the prevention and timely response to oil • Implements all necessary measures and provides all spill incidents (see Participations Collaborations section equipment for the safe sail-in and sail-out of tankers at in chapter 1). RE-USE AND RECYCLING OF WATER its port facilities, as well as for the safe loading/unloading One of the important processes at the refinery is the processing of the acid water flows generated in different phases thereof. of the production process, in order to remove hydrogen sulphate and ammonia. About 35% of this water flow is recycled • Keeps on hand all necessary equipment for response to a to feed the crude oil desalinators, while the rest is channeled to the Industrial Waste Water Treatment Plant, allowing a small or medium-scale local contamination incident (Τierproportional reduction in consumption of fresh water and in the volume of wastes needing treatment. 1/2). It also keeps on hand a stock of oil slick dispersant, which can be used only with the consent of the Port Authorities. 10. NOISE MANAGEMENT Noise caused by industrial facilities, such as the refinery, is a natural and unavoidable consequence of the activities taking place. MOTOR OIL makes every effort possible to reduce environmental noise levels at the boundaries of the installation and thereby limit the nuisance caused to those living around the refinery, carrying out measurements at regular intervals at set points around the facility and taking a number of measures. 05 Social We stand side by side with the community, offering consistent and long-lasting support. responsibility Our standing objective is to follow a course of constant growth and creation of value for all stakeholders, effectively playing our social role, and increasing our contribution to society. Our sense of responsibility to society is expressed, first and foremost, through our contribution to the general recovery and consolidation of our nation’s economy. It is of vital importance to us that our activities should benefit the society in general, by way of direct and indirect job creation, fostering local entrepreneurial activity and purchasing goods and services from the domestic and local suppliers. 482.2 million EUROS Moreover, we wish to see all our business activities interact positively and productively with the social environment in which we operate. It is for these reasons that the Motor Oil Group implements a program of donations and sponsorships, addressed directly to local communities, designed to help improve quality of life, protect the environment and foster a healthy social and cultural life in local communities and across FOR THE SOCIAL PRODUCT the country as a whole. 36.6 million EUROS It is one of the Group’s strategic objectives to bring prosperity to the communities around or in the general area of its refinery and the facilities of its commercial companies through job creation, support for the local market, and general social care. Finally, according to the supplementary indices of the Oil & Gas Sector, our Group does not operate in areas IN SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS AND where there are native populations, or where such populations might be affected by our activities, nor were SPONSORSHIPS IN THE PAST 10 YEARS there any significant disputes, involuntary movements of personnel or other impacts on local communities 3.1 or native populations in 2015. million EUROS FOR 2015 80 05 Social responsibility 05 Social responsibility 81 1. ECONOMIC BENEFITS TO SOCIETY SOCIAL PRODUCT The overall scale of the Group’s operations, combined with its consistent focus on steady growth, result in a very significant Social Product 2015 contribution to the country’s economic development. This contribution, based on our successful business activities, is made MILLION EUROs through the generation of value, the creation of jobs and our contribution to social progress and cohesion. REVENUES FROM CUSTOMERS AND OTHER SOURCES Our operations in the critical energy sector reduce our euros were used to purchase crude oil, other raw materials 7,371.4 country’s dependence on foreign sources of petroleum and finished products. This represents 86.5% of revenues, CHANGE IN NET BORROWING 140.4 products. Moreover, our interaction with stakeholders creates a justifiable amount given the nature of Group activities. primary value for their benefit and secondary value too, in TOTAL INCOME TO BE DISTRIBUTED that it contributes to the value they in turn generate for the 7,511.8 482.2 million Euros SOCIAL economy and for society as a whole. STAKEHOLDERS In 2015, the Group’s total revenues from economic activities 6,798.9 amounted to 7,511.8 million euros. Out of these, 6,497.5 million PRODUCT IN 2015 SUPPLIERS – RAW MATERIALS 6,316.7 SOCIAL PRODUCT 2015 (million euros) Staff Other purchases 2011 499.1 Gross remuneration, other 180.8 2012 512.6 benefits, insurance contributions Banks (own and employer’s) 2013 454.7 Interest payments 127.1 2014 435.9 90.2 Society 2015 482.2 Assurance Donations – Sponsorships Health & Safety 3.1 Environment, Maintenance The Social Product is that part of our income allocated repairs and preventive maintenance. Public Sector Premiums to selected stakeholders, i.e. the workforce, the state, Taxes and duties 54.7 shareholders, banks, suppliers (not including suppliers of Based on the above, the Social Product returned to 9.5 crude oil, other raw materials and finished products), as well stakeholders in 2015 amounts to 482.2 million euros, while Shareholders as at large (donations and sponsorships). It also encompasses the amounts given back in previous years can be seen in Dividends the cost of securing operations, including expenditure for the following table: 16.7 Health, Safety and the Environment, insurance of facilities, Balance AVAILABLE 712.9 2.0% DISTRIBUTION OF SOCIAL PRODUCT 2015 3.5% total: 482.2 MILLION EUROS 26.3% Investments in Development, Health, Safety and Environment 18.7% 42.4 Cash RESERVES 670.6 Staff: Gross remuneration, other BENEFITS, insurance 0.6% contributions (own and employer’s) State Revenues Shareholders Banks 11.4% Sponsorships/Donations SUPPORT OF LOCAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP Assurance costs (Health & Safety, Environment, As the largest enterprise and employer in the Prefecture in neighbouring municipalities). Moreover, the company Maintenance, Premiums) of Corinth, MOTOR OIL makes a direct or indirect financial supports local initiatives to encourage entrepreneurship. Other purchases contribution for a large number of businesses and families 37.5% in the region (approximately 600 refinery employees live We have a policy of preferring local businesses when it comes 82 05 Social responsibility 05 Social responsibility 83 to supplying the refinery with services, consumables, food, Corinth and the surrounding region. We further paid roughly feel absolute confidence in Shell fuels, in terms of quantity for all domestic and professional liquefied gas applications. etc. even when there are financially more advantageous 1.2 million euros in municipal and property taxes. and quality. Finally, all our companies have integrated customer service offers from outside the area. In 2015 we spent 10.6 million systems, using call centres and e-mails. Our customer service euros, thereby providing further support to the economy of Coral Gas aspires to be the leading company in Greece and is centres deal with more than 350,000 calls each year, also continuing efforts to offer innovative products to its customers. responding quickly and flexibly to several thousand requests In 2014, after two years of research, it introduced a special from customers and final consumers. internal safety valve on its LPG cartridges. It therefore now 2. CUSTOMER SERVICE AND RESPECT distributes all its packaged products to the market with special safety valves (the traditional liquefied gas bottles with FLV, All the MOTOR OIL Group companies operate having customer service as a top priority. The Group’s long experience GoGas with triple security and the new container with an ILL and high level of expertise, and its rigorous insistence on high quality, guarantee comprehensive, integrated service and Flow Limiter Valve) significantly raising the level of safety ongoing development of relations of trust with customers and associates. and protecting the consumer by applying the latest solutions THE REFINERY MOTOR OIL conducts quantitative and qualitative customer satisfaction surveys covering the full spectrum of its clientele. In 2015, the companies Coral, AVIN OIL and Cyclon continued using their state-of-the-art mini-vans, which travelled around 3. SOCIAL SOLIDARITY AND SPONSPORSHIPS This aims at establishing an objective view of their level of Greece carrying out thorough quantity and quality controls. Through our social responsibility projects we seek to demonstrate a steady, consistent support for the community, satisfaction, by obtaining feedback about their perception of These are usually unannounced and cover all the companies’ providing support for values which will improve the life of the community in education, health care, culture, sports and the quality of services rendered, and their overall impression retail stations. In 2015, 2,220 visits were made to the Group’s entrepreneurship. of its corporate image. retail stations all across Greece. In 2015, as in previous years, our company’s social action The actions we have supported were chosen by the relevant The basic objectives of these surveys are: Moreover, once a year, our companies carry out a market focused on the financing and promotion of social solidarity executives of the company at the local and central levels, in • Assessing customer satisfaction. research on a large sample, collecting and evaluating data on programs across the country, though our primary focus accordance with the procedures set out in the relevant policy • Evaluating the importance of the entire range of MOTOR levels of service, fuel quality, customer selection criteria, etc. was placed on organizations and agencies based mainly and in implementation of our strategy for social responsibility, OIL’s individual services. In addition, Shell service stations are also subject to inspection in municipalities in the vicinity of our facilities. Our main which is structured along the following key axes: • Determining aspects of current products, services and by unannounced visitors in the Mystery Motorist programme objective was to relieve poverty among the most vulnerable • Social solidarity provisions that require improvement. operated worldwide by Shell. The scheme allows evaluation social groups, and to help them meet their basic needs. To • Culture • Determining the criteria applied by those selecting MOTOR of the level of service and customer satisfaction using a this end, we have promoted actions designed to bring relief • Youth education, culture OIL as a supplier, and assessing their impression of MOTOR questionnaire covering such areas as efficiency, service, to our fellow citizens, while also supporting cultural agencies, OIL’s image as a supplier. cleanliness and speed of transactions. In 2015, some 2,400 educational institutions, organizations engaged in charitable secret visits were carried out at Shell service stations. and humanitarian work, as well as local government agencies. Survey data are evaluated, with a view to building on the The results of these are presented to Coral’s Retail Sales company’s strengths and to detecting in particular the Department, which in turn discusses them with the retail company’s weaknesses and taking appropriate corrective station managers and takes corrective measures where action, thereby demonstrating the customer-focused nature necessary. of the company’s strategy. Over time this process has led to a reduction in the number of complaints about the refinery; in Customers can now express their opinion through Voice of Allocation of social 2015, there were just 2 complaints, on quality issues which Customer, an innovative online consumer survey application, responsibility funds 2015 13.9 % were successfully resolved. through PC and mobile phone, where customers can give their opinions after a visit to a Shell gas station. This platform OUR COMMERCIAL COMPANIES generates about 4,000 filled in questionnaires each month, 33.2% The Group’s commercial companies have integrated systems giving us the opportunity to quickly analyse the results and for serving the thousands of customers who place their trust resolve any problems our customers may encounter. Finally, in them every day. the Egnomi tool was launched in 2015, which is used to easily and quickly collect consumer opinions on-site at the More specifically, they have full quality and quantity control gas station, based on questions appearing on devices. The systems for their fuels, carried out at all stages of transportation Egnomi application provides more than 45,000 answers every from the refinery or the depot to the retail stations. With the month, giving the company the opportunity to be informed support of our specialised chemical laboratories, as well as about customer satisfaction in detail and per gas station. Social Solidarity 43.9% Culture the special vans which carry out unannounced checks at our All these measures, in combination with the groundbreaking Youth (education, sports) 9% retail stations, we take active steps to ensure the quality of technology of the molecular marker in all differentiated Shell Heating oil our products. fuels, and the special Smart Ring for deliveries of heating oil to homes and diesel to vessels, mean that customers can 84 05 Social responsibility 05 Social responsibility 85 3.1. SOCIAL SOLIDARITY SUPPORTING CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS AND INSTITUTIONS Our company’s objective is to promote and support actions designed to relieve the needs of less advantaged social groups. Our objective is to make a contribution to improving living of which will be used to offer medical equipment to the To this end, the company offers help to agencies that have demonstrated significant work in this area over a number of years. conditions for people with problems, helping organizations and Neonatal Intensive Care Units of state hospitals. foundations which offer high-quality services to assist them • We have provided financial support to associations We have provided support for many community actions, provided food for the indigent through municipal and church in their rehabilitation and reintegration into the community. and agencies involved in community work, such as the organizations, supported the work of charitable organizations and foundations, supported actions for health and supplied Specifically: Women’s Association of Agioi Theodoroi, the Evaggelismos large quantities of heating oil to the municipalities bordering on our refinery facilities and other selected areas across • We have supported the activities of the Marianna V. tis Theotokou Church of Agioi Theodoroi, the association the country. Vardinoyannis Foundation. Set up by its President, UNESCO “Transparency International Hellas”, etc. Goodwill Ambassador Mrs Marianna V. Vardinoyannis, the • In the area of health care, we assisted the work of FIGHTING POVERTY Foundation seeks to promote issues related to protection researchers at the Virology Department of the Agios The economic crisis affecting Greece over the last few the Prefecture of Corinth, the final recipients including the of children’s rights, while improving living conditions for Savvas Hospital, who are studying cases of cancer caused years has had as a direct result, a dramatic increase in Municipality of Loutraki-Agioi Theodoroi, the Municipality children in all areas. by viruses. We also supported the radiation laboratory of cases of poverty. In response to this need, our company has of Corinth and bordering communities, members of poor • We supported with a fuel sponsorship the non-profit the Kouloureio Hospital “Panagia Faneromeni” in Hydra, undertaken to support the most vulnerable social groups, families, associations, and societies providing support organisation “+plefsi”. Its purpose is to support and with the donation of one teleradiology device, as well as both by supplying the neediest with staple goods, and by services, and so on. improve the living conditions of the residents of remote the Greek Cardiology Institute with financial assistance specific grants of money. Actions have focused mainly on Greek islands. in the free testing program that was offered during the • We have supported the humanitarian agency Lifeline Hellas, Cholesterol Check-up Month. helping with the organization of an event, the revenues THE FOOD BANK The Motor Oil group has supported the Food bank operating in the Municipalities of Loutraki and Corinth and in the Municipal Ward of Agioi Theodoroi, playing an active part in meeting the basic needs of families in SUPPORT FOR THE ELDERLY financial difficulty. Food for elderly groups in need For more than ten years, Motor Oil has been continually engaged in a very important social initiative in Among other things, our company has provided foodstuffs, helping to ensure the continued operation of an collaboration with the elderly Day Care Centres of the Municipalities of Corinth and Agioi Theodoroi. The institution responding to the difficult social and economic challenges of the present day. The donation by the initiative involves the provision to elderly people of a full lunch and milk and yoghurt for supper – supplied Motor Oil group has helped the more general endeavor, through which more than 1,700 families in financial every day, 365 days a year. The food is prepared at the refinery canteen, and is the same meal that is enjoyed difficulty have found relief. by the refinery workforce. In 2015 the refinery canteen provided meals for 98 elderly people at the Corinth and Agioi Theodoroi elderly Additionally, in an effort to help families facing financial difficulties in Corinth and the surrounding region during Christmas people’s Day Care Centres. and Easter holidays, MOTOR OIL distributed 1,340 food stamps to help them meet nutritional needs and put food on the holiday table. During the holiday period also financially supported, against through donations in the region and municipality of Corinth, the municipality of Loutraki, the municipal wards of SolygeiaSaronikos, Isthmia, Agioi Theodoroi, to the “Agia Olympias” foundation, the “Kivotos tou Paidiou” children’s charity, churches, etc. The company has also supplied foodstuffs SUPPORT FOR LOCAL AUTHORITIES AND OTHER AGENCIES Federation for the publication of the “60 years Panhellenic to the food and clothing bank set up in 2013 by the Metropolitan Church of Corinth, which supports 140 families in great The Group has traditionally supported the local communities Energy Federation” album, narrating the history of the sector need, and has also helped the Agioi Theodoroi Farmers’ Cooperative to meet the needs of children from indigent local it operates in. To this end, we do our best to provide effective through photographs and other historical material. families.Finally, it supported the charity work of the Holy Metropolis of Lampi, Syvritos and Sfakia. assistance, meeting the needs of local authorities and actively helping them in their work. The Group supported the Vardinoyanneion Eye Institute DONATION OF HEATING OIL AND LUBRICANTS of Crete by contributing to the operating expenses of the During the winter of 2015, the company made available the municipal communities of Agioi Theodoroi, Isthmia, In 2015, the Motor Oil Group donated to the Fire Brigade new laboratory that belongs to the University of Crete. around 345,000 litres of free heating oil, worth 275,000 euros. Saronikos and Solygeia, 20 schools in the Municipality of fire-fighting suits, to help them meet their urgent needs in Perama, the Corinth Fire Brigade, police and traffic police personal protection gear. We also offered a new vehicle This social programme is intended to help with the cost of departments, churches, etc. to cover the needs of the Loutraki Police Station, thereby THE ENVIRONMENT heating orphanages, nurseries, municipal childcare centres, assisting them to operate more efficiently. We support activities and programmes, which make an active secondary schools, elderly people’s homes, churches and We have also supplied lubricant oils to government services contribution to improving infrastructures and raising public church foundations located in areas bordering on the refinery, in the Municipality of Corinth and the surrounding region. We have provided financial assistance to the Local Improvement awareness of environmental protection and sustainable as well as other recipients in other parts of the country. The main recipients were the Corinth Police Department, the Society “Klara Elias” of Sousaki, to cover the expenses for a development issues. Among the recipients were the Hatzikyriakio Childcare Loutraki Police Department, the Kiato Highway Police, the club and a 5x5 football field for the community. Institution, “the Foundation of Thracian Art and Tradition, Attiki Odos Highway Police, the Corinth Port Authority, etc. MOTOR OIL provides support to many environmental all schools in the Municipalities of Corinth and Loutraki and Our company was the sponsor of the Panhellenic Energy associations and organizations (MEDASSET, etc.), making 86 05 Social responsibility 05 Social responsibility 87 an active contribution to policies promoting environmental In respect of water supplies, the company this year met the protection. water needs of about 190 homes near the refinery. The water, produced at the refinery by reverse osmosis, is used to water INSTITUTE FOR THE PROMOTION OF JOURNALISM MOTOR OIL has also provided consistent support over the gardens and for cleaning purposes. The supply of water to The Institute for the Promotion of Journalism was founded by Nasos Botsis and has been engaged in important years to the Agioi Theodoroi Forest Protection Society, which these houses, not provided by the Agioi Theodoroi water and valuable work since 1980. Its activities include the conferring, every year since 1982, of Journalism plays an important role in forest protection and fire fighting system, relies on the network of pipes laid and maintained Awards, presented by the President of the Republic at a special ceremony. In order to contribute to promoting within and beyond the Municipality of Agioi Theodoroi. by MOTOR OIL. In 2015, 92,000 cubic metres of water, worth the institute, the Motor Oil group has acted as a sponsor, providing financial support for its invaluable social, more than 100,000 euros, were supplied free of charge. cultural and educational work. It further supported in 2015 the Kythera Foundation for Culture and Development, through the “Trails Programme”, that lays down and promotes hiking trails according to international specifications. 3.3. EDUCATION AND YOUTH We provide consistent support in the sphere of education, support which reflects our belief in the power of knowledge to cultivate our minds and characters and to turn us into active citizens heeding the call of conscience. It is for these reasons 3.2. CULTURE that we take such a keen interest in assisting and promoting the work of education, research and technology. In 2015, the Motor Oil group: • Provided financial support to the General 1st and 2nd Senior We believe in the role of the arts, culture and history as main components of a healthy social development. We strive to • Supported the student group from the School of Chemical High School of Ermioni, the General Senior High School of offer support to activities which highlight and promote our cultural and historical heritage. Engineering of the National Technical University of Athens Agioi Theodoroi, the Primary School, Junior High School by covering the expenses of their trip to participate in the and 3rd Senior High School of Episkopi, Rethymno, the 3rd • During the year 2015, our company provided financial • The Group was the exclusive sponsor in the publication Harvard World Model United Nations Conference. Primary School of Xylokastro, the Special Primary School assistance to various agencies, including the Federation of of the book “History of the Hellenic Navy” that records a • Provided assistance to the 1st and 2nd Kindergartens, the 1st of Corinth, the Lechaio Academy and the 3rd Senior High Local Improvement Societies of Agioi Theodoroi, the Local very significant piece of Navy history, which had not been Primary School, the Junior High and General Senior High School of Ermioni, assisting them in the organisation of Improvement Societies “Glykia Zoi”, “Ano Glykia Zoi”, Ano systematically researched to date. School of Agioi Theodoroi, the Primary and Junior High events, the running of student exchange programs and Sousaki and “Klara Elias” of Sousaki, Corinth, the “Aris Local • At the same time the Group supported the Association of Schools of Athikia, Corinth, the Corinth Special Primary school trips. Improvement Society” of Isthmia, the Panorama Society Emigrants from the Region of Sfakia and the Goulandris School, the Argyroupolis Kindergarten of Rethymno, the • Helped through purchase of games, invitations and lottery of Kinetta, the Agioi Theodoroi Residents Association, the Museum of Natural History by buying invitations. Episkopi Junior and Senior High School of Rethymno, and tickets the Corinth Special Kindergarten and Primary “Protoporos” Society, the association of voluntary workers • It also supported the journal “Periplous Naftikis Istorias” [A the Senior High School of Loutraki, helping all the schools School, children’s day care centres, kindergartens and of Agioi Theodoroi, etc. Voyage through Maritime History] published each quarter to meet their operational needs. Moreover, it provided primary schools in Agioi Theodoroi, the General Senior • The company also made donations to support the work by the Greek Maritime Museum, and assisted the Hellenic computers, interactive boards and printers to the 8 th High School in Agioi Theodoroi, kindergartens in Isthmia of organizations like the Loutraki Cultural Association, the Maritime Association in publishing its journal “Naftiki Primary School, the 1st Junior High School of Rethymno, and the Isthmia Special School. Isthmia Cultural Association, the “Ta Sfakia” Music and Ellas” [Maritime Greece], a traditional maritime magazine the Primary School of Agia, Mylopotamos, Rethymno, • Financially supported the extensive renovation of the Dance Society, the Chanting Workshop of the Municipality published every month by the Naval Print Shop since 1928. the Junior High School of Isthmia, the Primary School of building of the 1st Primary School of Agioi Theodoroi. of Corinth, the Cultural Association “To Prathi” of Agioi • The Group was also a sponsor in the TedX Anogeia Almyri, the General Senior High School of Corinth, etc., • Provided heating oil to dozens of schools in Corinth, Perama, Theodoroi, the “Agios Pavlos” Cultural Association of conference organised on the peak of Psiloreitis Mountain, helping the schools to provide more effective teaching for Crete, Ermioni and Stylida as well as other areas in Attica Kechries, the Federation of Associations of Residents of where innovative ideas and their application in the field of their students. and across Greece, helping schools to run smoothly and Agioi Theodoroi, the “Kalyvizes” Improvement Society, the science and culture were discussed. providing better conditions for learning. “Psiloreitis” Association of Cretans of Corinth, etc. Throughout the year 2015, MOTOR OIL has provided support The financial aid we provided consisted in donations for to local newspapers and magazines in the Municipality of SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM IN ASSOCIATION WITH THE SCHOOL functional needs, indoor and outdoor spatial reconfiguration Corinth and Loutraki, which are having difficulty in meeting OF FINE ARTS projects, building maintenance, road completion and clearing, their publishing costs, as well as supporting radio and TV road surfacing, lighting, water supplies and rainwater stations. In 2012 Motor Oil embarked on a strategic collaboration with the School of Fine arts, in an effort to support drainage pipes, cement laying, covering fixed expenditure, education and the arts and to help young people wishing to continue their studies abroad. advertisements, safety and creation of children’s recreation The MOTOR OIL Group has provided financial support for The collaboration involves the granting of a 12,000 euros scholarship each year to a graduate of the School to grounds, and so on. associations and agencies not just in communities near its allow him or her to pursue postgraduate studies in the visual arts at a foreign university. facilities, but elsewhere in Greece as well. • Our company also made a significant donation to the Cretan Τhe successful candidate is chosen by a five-member panel, and the award-winning work becomes the Centre, helping it tackle real financial difficulties and thereby property of Motor Oil, the hope being that over time a permanent collection of works can be built up for playing an active part in supporting its invaluable work for display around the company’s premises. Cretan students in financial trouble. At the same time, along with their portfolios the candidates submit 1-2 original works to be shown in an • We also supported the Pancretan Association, as we do exhibition to be staged at the head offices of the group over a six-month period. every year, providing financial assistance to help it organize its children’s festival. 88 05 Social responsibility 05 Social responsibility 89 THE VARDINOYANNEION FOUNDATION The Vardinoyanneion Foundation, whose main sponsor is and ordinary secondary schools. The idea is to allow visitors The Poseidon Team from the Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Automation Engineering Motor Oil, was established in 1989 and is administered to learn about the operation of one of the most advanced Departments of the Piraeus Technical Educational Institute and the Departments of of the School of by a seven-member board of trustees. refineries in Europe, with presentations and a guided tour of Administration and Economy of the Piraeus University, took part in the competition for the fourth consecutive the production facilities and workplaces, with information on year with their vehicle Triiris. It was entered in the Prototype (Βattery Electric) category and won 22nd place, Its purpose is the granting of scholarships, awards and the environmental protection programs run by the company, achieving a rate of 293 km/kWh. grants to candidates who have distinguished themselves as well as on its varied program of community work both academically or who are in need of financial support to do in local communities and in society as a whole. During the The team TUC Eco Racing of the Production Engineering and Management School of the Crete Polytechnic, undergraduate or postgraduate studies at colleges and 2015 program, around 741 persons visited the refinery and which entered in the class Urban Concept (Hydrogen), in its eight year of participation in the Marathon, universities here or abroad. the facilities of our commercial companies. achieved a performance of 58 km/kWh with its advanced city vehicle Eco Racer (ER2015), securing 4th place, as it did in 2014. The areas of study and the scholarships available are not STUDENT INTERNSHIPS fixed, but change each academic year, by decision of the Every year the company takes on a number of students for board of trustees. paid summer internship, lasting from one to two months. The students fill various positions in the refinery and at head In the academic year 2015-2016 support was given to 65 office. In addition to this, we give a number of students the students in the following areas (by way of example): economics, opportunity of a sixmonth internship, when this forms 3.4. SPORTS history, biology, psychology, chemistry, etc. One pre-graduate part of the degree course they are taking. We also provide We have offered our support to sports and are also happy to offer substantial assistance to smaller clubs and sporting scholarship in Greece was also granted in the IT field. positions for foreign students to gain work experience, associations in the amateur sector. in collaboration with the International Association for the Since the Foundation began its scholarship program, 162 Exchange of Students for Technical Experience (IAESTE). During the year 2015 the MOTOR OIL Group has supported Sports Club of Agioi Theodoroi, the “Koronis” Sports Club of scholarships have been granted and 1,722 bursaries. the Episkopi Sports Club, Rethymno, and the women’s team Koilada, the Korinthos Volleyball Association, etc. As part of this activity in 2015 we filled 73 trainee positions of of the Rethymno Volleyball Club (ΟPER). EDUCATIONAL VISITS TO THE REFINERY 1-2 months, and 42 positions of over two months, at a total Finally, every year MOTOR OIL makes a doctor and fully Every year we arrange visits to the refinery for students at cost of more than 257,000 euros. The total cost of the program We also helped the Sports Club of Agios Georgios, Corinth, equipped ambulance available for the famous Spartathlon universities and technical colleges, Armed Forces schools has amounted to 1,447,000 euros over the last ten years. with the 5x5 football field project, “Ermis Zonianon” Sports long-distance race, also supporting the Control and Aid Club, the “Isthmiakos” Sports Club, the Poseidon Sports Centre located in front of the refinery. Club of Loutraki, the Korinthos Sports Club, the “Stratilatis” AVIN OIL – MAJOR SPONSOR OF THE RETHYMNO BASKETBALL TEAM SHELL ECO-MARATHON Once again this season, Avin Oil is sponsoring the Rethymno gymnastics Club (Agor), as a Major Sponsor. Our Coral, owner of the Shell trademarks in Greece, actively supports the Shell Eco Marathon, a global initiative, company is a valuable ally to a team which is going from strength to strength, winning significant sporting whose main aim is to promote sustainability in transport, innovation and energy efficiency. Coral invites trophies without compromising the values of fair play and good sportsmanship. schoolchildren and students from Greece to compete in this leading educational programme organized by Shell, with teams from all over Europe, constructing energy-efficient vehicles. The winning team will be that In 2015 further support was given to the social activities of the Rethymno team, in the aim of supporting less which travels the greatest distance with the equivalent of one litre of fuel of its own choice: Traditional internal privileged social groups and educating schoolchildren. combustion engines burning petrol or diesel, engines using biofuels, electric motors, hydrogen cells or solar panels are concealed beneath the exterior of modern, futuristic vehicles which cut a striking figure on the The “Shoot... from the regions” programme, sponsored by Avin oil, has given primary school children the race track. chance to learn more about basketball by playing with players and coaches from the professional team. apart from emphasizing the value of sport, these visits to Rethymno primary schools by players from the team offer Greek teams from leading universities and technical colleges in Greece, as well as schools all over the expertise, material-technical equipment and personal contact and acquaintance with Greek and European country, have been participating since 2004 in the Shell Eco Marathon. In 2015, Greek teams once again played athletes, helping the children acquire ambitions and good role models to emulate. a prominent part in the event, with notable results. The Prometheus Team from the National Technical University of Athens took part for the sixth year running and was ranked 10th in the Battery Electric class, reaching 487 km/kWh with its prototype electric vehicle Pyrphorus, an improvement on its performance last year. 90 06 GLOBAL COMPACT: Communication on Progress 2015 07 GRI COMPLIANCE LEVEL 91 6. GLOBAL COMPACT: Communication on Progress 2015 7. GRI COMPLIANCE LEVEL MOTOR OIL participates in the United Nations Global Compact, which constitutes the biggest Corporate The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report, which has been published every year since 2002, is the main tool available for Responsibility initiative in the world. In year 2008, MOTOR OIL became a signatory of the UN Global communicating with our stakeholders about the Group’s efforts and performance in achieving sustainable development Compact; at the same time the company became a member of the Global Compact Network Hellas. through the application of the principles and objectives of Corporate Social Responsibility. It contains the most important facts and data relating to the previous year’s financial, social and environmental performance. The Global Compact incorporates ten fundamental principles relating to human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. We are committed to these principles, which we have The Sustainability Report 2015 has a similar structure to previous editions, so as to facilitate comparisons of performance integrated in the policies and processes of the company. MOTOR OIL’s Sustainability Report 2015 contains over time. The information and data presented in the Report concern the parent company MOTOR OIL, the Group subsidiaries information relating to our social and environmental practices and the outcomes thereof, which underline AVIN OIL, CORAL, CORAL GAS, OFC and LPC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL, and whose activities have a significant our commitment to the Global Compact. The following chart lists the compliance of MOTOR OIL with impact on issues considered as material for sustainable development. the ten Global Compact Principles, by making reference to the relevant chapters of the Sustainability Report 2015, and to the GRI indicators taken into account in compiling the Report. The compilation of the Sustainability Report 2015 is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, just as in the six previous editions, and specifically of the G4 edition – In Accordance Core. The GRI guidelines have provided a sound basis for the selection of the material issues that had to be covered by the Report, for an effective communication with stakeholders. The ten Principles of the Global Compact Reference in the Sustainability GRI Indicator (G4) Report or Description of the The Sustainability Report 2015 is not certified by an external certification authority. Implementation Approach Human Rights REPORT METHODOLOGY (MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT) Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the Chapters 2 and 3. G4-10, G4-11, G4 LA5-8, One of the most important and fundamental guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative is the concept of materiality. An protection of internationally proclaimed human Full compliance with relevant Greek legislaG4 HR4 rights. tion and international conventions. organization is obliged to report on those matters which have the most significant economic, environmental and social impact, or those matters viewed as most significant by its internal and external stakeholders. Within this context, and in Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not Chapter 2. G4 HR4 complicit in human rights abuses. Full compliance with relevant Greek order to determine which issues are material to us, we have actively involved our stakeholders in order to arrive at a list legislation and international conventions. of issues for this edition of our report. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Chapter 2. G4-11, MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE association and the effective recognition of the G4 HR4 Given the nature of our business it is evident that our report will lay emphasis on matters of safety and the environment, right to collective bargaining. financial results, as well as our social contribution, which are of major importance to our stakeholders. In selecting and Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all Chapter 2. There is no reference of an ranking the material issues, we have used a detailed procedure based on the principles of relativity, importance and forms of forced and compulsory labor. Full compliance with relevant Greek legislaindicator, as this has not emerged ranking. This procedure involved: tion and international conventions. as a material issue during the G4 process. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective Chapter 2. There is no reference of an Step 1: Determination and understanding of the issues significant to our stakeholders, through a process of research abolition of child labor. Full compliance with relevant Greek legislaindicator, as this has not emerged and focus groups made up of employees, local community, suppliers and customers and through benchmarking in the tion and international conventions. as a material issue during the G4 energy sector. More specifically, by benchmarking the latest company reports in the sector, with reference to the material process. issues, it was recognized that financial performance, greenhouse gas emissions, energy, water, health and safety in the Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Chapter 2. G4-10, G4 LA1 workplace, employment, supplier assessment and local communities, are common and material issues. This procedure discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. was followed in order to crosscheck and confirm the material issues identified by the internal procedures of Motor Oil. Environment Step 2: Identification and understanding of significant issues, as these arise from the corporate strategy of MOTOR OIL, Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Chapters 1 and 4. G4 EC2, approach to environmental challenges. G4 EN19, G4 EN31, G4 EN32 through internal procedures. For issues which can be measured in quantitative terms, such as greenhouse gas emissions, there are recognized methods of determining their materiality. For issues of a qualitative nature, various methods were Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to Chapters 1 and 4. G4 EN3-4, EN6, EN8-10, used to assess their materiality, with the involvement of stakeholders but also through the benchmarking process. promote greater environmental responsibility. EN15-16, EN20-26, EN29, EN31-33 Step 3: Bringing together of the results into a matrix, and evaluation of each issue on the basis of its more general social, Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development Chapters 1 and 4. G4 EN6, EN10, EN19, EN31 environmental and economic impact, based on a scale of 1-10. Each issue was evaluated and given a materiality ranking and diffusion of environmentally friendly in accordance with its importance to stakeholders and the company. The issues located in the top right corner of the graph technologies. are regarded as the most material, as appears in the graph. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in Chapter 1. G4-15, G4-34, G4-56, G4 SO5 Step 4: Subsequently, the Report included all issues with the highest level of materiality. Issues of less materiality are all its forms, including extortion and bribery. mentioned only if they are affected by or dependent on issues of greater materiality. 92 07 GRI COMPLIANCE LEVEL 07 GRI COMPLIANCE LEVEL 93 On completion of the above steps, the following areas were referred to as material issues: financial performance, indirect BOUNDARIES AND LIMITATIONS OF MATERIAL ISSUES economic impacts, procurements practices, energy, water, waste, emissions of greenhouse gases, environmental investments, supplier environmental assessment, employment, health and safety in the workplace, employee training, Material Boundaries Limitations trade unions, local communities, anti corruption, compliance with legislation and products labelling. Issues Within the Organization Outside the Organization Within the Outside the Organization Organization Water Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL. Local communities Data only for the refinery. Waste Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL. Local communities and public Data only for the Graph of material issues authorities. refinery. Emissions of Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL. Local communities and public Data only for the greenhouse gases authorities. refinery. 10 Regulatory Compliance Waste Emission of Greenhouse Environmental Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Shareholders, investors, (Environment/Products) Gases Product Labelling Water Financial Performance investments subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas LPC and analysts, local communities, Indirect Economic Impacts Environmental Investments Energy Occupational Health & Safety OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. public authorities. Supplier Environmental Assessment Regulatory Compliance (Society) Employment Local Communities Supplier Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Shareholders, investors, Anti Corruption 8 Complaint Management: Society Environmental subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and analysts, suppliers. Forced Labor Safety Practices Supplier Assessment: Human Rights, Labor Practices Employee Training Assessment OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Equal Pay Procurement Practices Non Discrimination Employment Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Transportation Trade Unions Employer/Employee Relationship subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Non Competitive Behavior Supplier Assessment: Society OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. 6 Diversity Biodiversity stakeHolders Marketing Communications Health and Safety Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Contractors’ staff and tank Child Labor subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and lorry drivers of 3rd party OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. companies Employee Training Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Contractors’ staff and tank subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and lorry drivers of 3rd party 4 OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. companies. Unions Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and Political Party Funding OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. 2 Local Communities Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Local communities and public subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and authorities. OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Anti-Corruption Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Shareholders, investors, anasubsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and lysts, partners, suppliers, 0 OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. customers, public authorities 0 2 4 6 8 10 Compliance Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Partners, suppliers, motor oil subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and customers. OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Products labelling Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Partners, suppliers, subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and customers. OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. BOUNDARIES AND LIMITATIONS OF MATERIAL ISSUES Material Boundaries Limitations Within the Organization Outside the Organization Within the Outside the Overall in the Sustainability Report, where numerical data or performance indicators are presented, the method of data Issues Organization Organization collection and calculation of results is also stated. The Environmental and Health and Safety performance indicators are specifically calculated according to internationally accepted procedures. Also in chapter 4 “Responsibility for the EnvironFinancial Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Shareholders, investors, performance subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and analysts, partners, suppliers, ment” the data relating to investments and recycling refer to the whole MOTOR OIL Group, whereas other indicators in OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. customers. this chapter refer solely to the MOTOR OIL refinery. Indirect economic Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Local communities, public impacts subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and authorities, suppliers. The following table records the GRI Indicators, and in the column headed “Reference” the source of information relating OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. to each indicator is given. Procurement Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Suppliers practices subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and p.: indicates the page(s) of the Sustainability Report 2015 that include information on the indicator. OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. : indicates reference to the Annual Financial Report 2015. Energy Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL. Data only for the refinery. : indicates reference to the company’s website. 94 07 GRI COMPLIANCE LEVEL 07 GRI COMPLIANCE LEVEL 95 Table of GRI.G4 Indicators – GRI Content Index for “In accordance” Core Table of GRI.G4 Indicators – GRI Content Index for “In accordance” Core GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicator Description Reference Material Aspects Indicators Description Reference Company Profile Indirect G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supp. 80-82 Economic ported. G4-1 Management statement. p. 5 Impacts G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. p. 20-22, 60-61, p. 30-32 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. p. 80-82 Organizational Profile Procurements G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation. p. 81-82 G4-3 Name of the reporting organization. Back cover Practices G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. p. 11-14, p. 12-13, 20-28, Category: Environment G4-5 Location of organisation's headquarters. Back cover Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. p. 65-66 G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates. p. 15 G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 70,958 MWh from the Electricity Market. G4-7 Ownership structure and legal form. G4-EN5 Energy intensity. p. 65-67 p. 12-13, 17-18, 27, p. 29, 38-41, G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. p. 65-67 G4-8 Markets served. p. 12-13, 15-16, p. 11-12 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. p. 76 G4-9 Scale of the organization. p. 10-16, 22-23, 31-35, 80-82, p. 9-20, 94-95 G4-EN9 Effects of water withdrawal. p. 76 G4-10 Workforce profile. p. 31-34 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. p. 76 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. p. 31 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions. p. 68 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. p. 22 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions. p. 69-73 G4-13 Significant organizational changes in the reporting period. p. 2-3, 22-23, p. 18-20 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions Intensity. p. 68 G4-14 Application of the precautionary principle. p. 18, 23-25, 42-44, 57-60 G4EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. p. 68 G4-15 Voluntary support for external economic, environmental and social charters or initiatives. p. 18-19 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. Non-existent. G4-16 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations. p. 18-19 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions. p. 69-73 Identified Material Issues and Boundaries Effluents and G4-EN22 Total water discharge. p. 76 G4-17 List of entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements. p. 12-13, p. 20-28 Waste G4-18 Process for defining report content. p. 9, 90-93 G4-EN23 Solid waste. p. 74-75 G4-19 Material Issues. p. 90-92 G4-EN24 Significant spills. There were no significant spills. G4-20 Issues boundaries and limitations within the organization. p. 92-93 G4-EN25 Quantity of hazardous solid waste. p. 74-75 G4-21 Issues boundaries and limitations outside the organization. p. 92-93 G4-EN26 Areas impacted by the organisation’s discharge of water and runoff. Non-existent. G4-22 Explanation of the reasons for re-stating information provided in earlier reports. p. 91 Compliance G4-EN29 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws. There have not been any relevant fines or G4-23 Changes from previous reports. p. 9, p. 91 sanctions established by final court. Stakeholder Engagement Investments G4-EN31 Environmental protection investments and expenses. p. 61-62 G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. p. 26-27 Supplier G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental All important suppliers are evaluated using Environmental criteria questionnaires which also include criteria on G4-25 Stakeholder identification. p. 26-27 Assessment environmental performance. G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. p. 26-27 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply No significant impact. chain and actions taken. G4-27 Topics raised by stakeholders. p. 20-21, 26-27 Category: Social G4-28 Reporting period. 1/1/2015-31/12/2015 Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by p. 31-34 G4-29 Most recent previous report. p. 96 age group, gender and region. G4-30 Reporting cycle. p. 9 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary p. 36-37 G4-31 Contact point for questions. p. 9 or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. G4-32 Location of the Standard GRI Disclosures. p. 94-96 Occupational G4-LA5 Workforce representation in occupational health and safety committees. The Health and Safety Committee of the refinery Health & Safety employees represents all staff. G4-33 External Assurance. p. 91 G4-LA6 Occupational injuries and lost day rates. p. 45-46 Governance G4-LA7 Occupational diseases. p. 45-46 G4-34 Corporate governance structure. p. 17-19, p. 38-41, G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. p. 31, 43-44, 52-54 Ethics and Integrity Training and G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee. p. 36-39 G4-56 Corporate policies, mission and value statements related to sustainability. p. 5, 20-22, inside cover page Education G4-LA10 Programs for skills development and lifelong learning. p. 36-39 Table of GRI.G4 Indicators – GRI Content Index for “In accordance” Core Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations that limit freedom of association and collective bargaining. No such operations, p. 31 Association SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES and Collective Material Aspects Indicators Description Reference Bargaining Category: Economic Local CommuG4-SO1 Impacts on local communities. p. 80-89 nities Εconomic G4-EC1 Directly generated and distributed economic value. p. 14-16, 80-82, p. 9-10 Performance Anti-corruption G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. No such incidents. G4-EC2 Climate change financial implications, risks or opportunities. Climate change impacts regarding the possible Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary No such fines. financial implications, risks or opportunities, sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. constitute parameters thoroughly taken into account Product and G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes No incidents of non-compliance. in the process of analysing, evaluating, approving service labeling concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. and planning for investments or other initiatives. Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and No such fines. G4-EC4 Significant state financial assistance. MOTOR OIL has not received any significant finanregulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. cial assistance from the state. Turnover 7,060 million euros Earnings after tax 205 million euros Dividents paid 1 0.65 euros/share Total assets 2,568 million euros Sustainability Reports of Previous Years Refinery production 11.8 million tons Motor oil sales 12.8 million tons domestic sales 4.1 million tons export sales 8.7 million tons Crude oil refining capacity 185,000 barrels/day Refinery storage tanks capacity 2.5 million cubic meters Petrol stations 1,350 Employees (annual average) 2 1,924 people Training man hours 27,000 hours Total investments 2000-2015 1,477 million euros Environmental investments 767.5 million euros and expenses 2000-2015 Recycling Solid Waste Disposal 5,908 tons Health and Safety investments 143.4 million euros 2000 2015 Social contribution 2006 20153 36.6 million euros Social product 4 482.2 million euros Refinery certifications ISO 9001:2008 ISO 14001:2004 ISO 17025:2005 OHSAS 18001:2007 EMAS III ER1221/2009 EN 12591:2009 (for asphalt) www.moh.gr DESIGN: COMMUNICATION LAB Headquarters Refinery Irodou Attikou 12Α P.O.Box. 23 P.C. 15124, Μarousi P.C. 20100, Korinthos GREECE GREECE Tel +30 210 8094000 Tel +30 27410 48602, 48702 Fax +30 210 8094444 Fax +30 27410 49001, 49101, 48255
