COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL IMPACT INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 www.impactinternational.com www.impactinternational.com COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION ON ONPROGRESS PROGRESS2011: 2015:IMPACT INTERNATIONAL IMPACT INTERNATIONAL The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses Thethat UN Global Compact isto are committed a strategic aligning policy initiative for and their operations businesses strategies are committed thatuniversally with ten to aligning accepted their operations principles and in the areas strategies of human with ten rights, universally labour, acceptedand environment principles in the areas anti-corruption. of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. www.impactinternational.com 1 www.impactinternational.com 1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Human Rights Environment Principle 1 Principle 7 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2 Principle 8 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Labour Standards encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 Anti-corruption the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 10 Principle 5 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, the effective abolition of child labour; and including extortion and bribery. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. www.impactinternational.com 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL IMPACT: WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Impact is a 35-year-old multi-award winning global leadership development company. Our company began in the UK working in the English Lake District and has grown through opening offices in 17 different countries worldwide and employing a global workforce. Today, Impact focuses on supporting all types of organisations, helping to connect their business strategy with their people strategy. Impact provides customised learning and personal development programmes that challenge mindsets, shift behaviour and liberate brilliance. Our global reach allows us to serve multi-national clients many of whom are leading brands and who trust us to deliver results in a highly competitive market. We are experts in learning theory and practice and are proud to be recognised as one of the top 20 leadership development companies in the world. Over the years we continue to develop our unique approach to experiential learning that connects traditional skills and knowledge acquisition with direct real world encounters and skilled reflection into a single learning model. Our work continues to win awards for the quality and effectiveness of our designs and delivery aimed at inspiring and developing our participants to grow as leaders, as managers, as talented employees and as people. www.impactinternational.com 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL IMPACT: WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Impact supports the United Nations, Global Goals for Sustainable Development www.impactinternational.com 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL INTRODUCTION FROM DAVID WILLIAMS Founder and CEO, Impact International Impact has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2005. Key to the progression of these principles is the commitment and support from our people. In a recent survey (source: Great Places To Work® Survey 2015) 99% of our employees said that ‘it is a physically safe place to work’ 94% said that ’Impact manages its impact upon society responsibly’ and COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL INTRODUCTION FROM DAVID WILLIAMS Founder and CEO, Impact International I reaffirm my full support to the UNGC and the ten principles as we move into 2016. As a global business we will continue to progress the ten principles within our operations and to influence where possible across our supply chain and client base. In this year’s report we outline progress made in the UK and some of our overseas offices. As in previous years, our report demonstrates success and failure against our 2015 targets. Our Report is in the public domain and can be viewed on the UNGC website or via a link on our website: www.impactinternational.com Cragwood House, Impact Headquaters, Windermere, Cumbria, UK www.impactinternational.com 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of make sure that they are not complicit in human rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and abuse CONTEXT: Impact International is fully supportive of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is committed to the implementation of all aspects of human rights within our organisation and on the programmes we deliver for our clients. As a service organisation, we can support these principles in two tangible and measurable ways. The former is around how we engage and educate our people in this area and the latter is about providing innovative approaches to engage and influence across our clients and supply chain. As an international organisation we seek to develop consistent best practice across all regions and work to the highest standards in terms of safe and healthy working environments, child protection and other aspects of human rights. 2015 TARGET: Proactive engagement through our internal and external activities and solutions to support the Rights of marginalised groups in our local and global communities. PROGRESS: There are two areas we can report on. Internally through our Learning in the Community initiative and externally through our Community Action Learning Programmes for our clients. INTERNAL: All Impact employees are expected to complete a minimum of three days working in their local community on a project of their choice which is aligned to their area of developmental need. We call this initiative ‘Learning in the Community’ (LiTC). This is aligned to individuals development need alongside the needs of the community partner www.impactinternational.com 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL INTERNAL continued… Learning in the Community is formally reviewed twice a year, during performance reviews. Our target is to uphold 70% engagement of LiTC throughout the UK business. In 2015 in the UK a total of 72.5 LiTC days were achieved out of a potential 165 days = 43% Two significant factors have contributed to a lower percentage of staff engagement during 2015, these factors include the considerable changes that took place during the company restructure and the decision to not run the annual children’s holiday which on average requires 50 LiTC days to deliver. In 2016 we will deliver the children holiday for 20 – 25 deprived Cumbrian children. In 2014 in the UK a total of 214.5 LiTC days were achieved out of a potential 270 days 79% Teenage Cancer Trust (TCT), our charity of the In 2013 in the UK a total of 149.5 LiTC days were achieved out of a potential 210 days 71% year 2015 In 2012 in the UK a total of 165.5 LiTC days were achieved out of a potential 243 days 68% Adam Sedgwick (Impact) Vanessa Simmons (Regional In 2011 73% of UK staff contributed Fundraising Manager) Emma Cross (Impact) & Charlene Jones (Clinical Liaison Nurse Specialist). GPTW survey said that 94% of UK employees ‘feel good about the way we contribute to our communities’. In 2015 Impact Raised £6,000 for TCT. ‘The work that we do, developing Teenage Cancer Trust Units and Specialist Teams and services is Through our charity, Impact Aid we were able to support, Teenage Cancer Trust throughout 2015. transformational for young people with cancer, their We've managed to raise around £6,000 for Teenage Cancer Trust (TCT) and one third of the Impact family and friends and it could not happen without your UK staff have volunteered their time and energy to engage in on going development projects, support.You have done a wonderful thing in supporting including supporting their conference, providing creativity workshops and taking part in a lots of us and on behalf of my amazing team and the young fundraising events. cancer patients that we work with thank you so much!’ Vanessa Simmons, TCT Regional Fundraising Manager www.impactinternational.com 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL EXTERNAL: We worked with more than 55 not-for-profit organisations through our ‘Community Action Learning’ (CAL) programmes in the UK. CAL aims to develop leadership capability for participants whilst providing real value to our partners. Our principles of practice: Integrity: we will never exploit or compromise a programme partner. Partnership: we create programmes in which every voice is heard, every interest represented and every heart engaged. Sustainability: we strive to generate economic, social, cultural and environmental COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2015 TARGET: To share our results from the Great Places to Work® Survey paying particular focus on the areas where improvement is needed PROGRESS; Impact restructured the UK business during 2015 and there were a number of changes to the business. Whilst we value the results from the Great Places to Work® Survey. Another Pulse survey was carried out at the end of 2015 which helped to tease out current and relevant concerns for all our employees. There are three areas of need which will be addressed by the UK Leadership Team and the Global Leadership Team, led by Sam Carey, Head of Impact UK. In line with our commitment to improving labour standards and ensuring our employees are supported and developed we will focus our energy in three areas: • Wellbeing – the Pulse survey highlighted higher work levels and at times a feeling of being overwhelmed with workloads. • Leadership – as a result of the restructure, people needed and still require greater levels of Leadership from the Leadership Team. • Cross-functional team working – again with changing roles and responsibilities the need to have more effective functional team working. Sustainable Development Goal No. 3 is one that has been voted by Impact employees as an important goal for Impact to focus on ( January 2016). www.impactinternational.com 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL OTHER PROGRESS BEYOND TARGETS The Global Goals for Sustainable Development. As a global business we are committed to integrating the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into our internal and external practice. To date we have delivered 3 SDG workshops: • December 2015 To all Impact overseas employees • January 2016 For consultants and the UK Leadership Team • January 2016 For all Impact UK employees Internally We are involving all employees in a process to decide what SDGs Impact should focus on for the next 12 months and how we can best support the goals. Externally We are developing new projects and programmes to help bring the SDGs to life for our clients. www.impactinternational.com 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL TARGETS FOR 2016 Our central purpose through 2016 in respect of our commitment to the UN Global Charter will be to engage our own employees, and influence our clients and our supply chain with regards to their practices. To this end our specific targets in the realm of Human Rights are: è To implement the Sustainable Development Goals into our internal and external practice. è Address key areas of improvement using the outcome of our Pulse Survey. è Provide a series of workshops to ensure all full time members of staff have completed Human Rights training and understand the relevance to our business. è To share our results from the Great Places to Work® Survey paying particular focus on the areas where improvement is needed. è To include a clear policy not to use, be complicit in, or benefit from forced labour. è To provide workshops to help our employees understand ‘The Modern Slavery Act 2015’. www.impactinternational.com 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Principle 3 Principle 4 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 5 Principle 6 the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CONTEXT: Impact International recognise that our key asset is our people. Consequently Impact is committed to adhering to, and going beyond, all legal requirements to provide fair, flexible and appropriately remunerated employment to all our directly employed and freelance contract staff. Key labour related issues for Impact involve providing a safe and healthy work environment, flexible working structures (both in terms of available contracts for staff and day to day working practices) and providing transparent remuneration and appropriate benefits for contract staff. Impact employ a large number of ‘contract’ or ‘freelance’ staff across our global offices. Because of their freelance status such staff often have the least access to representation and forms of collective bargaining. Relevant feedback from the Great Place to Work® survey in terms of Labour standards include: • 95% said ‘people are treated fairly regardless of their age, race, sexual orientation, race or ethnic group’ • 98% said ‘this is a physically safe place to work’ • 98% said ‘when you join the organisation, you are made to feel right at home ’ . www.impactinternational.com 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Safety at Impact continues to be a priority. Our Global Head of Safety Phillip Poole reports directly to David Williams, CEO. Updates from country managers are shared on a quarterly basis. It is at the top of the agenda at every UK Monday morning meeting. Each month a safety update is shared globally. Every year a safety report is completed and shared online in the public domain. 2015 TARGET: Continue developing the Online Safety Training system. This will include upgrading phase one to improve the pass rate. PROGRESS: Done. 60% of all UK staff have successfully completed phase one. 2015 TARGET: Develop phase two of the safety system to cover client facing staff PROGRESS: 90% complete Phil Poole COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Total accidents: • In 2015 our total accidents went up 1 from 8 to 9 – these were all for ‘participants on our programmes’. There were no accidents to staff in 2015. • In 2014 the number of accidents to participants went up from 6 to 7. Our total accidents went up 1 from 7 to 8. • Accidents to Impact staff this year was 1 which is the same for 2013. Statutory Reportable Incidents We had one RIDDOR report this year. This was on the children’s holiday when one of the children slipped on a low wet wall and hit his head. He was taken to hospital for a check up and discharged. PROGRESS BEYOND TARGETS: We have completed numerous staff safety training events this year including: • Risk assessment training for key staff in the Japan office. • 11 training webinars for customer facing staff covering programme safety as well as duty of care and Programme Directors safety responsibilities. • 60% of staff with logins have completed the online Phase One safety training to date ✔ http://www.impactinternational.com/safety/ here you can see our 2015 Annual safety Report ✔ Online Safety Training – we have developed a new three phase online safety training tool to enable our associates to be fully up to speed with how to operate in a safe way, whether they be in the office environment or leading a group in an outdoor arena. www.impactinternational.com 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL TARGETS FOR 2016 è Review the working of the People Bank to accurately record progress on the safety è Reviewing and revising the Impact Staff Handbook è Training for the ‘learning management system’ (LMS) è Develop the functionality of the LMS on the safety training system è Review the Emergency Response Team training and test systems www.impactinternational.com 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Principle 7 Principle 8 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental environmental challenges; responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. CONTEXT: Like all businesses Impact face considerable environmental challenges. As a service organisation our key challenges are around resource usage in our programmes, office energy efficiency and transport. 95% of our employees believe that we are working to reduce our environmental impact (source: Great Place to Work® Survey 2015). INTERNAL: 2015 TARGET: Increase international office engagement in environmental issues affecting Impact and qualify progression of country specific environmental policies. PROGRESS: Responsible Leadership proposition launched during face to face session involving representatives from each region and most of our country offices. Next steps: complete gap analysis for each country, map out activities and share information on a common platform www.impactinternational.com 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2015 TARGET: Create better access to the estate woodlands to encourage hotel guests and Impact staff/participants to get closer to the woodland and increase awareness of environmental issues through involving partners (and maybe local school children) to produce information boards around the trails. PROGRESS: We have scheduled work activity dependent upon the grants and funding we have received for this work which has involved the removal of invasive species and establishment of protection zones for new growth. Next steps: creation of pathways and information boards 2015 TARGET: Gain a new award for the Impact International Environment Management System. PROGRESS: No viable alternative to ISO 14001 available. Next steps: review cost-benefit analysis of ISO 14001 2015 TARGET: Update the London Office Code of Practice for environmental performance. PROGRESS: Complete Scott Rose, Head of Engagement with responsibilities for the environmental strategy EXTERNAL: 2015 TARGET: Work with at least one of our suppliers to help them deliver their services or products in a more environmentally sound method. PROGRESS: This has not been able to be achieved through a lack of relevant suppliers in need of our help. 2015 TARGET: Clearer communication, including the website, of environmental position for internal staff and external stakeholders including clients and auditors. PROGRESS: Our internal Environment Team reviewed how we engage with our internal and external stakeholders in early 2015. However, a company restructure has resulted in this group no longer existing. With the creation of a new company website, our Responsible Leadership proposition has been developed which includes our environmental position. We have also not been able to publish our Annual Environmental Performance Report. Next steps: establish and empower a new focus group to progress environmental activity and re-launch the annual reports. www.impactinternational.com 18 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL TARGETS FOR 2016 INTERNAL è Increase international office engagement in environmental issues affecting Impact through access to information and qualify progression of country specific environmental policies è Empower a new internal focus group to deliver at least 3 projects for the business, integrating environmental issues into daily working life for all staff through team days, regular updates, newsletters and meetings è Review adoption of ISO 14001 EXTERNAL è Re-launch the annual environmental report, providing data in more usable formats for different stakeholders including alignment with our Responsible Leadership proposition and the Sustainable Development Goals è Each country office to partner with a local environmental NGO or charity to deliver a needed service through the Impact volunteering initiative Learning In The Community www.impactinternational.com 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CONTEXT Impact firmly believes that all businesses should work against corruption. We have strong internal policies communicated to all staff (through our staff handbook) about expectations for professional and ethical behaviour. 2015 TARGET: To review our global policy on anti-corruption and report on any changes made to our policy. PROGRESS: Completed. Leza Davies, Head of Commercial. Works on all UK contracts from a commercial angle. She works closely with all Country Managers on Global contracts. There is a system in place to review work contracts if they compromise our policy. In 2015 there were no incidents where our policy was compromised. TARGETS FOR 2016 To provide a training workshop for all Impact employees on our global policy. www.impactinternational.com 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Produced by: Impact Cragwood House Windermere Cumbria LA23 1LQ t: +44 (0)15394 88333 e: jo.appleby@impactinternational.com www.impactinternational.com 21
