2016 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KOREAN english We Build Tomorrow 2016 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This report is printed on FSCTM certified paper using soy ink. About This Report 2016 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Characteristics of This Report This report is the seventh Sustainability Report of Hyundai E&C; it presents the corporate strategy for the sustainability management that has been established based on the Creating Shared Value (CSV) model. It consists of value creation processes as well as key activities and performances by divisions Contents 02 Message from the CEO in economic, environmental, and social aspects. Hyundai E&C has also enhanced 04 Business at a Glance the communication with stakeholders by disclosing long-term sustainability management goals and including Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) in the report. 08 Sustainable Value Creation Hyundai E&C Big Picture Reporting Period & Boundary This report covers Hyundai E&C’s economic, environmental, and social activities and performances of the headquarters as well as domestic and overseas sites from Economic 16 Management Philosophy & Vision 22 Creating Sustainable Economic Value January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. In addition, we partially included activities 18 Sustainability Management Strategy 24 Expanding Future Growth Businesses Value Creation and performances until May 2016 that have significant impacts on our business. 20 Key Sustainability Issues 26 Sound Corporate Governance For the quantitative performance, data of the recent 3 years is reported so that the yearly development can be analyzed. 14 28 Enhancing Ethical Management System 30 Advancing Risk Management System Reporting Standard To communicate our sustainability achievements with stakeholders in a more transparent manner, this report has been written according to the Comprehensive option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. It is reflecting the ten Environmental 34 Foundation for Environmental 44 Enhancing Core Technology Capability Management principles of the UN Global Compact and the main agenda of ISO 26000 as well. Value Creation 48 Customer Satisfaction through Innovation For the financial performance, Hyundai E&C reports its financial data based 36 Consolidating Carbon 32 Management System on the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). 38 Environment-friendly Construction Process Third Party Assurance In order to secure the credibility and fairness of the writing process and contents of the report, a third-party assurance was conducted by an external, independent specialized agency and the results are available on p. 74-75 of this report. social 52 Cultivating Global Talents 60 Shared Growth with Suppliers Value Creation 55 Achieving Work-life Balance 64 Creating Shared Value through Social Contribution 58 Strengthening Safety 50 Management System 66 2015 Hyundai E&C Social Contribution Highlights appendix 69 Financial Performance 74 Third Party Assurance Report 70 Key Sustainability Indicators 76 GRI G4 Index 2016 COVER STORY Hyundai E&C is making a construction history and paving the way 68 72 Global Sustainability Partnerships 80 Sustainable Value Creation for a sustainable future with our corporate spirit of creative daring. 73 Greenhouse Gas 81 Major Awards and Accolades The cover represents the daring and progressive mindset of each member Verification Statement / Memberships of Hyundai E&C and our challenging will to create a sustainable foundation of the humankind. 01. 2016 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Passion of Each and Every As a global construction company, Hyundai E&C aims Member of Hyundai E&C is to improve the sustainability of the world and the humankind Establishing a Sustainable Tomorrow. by providing ‘Sustainable Habitat for Human’ through its sustainable Contents 02 Message from the CEO construction products and environment-friendly technology services. 04 Business at a Glance 08 Sustainable Value Creation Hyundai E&C Big Picture INFRA & The Infra & Environment Works Division is continuously Economic 16 Management Philosophy & Vision 22 Creating Sustainable Economic Value Value Creation 18 Sustainability Management Strategy 24 Expanding Future Growth Businesses Environment challenging to the environment for better life generating fruits 20 Key Sustainability Issues 26 Sound Corporate Governance 14 Works from nothing. 28 Enhancing Ethical Management System 30 Advancing Risk Management System Building Through imagination considering the humankind first, Environmental 34 Foundation for Environmental 44 Enhancing Core Technology Capability Management Works the Building Works Division has created whole new spaces Value Creation 48 Customer Satisfaction through Innovation 36 Consolidating Carbon 32 that will go down in the history. Management System 38 Environment-friendly Construction Process Plant The Plant Works Division is performing the composite art social 52 Cultivating Global Talents 60 Shared Growth with Suppliers Works which establishes an abundant future by realizing dreams Value Creation 55 Achieving Work-life Balance 64 Creating Shared Value through Social Contribution 58 Strengthening Safety 50 for joyful life of the humankind. Management System 66 2015 Hyundai E&C Social Contribution Highlights Power & For the power was the starting point of the modernization, appendix 69 Financial Performance 74 Third Party Assurance Report 70 Key Sustainability Indicators 76 GRI G4 Index Energy the Power & Energy Works Division functions Works as a driving force which guides the future 68 72 Global Sustainability Partnerships 80 Sustainable Value Creation 73 Greenhouse Gas 81 Major Awards and Accolades and the development of the humankind. Verification Statement / Memberships 01. Message from the CEO I am more than willing to express our deepest gratitude to all of you who have shown immense support and encouragement for Hyundai E&C to advance into the global construction leader. In 1947, Hyundai E&C became the first construction company that brightened the first light of the Korean construction industry. Since then, we have advanced along with the national history and persistently expanded the scope of our business areas covering from the establishment of the country's infrastructure to the cutting-edge, future environmentfriendly construction. Fruits of Sustainability Management Despite of the prolonged economic stagnation of the domestic and global construction industry, Hyundai E&C has attained outstanding accomplishments by its stable profit-driven management proving the status and power as the global construction leader. Since our first overseas advancement in 1965, we have been writing a new history of the global construction for the past 50 years with our records that are new and unprecedented. Following an achievement in 2013 that the accumulated amount of overseas orders received reached USD 100 billion, Hyundai E&C won overseas orders worth USD 10 billion in 2014 again for three consecutive years. As of May 2016, furthermore, we are the first domestic construction company that succeeded to attain the accumulated amount of overseas orders of USD 120.7 billion recording total 818 overseas orders cumulative. Hyundai E&C is also striving to acquire advancements in the quality aspect; we are continuing to solidify our status in core markets such as the Middle East and Asia without being settled for the past outcomes. On the other hand, in addition, we focus our efforts on penetrating into new markets including Central and South America, sub-Saharan Africa, and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) regions. Hyundai E&C pursues not merely the economic performance but the Sustainability Management as the core corporate values. Hence, diverse corporate capabilities have been concentrated on realizing values of the sustainability management such as the transparent ethical management, environment-friendly business operation, shared growth with suppliers, and fulfillment of social responsibility. Besides, it is thanks to the devotion of each member of Hyundai E&C to be included in the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) for six consecutive years as well as to be selected as the Industry Leader of the global construction industry for three consecutive years from 2013 to 2015. Stability Management and Innovation of Corporate Culture The focal point of Hyundai E&C for 2016 is the 'Stability Management' and 'Innovation of Corporate Culture.' It has been said that it has reached the limit for the construction market to achieve a qualitative growth due to the weakened market environment. Accordingly, the only solution to overcome the worsening environment is further stabilizing the business through the selection and concentration and the enhancement of technological capability. By strategically dividing global and domestic markets and thus providing products specially customized for each market, Hyundai E&C implements a strategy of the selection and concentration advancing itself so that all sites of Hyundai E&C can accomplish the qualitative growth. In order to promptly respond to the environment of the construction industry that is becoming capital-intensive, moreover, Hyundai E&C will actively enter new high value-added businesses through the improved capability in finance, investment and development, and engineering. We will also accomplish the innovation within the organization by reestablishing the corporate culture of our own that is differentiated from competitors. Hence, Hyundai E&C will be able to further consolidate the foothold to continuously take challenging leaps. Please take an affectionate note of Hyundai E&C’s future steps to realize changes and innovations for developing into a leader For standing tall as a leader of the global construction market, of the global construction market. Hyundai E&C has been attaining splendid feats of change and innovation We are more than grateful for your constant interest and support as the companions of Hyundai E&C. through the sustainability management. Thank you. President & CEO of Hyundai E&C l Jung Soo-Hyun 02. 03. Business at a Glance Company Profile & Business Portfolio Hyundai E&C has opened a new era of the global integrated engineering around the globe with its advanced technology and business execution ability widely proven. Based on a firm business foundation in the Middle East and Asia that has been established since our first Orders Received by Region, overseas project in 1965, we have taken a substantial leap as a promising and competitive company expanding the business into markets Accumulated in Latin America, Africa, and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). As of May 2016, total 5,457 employees are working Domestic and Overseas Branches at the headquarters, 4 domestic and 27 overseas branches, and 175 domestic and 77 overseas sites. & Offices NORTH AMERICA / PACIFIC Key Financial Performance in 2015 MIDDLE EAST EUROPE USD 610.21million * Credit rating from Korea Ratings Corporation, NICE Information Service, and Korea Investors Service London USD 67,714.50 million USD 3,781.86 million Order Backlog KRW 67,016.6 billion Algiers Istanbul Tripoli Tashkent Revenue KRW 19,122.1 billion Baghdad Tehran Caracas Kuwait Beijing Joong-bu Riyadh Al Khobar Dae-gu Dubai Ho-nam Tokyo Bogota Operating Doha Muscat New Delhi YoungIncome KRW 986.6 billion Abudabi nam Dhaka AFRICA Hanoi Santiago Credit Rating* AAUSD 321.04 million Colombo LATIN AMERICA Kuala Lumpur ASIA Montevideo Singapore USD 8,316.54 million USD 165,711.40 million Jakarta INFRA & Environment Works Plant Works Hyundai E&C will challenge the infinite possibility in the world. Hyundai E&C will lead the global plant market With the top-notch technology and abundant experiences accumulated for the past 69 years, with the accumulated technology and experiences. the Infra & Environment Works Division has significantly contributed to the economic developBased on performances accumulated in overseas markets as well as advanced technical staffs ment of diverse nations by successfully executing land development, port, rail way, road and and know-hows, the Plant Works Division's differentiated technology has been recognized bridge, water resource, and environmental projects. Aiming to accomplish a vision to generate through its business of building global mega-scale petrochemical, gas, and refinery plants. As new values for life of the humankind, we will develop into a Core Infra Solution Leader who the prominent player of the global plant market, we will become a market leader through our provides the core infra construction through the differentiated and advanced technology. indomitable will penetrating into new high value-added markets and diversifying the business portfolio. Building Works Power & Energy Works Hyundai E&C will realize a future space that is at the forefront of the era. Hyundai E&C will stand at the forefront of establishing the global energy network. The Building Works Division is turning imaginary cutting-edge space where the humankind, Through its substantial technological capability that has been highly valued by the world, information, the environment, and technology coexist into the reality through its immense the Power & Energy Works Division has been leading various power generation markets, creativity and imagination. As we construct representative landmarks in various countries, our such as power transmission and industrial electricity that are the base of the future outstanding technology and business execution ability have been highly valued, The Building environmental energy network. We will target emerging markets including Latin Works Division will persistently grow into a Constructor & Developer that leads the construction America, Africa, Southeastern Asia, and CIS countries beyond the boundary of the culture by diffusing business contents into the world, such as not only residential, commercial, Middle East market, which can be accomplished through the superior construction medical, business, educational, and cultural buildings but also environment-friendly green ability and abundant experiences in power and water plant sectors. Moreover, building and Mega Projects. the Power & Energy Works Division will grow further into a Total Power & Utility Provider by reinforcing the capability to develop renewable energy, the basis of the future society, and to construct green energy network. 04. 05. sustainable Value Creation Hyundai E&C Big Picture The history of Hyundai E&C has accompanied the history of the Korean construction. Hyundai E&C is now writing the history of the world's construction beyond the boundary of Korea. As a global integrated engineering company, Hyundai E&C is delivering sustainable construction products and environment-friendly technology services to challenge to the creation of solutions for international issues that have been intensified due to the global climate change, the population growth, and the scarcity of energy, water, and resource. Hyundai E&C Big Picture 01 Hyundai E&C Big Picture 02 Hyundai E&C Big Picture 03 2030 Realization of UN SDGs Hyundai E&C's Megatrend Outlooks through Challenge CSV Model Project of Ulsan Grand Bridge and Connecting Roads 06. 07. Due to the drastic population growth, the urbanization around the globe has been accelerated Hyundai E&C Big Picture 01 while risks caused by the water scarcity are being disseminated. On the other hand, YEAR 2030 2030 the industrialization in developing countries is posing negative impacts on the energy scarcity and resource depletion of the world. Accordingly, Hyundai E&C defined the urbanization, Megatrend Outlooks the water scarcity/pollution, energy & fuel, and the material resource scarcity as the four megatrends of the construction industry. Responding to future changes by analyzing risk/ opportunity factors of the megatrends, Hyundai E&C takes big steps to open up a new era 2030 Megatrend Outlooks of challenge. 60 % Increasing Population in Cities megatrend 01 Cause 01 Trend 01 World population to increase by 20% 60% of world population living in cities Population growth and spread of urbanization The number of megacities of the world's population UN Population Division will live in cities. in developing countries (population 10+ million) will increase from 20 in 2013 to 37 in 2025. Urbanization McKinsey Intensified Water Stress 1 billion 1 billion people under water stress Annual water demand to increase megatrend 02 people will live in areas by 283% against 2005 Cause 02 Trend 02 of water stress. OECD / 2030 Water Resource Group Water scarcity caused by population growth, Estimated global gap between water urbanization, and climate change supply and demand will exceed 40% by 2030 placing increased stress on Water Scarcity / water and food. Pollution 2030 Water Resource Group The Sole Earth TIME TO CHANGE Our World is Trembling Rapidly 4 MegatrendS Cause Identification Trend Analysis of Construction Industry Diffusing Energy Scarcity megatrend 03 Cause 03 Increasing global energy demand Trend 03 The world oil production is predicted 33 % World's primary energy demand to increase by 33% Net electricity generation to increase by 84% Energy-related GHG emissions to of primary energy demand due to industrialization and urbanization to increase by 7.39 times from 13 million is predicted. increase by 20% barrels per day in 2010 to 96 million barrels IEA per day in 2035. Energy & Fuel IEA Advent of Resource Stress megatrend 04 83 billion Amount of resource extracted to increase by 55% Industrial resources extracted Cause 04 Trend 04 tons of industrial resources to increase to 83 billion tons will be extracted. SERI / KPMG Skyrocketing resource demand The amount of minerals, metals, and due to drastic industrialization biomass extracted from the earth will in developing countries increase by 2.24 times from 37 billion Material Resource tons in 2010 to 83 billion tons in 2030. The sustainability of the world has been threatened Scarcity Nstein by the global climate change, the population growth, Identification and the scarcity of energy, water, and resources. Reference of Problem For the survival and prosperity of the humankind, prompt changes and efforts are required. 08. 09. Technology is the future and the key to solve of problems the earth is confronted. As Hyundai E&C Big Picture 02 a representative global construction company, Hyundai E&C is taking challenging leaps YEAR 2030 Realization by concentrating its competitive technology and the capability of innovation on providing solutions for up-coming problems. In addition, Hyundai E&C faithfully endorses the Sustainable of UN SDGs Development Goals of United Nations (UN) and enthusiastically contributes to the realization of the goals by establishing the four key targets that are closely related to the construction Realization of UN SDGs through Challenge industry. Sustainable Cities and megatrend 01 Communities R&D 01 Challenge 01 Making sustainable cities and human settlements Development of Large/smart Green Smart Building by ensuring access to housing, providing access to transport systems, and enhancing urbanization by 2030 Infrastructure Technologies Green Smart Innovation Center Songdo Lot 6 & 8 Zero Energy Demo Project Urbanization Clean Water and Sanitation Ensuring availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation by achieving universal access to megatrend 02 R&D 02 Challenge 02 drinking water, increase water-use efficiency, and halving the proportion of untreated wastewater by 2030 Development of Water Treatment and Seawater Desalination Environmental Restoration Technologies Technology UAE Mirfa Independent Water and Power Water Scarcity / Shihwaho CNT-RO Desalination Pollution UN SDGs CHALLENGE TO CHANGE Transforming Our World 4 MegatrendS Long-term R&D Approach HDEC Challenges of Construction Industry megatrend 03 Affordable and Clean Energy R&D 03 Challenge 03 Ensuring access to sustainable energy by increasing Development of Renewable Energy and Biogas Technology the share of renewable energy and doubling the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency by 2030 Low-carbon High-efficiency Technologies Wonju Biogas Refinery Chungju Waste Resource Energization Site Energy & Fuel Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Upgrading industries to make them sustainable, with megatrend 04 R&D 04 Challenge 04 increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and Development of Waste-recycling Restoration for Contaminated Soil industrial processes by 2030 Technologies and Alternate Materials Singapore JTC Sediment Contamination Purification Project Material Resource Janghang Refinery Soil Purification Project UN Sustainable Development Goals are the global midto long-term Scarcity development plan of the United Nations consisting of total 17 goals. ADOPTATION It is being executed in order to solve economic, environmental, and Site where the technology is applied OF AGENDA social problems around the globe for the upcoming 15 years, from 2016 to 2030. 10. 11. Hyundai E&C has established five areas of the sustainability for a tomorrow where Hyundai E&C Big Picture 03 the company and the society grow together based on the Creating Shared Value (CSV) model that is to pursue the long-term growth of a company and the prosperity of Hyundai E&C Sustainability Mission Hyundai E&C's the humankind simultaneously. Hyundai E&C will create a sustainable habitat for human CSV Model with confidence that it can accomplish everything imaginable, indomitable determination, Creating Sustainable Habitat creative foreknowledge, and challenging spirit. ※ Creating Shared Value (CSV): The management principle by which economic value and social value are created for Human simultaneously by accepting the demands of the society and solving problems. Corporate Creating Realizing sustainability area 01 Capital 01 Global Value Sustainable Future STRATEGIC Strategic Management Economy MANAGEMENT Business Value Social Value Hyundai E&C realizes a sustainable future Financial p.22 by creating global values. Capital ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Minimizing Corporate Maximizing sustainability area 02 p.34 Environmental Capital 02 Eco-efficiency Business Aspect Social Aspect Impact Environmental Management Creating Creating Environment Business Value Social Value Hyundai E&C minimizes environmental impacts Manufactured & by maximizing the eco-efficiency. Corporate Value Social Value Natural Capital Creating Shared Value TECHNOLOGY Sustainable Solutions for Mankind’s Construction Products Social Problems MANAGEMENT Corporate Differentiating Ensuring sustainability area 03 (CSV) Technology Customer p.44 Capital 03 Capability Satisfaction Technology Management Technology Business Value Social Value Hyundai E&C ensures the customer satisfaction Environment-friendly Solutions for Planet’s Intellectual Technology Services Environmental Problems by differentiating the technology capability. Capital TALENT MANAGEMENT Corporate sustainability area 04 Cultivating Realizing p.52 Capital 04 Innovative Talents Employee Value Talent Management Employee Business Value Social Value Hyundai E&C realizes employee values Human Capital SOCIAL by cultivating innovative talents. MANAGEMENT p.60 Corporate sustainability area 05 Empowering Accomplishing Capital 05 Value Chain Shared Growth PROVISION OF SOLUTION Social Management Society Business Value Social Value Hyundai E&C accomplishes the shared growth Social & RelationBacked by the indomitable challenging spirit, Hyundai E&C provides with the society by empowering ship Capital advanced construction products and technology services. the entire value chain. Therefore, Hyundai E&C, as a sustainable global integrated engineering company, provides solutions Capital Areas Creating Shared Value (CSV) model sustainability areas / DMA for environmental/social problems of the world. 12. 13. Economic Value Creation Management & Strategy The world has been a stage for Hyundai E&C to realize its dreams as well as a land of infinite possibility. We are delivering sustainable values by providing environmentfriendly products and cutting-edge technological services based on our differentiated technology. In addition, we have been doing the best to establish a sustainable habitat for the humankind while pioneering the construction history with the corporate spirit of a 'creative challenge.' Sustainability Management Strategic Management Generating Creating Generating Establishing Corporate Value Social Value Global Value Sustainable Future Business Value Social Value Business Value Social Value Hamad Medical City, Qatar Hyundai E&C pursues the sustainable development Hyundai E&C aims to establish a sustainable future of the company and the society through creating shared values. by generating global values. 14. 15. Management Philosophy & Vision Generating Creating Management & Strategy Corporate Value Social Value web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Company/IntroVision.aspx In spite of the era and environment constantly changing, the spirit of Hyundai E&C has continued for 69 years as a firm foundation of the corporate competitiveness. Based on our spirit for a 'creative challenge,' we write a new construction history fulfilling the responsibility for the world and the humankind as the global integrated construction company. The Group’s Management We Build Tomorrow Hyundai E&C's Three Strategic Directions Philosophy Unlimited Sense of Responsibility Realization of Possibilities Respect for Mankind For the vision of 'as a global leading provider of high-value engineering Striving to realize the future vision, Hyundai E&C has defined the three Based on the Group’s management • Strive for the business’s continuous growth • Engrain a DNA of pursuing the unlimited • P rovide the best-quality products and solutions, we will create the foundation for a better life through strategic directions of 'diversification of business structure,' 'entering new in order to take the responsibility for our growth and development services to as many people as possible philosophy, to realize the dream of employees and their families as well and contribute to the development cross-business synergy and convergence with future technologies,' growth businesses,' and 'globalization of management infrastructure.' • Refuse to stay comfortable or complacent, humanity by creating a new future through yet have an entrepreneurial spirit to take of human society’s overall standard Hyundai E&C has endeavored to generate the best values through Under the slogan of 'new challenge to develop into a global construction • S eek the highest quality to unlimitedly of living creative thinking and endless challenges, take the responsibility for our customers’ the risk of failure and pioneer new the harmonious and sustainable growth with stakeholders. leader,' in addition, business plans for 2016 has been newly established: happiness and safety business areas • P roactively respond to environmental Hyundai E&C is growing into a global issues and participate in philanthropic building business foundation for a future growth, strengthening global • Realize even the smallest possibility into leading construction company through a reality and create a fundamental, added activities to contribute to the world’s local business competencies, advancement of risk management system. communities creative perspective, positive thinking, value Hence, we are successfully intensifying our capability for and unwavering drive. the global business. Together for a Better Future We Build Tomorrow SLOGAN OF HYUNDAI E&C VISION SLOGAN OF GROUP VISION The Group’s Core Values For accomplishing the Group's vision 01 03 05 through the Success DNA inherent Customer Collaboration Globality of the Hyundai Motor Group, Hyundai E&C’s Vision We promote a customer-driven We create synergy through We respect the diversity of cultures Hyundai E&C pursues the five core corporate culture by providing a sense of 'togetherness' that is and customs, aspire to be values as standards of their action best quality and impeccable fostered by mutual communication the world’s best at what we do, service with all values centered and cooperation within the company and strive to become a respected and decision making. on our customers. and with our business partners. global corporate citizen. As a Global Leading Provider Through Cross-business Convergence Create the Foundation of High-value Engineering We have continuously stepped forward Synergy with Future Technologies for a Better Life Solutions as a global construction company by accomplishing challenges and cooperation through the sharing and 02 04 • Provide integrated construction services and diversify types •P repare the basis for sustainable growth • Ensure that individual technologies developed in separate work areas • Value 'people' as a top priority and create a better foundation for a life internalization of the core values and by Challenge People of overseas contracts are integrated and utilized in new by having a shared mindset • Enhance partnerships with relevant reinforcing the creative corporate culture • Establish an optimized management industries to expand business areas areas to create new growth drivers with customers We refuse to be complacent, We believe the future of our that respects customers and employees. embrace every opportunity organization lied in the hearts infrastructure • Fulfill the role as a catalyst • Grow together with all stakeholders for greater challenge, and and capabilities of individual of new growth businesses and contribute to the society are confident in achieving members, and will help them our goals with unwavering develop their potential passion and ingenious thinking. by creating a corporate culture that respects talent. 16. 17. Sustainability Management Strategy Management & Strategy Stakeholder Engagement In order to build the sustainable future, Hyundai E&C has been implementing the sustainability management It is essential to understand and communicate with stakeholders in order to realize the sustainable growth and development. Accordingly, we have defined by establishing the system based on the Creating Shared Value (CSV) model and set long-term sustainability the six major stakeholder groups who can influence the company either directly or indirectly while operating various communications channels for gathering management goals and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for 2018. Through diverse communications channels, opinions. Likewise, we are generating shared values by distributing economic outcomes to stakeholders in a fair manner. furthermore, opinions of stakeholders are actively gathered and reflected to the corporate management. Generating Creating Corporate Value Social Value web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/Global.aspx y HYUNDAI E&C Sustainability Management olic Pro sp ns vid e nt’ ns cia tio ef n m t i o i a s o Su air a HYUNDAI E&C Sustainability Strategy The world is being confronted with a range of factors such as the global climate ver ula ed as p p Pu port prai go reg ia m ant rsu s the with se v relev e w innov al an change, change of world demographics, and intensifying energy/resource depletion which are leading to the most severe te i n ply scl o ith ork ativ d co ipa com tly di hip w an e c mp challenge ever in the human history. As a global construction company, Hyundai E&C aims to improve the sustainability rtic n s itte e dl a ife pab ensa Pa and pare tion n s rela omm ba ility tion lan a C of the world and the humankind by providing a 'Sustainable Habitat for Human' through its sustainable construction products Tr tive ia∙ Em pl ce tru c ed oy ns t∙ M ee and environment-friendly construction technology. In May 2014, therefore, we established the sustainability management ac o e n nm · In ver te ild Hy rnal I strategy based on the Creating Shared Value (CSV) model for the first in the global construction industry. Also, the corporateBu Go gs u n arin on ndai trane He s Fa ceb E&C t, wide sustainability management is being actively promoted mainly by the Sustainability Management Work Council in the five ub lic eport ·N e oo New ·P al R x s Dis t Lea k sle ·Form ation cu de tte r sustainability areas: strategic management, environmental management, technology management, talent management, and sso ci · E mp ssio r Bo n w ard ·A En lo ith , ga yee CE social management. Maximize customer satisfaction through technologies ge me O nt Su Protect the environment around sites rve y Hyundai Increase customers’ trust and improve communication Strategic Management Environmental Management Technology Management · Call Center, Enhance three major CSR activities Customer · Social Contribution Web Customer Center Society Hyundai E&C realizes a sustainable future Hyundai E&C minimizes environmental Hyundai E&C strives for the customer through the global value creation. impacts by maximizing the eco-efficiency. satisfaction by differentiating the technology capability. Activities · Community Meeting E&C · Customer Satisfaction Survey Communication Channels · Hillstate Styler Actively communicate with local communities Construct a comfortable residential environment Talent Management Social Management em yst rS Hyundai E&C realizes employee values Hyundai E&C seeks to grow together · G art ne tion en Sh eral i-p era ·H op by cultivating innovative talents. with the society by enhancing the capability a Me reho Co ee etin lde int tt wth of its entire value chain. · In g rs' · J o mmi Gro r ve Pre stme Co in nte n-w Ce · P sen nt tat Wi port y ub ion Su p rve Dis lic r Su Sh clo plie tion sur up eh ar e · S tisfac Co old Sa s nt on Ma inuou Est er lier ati Organization for Sustainability Management Founded the Sustainability Management Work Council, Hyundai E&C has an pp rel t xim sly abl dI Su s s en ize en ish nv ine ies em been delivering the corporate-wide sustainability management with various activities including a megatrend analysis to identify the han a so est or b us olog anag val ce t und nt hn m ue he are d tec -win sustainability management strategy, materiality test, and review of sustainability management improvement tasks by areas. co gove sp of sh r t ran on an d win are pora rnan d i an rmat th an We will continue striving to create a better future with internal and external stakeholders through the internalization and ho te c ce air lde rs ompe l i s h f e info grow r advancement of the sustainability management. an d i titive tab Sha hared nv Es s est ness t he ors e e aliz R Hyundai E&C Takes a Lead of the Global Construction Industry as the Representative Sustainable Company Selected as the Industry Leader of Global Construction Industry for Three Consecutive Years In the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), the most authoritative sustainability index in the world, Hyundai E&C was honored to be selected as the Industry Leader of the Construction & Engineering Industry in 2015, following 2014 and 2013. It is the first in the global construction Distribution of Stakeholder Interests industry for a company to become the Industry Leader for three consecutive years. This meaningful achievement is proving that the corporate value of Hyundai E&C as the global No. 1 construction company has been highly recognized. The DJSI is the investment index developed by Dow Jones, the largest financial information company, and RobecoSAM, a Swiss assessment company. It annually evaluates the economic, Government Employees Suppliers Local Communities Shareholders/Investors environmental, and social sustainability of the top 2,500 companies in market capitalization by industries and thus announces the evaluation DJSI Industry Leader Corporate tax payment Total annual wages Procurement and Social contribution Dividends result. The DJSI, therefore, has demonstrated the competitiveness of Hyundai E&C is substantially competitive in the industry. It is expected to subcontracting expenses expenses contribute to securing the liquidity and penetrating into new markets. Hyundai E&C will persistently fulfill the role and responsibility as the global sustainability leader striving to lead the sustainability management sector. KRW 214.3 billion KRW 518.11 billion KRW 7,182.27 billion KRW 3.73 billion KRW 55.73 billion 18. 19. Key Sustainability Issues Management & Strategy Validation of Material Issues Hyundai E&C selected key issues affecting the corporate sustainability management in accordance with STEP 03 PRINCIPLE: Responsiveness the international guidelines for sustainability reporting, GRI G4 standards. Additionally, we reflected principles Validation Hyundai E&C thoroughly reviewed whether the issues identified have an important influence on the company. of the inclusiveness, materiality, and responsiveness which AA 1000 standard requires for the accountability Comprehensively considering the validity of issues and their connection to management strategies, we subdivided issues of the issue selection process and evaluation result. into three categories: 20 core sustainability issues, 30 material issues, and general issues. In planning this report, we focused mainly on the 20 core sustainability issues that have the highest importance. Also, we Generating Creating endeavored to guarantee our stakeholders’ right to know by including material and general issues. Corporate Value Social Value web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/Global.aspx Materiality Test Matrix General Issues to Report Material Core Issues to Report External Interest 2 Materiality Test Process Issues to 1 Report 3 7 5 10 4 STEP 01. STEP 02. STEP 03. 11 Identification Prioritization Validation 9 6 19 16 8 20 13 ·Benchmarking of global standards Validation of Material Issues 25 ·Review on domestic and 24 17 ·Verifying appropriateness of scope, 23 18 global construction industry boundary, and period 21 12 Core Issues to Report: 31 29 27 · Media research 37 Issues that interest and influence of the 14 ·Review on internal management data 30 22 entire stakeholder group are extremely high 36 35 32 15 Identifying sustainability issues of HDEC Verifying validity of important issues 40 26 34 28 38 33 Material Issues to Report: Issues that interest of external stakeholders 43 42 41 39 Stakeholder Engagement Interviews with Stakeholders Stakeholder Survey Review of Reliability or influence of employees are high General Issues to Report: 44 46 Other sustainability issues that are included 45 Internal Impact in Hyundai E&C's management activities Identification of Sustainability Issues through Internal and External Environment Analysis STEP 01. PRINCIPLE: Inclusiveness Identification Hyundai E&C created the sustainability management issue-pool (includes total 286 issues) through the benchmarking of global guidelines, review on the domestic and global construction industry, media research, and review on the internal management data. As a result, we identified total 46 sustainability issues that have a high relevance to the managerial activities of Hyundai E&C. Key Issues * General Standard Aspects of GRI G4 Aspect that are applied to all organizations. •B  enchmarking of global standards: Conduct benchmarking on key sustainability management trends by analysis Strategy & Agenda GRI G4 Aspect Sustainability Issues on GRI G4, ISO 26000, UNGC, and DJSI •R  eview on domestic and global construction industry: Identify material issues in relevant industry by analyzing sustainability STRATEGY Strategy and Analysis*, Organizational Profile*, 1 Long-term corporate vision, 4 Sustainability management, Sustainability Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries*, Sustainability management system, Stakeholder engagement, issues that domestic and overseas construction companies report Management Stakeholder Engagement* Distribution of stakeholder interests, Materiality test • Media research: Analyze total 4,303 articles that the domestic press reported in 2015 in order to understand the society’s expectation for Hyundai E&C AGENDA 01 Governance*, Ethics and Integrity*, 5 Creation of economic outcome, 7 Risk management, 8 Fostering new growth business, • Review on internal management data: Review the internal management data and interview responsible personnel Strategic Economic Performance, Indirect Economic Impacts 11 Diversification of business abroad, 13 Business ethics, 20 Fair trade, 21 Law compliance, Management 28 Stable portfolio, 29 Value-creation process, 30 Sound corporate governance, 34 Local law compliance in order to reflect internally material issues about the managerial environment AGENDA 02 Materials, Energy, Water, Biodiversity, 19 Environmental management system, 23 Preventing environmental pollution, Environmental Emissions, Effluents and Waste 24 Minimizing environmental impact, 31 GHG, 35 Energy, 36 Waste, 37 Response to climate change, Management 40 Resource efficiency, 42 Water, 43 Equipment/transportation, 46 Biodiversity Prioritization of Issues Identified through the Materiality Test AGENDA 03 Products and Services, 2 Core technology secured, 3 Customer satisfaction, 10 Environment-friendly R&D, STEP 02. PRINCIPLE: Materiality Technology Marketing Communications, 25 Low carbon&resource-efficient technology, 26 Customer awareness, Management Customer Privacy 33 Privacy protection, 39 Products and services Prioritization Hyundai E&C analyzed the materiality of each issue in aspects of external interest and internal impact by conducting the online survey about the HDEC sustainability issues, which total 3,424 internal and external stakeholders participated in. Employment, Labor/Management Relations, 6 Development of human resource, 9 Safety management, 12 Appraisal and compensation, AGENDA 04 Occupational Health and Safety, Training and Education, 14 Employee benefits, 15 Work-life balance, 18 Labor practice, 22 Equal opportunity, Stakeholder Survey Talent Diversity and Equal Opportunity, 32 Human right protection Management • Purpose: To identify major interests and expectations of various stakeholders Equal Remuneration for Women and Men • Period: 14 MAR, 2016 23 MAR, 2016 (total 10 days) AGENDA 05 Supplier, Local Communities 16 Sustainability in supply chain, 17 Supplier evaluation, 27 Global value chain, • Survey Channel: HDEC website, Hillstate website, Internal Groupware, Email 38 Education and supports in supply chain, 41 Social contribution, 44 Engaging with local communities, Social •U  tilization: Establishment of long-term sustainability goals; review on the sustainability management approach; Management 45 Employee volunteer activities development of the Sustainability Report 20. 21. Creating Sustainable Economic Value Management & Strategy Business Strategy Hyundai E&C has been building a sustainable future in the entire world far beyond the boundary of Korea As the market environment around the globe swiftly changes, the role of a Total Service Provider is increasingly required to through its stable business model and corporate competitiveness highly recognized. We generate economic provide the future-oriented integrated service throughout the entire value chain of the construction industry, including business values by innovating cost and advancing processes based on our premium technology. Hence, we have been planning, financing, engineering, procurement, construction, and operation & maintenance. Accordingly, we have met needs able to consolidate a sound foundation for the sustainable growth. of customers by advancing the business model through our outstanding technology and abundant business experiences accumulated during 818 projects in 59 different countries. We have also penetrated into high value-added businesses such Generating Establishing Global Value Sustainable Future as the pre-con service and construction management and thus generated diverse values developing into the global integrated web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Business/InfraWork.aspx engineering company. HDEC Business Model Enhancement of Global Competitiveness Expansion of Global Markets Since the first overseas project in 1965 to construct Pattani-Narathiwat Highway in 01 02 03 Thailand, Hyundai E&C has been writing a new history of the global construction renewing the first and best records for about Planning Financing Design past 50 years; in 2010, we won overseas orders worth more than USD 10 billion for the first among domestic construction & Marketing & Engineering companies. Following the achievement to receive overseas orders of which the total amount accumulated exceeded USD 100 billion in 2013, we also achieved a record of receiving overseas orders worth more than USD 10 billion in 2014 again for three consecutive years. With these substantial performances, Hyundai E&C is constantly taking a challenging step forward to the world. As of May 2016, we have received a total of 818 orders (cumulative) accomplishing USD 120.7 billion in the accumulated Total Service Provider amount of overseas orders, which is the first fruit attained by a Korean construction company. Hyundai E&C has been pioneering the 'Construction Korea' based on outstanding technologies, abundant experiences, and strong trust of customers executing projects in 59 countries including not only Asia and the Middle East but also Africa, Latin America, Commonwealth Operation Engineering News-Records, & Maintenance US Engineering & Construction of Independent States (CIS), and North America. We will stand tall as a leader of the global market by winning more abroad Construction Procurement Magazine projects through improved business portfolio. 06 05 04 Advancement of Global Recognition 'Engineering News-Records (ENR, United States),' the worldwide renowned engineering and construction magazine, nominated Hyundai E&C for the 14th on 'Top 250 International Contractors 2015' proving Hyundai E&C's capability as outstanding as other global preeminent companies; it is also the highest rank among Planning & Marketing Hyundai E&C establishes the best integrated solutions within the budget, such as guaranteeing domestic construction companies. The accomplishment is highly valued for it is the result of Hyundai E&C's efforts to diversify the highest quality, observing the construction schedule, and securing the safety, through the cost minimization and profit business portfolios and actively expand overseas markets for developing into the global leading company without remaining maximization by conducting a strict review. Moreover, the best values are being generated by Hyundai E&C throughout as the Korea's No. 1. the entire life cycle of the construction industry: selecting an optimized location, reviewing the return on investment (ROI), reviewing construction methods and materials, planning the procurement of equipment and human resources, and analyzing Global Technological Capability The differentiated technological capability of Hyundai E&C has been recognized in environmental impacts. not only the domestic but also overseas construction market. In April 2016, our innovate technological capability was highly valued once again with our new technology, which we developed for the first in Korea and was successfully applied to the Financing Financing experts of Hyundai E&C thoroughly analyzes risks of all business processes and presents a financial New Technology Developed Solely reclamation construction of Tuas Finger One in Singapore; the new technology, 'Mass concrete curing system reducing structure and conditions while supporting to secure finances based on the stable credibility of the company. by Hyundai E&C Was Utilized at Site temperature crack,' is the 760th new construction technology of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport designated in Singapore in January 2014. It reduces the crack of concrete when placing basic mass concrete and thus secures the quality as well as Design & Engineering We provide optimized design and engineering solutions by predicting all stages from the early decreases the construction period. Furthermore, Hyundai E&C won an order of a 'Demonstration Project to Clean Heavy-metaldesigning stage to construction and operation stages based on our balanced business portfolio and experiences accumulated contaminated Coastal Soil' placed by Jurong Town Corporation (JTC) of Singapore. It will lead us to receive more of cleaning for 69 years. projects for contaminated soil throughout Singapore as well as dominate an advantageous status in the Southeast Asian market that is expected to grow largely. We are also striving to take a challenging leap as a global construction leader by establishing Procurement Hyundai E&C has established the global procurement system and found appropriate local suppliers while an Urban System Center and promoting joint researches with Nanyang Technological University of Singapore. signing partnerships with material and equipment suppliers and acquiring procurement experts. Consequently, the efficiency in the procurement has been maximized. Especially, we offer the best material and service in a proper time through an IT system that identifies, evaluates, and manages capable suppliers in each country. Hyundai E&C is Advancing as the Global Construction Company Achieving Compelling Performances Increase of Revenues Construction The impeccable construction is the most crucial factor of a successful business. Through the constant Hyundai E&C has proved its potential as the Global Top-tier construction company by generating momentous performances through (Unit: KRW billion / Consolidated) the profit-driven management in spite of the prolonged economic recession in domestic and international markets. The revenues technology development and cultivation of human resources, Hyundai E&C provides the best quality to its customers applying of Hyundai E&C, which was KRW 13,938.3 billion in 2013 and KRW 17,387 billion in 2014, drastically increased to KRW 19,122.1 billion solutions optimized for on-site condition. in 2015 (consolidated). We could attain this achievement thanks to our devotion to improving the profitability as well as realizing the external development, such as increasing revenues from overseas mega-scale projects and continuously innovating the cost. In 2016, we are promoting our own redevelopment/reconstruction business in Korea with an aim to receive new orders worth of KRW 27,330 13,938.3 17,387.0 19,122.1 Operation & Maintenance We have accumulated business experiences in various areas such as complex building, billion and record revenues of KRW 19,200 billion (consolidated). Therefore, we will endeavor to retain the constant increase in revenues transportational infrastructure, environmental plant, and power plant; Hyundai E&C is striving to offer the Operating and by winning more overseas orders through the 'selection and concentration' and market diversification strategies. 2013 2014 2015 Maintenance (O&M) service of the world's best level in these areas. 22. 23. Expanding Future Growth Businesses Management & Strategy For a sustainable, long-term growth, Hyundai E&C is targeting emerging markets including Africa, Latin America, Performance in Emerging Market Operating total 27 overseas branches and offices around the world, Hyundai E&C and Eastern Europe while maintaining its strong foothold in the Middle Eastern market. In addition, efforts have has been strived to enhance the competitiveness in receiving overseas orders. Since the foundation of a branch in Bogota, been concentrated on expanding the business foundation through the identification of new growth business such Colombia in 2010, we established branches in Venezuela in 2012 followed by one in Uruguay in 2013 and one in Chile as smart home and reinforcement of the global value chain. in 2014; we are concentrating our efforts on dominating the construction market in Latin American. As a consequence, we were able to win orders of Puerto La Cruz oil refinery in Venezuela worth USD 3.4 billion, Chacao Bridge in Chile worth Generating Establishing Global Value Sustainable Future USD 648 million, and Bello sewage treatment plant in Colombia worth USD 150 million. Furthermore, we succeeded web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Business/InfraWork.aspx to penetrate into the CIS region winning the order of a combined cycle power plant in Uzbekistan with a scale of USD 820 million. Hence, the business expansion of Hyundai E&C in emerging markets has been actively accelerated. In 2015, we completed the 'Enlargement Construction of Azito Power Plant' worth of KRW 290 billion in Cote d’Ivoire, Sub-Saharan Africa. Penetration into Emerging Market The accomplishment proved our competitive execution ability in spite of poor conditions of the site, which further consolidated Strategy for Emerging Market The market diversification strategy is necessary in order to flexibly respond to the global a foothold for us to expand into new markets in Africa. market environment that is drastically changing. Hyundai E&C, accordingly, has endeavored to expand its target markets in emerging countries defining Latin America, sub-Saharan Africa, and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) as major emerging markets with an aim to acquire business experience in every country. Through advanced technology and rich Intensification of Global Value Chain experiences, we successfully entered the construction markets of Chile, Uzbekistan, and Netherland in 2014. Moreover, we Global Value Chain Organization 27 overseas branches and offices around the world Hyundai E&C is operating are actively expanded the overseas business to not only emerging countries but also European advanced countries. taking significant roles to convey managerial Infrastructure to sites and efficiently connect the headquarters and sites for the Likewise, we have advanced and turned the Project Risk Management (PRM) Team into the PRM Sub-Division building a global successful execution of global business. As the proportion of overseas business has been constantly increasing, likewise, the risk management system in order to proactively minimize and prevent business risks that can occur while entering new markets; overseas branches are functioning as the main drivers in identifying local suppliers and managing the overseas supplier pool this efficient risk management system will function as a stable foundation for the sustainable growth by establishing a positive as well as sites. In addition to using the global network of affiliates and advancing the global organization, Hyundai E&C will cycle that causes a market expansion, successful business execution, and more business opportunities in the market. establish a systematic infrastructure for overseas business and thus improve the operational efficiency. Enhancement of Global Procurement Management Through the advanced material and subcontract management e-Procurement & e-Subcontract System Strategies for Major Emerging Markets system (e-Procurement & e-Subcontract System), we have integrated the management of procurement information about for Overseas Projects bidding, transport, financing, supplier evaluation, contract, and payment. Moreover, responsible procurement personnel have been assigned to Singapore, Dubai, Kuwait, and Doha branches for operating branches and purchasing local materials, office Strategies for Emerging Markets supplies, and safety features required for international business. By doing so, we have contributed to the revenue increase of local Major Emerging Markets 01 suppliers as well as the cost reduction and enforcement of the cost competitiveness. For more expeditious local procurement 01. Continue the effort to expand Commonwealth of Independent to the Latin American market and reduction of construction period, we developed and have operated a simplified local payment system at overseas sites States (CIS) 12 Countries and branches. Since 2014, moreover, we established the unit price contract program for a simpler procurement process 02. Establish customized strategies Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, by regions to receive orders of repetitive purchases at overseas branches improving the work efficiency greatly. Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, 03. Select profitable projects and strengthen Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Armenia, the risk management capability Republic of Azerbaijan, Georgia Excavation of New Growth Drivers Hyundai E&C has endeavored to generate actual achievements by business divisions based on a thorough market analysis mainly by the Strategic Planning Group. Moreover, we conduct the constant monitoring on market trends to excavate new growth engines created by social and economic market changes such as the oil price fluctuation, global warming, and aging Major Emerging Markets 02 Major Emerging Markets 03 population while implementing the expansion strategy stage by stage to enter construction-related markets. In 2016, Hyundai Sub-Saharan Africa Latin America E&C will do its best to identify and promote pilot projects for tangible performances through pre-established strategies as well as will endeavor to find optimized solutions that can balance the corporate interest and future growth. Hyundai E&C Greatly Enlarges the Border of Korean Construction through Entering Emerging Market Hyundai E&C Pioneers an Era of IoT-based IT Smart Home For an intelligent apartment where residents can enjoy the cutting-edge living environment, Hyundai E&C signed a MOU Hyundai E&C Opened Up a Gate to South-West Africa in Cote d’Ivoire. (Memorandum of Understanding) with SK Telecom in February 2016 to cooperate for smart home service business; the smart In June 2015, Hyundai E&C held a completion ceremony of the enlargement construction of Azito Power Plant in Cote d’Ivoire home service business is based on Internet of Things (IoT) and combines the smart home platform of SK Telecom with the existing of Sub-Saharan Africa. Azito Power Plant worth of KRW 290 billion was the first fruit in the Sub-Saharan African market home network service of Hillstate, such as energy management/reduction system, one-touch power saving/security system, and by Hyundai E&C who has constantly strived to enter the market; the Plant will generate power of 430MW scale that accounts for 25% ubiquitous safety system. The Integrated IoT Smart Home Service will be provided to residents who move into Hillstate since of the total power supply of the country. Hyundai E&C, successfully opened a gate to the emerging market proving its differentiated the second half of 2016 starting from Seoul and metropolitan areas. Through this MOU, Hyundai E&C became able to realize construction capability in spite of the poor environment. We will further spread our fame as the first Korean construction company the up-to-date future living environment through the authentic home IoT for residents as well as to predominate the competitive into the entire world by winning additional orders of power and infrastructure sectors in emerging African markets. Completion of Enlargement Construction edge in the market competition of construction and IT industries. We will continue to lead the IT in the housing market with our MOU Signing Ceremony of Hyundai E&C of Azito Power Plant in Cote d'Ivoire innovative technology. and SK Telecom 24. 25. Sound Corporate Governance Management & Strategy For the successful and stable business operation based on checks and balance, Hyundai E&C has established Nomination and Remuneration of Directors Directors are nominated at the general shareholders’ meeting by a sound corporate governance as a global company. Furthermore, we are striving for generating values the recommendation of the Outside Director Nominating Committee in accordance with Hyundai E&C's standards to nominate of shareholders and stakeholders by intensifying the efficiency and transparency of the Board of Directors. directors. In recommending and nominating external directors, Hyundai E&C observes qualifications articulated on related regulations such as the commercial law. The Outside Director Nominating Committee recommends candidates who possess expertise and experience in fields such as the law, finance/accounting, and construction regarding the Board diversity and Generating Establishing Global Value Sustainable Future the complementarity of skills. Remuneration of directors includes the severance pay and is provided within the limit that is web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/IR/Management.aspx approved at the general shareholders’ meeting on an annual basis; the remuneration status of all directors and the committee of inspection has been disclosed on quarterly/biannual/business reports. In particular, the amount paid and methodology of personal remuneration are publicly reported in a clear and transparent manner when the total amount exceeds KRW 500 Board of Directors million. Function and Operation of BoD The Board of Directors is the key body which makes decisions for the company and resolves issues articulated on regulations and the corporate article as well as issues related to the business execution. It also monitors the performance of directors and the management while striving to maximize the corporate value and build trust Committees under the BoD of stakeholders. Hyundai E&C holds regular and temporary board meetings as well; in 2015, we had total 9 board meetings Hyundai E&C is currently operating Audit Committee, Outside Director Nominating Committee, and Ethical Management discussing about 34 agendas including the approval for business with subsidiaries. Committee under the BoD for the Board's efficient operation, execution of its duty, and promotion of sustainability management web Information such as Articles of Incorporation, key roles of the BoD, and resolutions are available on Hyundai E&C’s website. activity. For the independent check and monitoring, moreover, the Articles of Incorporation and regulations of the Board clarify Financial Supervisory Service's Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System (DART) In addition, we regularly disclose the BoD-related information that we have a duty to publicly report through the Data Analysis, that the key committees shall consist of external directors. Thus, we have guaranteed the independence of the committees. http://dart.fss.or.kr Retrieval and Transfer System (DART) of the Financial Supervisory Service. Current Status of Committees under the BoD Board Composition and Guarantee of Independence Hyundai E&C operates the Board of Directors (BoD) that is (As of MAY 2016) Attendance Rate of External Directors composed of total seven members: one executive director, two other directors, and four outside directors. Moreover, it is chaired Committee Composition Functions (As of 2015) by the CEO because of the characteristic of the construction industry that requires a prompt decision making for sites located 100 % around the globe. In addition to this, the majority of the Board consists of outside directors while an independent lead director is Audit the legality of business activities carried out by the BoD and the management Chairman Shin Hyun-Yoon Review the integrity and feasibility of the company’s financial activities appointed; as a consequence, the independence of the Board has been further secured. The independent lead director takes a Audit Committee + three outside directors Review and control the internal audit, appoint external auditor responsibility for monitoring managerial activities of the CEO, mediating conflicts between executive and outside directors, and Summon extraordinary meetings of shareholders gathering and proposing opinions of outside directors. Outside directors of Hyundai E&C reinforce the transparency and fairness of the corporate management as well as provide Outside Director Chairman Jung Soo-Hyun Recommend candidates for outside directors advices and expert knowledge to contribute to making important decisions of the company. Additionally, they faithfully fulfill Nominating Committee + four outside directors their duties as advisors and facilitators by objectively monitoring management activities. Subject to relevant laws including the commercial law, outside directors are independent from corporate bodies such as the management. On the other hand, Deliberate and vote on a deal among affiliate persons defined by the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act Hyundai E&C has been doing its best to assist the efficient execution of outside directors' duties by regularly inviting them Ethical Management Chairman Shin Hyun-Yoon Ensure the execution of Compliance Program + three outside directors, to domestic and overseas sites as well as by providing work-related information required. Committee one executive director Deliberate and resolve major policies related to the ethical management and social contribution Enact and revise ethical regulations such as code of ethics and evaluate the compliance Select the sustainability vision and strategic tasks Current Status of the Board of Directors (As of MAY 2016) Position Name Type Recommender Principal Work Experience Executive Director Jung Soo-Hyun Standing (current) CEO & President, Hyundai E&C Protection of Shareholder Rights (former) CEO & President, Hyundai AMCO Major Shareholders Board of As the owners of Hyundai E&C, shareholders have a right to attend the general meeting and vote, right to share in the profit, (Unit: % / As of DEC 31, 2015) Chung Mong-Koo Non-standing Directors (current) Chairman, Hyundai Motor and right to receive significant corporate information in a regular and timely manner as stated on legislations including the Other Director Kim Yong-Hwan Non-standing (current) Vice-president, Hyundai Motor commercial law. We observe a principle to preserve shareholders' rights in any cases when a significant change to the existence Hy Group of the company or shareholder rights, such as adjustment of the Articles of Incorporation, merger or split off, and otor (current) Vice-president, Education and Scholarship at Yonsei Univ. 20.93 changes in capital; decisions in these circumstances are made at the general shareholders' meeting. In addition, Hyundai iM Shin Hyun-Yoon Non-standing da (former) Dean, School of Law at Yonsei Univ. un E&C guarantees the right to know of shareholders by disclosing key managerial information in an explicit and prompt (current) Professor of Architectural Engineering, KonKuk Univ. 8.72 Suh Chee-Ho Non-standing Outside (former) Chairman, Architecture Institute of Korea manner through various channels: the corporate disclosure system, website, and general shareholders' meeting. 65.12 Director 5.23 Outside Director Nominating (current) Lawyer, Lee International Park Sung-Duck Non-standing Committee (former) Inspection Commissioner, the Board of Audit and Inspection of Korea (current) president, Tax&People Kim Young-Kee Non-standing (former) Director, Research Bureau of National Tax Service Hyundai Motor KIA Motors Hyundai Mobis Others 26. 27. Enhancing Ethical Management System Management & Strategy Hyundai E&C, as a responsible corporate citizen, has been striving for attaining trust of stakeholders through Ethical Management Education and Campaign In addition to establishing the midto long-term implementation plan Ethical Management Education the ethical management and compliance. Hence, we are standing at the forefront in consolidating the advanced for the ethical management in 2014, Hyundai E&C has intensified the pledge, education, and campaign for the consolidation for Suppliers ethical corporate culture by continuously enhancing policies for the ethical management as well as promoting of the ethical management at the corporate level. Therefore, we have implemented the complementary ethical management diverse activities. education for all employees including the CEO and the top management while requiring all employees to pledge to deliver the ethical management every year. Also, the ethical management Q&As are posted on the message board of the groupware Generating Establishing Global Value Sustainable Future sharing cases applicable to actual works and assisting employees to realize the ethical management. web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/EhticConduct.aspx Performance of Ethical Management in 2015 Ethical Management Policy and System Type Course Trainee Number of Trainees In order to share the vision of the ethical management with all shareholders including employees and to disseminate the ethical Corporate-wide Education Online ethical management education All employees 4,425 persons corporate culture, we enacted the HDEC Green CSR Declaration in 2009; the Declaration is applied to not only all employees Mandatory education about fair trade/ethical Responsible personnel of procurement but also affiliates and suppliers of Hyundai E&C. Furthermore, we are reflecting diverse requirements of stakeholders and 83 persons management (twice) and general affairs, etc. industrial trends that are swiftly changing by conducting regular reviews. Responsible personnel of procurement Education to prevent unfair inside trade 100 persons and general affairs, etc. Ethical Management System Education about labeling and advertising Housing sales managers 19 persons Education by Offices MORAL PRIDE IN HDEC Education about ethical management New employees 170 persons Hyundai E&C in Which All of Customers, Employees, Type of Reports and Suppliers Take Pride Comprehensive education about fair trade New employees 170 persons to Cyber Audit Office (Unit: % / Domestic and overseas) Education about fair trade/ethical management (twice) Employees who return from overseas sites 60 persons Education about fair trade system (twice) Employees who desire to participate 73 persons Education for Suppliers Ethical management education for suppliers (three times) Site managers of suppliers 150 persons 26 3 Practical Code of Conduct Supervisory Body Ethics Training 64 Elements 10 Cyber Audit Office By operating the Cyber Audit Office, we provide online educations about Code of Ethics and relevant policies, receive reports about unethical behaviors, and accept requests to improve the system; reports and requests submitted Establish transparent Carry out in-depth Expand and improve to the Cyber Audit Office are being processed in a transparent manner. Additionally, the Cyber Audit Office provides service 5 Areas of Build infrastructures for Enhance win-win management system training on management ethical management cooperation system in English as well while international hotlines for each country are being operated for encouraging reports from overseas sites. Consultation with businesses Implementation on global scale 'Clean Company' evaluation tasks Corruption All reports are non-disclosed so that the informant’s identity and confidentiality are strictly protected. In 2016, Hyundai E&C Others (e.g. Consultation with clients) will do its best to settle the transparent ethical management by advancing menus and functions of the Cyber Audit Office Cyber Audit Office for the convenience of users as well as by further expanding the scope of reports. web http://audit.hdec.kr Activity for Ethical Management Ethical Management Survey Since 2015, Hyundai E&C has implemented an annual ethical management survey for all Intensification of Autonomous Compliance Program for Fair Trade employees aiming to assess the corporate awareness of the ethical management and to establish appropriate directions. The 7 Key Components of Compliance For consolidating a culture for the fair and transparent trade, Hyundai E&C is operating an autonomous compliance program as Program for Fair Trade survey is conducted for 4 sections: ethical management policy, code of ethics and guidelines, report of unethical behavior, and a standard for the internal control. In order to internalize the employees' autonomous awareness of the fair trade compliance, ethical training/campaign. The survey result is applied to the improvement activity for settling the proper ethical management 01 CEO's Commitment we increased the number of preventive educations implemented from 6 cases of 2014 to 9 cases in 2015. Also, recent fair culture. trade issues and explicit behavioral standards for complying with fair trade regulations have been spread through the internal Appointment of Supervisors for message board. In May 2015, especially, ‘Antitrust Policy of Hyundai Engineering & Construction’ was enacted for Hyundai E&C 02 Autonomous Compliance to proclaim its will to deliver the responsible and sustainable management. Establishment & Amendment of 03 Hyundai E&C Takes the Lead in Ethical Management with UN Global Compact Autonomous Compliance Handbook Since 2010 when joined the UN Global Compact, the international agreement for the corporate social responsibility, Hyundai E&C Establishment of Autonomous Compliance System We regularly hold an Autonomous Compliance Conference 04 Training System has actively strived to comply with the ten principles of the Compact in four areas: human rights, labor, environment, and antiand share issues related to internal and external fair trade risks for the systematic operation of the Autonomous Compliance corruption. Additionally, we joined 'Fair Player Club' in May 2016, which is the public-private forum for the compliance and business ethics led by the UN Global Compact Network Korea. The current corporate status of compliance and ethical management has Program for Fair Trade. For instance, trend of fair trade policy and internal risk management measures were discussed at 05 Monitoring & Supervisory System been evaluated as well according to international ethical management standards, such as OECD Convention on Combating Bribery the Autonomous Compliance Conference in April 2015. In particular, we review risks and provide legal supports for a relevant of Foreign Public Official in International Business Transactions as well as Bribery Act 2010 of England. Hyundai E&C will continue department's fair trade tasks constantly devoting to the prevention of violation. 06 Regulations on Any Act of Violation to fulfil its responsibility and role in a faithful manner to settle the ethical management in the construction industry. Logos of Global Compact and Fair Player Club web Fair Player Club http://www.fairplayerclub.kr/index_e.html Establishment of 07 Documentation System 28. 29. Advancing Risk Management System Management & Strategy Through the integrated risk management, Hyundai E&C is striving for the stable business operation by proactively Enhancement of Risk Response and Reporting System In order to promptly and effectively respond to various identifying potential risk factors and preventing risks from occurring. In addition, a systematic analysis about longrisks, Hyundai E&C has defined and managed key risks by conducting a monthly risk analysis with regular scenario mapping. term strategic risks is being conducted in order to excavate new opportunities and reflect them to business. Furthermore, we have consolidated a risk response system where we can immediately react to unusual activities by identifying key risk indicators (KRIs) for each key risk as well as developing a response manual by relevant organizations. Generating Establishing Global Value Sustainable Future web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/GreenSafty.aspx Risk Matrix Corporate Risks For the effective risk response, we comprehensively take account of factors such as business areas, Risk Assessment Meeting Intensification of Risk Management Infrastructure markets to operate business, macroeconomic environment, and characteristics of stakeholders. Hence, we manage and classify risks into three categories: corporate risks, project risks, and long-term strategic risks. Organization for Integrated Risk Management Hyundai E&C newly established the Project Risk Management (PRM) A corporate risk is highly significant since it can influence management targets of Hyundai E&C among various risks that Hyundai Strategy Office to flexibly respond to the domestic and overseas construction environment drastically changing as well as E&C is exposed to; corporate risks are subdivided into country risks and company & market risks. Country risks include political, to establish an integrated risk management system. The PRM Strategy Office consists of Risk Management (RM) Planning Team, sociocultural, and environmental risks that can occur from domestic and overseas external changes and are managed at Order Risk Management (RM) Team, and Execution Risk Management (RM) Team for the inclusive risk management covering the corporate level. On the other hand, company & market risks include usual market, business, and financial risks. the entire project life cycle from receiving orders to executing projects. The PRM Strategy Office will continuously function as a control tower for the integrated risk management. Project Risks A project risk refers to a material risk affecting the achievement of project targets during receiving or executing order. Hyundai E&C conducts a series of activities to increase the possibility to accomplish project targets IT-based Risk Management System Through the operation of IT-based risk management system, we are efficiently HDEC Risk Management System by thoroughly managing diverse project risks such as engineering risks, measurement risks, and procurement risks that are dealing with key information created during the series of processes: risk identification, analysis, evaluation, and response. directly related to projects. In addition to the order evaluation management system developed in 2014 for a simpler order evaluation process, we advanced the risk management process and system in order to combine the management of the order receiving and project execution. In 2016, therefore, we plan to complete the establishment of the integrated risk management system. Long-term Strategic Risks A long-term strategic risk is a material risk which may significantly influence the future business Link of Hyundai E&C. We have identified the urbanization, water scarcity/environmental pollution, energy/fuel scarcity, and resource Four Megatrends of Construction Industry depletion as the key megatrends of the construction industry in a long term perspective. Hyundai E&C has devoted its efforts (p. 6-13) Consolidation of Risk Analysis and Assessment System Hyundai E&C has distributed a checklist by project types to defining risk/opportunity factors through the future analysis for each megatrend and to integrate it to the business. for all projects since 2013 while conducting a risk assessment by experts for the systematic analysis and management of risk. Assessment results are utilized as basic materials to establish managerial strategies and make decisions for similar projects. Moreover, we introduced an assessment system to reinforce the risk analysis and assessment activities of responsible personnel in 2014 and constantly enhanced relevant systems in 2015. As a consequence, the risk analysis by frontline responsible personnel has been executed from their perspective while the result is being actively reflected to actual management. Long-term Strategic Risks Establishment of Risk Analysis and Assessment System We have a risk reporting system for more prompt and Midto Long-term Risk Reporting System effective response by comprehensively analyzing the seriousness, possibility, and impacts as well as by proactively defining Strategic Risks Urbanization Energy & Fuel Board of Directors High-level Risk the reporting process and targets according to the analysis result. In 2015, the response system was further intensified · The Chief Risk Officer (CRO) directly by various efforts such as patterning activities to prevent reoccurrence through analysis of failure cases in managing risks. reports to the BoD and undertakes Furthermore, in 2016, we will further advance the pre-established risk management system and thus continuously improve the investigation of a given risk and the responsible personnel the efficiency in reporting and responding to risks. Intensified concentration of city population Sudden changes in energy policy, supply, and fuel prices Definition and rise of urban poor due to population growth due to increasing energy consumption · Establish a risk mitigation strategy, of Risk in developing countries regular monitoring system, and countermeasures to a crisis situation 60% of world population living in urban areas in 2030, Hyundai E&C’s 15 Key Risks 10% increase in urban population from 50% of 2013 15% increase in world oil consumption compared to 2010 due to <UN Population Division> the increase of transportation in emerging markets in 2030 <IEA> CEO Mid-level Risk Inability to Qualify with 01 Rise of Raw Materials Prices 06 11 Inadequate SCM the Global QC Standards · The CRO directly reports to the CEO Threat Factor Opportunity Factor Threat Factor Opportunity Factor Impact · If a given risk is considered to be Intensified socio-economic Provide large/smart Advent of severe crises on Respond to energy scarcity on Business urgent and to have a significant 02 Currency Volatility 07 Liquidity Crisis 12 Vulnerability in HR Management problems in urban areas due infrastructure in accordance energy shortage caused by with renewable energy and effect on project(s), report to both to population growth with expansion of the urban demand increase for energy low-carbon high-efficiency the CEO and the BoD and make areas technologies a prompt decision 03 Intensified Competition 08 Changes in the Global Economy 13 Non-compliance with Laws Development of large/smart infrastructure technologies Development of renewable energy and low-carbon CRO Low-level Risk Failure to Accomplish Stagnant Domestic Countermeasure high-efficiency technologies 04 09 14 Occupational Accidents Management Targets Construction Industry High-rise building, Advanced special building, Environmental · Reported to the CRO Gas plant, Coal gasification application plant, Biogas plant, remodeling, Super-long span bridge, Long tunnel, Smart Political Uncertainties transportation infrastructure, Advanced port Offshore wind, Offshore plant, Concentrated Solar Power, Green 05 Failure of New Projects 10 15 Information and Technology Leak smart building, Circulating Fluidized Bed Combustion (CFBC) boiler in Foreign Countries 30. 31. Environmental Value Creation Management & Strategy To companies, environmental issues including the climate change, energy scarcity, and resource depletion that the world is confronting are new challenges and business opportunities simultaneously. Under the vision of ‘2030 Global Green One Pioneer‚’ Hyundai E&C has established the environment-friendly roadmap improving the environmental efficiency of the entire business process. On the other hand, efforts of Hyundai E&C have been devoted to minimizing the environmental impact caused by corporate activities. Environmental Management Technology Management Maximizing Minimizing Attaining Differentiated Pursuing Eco-efficiency Environmental Impact Technology Capability Customer Satisfaction Business Value Social Value Business Value Social Value Ma'aden Alumina Refinery Project, Saudi Arabia Hyundai E&C aims to minimize environmental impacts Hyundai E&C pursues the customer satisfaction by maximizing the eco-efficiency. by attaining the differentiated technology capability. 32. 33. Foundation for Environmental Management Management & Strategy Environmental Management System The importance of the environmental management is now becoming the future growth engine creating new Integrated Management System for Health, Safety & Environment Since 2013, Hyundai E&C has been operating business, far beyond merely reducing energy. Hyundai E&C has consolidated its foothold as the global an organic environmental management system based on the Integrated Management System for Health, Safety & Environment environment-friendly construction company by establishing the environmental management system and setting that combines OHSAS 18001 (Safety and Health), ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System), and ISO 50001 reduction targets for each business stage. (Energy Management System). In addition, environmental management goals by sites have been set while the performance is being managed through the Integrated Environmental Performance Management System. The environmental management Maximizing Minimizing Eco-efficiency Environmental Impact performances are reported to the top management on an annual basis so that they can be utilized as references for establishing web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/GreenSafty.aspx and advancing environmental management goals. In 2016, we will strive to maximize the environmental efficiency with an aim to realize 'HSE as a global leading construction company.' Also, we will respond in advance to the change of the international management systems such as ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, which are to be revised. Environmental Management Policy IT-based Integrated Performance Management System Through the Hyundai-Project Management System (H-PMS), Integrated Environmental Performance Aiming to accomplish the vision of '2030 Global Green One Pioneer,' Hyundai E&C has established the long-term environmental an IT-based Integrated Environmental Performance Management System, we have managed environmental performance Management System management roadmap that includes the agendas until 2030. Moreover, diverse activities for the environmental management are in an efficient manner by integrating the management of various systems such as GHG & Energy Management System, (Currently being developed) being promoted to enhance the corporate status as the representative global environment-friendly company. Hence, we have Waste Management System and violations against environmental regulations. In particular, we are successfully enhancing built and delivered the corporate-wide plans and goals as well as the environmental management system for all business stages: H-PMS the corporate-wide environmental performance monitoring system through the sequential integration of procurement, training technology development, procurement, transportation, construction, and deconstruction. In 2015, Hyundai E&C established (e-HRD), social contribution, and HRPMS systems. For example, in 2015, we connected the procurement (Enterprise GHG and plans and goals for each site following the corporate-wide safety/health/environment/energy plans and goals while concenResource Planning, ERP) system to H-PMS so that employees can view details of the energy consumption on the H-PMS Energy Management System trating on the thorough management by detailed execution plans. without a need to log on the ERP system. Therefore, the work efficiency at sites has been significantly improved. Hyundai E&C Waste Management System will realize further efficient environmental management by continuously advancing the Integrated Environmental Performance Environmental Management Hyundai E&C's Green Environment Strategy Management System. HRPMS* Roadmap to Develop into 2030 Global Green One Pioneer Inspection of Environmental Management Activity Hyundai E&C conducts regular inspections for all domestic and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) STEP 04. System (Procurement) overseas sites on an annual basis in order to reinforce the capability in the environmental management. The inspection results STEP 03. are included in the performance evaluation of site managers and team leaders as well as responsible HSE personnel. Moreover, Social Contribution System (Social contribution) STEP 02. the score of each site is reflected to the evaluation of the completion and sites that acquired an outstanding score are given STEP 01. Global separate incentives. For domestic sites, in-depth inspections are conducted for 2 to 3 days while additional inspections e-HRD (Education) Lead of Green Green Company Consolidation of Management are carried out for overseas sites that have not acquired sufficient scores. As a consequence, Hyundai E&C implemented Establishment of Green Green Management Management Infrastructure a total of 110 inspections for domestic sites and 26 inspections for overseas sites while 17 sites had to go through * HRPMS : Hyundai Research Project Management System the additional environmental inspection. For far stronger inspection system for site, Hyundai E&C will increase the percentage • Establishing GHG Inventory •Establishing strategy for • Executing GHG & Energy •Responding to Cap and • Setting GHG emission targets green growth Target Management Scheme Trade Scheme of the result of HSE system inspections in the performance evaluation from 40% to 50% (domestic) and 40% (overseas). • Enhancing R&D of new green •Providing green education to •Entering renewable energy and • Consolidating corporate image growth engine employees; cultivating talents new green markets as global leading green company Likewise, we will further intensify the inspection for on-site activities by diverse ways including interviewing site managers and •Operating HSE Management •Managing divisional targets and • Increasing green technology and • Enhancing profitability based on employees to check the actual management status. Committee performances industry exports core technology of HDEC and global green market Education about Environmental Management Through systematic training programs, we have been improving the Performance of Education understanding of employees about the environmental management as well as encouraging the participation of employees into about Environmental Management 2010 2014 2015 2016 2020 2030 the environmental management activities. In 2015, we implemented trainings for employees relevant to the on-site environmental (As of 2015) management, such as site managers, administrators, and technicians. We also developed curriculums customized for each Number of work so that the quantitative expansion and qualitative improvement of HSE training have been accomplished. Especially, Trainees 1,979 persons 2014 2015 2016 Environmental we are striving to advance the employee's awareness of the environmental management by providing trainings that focus Management on recent environmental issues such as the government’s GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme. Hence, a total of 1,979 Policy & Goals Implementation of HSE Basics and Principles HSE as the Most Valuable Asset for Successful Corporate HSE* as Global Leading Construction Company employees received the HSE training for 3,958 hours in 2015. Hyundai E&C will conduct trainings with a focus on the response Training Hours 3,958 hours Management to the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme and responsibility for on-site environmental tasks in 2016. •Implement environmental management • Execute HSE Management System • Implement safety management with HSE through efficient environment and energy through responsible management strong philosophy about HSE management Policy • Develop HSE System focusing on • Deliver HSE with change and innovation • Improve process efficiency through preventive measures • Create HSE culture of communication optimization of HSE system •Establish HSE paradigm complying and respect Hyundai E&C Is Taking the Lead of Global Green Management •Pursue HSE collaboration and with all HSE basics and principles • Secure competitiveness through enhancing communication through best service • Execute HSE Management System HSE capability Included in CDP Carbon Management Honors Club for Two Consecutive Years • Establish a proactive prevention system to develop cooperative partnerships In November 2015, Hyundai E&C was selected as a member of 'Carbon Management Honors Club' for two consecutive years, which through risk management with all sub-contractors is an award given to outstanding companies through Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the most authoritative environmental index • Utilize performance management system • Establish GHG/energy reduction system • Realize ZERO accidents at domestic/ of the world; the CDP Index is one of the most reliable sustainability management index in the world with Dow Jones Sustainability HSE to reduce GHG Emissions and Energy • Achieve 'ZERO' critical accidents & overseas sites Index and Bloomberg Indexes. It annually evaluates, analyzes, and reports the climate change action of key listed companies. Goals Consumption environmental incidents • Establish proactive safety management On the evaluation of 2015, Hyundai E&C accomplished the perfect score (100 points) for Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) • Achieve 'ZERO critical accident' • Eliminate risks through proactive system • Comply with HSE standard work response • Reinforce response to environmental risks and 'Band A‚' the highest level of the evaluation result in the climate action sector. As a result, we were included in not only 'Carbon procedures • Enhance HSE Management System • Accomplish GHG/energy reduction targets Management Honors Club' for the second time in 2015 but also 'Carbon Management Sector Winners' in the industrial material sector • Maximize internal customers' satisfaction for 4 consecutive years. We will continue to fortify our foothold as the sustainable, global environment-friendly company while actively through active communication 2015 CDP Korea *HSE: Health, Safety, promoting GHG and energy reduction activities. Carbon Management Honors Club Award Environment 34. 35. Consolidating Carbon Management System Management & Strategy As the global climate change and energy depletion are intensifying, the corporate capability to improve the energy Leadership in Carbon Management Hyundai E&C has led the carbon management since 2012 when it joined efficiency and reduce the GHG emissions is emerging as a key factor of the competitiveness in most industries. the Climate Disclosure Standard Board (CDSB) Working Group opening a new page of the carbon management. Moreover, In order to proactively respond to the change, Hyundai E&C has executed corporate-wide carbon management we have significantly contributed to setting the GHG management guideline for the construction industry as an advisory member activities such as establishing carbon management goals in accordance with the national GHG reduction target. of the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme’s council. In 2014, moreover, we participated in the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme pilot project conducted by the Korea Infrastructure Safety & Technology Corporation revising the ‘MRV Maximizing Minimizing Eco-efficiency Environmental Impact (Monitoring, Reporting and Verification) Manual of GHG Emissions for Construction Industry.’ By actively delivering the GHG & web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/GreenSafty.aspx Energy Target Management Scheme of the government in 2015, Hyundai E&C as the leading construction company in carbon management presented the model case to other construction companies. Carbon Management Strategy Enhancement of Carbon Management Activities For achieving the vision of '2030 Global Green One Pioneer’ and contributing to the national GHG reduction target, we have Management of GHG Emissions In order to check the GHG emissions status, Hyundai E&C is calculating the corporateactively promoted the carbon management strategies aiming to reduce the emissions by 10.5% until 2020 and by 52.5% wide emissions on an annual basis as well as conducting the third-party verification for the GHG emissions data and until 2040 compared to the emissions of 2015; the reduction target includes Scope 1-3 emissions as well as both domestic management. In particular, we are endeavoring to reduce the emissions by voluntarily managing the overseas emissions and and overseas emissions. It is to proactively cooperate with the Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) for Korea comprehensive Scope III as well as Scope I and II beyond the government requirement for construction companies that are determined by the C​onference O ​ ​f the ​P​arties (COP21) in December 2015, which is to reduce the GHG emissions by 37% subject to the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme according to the Framework Act On Low Carbon, Green Growth. compared to the Business As Usual (BAU) until 2030. In responding to this, Hyundai E&C selected representative sites In 2015, the GHG emissions data from 2011 to 2014 was recalculated as the ‘MRV (Monitoring, Reporting and Verification) by business units and analyzed the GHG reduction potential of each site in 2013. Based on the analysis, the corporateGuideline of GHG Emissions for Construction Industry' was enacted while the recalculated data was used for establishing wide strategy was set to deal with the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme in 2014. Additionally, we establish annual the estimation model of GHG emissions as a means of reducing GHG. reduction plan by estimating future GHG emissions and identifying reduction items while the GHG reduction performance is reflected to the KPIs. Thus, Hyundai E&C will constantly devote to decreasing the GHG emissions. Activities to Reduce GHG Emissions GHG reduction activities of Hyundai E&C are conducted in three areas: optimization of reduction items, continuous Green Campaign, and trainings on the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme. Carbon Management Strategy Firstly, we have identified items that help significantly reduce emissions by replacing office lightings with LED lights, changing to high-efficiency boilers, and improving air compressors at office buildings. The reduction items have been identified VISION and applied to sites through the analysis of the economic feasibility and effectiveness. Secondly, the Green Campaign, Activity Target a representative GHG reducing campaign of Hyundai E&C, has been persistently promoted at the headquarters and all sites. 2030 Global Green At sites, various reduction items are being applied to reduce GHG emissions that can be generated during construction stages. Reduce Energy Consumption Reduce GHG Emissions by 10.5% At the headquarters, reduction activities are being implemented in daily lives of employees. Lastly, Hyundai E&C has enhanced and GHG Emissions One Pioneer until 2020 and by 52.5% until 2040 employee trainings to reinforce the employees’ awareness of the environmental management while successfully delivering Compared to Emissions in 2015 the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme. As concerns about the climate change and GHG emissions have increased, Hyundai E&C distributed the GHG & Energy Reduction Guideline in 2015. Therefore, the employee's awareness has been greatly advanced leading employees to recognize the importance of reducing the GHG emissions. Green System Green Project Management Green R&D Establish Environmental Create Environment-friendly Sites Expand Environment-friendly Management System Technologies 4 Systematically reduce GHG emissions 1 Build the foundation for environmental 7 S ecure core environment-friendly 5 Expand environment-friendly outsourcing management system 6 O perate sites in technologies Value Creation through Carbon Management Activities 2 Improve image as 8 D ominate environment-friendly source an environment-friendly company an environment-friendly manner technology in advance Carbon management activities of Hyundai E&C have generated actual values. Through maintaining the proper indoor temperate and saving electricity for lights‚ air conditioners‚ 3 Operate the Environmental Management Committee the Green Campaign, the representative GHG reduction campaign, we are striving and heaters. Thanks to our diverse efforts, we were able to reduce the GHG emissions to reduce GHG emissions not only at the headquarters but also at all sites. In particular, by 74,133.49tCO 2-e while cutting costs by KRW 33.98 billion* in 2015. reduction items that can be immediately applied to works are being constantly * The number indicates the cost saved by GHG emission reduction activities only. excavated for a lower energy consumption at sites where most energy are consumed. Please refer to CDP (https://www.cdp.net) for details. At the headquarters‚ for instance, daily reduction activities are being promoted such as Carbon Management System Headquarters Site Improvement of Carbon Management System Established the GHG inventory system in 2010, Hyundai E&C has ∙ Maintain optimal indoor temperature ∙ Use steam at existing factories when curing concrete realized the pacesetting carbon management through various ways such as introducing and applying ISO 50001 (Energy ∙ Turn off lights and cooling/heating equipment Vehicle ∙S witch to mobile tower cranes to substitute the use of diesel ∙ Shut down computers or set them to sleep mode with electricity Management System) certification to sites in 2012 for the first among all construction companies around the world. Furthermore, ∙ Use hybrid cars for the corporate fleet ∙ Use personal mugs instead of paper cups and encourage ∙ Install remote mobile control device for tower cranes ∙ Use public transportation or commuter buses the use of scrap paper ∙ Encourage car-sharing we are reviewing the energy consumption of all construction stages, from project planning to construction, and conducting for commuting to/from work ∙ Use stairs and reduce the number of elevator use ∙ Check vehicles regularly monthly inspections with energy reduction targets established. The energy management at site has become more efficient ∙P rohibit sudden acceleration, sudden braking, and idling within sites for the GHG system has been managed in the H-PMS, an integrated site management system, since 2014; every energy data ∙A djust tire pressure of construction equipment to improve fuel efficiency including GHG emissions and the energy consumption by energy sources is gathered and analyzed at sites in real time. In 2015, ∙ Encourage use of bicycles within sites likewise, we connected the H-PMS with the ERP that is the procurement system in order to improve the convenience of on-site personnel responsible for the data-entering as well as to increase the efficiency of managing the GHG management system. 36. 37. Environment-friendly Construction Process Maximizing Minimizing Management & Strategy Eco-efficiency Environmental Impact web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/GreenSafty.aspx The construction industry provides a necessary basis for creating a new space while it consumes a significant amount of energy and imposes environmental impacts during the construction process. Hyundai E&C, therefore, has focused all its capabilities on minimizing the environmental impact of the construction industry by establishing the environment-friendly process for all stages: engineering, procurement, transportation, construction, deconstruction, and operation. 01 02 03 04 05 06 Prior to Construction Stage Construction Stage After Construction Stage Environment-friendly Environment-friendly Environment-friendly Environment-friendly Environment-friendly Environment-friendly Engineering Procurement Transportation Construction Deconstruction Operation Develop environment-friendly engineering Increase environment-friendly procurement Minimize environmental impacts Minimize environmental impacts Reduce construction waste Increase environment-friendly Develop environmental remediation engineering Establish environment-friendly supply chain caused by transportation caused by construction Establish environment-friendly certification technology Maximize the energy efficiency Maximize resource efficiency deconstruction standards Realize sustainable construction Acquire environment-friendly efficiency facility Operate environment-friendly procurement Increase efficiency through Establish and operate Integrated HSE System Operate Integrated Environmental Waste Expand application of green items in building and management technology process environment-friendly Vehicles Guideline Monitor and reduce energy use at all stages Management System Increase environment-friendly building Expand environment-friendly construction and Evaluate environment-friendliness of materials Operate environment-friendly work vehicles for reductions Observe Environment-friendly Deconstruction certification engineering checklist Publish Environmental Standard for Overseas Guideline Apply more environment-friendly technologies Countries Turn waste into resource with thorough management Energy Efficiency Resource Efficiency Energy Consumption (Unit: TJ) Direct GHG Emissions Indirect GHG Emissions Material Use Water Usage (Unit: 1,000 ton) 0.381 0.105 0.095 0.076 0.304 Category 2013 2014 2015 0.282 Description 2013 2014 2015 Description 2013 2014 2015 Diesel 95.34 68.18 209.54 Steel (ton) 752,000 811,000 670,000 Tap Water 710 397 379 Gasoline 17.74 14.57 14.78 Ready-mixed Surface Water 120 282 166 2,457,581 2,431,544 2,274,586 concrete (m3) Kerosene 11.25 32.78 20.29 Underground Water 100 121 390 13,245 13,232 20,043 53,050 52,924 53,885 Cement (ton) 86,185 81,706 137,332 Subtotal 124.34 115.53 244.61 Rain Water 20 3 5 Sand (m3) 8,586,000 8,894,000 1,129,893 LNG 67.32 62.85 44.18 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Total Water Usage 950 803 940 Aggregate (m3) 6,436,000 7,660,000 7,566,771 LPG 2.12 3.77 4.20 Other Indirect GHG Emissions Total GHG Emissions Asphalt concrete (ton) 316,900 354,972 423,703 Subtotal 69.44 66.62 48.38 LO2 (ℓ) 1,891,813 1,961,952 1,427,935 Lump coal 2.323 2.799 18.46 26.40 10.53 Coal in medium-size (brown coal) 1.872 2.258 2,308,170 3,057,317 2,338,190 1.792 2.173 lumps (kg) Ignition coal 0.45 0.46 0.27 (wood coal) Waste Generation (Unit: ton) Wastewater Generation (Unit: ton) Hot water 0.01 0.01 (district heating) 323,819 311,596 357,942 390,114 377,752 431,870 Electric power 1,074.49 1,072.97 1,095.48 Description 2013 2014 2015 Description 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Waste 613,302 452,021 635,939 Wastewater 1,117,667 1,093,787 990,315 Subtotal 1,093.40 1,099.83 1,106.30 Total energy 1,287.19 1,281.99 1,399.29 GHG Emissions (tCO2-e) Intensity by Revenues (tCO2-e/KRW 100 million) consumption 38. 39. Environment-friendly Construction Process Environment-friendly Engineering and Application Environment-friendly Procurement Reinforcement of Environment-friendly Engineering Hyundai E&C has defined saving energy, saving water, caring Hyundai E&C has evaluated the environment-friendliness of materials during the selection stage since 1997 to put a priority the ecosystem, and creating a pleasant living environment as the four factors of the environment-friendly engineering on the procurement of environment-friendly materials, which can help reduce the resource consumption and environmental applying them from the engineering stage. Especially, we are developing various high-efficiency environment-friendly pollution. Likewise, we support the environmental management of suppliers for encouraging the development and engineering to build the 100% Energy-saving House because the legal regulation is intensifying as the government promotes production of environment-friendly materials. We also devote for producing and procuring environment-friendly products the roadmap to realize the zero-energy house. In 2015, we acquired diverse environment-friendly efficiency facilities and energy through the continuous enhancement of the environment-friendly procurement process by signing the ‘Voluntary Agreement management technology such as Hyundai Energy Recovery Ventilation (HERV) and Smart Building Energy Management on Environment-friendly Procurement’ with the Ministry of Environment. System (BEMS) that consider the environment-friendly engineering factors. Besides, we secured a technology to improve the indoor air quality by developing a wallpaper which adsorbs harmful substances; the facilities and technologies have been Environment-friendly Procurement Process With the Hyundai Environmental Goods Standard (HEGS) established applied to actual construction projects achieving meaningful performances. Through the Green Smart Innovation Center in 2010, we have been stimulated the procurement of environment-friendly products and materials at the corporate level while (GSIC), an energy demonstration facility established in 2014, we are demonstrating diverse cutting-edge technologies operating a system to gather and manage the relevant data. All environment-friendly materials procured by Hyundai E&C including renewable energy and energy storing system through integrated engineering, monitoring, and operation of those are classified into eight codes (HEGS 1-8); a HEGS code of a material to be purchased is entered into the Environment-friendly technologies. Hyundai E&C will further advance the brand image and enhance the competitiveness in 2016 by expanding Procurement System when charging or ordering. Furthermore, the data by codes is managed as individual performance the appliance of the environment-friendly engineering checklist that is to be considered at each engineering stage. of site/procurement managers in order to encourage the environment-friendly procurement. Hyundai E&C will further endeavor to minimize the environmental impact by reinforcing the environment-friendly procurement. Considerations of Environment-friendly Engineering Environment-friendly Procurement Process Category Engineering Factors to Consider Major Technology 01. 02. 03. 04. ·B  uilding Integrated Photovoltaic (BIPV) system that Efficiency: Thermal insulation methods, thermal-insulating materials, energy-efficient ensures visibility windows and doors, waste heat recovery ventilation system, high-efficiency system, etc. Evaluate EnvironmentRequest and Order Monitor Record of Goals · Hyundai Energy Recovery Ventilation (HERV) friendliness of Material Materials Environment-friendly Energy Saving Renewable energy generation: Photovoltaic solar, tidal, wind, geothermal, biogas, · Control & operation technology for micro energy grid Procurement hydrogen fuel cell, etc. · Smart Building Energy Management System (BEMS) •Evaluated harmfulness of •Input the HEGS* code of a given •Monitor each site •Promote minimization of Conservation: Water-efficient toilets, greywater recycling systems, materials according to three material through the Environmentenvironmental impact from rainwater harvesting systems, decompression valves, etc. · Rainwater harvesting system standards of harmfulness, friendly Procurement System material use infringement of regulations, and •Categorize environment-friendly •Encourage the use Water Saving Reuse: High-pressure filters, reuse of wastewater, ammonia stripping, · Wastewater reuse system usage amount products in accordance of environment-friendly products collection of high-concentration liquid compound fertilizers, etc. with HEGS (HEGS 1-8) Topography: Fertile soil yard, contaminated soil washing technology, prevention of land subsidence, etc. · Clearing technology for contaminated soil Water quality: Installation of water shield, treatment of water contaminated from washing · Eco-friendly construction and Consideration for processes, treatment of organic wastewater, etc. soil dredging technology the Ecosystem Natural habitat: Recycling of damaged plants and trees, creation of escape paths, · Restoration technology for river ecosystem ecological wetlands, island of artificial plants, river ecosystem, etc. HEGS-1 Environmental mark-certified goods HEGS-4 Energy savings mark-certified goods HEGS-7 GMS*** certified companies' goods Indoor air quality: Functional materials, composite sensors, HEGS-2 GR** mark-certified goods HEGS-5 Foreign environment mark-certified goods HEGS-8 Carbon labelling certified goods energy·environment management system, etc. Assessment of Materials' ·H  ousehold Total Energy & Environment Management 1st rated energy efficiency goods Clean production goods Environment-friendliness Ventilation: Nature-friendly arrangements, topographic consideration, HEGS-3 HEGS-6 wind-resistant structure evaluation, etc. System (TEEMS) Comfortable Living · Harmful substance absorbable functional wallpaper Harmfulness Thermal insulation: Thermal-insulating compound materials, *HEGS : Hyundai Environmental Goods Standard **GR : Good Recycled Mark ***GMS : Green Management System Environment external heat insulation systems, lining thermal insulation, etc. · Technology for reducing floor shock noise • Poisonous • Non-degradable Noise: Acknowledge floor structure development, noise control, window, • Destruction of ecosystem noise shield capability predicting technology, etc. Infringement of Regulations Assessment of Materials' Environment-friendliness In order to prevent the environmental impact due to materials, • Toxic chemicals control act we manage the harmfulness of materials according to three standards of harmfulness, infringement of regulations, and usage • Wastes control act Expansion of Green Building Certification Being operated, buildings consume more energy after the construction amount. For a case when a material is classified as a highly harmful material, Hyundai E&C has been doing its best to establish • Fire services act Performance of Green Building than during the construction period, which means that high-efficient buildings directly contributes to reducing the environment-friendly supply chain through trainings to reduce the environmental harmfulness of a material. Additionally, Usage amount Certification (Unit: case / As of 2015) the operational cost of customers. Therefore, Hyundai E&C is raising the portion of high-efficient buildings in order to minimize constant efforts are being concentrated on excavating alternative materials or elements. • Average usage amount of all sites Increased the energy and material consumption required for the operation while endeavoring to enable the environment-friendly operation by 263% and maintenance of buildings. 8 21 In 2015, total 21 projects among buildings constructed by Hyundai E&C in Korea and other countries received the environmentHyundai E&C Stands at the Forefront as the Global Environment-friendly Construction Company friendly certifications; it is a significant increase compared to the performance of 2014 (8 cases). For overseas constructions, we 2014 2015 Won 5 Awards at 2015 Singapore BCA* Awards achieved 1 LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification and 3 GREEN MARKs. For instance, the Lucky Hyundai E&C strengthened its foothold as the global environment-friendly construction company by winning total 5 awards Tower Condominium project in Singapore acquired the Platinum level at the LEED certification, a standard benchmark about in 3 sectors at 2015 Singapore BCA Awards held by the Singaporean government; Singapore BCA Awards is the most materials, resources, engineering, structure, and functions of high-functional environment-friendly buildings. authoritative construction-related award that evaluates projects completed or being executed in the country in various areas such as construction, environment-friendliness, engineering, safety, and quality. Awards are given to clients, developers, and For domestic buildings, we accomplished 7 Green Building Certifications, 1 Energy Efficiency Rating System certification, constructers. Since 1997, Hyundai E&C has won total 18 awards with its outstanding construction capability for diverse and 4 LEED certifications; these achievements include the new LH headquarters (1st rank of Green Building Certification) and projects including Asia Square Tower 2, NV Residences, and Specialist Shopping Center. These achievements prove that the military facility and nursery center of the Eighth United States Army (LEED Silver). Moreover, the housing division received our differentiated technology and construction capability are highly valued by the world, which will lead us to dominate an advantageous status in receiving overseas order. 5 environment-friendly certifications including Wirye Hillstate that obtained the Green Building Certification as well as Energy * BCA : Building and Construction Authority 2015 Singapore BCA Awards Efficiency Rating System certification (1st class). In 2016, we will devote ourselves to acquiring more environment-friendly certifications through the application of environment-friendly engineering factors. 40. 41. Environment-friendly Construction Process Environment-friendly Transportation It is anticipated that the GHG emissions due to the transportation around the globe will increase by more than 80% in 2030 Protection of Ecosystem Complying with the Nagoya Protocol in a faithful manner, Hyundai E&C has applied strict Poster of EnvironmentEcosystem Protection Activities friendly Vehicles Guideline compared to the current level. Therefore, Hyundai E&C has strived to reduce the emissions generated during transporting standards to protect the biodiversity and the ecological environment around sites. In particular, we proactively analyze possible materials and operating heavy equipment through establishing the vehicles guideline in 2010; it has been distributed impacts on the environment surrounding sites from the planning stage by developing and applying engineering and construction Replace Habitat to employees as well as all suppliers requiring responsible personnel to comply with it. methods that can help to protect the biodiversity and to minimize topographic changes and destruction of vegetation. In 2015, Transplant trees and plants; create ecological we thoroughly executed the ecosystem protection measures at sites where protected species are inhabiting. wetlands by settling basins; install an island of artificial plants; develop natural streams and green areas Efficient Operation of Environment-friendly Vehicles & Equipment For a higher fuel efficiency, Hyundai E&C has defined total 11 items and established the detailed guideline for the economic driving of work vehicles. Hyundai E&C complies Install Protection Devices and Pathways with the guideline when operating vehicles and heavy equipment at the headquarters and all sites. Protected Species around Sites Build escape paths and escape-leading fences for small animals; install pathways that utilize silt protectors, blocking paths, roadside trees, and Haman other on-site structures Introduction of Environment-friendly Vehicles We have replaced existing work vehicles with energy-efficient hybrid cars Incheon New Port Container Jinju Section of Gyeongjeon Line since 2012 in order to reduce GHG emissions. We will continue increasing the number of environment-friendly cars contributing Oystercatcher, Saunders' gull, Consider Alternative Engineering Kestrel Far Eastern Curlew, Kestrel, Spoonbill to the world’s efforts toward the GHG reduction. Change the construction location; apply lowvibration construction methods; downscale bridge foundations Han River Restoration Project, Changwon Busan Highway Section 6 Environment-friendly Construction Polygonatum stenophyllum max, Aster altaicus Terrapin, Wildcat, Buzzard, Kite, Hen harrier Hyundai E&C is minimizing the environmental impact during the construction process by reducing energy and resource use Willd. var. uchiyamai (Nakai) Kitamura, Mongolian On-site Management racerunner of Environmental Factors at site and persistently managing GHG emissions and waste generation while protecting the ecosystem around site. (Proportion of Expenditures /Investment for Environmental Protection) On-site Resource Management With the Building Information Modeling (BIM), a cutting-edge construction information Air Quality 21.08% system, we are realizing the efficient resource management by preventing the unnecessary use of materials through the exact · Establish air pollutant emissions and abatement calculation of volume and cost required for the construction. Through the Integrated Environmental Performance Management facility installation standards · Install dust barriers and automatic sprinklers System, moreover, the monthly GHG emissions and energy consumption are being calculated and managed for each work type and emission source. For reducing the water consumption at site, we have also installed rainwater storages and de-watering Environment-friendly Deconstruction Water Quality 22.81% equipment that uses underground water. Instead of a water tank car to prevent dust, in addition, we use sprinklers to consume Hyundai E&C is operating a standardized waste disposal and recycling system in an efficient manner for minimizing less water during the construction. · Operate wastewater treatment facilities such as environmental impacts and wastes during the deconstruction. retaining walls, tunnels, and batch plants · Conduct regular audit of wastewater management facilities and water quality · Install diversion channels and grit chambers; Intensification of Site Inspection Hyundai E&C annually conducts independent external inspections and internal Strictly manage oil facilities Integrated Environmental Waste Management System Since July 2012‚ Hyundai E&C has delivered an effective inspections by experts for all domestic and overseas sites while reinforcing the site inspection through the HSE risk analysis Integrated Environmental Waste waste management through the Integrated Environmental Waste Management System that connects ‘Allbaro System‚’ Management System Soil (Waste) 26.41% by sites. In 2015, total 110 domestic and 26 overseas sites went through the inspections; the scope of the inspection will be a waste management system of the Ministry of Environment‚ Hyundai-Project Management System (H-PMS), and Integrated further expanded in 2016 to cover 112 domestic and 30 overseas sites. For the first among domestic construction companies, · Prohibit any equipment repair & maintenance work Environmental Performance Management System. Therefore, we have been able to prevent the violation against regulations and and oil change work within sites we published and have distributed the International Environmental Management Standard to sites in key countries such · Developed contaminated soil washing technology gather the data about total waste amount and cost by business units‚ processes/work types‚ companies‚ and waste types in as Singapore, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Qatar, and Kuwait where we operate business. In 2013, furthermore, we were awarded (Environmental Technology Verification No. 92) real time; the date collected is used as a reference for receiving of order, bidding, and budget compilation. · Six patents and two utility models related to remediation of contaminated soil the 9th Best Practices Contest of Construction Environmental Management for our contribution to the development of the construction industry by ‘improving the work efficiency through environmental guidelines by countries.' We will keep Noise & Vibration 20.75% advancing the level of the environmental management by responding to environmental regulations of each country as well as Environment-friendly Deconstruction Guideline To minimize environmental impacts and disasters incurred during efficiently managing overseas sites through the guideline. deconstruction and demolition processes, we have established a HSE Work Procedure for the equipment installation and · Install sound-proof and vibration-proof facilities · Use low-noise equipment disassemble as well as guidelines for deconstruction and removal of scaffold; all sites are strictly complying with the Standard · Operate vehicles at low speed within sites · Install sound-proof walls around sites Safe Work Guideline for Disassemble. Especially, we check the possible containment of harmful substances such as asbestos · Establish standards for emissions of air polluting On-site Environmental Management We have strived to minimize the environmental impacts incurred at sites by materials and install restraining facilities in advance of the deconstruction so that our employees are not exposed to danger. If the asbestos containment exceeds 1%‚ categorizing them into four elements: air, water quality, soil, and noise & vibration. Besides, we reduce the pollution through the we commit the removal and disposal of asbestos to hazardous waste management specialists. Others 8.95% strict management of the quality of wastewater by operating the wastewater purification facility and conducting the constant water quality analysis. We also provide a thorough management to sites that request for supports. As a consequence, we supported total 17 sites in 2015 while the amount of cost and investment for the environment protection in 2015 was KRW 54.8 Waste Management In accordance with pre-defined disposal measures, Hyundai E&C has managed the waste Expenditures/Investment for Environmental Protection billion, which is a 15.6% increase compared to KRW 47.4 billion in 2014. by establishing recycling policies. We are also endeavoring to decrease environmental impacts by setting targets for the waste disposal and material recycling by sites where generate a significant amount of waste or are subject to the special management. Total KRW 54.8 billion In addition‚ recyclable wastes are sold to recycling plants for the resource utilization while a priority has been put on purchasing recycled materials and cyclic aggregate. Thanks to these various efforts of Hyundai E&C, the green environment has been preserved. 42. 43. Enhancing Core Technology Capability Management & Strategy Technology is the future of Hyundai E&C and the driving force that makes the impossible possible. Hence, Believing it is necessary to secure and cultivate innovative R&D talents for the sustainable growth, we are persistently acquiring Hyundai E&C has been enhancing its R&D capability by the substantial investment as well as devoting its best capable research talents and promoting plans to hire overseas outstanding human resources. Consequently, the number to acquire future source technology. Besides, the R&D scope has been expanded to the new growth convergence of employees working in the HDEC R&D Division as of December 2015 is 181, more than twice the figure of 2011 (89 persons). through the joint cooperation with affiliates. In 2016, Hyundai E&C will accomplish a further growth through the technology innovation by providing more supports to key sites with our abundant R&D capability as well as applying and commercializing developed technologies. Differentiating Pursuing Technology Capability Customer Satisfaction web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/InnoTech/InnoRnd.aspx Increase of Investment in R&D Facility Since 2011, Hyundai E&C has continued to expand the investment in securing Green Smart Innovation Center (GSIC) the R&D facility and thus enhanced the R&D infrastructure by diverse efforts such as establishing new research/demonstration facilities, enlarging laboratories, and changing equipment. R&D Innovation Strategies In 2014, for instance, total KRW 11.5 billion was invested to build Green Smart Innovation Center (GSIC), the representative Hyundai E&C defined 2015 as the starting point of the R&D innovation establishing the three innovation tasks: R&D Contents‚ demonstration facility of Hyundai E&C; it has functioned as the foundation of the green smart research combining cutting-edge R&D Role‚ and R&D Way. Moreover, we set strategies for the innovation and key business targets reflecting the trends environment-friendly technologies. A range of researches are being conducted at the GSIC, such as zero energy apartment, of innovation business in 2016. Firstly, for innovating the R&D Contents, we identify technological issues through the corporatesmart office, and various technologies for green smart building. On the other hand, in addition, the demonstration is being wide council while expanding the technological support for key sites. Secondly, we innovate the R&D Role by advancing it from currently implemented for the Smart Building Energy Management System that was developed by Hyundai E&C for the first the technology development that was focusing on element technology to the business-generating technology management. in Korea. Moreover‚ we invested KRW 1.4 billion in functions of the structural test laboratory‚ wind tunnel laboratory‚ acoustic Lastly, the R&D Way has been innovated for responding to industrial changes around the globe through integrated solutions laboratory‚ and climate simulator. We further consolidated the practical research foundation for environment and energy fields of the construction infrastructure, which will contribute to leading the future trend in the construction industry. In addition, by building four additional demonstration centers as well. Hyundai E&C has been striving to acquire the source technology of new growth/future product based on the analysis Hyundai E&C has strived to develop commercialized technology that can be immediately applied to on-going projects through of the four megatrends that are closely related to the construction industry: urbanization‚ energy & fuel‚ resource depletion, and testing the stability and suitability of technology at the centers. We will continuously invest in the R&D so that we can secure water scarcity. the future technology capability of the world class in all business divisions as the new growth engine. Commercialization of Technology Applying newly-developed technologies to sites, Hyundai E&C has successfully R&D Innovation Strategies dominated a competitive status in receiving order and thus has been highly recognized by the world with its values Target of R&D Innovation as the global construction company who possesses the impeccable technology capability. In November 2013, we proposed Enhancing Technological Competitiveness based on R&D Performance and Creating Outcome with New-biz the ‘Contaminated Soil Remediation R&D Project’ to Singapore for the first among Korean construction companies. Following the achievement to be selected as the first research institute of the project, we became the second research institute as well thanks to our outstanding technology. In addition to this, we developed a new environmental technology for cleaning soil which substantially contributed to the completion of the soil cleaning project of Janghang Smelter in November 2015. Three Innovation in R&D Contents Innovation in R&D Role Innovation in R&D Way Besides‚ our technology has been applied to various sites and contributed to receiving more orders and successfully Innovation Tasks Proactively providing integrated Conducting business-creating R&D Consolidating global innovation implementing projects‚ such as 'Intelligent Multi-Grouting System (IMG)‚’ 'Auto Controlled Injection System of Powder type engineering technological support Establishing Accelerator‚' 'Vertical Pipe Cooling Method‚' and 'Prefabricated Parallel Wire Strand (PPWS)’ which we developed for the first <R&D Paradigm ·Realizing innovation in reducing risks · Accelerating technology marketing for · Providing integrated construction Innovation> System by Open-Innovation strategy winning order and entering new market infrastructure solution in the nation. In April 2016, furthermore, Hyundai E&C's technology, 'Mass concrete curing system reducing temperature crack' was applied to the reclamation construction of 'Tuas Finger One in Singapore.' This is such a meaningful accomplishment because it is the first case that a technology developed solely by a Korean construction company is actually used for Establishing open risk Enhancing business-creating Innovating technology for response system technology marketing responding to platform business an overseas project. Hyundai E&C has continued the R&D with an aim to develop technology that is immediately applied to Three Innovation · Expanding global business network Strategies · Participating in corporate-wide council · Receiving more of technology-based orders sites. We will further endeavor for the commercialization of technology such as technology transfer and technology application → Identifying technological agendas · Conducting technology marketing · Leading future trends of · Operating project-oriented TF customized for each market/client construction industry to engineering/construction of domestic and overseas projects. · Providing proactive technological · Contributing to winning orders ·A dvancing according to corporate-wide support to key sites · Generating new technology-based midto long-term technology roadmap Targets of Key ·Expanding application of business ·Achieving global technological Businesses technology developed to sites cooperation (MOU2.0) · Implementing BIM* activation strategy *BIM: Building Information Modeling Hyundai E&C Leads the Korean Construction Industry with Its Top-notch Technology Performance in Winning Technology Proposal in 2015 Category Project Date Accomplished the Korea's Best Performance in Receiving Technology Proposal in 2015 HR Status of R&D Division Yeosu Regional Oceans & Fisheries Consolidation of R&D Infrastructure Hyundai E&C has had its impeccable technology highly valued by winning total five technology APR 2015 (Unit: person) Administration proposals in 2015, four in civil works sector and one in construction sector. A technology proposal Advancement of R&D Capability Under the goal of 'securing Technologies to become a Global Construction Leader refers to a way to place an order that includes turnkey, alternative, and technology proposal; BYEOLLNAE Lines (Amsa-Byeollae) Construction AUG 2015 of Double Track Railway Section 3 based on Engineering,' we reorganized and expanded the research institute to the ‘Research and Development (R&D) Division’ it uses cutting-edge technology and reduces the construction period generating a quality result. Civil Works In other words, the advanced technology capability is essential to win a technology proposal Ju-am Dam Water Conduction Tunnel OCT 2015 89 122 181 in 2011. Since then, we have substantially invested into the R&D infrastructure realizing the technology innovation for the future Stabilization Construction Project order. Thus, Hyundai E&C will step forward to expand the boundary of the Korean construction growth. In 2015, total KRW 23.4 billion was devoted for enhancing the infrastructure; we invested KRW 17.2 billion in R&D to reach international high value-added markets by strengthening the technological The New Port of Busan West Container Terminal NOV 2015 (2-5 Phase) Expansion Project 2011 2013 2015 human resources, KRW 4.5 billion in R&D cost, and KRW 1.7 billion in R&D capital. competitiveness through the constant R&D. Building Works Narakium Yeouido Building AUG 2015 44. 45. Enhancing Core Technology Capability Expansion of R&D Network Reinforcement of Global R&D Cooperation In order to secure top-class future core technology, we have established Development of Convergence Technology through Group Synergy Hyundai Motor Group has established a R&D network with world’s leading agencies and companies and promoted global joint researches. In 2015, we could further an environment-friendly cycle in each field such as motor, steel, and construction. Based on strengths of affiliates, Hyundai fortified the global R&D infrastructure through the technological cooperation and Connect & Development with 8 new institutes E&C has been promoted the development of convergence technology in diverse fields such as energy, environment-friendly including Bouygues, a French construction company. Moreover, in January 2016, we established a joint research center with construction material, energy, and transportation by cooperation and joint researches. Through the Motors-construction Nanyang Technological University (NTU) of Singapore; we will execute five core research tasks led by the Singapore Economic Convergence Subcommittee under the Hyundai Motor Group R&D Strategy Committee, we consolidated the cooperation Development Board for next 3 years. Likewise, a technological cooperation with Grupo ACS of Spain and AECOM of United in the construction field with Group affiliates while operating five consultative groups such as 'Consultative group for new States was promoted in April 2016. We are doing our best to enhance the technology capability through the close cooperation business of hydrogen fuel cell.' In 2015, furthermore, we cooperated with the Venture Development Office with diverse international leading companies. of Hyundai Motor for the Hyperloop*, the super-high speed rail system, and strived for the development of 'Smart Home & Car' * The Hyperloop: A cutting-edge and innovative super-high speed in construction and motor fields. Hyundai E&C will continue the excavation and research in the new growth field through various rail system (1,300 km/h or Mach 1.06) proposed by Elon Musk, the founder of Tesla Motors devotions such as establishing a roadmap for the intelligent driving through a strong synergy within the Group. of United States Technology Development through Group Synergy pany g Com ine er oeve nS oto ob in r oft &C r da is ng 4 Sweden iS ut daiE daiM tee daiM daiE daiA daiM Norway l 5 R&D Tasks un un un un un un un 3 Finland Hy Hy Hy Hy Hy Hy Hy 7 Denmark 1 U.K Resource Recycling Type PC* 6 Germany 14 Canada 2 France Utilization of steel by-products and automotive waste Construction for pavement Global Technology Material Vehicle to infra interaction technology Cooperation 15 U.S.A 12 China HDEC Intelligent Traffic System (completed) 9 Japan High-tech Modular House (completed) 10 Thailand 1 U.K 13 Vietnam Construction High-strength structural steel (completed) ∙ Loughborough Univ. 11 Singapore High-rise building ∙Sheffield Univ. Development and commercialization of Fuel Cell system High Performance for Green Building Material Green City Joint development of TOS**/TEEMS*** (Smart BEMS) 8 Australia 2 France 5 Norway 8 Australia 15 U.S.A Autonomous Parking System Using Image Data ∙ Terrasol ∙ NTNU ∙ CSIRO ∙ UCLA Separated foundation Tunnel Boring Machine Carbon Capture & Storage Water treatment plant Development of Wastewater Reusing System (completed) ∙ Bouygues (TBM) (CCS) 12 China ∙ Gehry Tech. Technological cooperation ∙UWA Water/ Zero Liquid Discharge System ∙ WINSUN High-rise building ∙ INSA Lyon Off-shore wind power plant Environment 6 Germany 3D printing for construction ∙ LBNL Separated foundation ∙ Curtin Univ. Demonstration of Enhanced MBR**** Process ∙ VOITH Resource recycling type Green Smart building 3 Finland Tidal power generation construction material 10 Thailand 13 Vietnam ∙ Penn State Univ. Tunnel Boring Machine Ocean Energy Precise construction under water (completed) ∙ VTT ∙ AIT ∙ ECC HCMC Technological cooperation Technological cooperation Renewable Energy System (TBM) 7 Denmark 9 Japan ∙ USNC * PC : Precast Concrete Committees Consultative Organization ∙ Siemens ∙ YNU Very high temperature reactor ** TOS : Total Operation System 4 Sweden 11 Singapore 14 Canada HMG R&D Strategy Committee Consultative group for new business Off-shore wind coal Ultra-long span bridge *** TEEMS : Total Energy and ∙ NREL (Motors-construction Convergence of hydrogen fuel cell Environment Management ∙ Absolicon gasification plant ∙ TMU ∙ NTU ∙ UWO Renewable Energy System Subcommittee) Material analysis technology forum System Solar panels ∙ COWI A/S Ultra-long span bridge Joint research High-rise building Numerical analysis technology forum **** MBR : Membrane Bio Reactor Overseas study ∙ AECOM Consultative group for robot technology Dismantlement of of Hyundai Motor Group nuclear facility ITS Working Group Hyundai E&C Technical Forum Hyundai E&C excavates innovative technologies and ideas in the construction field Value Creation by R&D Poster of 2016 Hyundai E&C by holding the 'Hyundai E&C Technical Forum' every year for college students and SMEs; the Forum is the only technology Technical Forum Cost Reductions by In-house By applying new technologies and methods developed by the R&D‚ we have reinforced the technological competitiveness competition held by a domestic construction company as well as the biggest event of Hyundai E&C. Applications are submitted Technical Consulting reducing the cost and construction period. In 2015, we provided 242 technological supports to domestic and overseas for five months from every April and excellent technologies are awarded in every September. (Unit: KRW billion) sites. Thanks to enhancing the technological capability and improving the in-house technical consulting, the amount Corporate winners are awarded a privilege to be registered as suppliers of Hyundai E&C receiving support for the patent of the cost reduction in 2015 increased to KRW 103 billion from KRW 40.1 billion of 2014. Also, we offered total 33 cases of the support at the bidding stage significantly distributing to advancing the competitiveness in receiving orders and optimizing application. When our suppliers are nominated as awardees, we promote the joint R&D and provide financial support for patentthe engineering based on our technology. In 2016, continuing the in-house technical consulting, Hyundai E&C will make 24.8 40.1 103 related costs. In addition, student winners receive incentives if they apply to enter Hyundai E&C. At the Forum, we present the best effort to win orders through new technology developed through the R&D, such as the 'Contaminated Soil the research performance and invite foreign lecturers for expanding the foundation of the technology development. Moreover, Remediation R&D Project’ in Singapore. 2013 2014 2015 we contribute to the development of the future construction technology increasing the accessibility to new technologies by exhibiting the awarded technologies. 46. 47. Customer Satisfaction through Innovation Management & Strategy Hyundai E&C is concentrating all efforts on presenting a sincere impression to customers by continuing Expansion of Supplier Quality Innovation Hyundai E&C is holding regular workshops for suppliers and providing Quality Chain Workshop the quality innovation based on the corporate culture where customer is the top priority. Moreover, we are specialized quality education by work types for the quality innovation in order to enhance the value chain. In 2015, therefore, operating diverse customer communications channels so that we can generate customer values through we implemented the quality education workshop for 376 construction suppliers while 69 material suppliers participated the identification of customer needs proactively reflecting them to the business. in the Quality Chain Workshop. Through the quality workshop, especially, a feedback about the quality evaluation result and support for the education customized for key poor areas are given. Thus, the quality is being constantly improved. Hyundai Differentiating Pursuing Technology Capability Customer Satisfaction E&C will further encourage the participation of suppliers in the value chain for the shared growth. Expanding the scope and web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/Quality.aspx participants, we will strive to maximize impacts of the education through the active participation as well. Quality Innovation Expansion of Customer Communication Reinforcement of Corporate-wide Quality Innovation The quality innovation of Hyundai E&C always focuses on Online Communications Channels Through diverse customer communications channels, we are carefully listening web Corporate-wide delivering the impression better than values that customers expect. Thus, Hyundai E&C devotes to establishing the standardized to the voice of our customers. For instance, we operate a customer center on our website to resolve problem of customers HDEC Website Quality Management www.hdec.kr quality innovation program through process-based thinking and to enhance the capability of responsible personnel. Therefore, with 1:1 online consultations for the convenient and prompt problem solving. In addition to the Hyundai E&C website‚ we firstly, we identify and respond to needs of customers and clients in advance by conducting the quality evaluations Quality Evaluations 55 sites operate a professional customer centers and a separate website of Hillstate, a representative housing brand of Hyundai E&C, for all sites every year. Hence, total 55 domestic and overseas sites had quality evaluations while quality experts were assigned to provide customers in the housing market with information such as construction‚ sales‚ and after services. In 2015, total to new sites to establish the standardized quality system. 266 customer opinions were submitted via the Hyundai E&C website while the Hillstate website received 1,305 opinions. web Education to Establish Quality System 24 sites Based on a philosophy about the quality innovation that the firm foundation provides solutions for every problem, we Besides, we renovated the official corporate website in January 2016 for better communications with customers and improved Hillstate Website www.hillstate.co.kr have implemented the quality education customized for each site reflecting various characteristics and needs of sites. In the online consultation for solving customer enquiries in a more timely manner. Accordingly, we will take one step closer 2015, Hyundai E&C conducted education to settle the system at 24 sites that are in need of the stable quality system and to our customers. provided new sites with a guide about construction-related references and supports to start a construction without a hitch. In particular, online quality education using our own contents is contributing to the reinforcement of the quality capability. We realize the corporate-wide quality innovation also by producing and distributing materials for quality education and Offline Communications Channels For customers who have a difficulty in online communications, Hyundai E&C operates Customer Complaints One Point Lesson by work types. We will devote all our capability to the evaluation and education in order to improve various communications channels such as phone-call, e-mail, door-to-door visiting, and face-to-face interview. Especially, (Unit: case) the employee's awareness of the quality. we operate 18 on-site AS centers and four offices in Seoul and other regions to provide quality services for easier consultations for residents. Furthermore, we hold ‘The Hillstate Day’ Event before the completion of the construction and gather customers’ Decreased by 92% opinions for the service improvement. In 2015, we operated the MOT (Moment of Truth) Team at eight sites for the prompt 2,898 244 Quality Management System Hyundai E&C operates an efficient quality risk management system for effectively AS in early days of move-in and enhancement of customer services. Likewise, we newly founded a 'Zero Customer responding to internal and external quality risk and the market environment that is drastically changing. To prevent 2014 2015 Complaint' Team in February 2016 that visits to solve problem on the day of submission. Thanks to these sincere efforts the reoccurrence of same failure cases as well as to spread success cases, the Case Application System (CAS) has been for the customer satisfaction, Hyundai E&C was nominated as the first rank on the Korean Standard-Contact Service Quality Customer Compliments operated since 2014; the Case Application System (CAS) has databased about 7,700 best and worst practices gathered Index (KS-CQI) led by the Korean Standards Association in the apartment sector. The number of customer opinions submitted (Unit: case) from sites, which all employees can access in real-time basis. via the call center in 2015 is 62,831. Increased In 2015, moreover, we further advanced the CAS by selecting cases valuable in aspects of the usability and importance. by 265% Expanding the application of the CAS to all sites, we are continuously innovating the quality management through proactive Customer Satisfaction Activities 432 1,146 measures by project stages and in-depth educations by work types for reducing the quality risk. Hillstate Styler Since launched in 2008 as Hyundai E&C's quasi-expert evaluation group mainly composed of housewives, 2014 2015 the 'Hillstate Styler' has significantly contributed to advancing products through proposing various opinions from the view of customers through regular activities every year. In 2015, the Hillstate Styler conducted total 13 activities visiting 11 sites Hillstate Styler Activities of Hyundai E&C including Hillstate Taejeon as well as 13 model houses of other companies. 230 items out of 476 items proposed were reflected to actual projects, which is the highest figure ever. Hyundai E&C will gradually expand the scope of Hillstate Styler activities to cover inspecting the apartment service and developing items beyond monitoring model houses. Hyundai E&C Accomplished the First Rank on KS-CQI Advancing the Class of High-end Apartment of Korea Customer Satisfaction Survey In order to identify the satisfaction level of customers, we conduct a survey and thus In November 2015, Hyundai E&C won the first rank on the Korean Standard-Contact Service Quality Index (KSgather opinions of customers and stakeholders about Hyundai E&C's quality and value, their expectation level, complaints, and CQI) in the apartment sector led by the Korean Standards Association. Following the achievement in 2013, we were loyalty. As a result, we have been able to analyze and reflect customer needs to managerial activities. In 2015, we innovated Customer Satisfaction Survey nominated the first rank again, which is the proof that we have realized the prompt and precise 'Service for Customer the survey method for all site customers, from the face-to-face survey implemented with the site quality evaluation to the online Results Impression' in the perspective of Hyundai E&C's Hillstate customers. We are aiming to deliver a service mind, we (As of 2015 / Out of 100 points) customer quality satisfaction survey. Consequently, total 218 customers at 84 sites answered the survey and the survey result can impress customers with the unseen, and a customer-first value that the customer impression starts from sincere mind for customers. Accordingly, we provide the kind, swift, and accurate one-stop service from the initial enquiry was 85 points. We could also achieve the improved credibility and objectivity of the survey result by expanding the target 85 points to resolution. Hyundai E&C will step forward to further advance the class of Korea's high-end apartment through size. We will strive to reflect more customer opinions from the world through including overseas sites in the survey target and the quality customer service. implementing the customer satisfaction survey in other languages such as English. 2015 KS-CQI Certification Presentation Ceremony 48. 49. social Value Creation Management & Strategy Hyundai E&C employees are the key driver to make the impossible possible while suppliers are partners to attain the shared growth. Hyundai E&C is cultivating capable suppliers and enhancing the value chain by nurturing global talents who are not afraid of change and innovation. Furthermore, we faithfully deliver the responsibility and role of the global construction company through the coexistence with domestic and overseas local communities. Talent Management Social Management Cultivating Realizing Empowering Accomplishing Innovative Talents Employee Value Value Chain Shared Growth Business Value Social Value Business Value Social Value Subiya-Jahara 300kV Transmission Line, Kuwait Hyundai E&C realizes employee values Hyundai E&C accomplishes the shared growth by cultivating innovative talents. with the society by empowering the entire value chain. 50. 51. Cultivating Global Talents Management & Strategy Excellent talents are the biggest asset of a company as well as a drive of the corporate growth and development. Pursuit of Diversity Hyundai E&C has been consolidating its global competitiveness through improving the diversity Recruitment of Social Minorities Hyundai E&C is hiring capable talents through fair processes and cultivates them as global human resources among employees. By hiring more local talents at overseas sites, we are executing projects successfully. Moreover, we further (At HQ / As of DEC 31, 2015) through systematic human resource development programs. Consequently, we have been standing tall as expanded the local recruitment for manager positions through a newly-established Global Human Resources Management the global construction leader who generates new values pioneering changes and innovations in the world. System in 2015. To advance the diversity at workplace, we have constantly increased the recruitment ratio for female, foreign Individuals workers, men of national merit, and individuals with disabilities every year. As a part of these sincere efforts, we require every with Disabilities 103 persons Cultivating Realizing Innovative Talents Employee Value new domestic site to recruit at least one individual with disabilities since 2014 fulfilling the corporate social responsibility. web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Recruit/ConsPersonnel.aspx Men of Merit 101 persons Hyundai E&C’s Ideal Employee Fair Appraisal and Compensation Foreigners 19 persons Strongly believing that the cultivation of talents has a direct influence on the corporate competitiveness, Hyundai E&C is Hyundai E&C strives to accurately evaluate the job capability of employees through the fair appraisal; the compensation system enthusiastically hiring human resources who are suitable for its concept of an ideal employee: talents who challenge to generate is being operated based on the appraisal result contributing to the improvement of individual and organizational performance. the best value and to become the best in a new field. Based on the progressive mind, creativity, and passion, employees of Hyundai E&C are stepping forward to becoming global talents that create innovative values. Appraisal Since introduced a HR system based on the Management by Objective (MBO) in 2012, Hyundai E&C has been developing capabilities of employees in aspects of performance achieved, strength, and improvement; an education about Hyundai E&C’s Ideal Employee the performance management is being provided to key relevant personnel for the fair appraisal. Moreover, we established an environment of the accurate evaluation and fair compensation by advancing performance management processes such as 'goal-setting,' 'mid-term evaluation,' and 'final evaluation.' In 2016, we further developed the appraisal system through expanding INNOVATIVE CHALLENGER the period to review and approve the goal setting from one week to two weeks. Individuals who strives to overcome the impossible and become the best Compensation We are operating a performance-based compensation system according to results of performance in a new field for generating the best value evaluation. Through a Promotion Point Program, in particular, we have secured the transparency and fairness of the promotion system and thus encouraged employees by enabling the promotion based on the individual performance and capability. In 2016, Hyundai E&C will reinforce the compensation system based on actual performances by increasing the amount of incentives in accordance with evaluation results while reflecting departmental performances to incentives as well. Additionally, Value Creator Synergy Builder Global Developer we guarantee the gender equality; the individual wage may vary depending on one’s position and working condition but never on the gender. We will continue to advance the HR system to maximize employee values. Individuals who, with creativity and a pioneering Individuals who can create synergy Individuals who are prepared to work globally spirit, continuously strive to challenge the status within an organization by communicating with a global capability, open mind, quo and create new value and cooperating with diverse stakeholders and respect for diversity Equal Opportunities in Employment We Will Lead the World as Employees of Hyundai E&C with Great Pride Recruitment of Outstanding Talents To find advanced talents that suit our ideal employee type, Hyundai E&C Current Status of Recruitment (Unit: person) recruits human resources in a fair and transparent manner. In 2015, we recruited 176 new employees, 33 interns, and 127 experienced workers; 14 additional women employees were hired through a flexible time shift system that is operated 14 to provide job opportunities to career-interrupted women. Besides, we provide a job opportunity to the youth who suffer 33 from the unemployment and economic difficulty through the intern system contributing to the reinforcement of the corporate 127 Total competitiveness through the proactive acquirement of excellent talents. When hiring contracted workers, we consider Teo Yen Ling Janice Jeffery Tamayo Viray 350 characteristics of the construction industry and contracted workers are equally treated according to relevant regulations. 176 In 2016, we will recruit a far bigger number of experienced workers in order to secure talents with expertise. 2016 Global Talent Program Singapore Branch Office The Hamad Medical City, Qatar In order to advance the capability and the sense of belonging of foreign I am very glad to participate in the Global I h a v e f e l t p ro u d t o b e a n e m p l o y e e employees working at overseas sites, Hyundai E&C has promoted the 'Global Talent Program as a member of Hyundai of Hyundai E&C and now I feel even prouder Talent Program' since 2015 inviting excellent foreign employees to Korea. E&C. I was deeply impressed by the Green after participating in the Global Talent Experienced New Recruit Current Status of Employees In 2016, total 33 foreign employees came to Korea and visited the headquarters, Smart Innovation Center where the R&D for Program. During the program, I became Internship Flextime System (Unit: person) 2014 2015 Research and Development (R&D) Division, and Green Smart Innovation Center new technology is being conducted to realize more aware of the global vision of Hyundai for four days experiencing the core values of Hyundai E&C and raising their the future zero-energy environment. I was E&C recognizing a need to further develop Male Female Male Female pride in the company. We will constantly implement a range of human resource able to feel that our company is considering my own capability for the corporate vision. development programs for foreign employees so that they can grow into foreign employees as such precious human I will sincerely assist the company to turn Full-time Employees 4,350 305 4,369 295 the most capable talents in the world. resources. I hope that foreign employees and into the world's leading construction company the company can grow further together. through the global teamwork. Contract Workers 847 36 760 40 Total 5,538 5,464 52. 53. Cultivating Global Talents Achieving Work-life Balance Program to Nurture Global Talents Management & Strategy Development of Global Capability For the successful execution of overseas projects, Hyundai E&C is striving It is a driving force of the sustainable corporate growth to guarantee a better quality of employee's life and build for enhancing the global capability of employees through language education, education for global work capability, and a joyful workplace. Hyundai E&C is creating a family-oriented corporate culture which is also based on the trust education for employees at overseas sites. For instance, we assist employees to learn foreign language by operating language and open communication for a pleasant company where employees can balance their life and work. classes of Spanish and Russian and special English educations. Through the leadership training and Global Leading Company Training Program, we help our employees grow into global leaders. To reinforce the capability to execute overseas projects, Cultivating Realizing more various programs are to be promoted in 2016 such as the 'education for cultivating expatriates' and 'language class via Innovative Talents Employee Value web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Recruit/ConsPersonnel.aspx web/phone.' Cultivation of Construction Experts Through the e-HRD (Human Resource Development) system, we are cultivating Attractive Workplace the world's best construction experts by establishing the advanced education system and providing necessary training Work Smart In order to build an environment where employees can voluntarily work with a creativity, Hyundai E&C has programs by jobs, positions, and groups contributing to the customized capability development. Besides, we have endeavored 'Standing Meeting to End Work' of PRM Division introduced a 'Work Smart' campaign in June 2014. We conducted interviews with employees and surveys in 2015 for three to develop our experts into in-house lecturers disseminating the expertise acquired from on-site works. In 2016, total 114 inmonths before initiating the campaign so that employees can check their way to work by themselves. Hence, we were able house training courses will be provided to 4,585 employees. to identify inefficient problems and define the five key tasks for our company. For example, 'Standing Meeting to End Work' is being implemented to eradicate unnecessary overwork; team leaders hold a brief meeting with team members to round off the day at 6:15 p.m. and let them leave the office right after the meeting. It has been test-operated throughout the company Integrated Group Training We have been offering an integrated training in all educational courses for generating synergies Performance of Education for since May 2015 contributing to the establishment of a culture that employees can leave the office on time. Hyundai E&C will Employees by the incorporation into Hyundai Motor Group. Especially, an Employee Opinion Survey has been regularly conducted endeavor to improve the work productivity and satisfaction by continuously promoting the 'Work Smart' campaign. (Full-time Employees / As of DEC 31, 2015) to provide trainings that satisfy employees' needs. We also continuously expand opportunities for employees to receive Education Hours common job training and education for leaders. As of December 2015, the total number of FTEs (Full-time Employees) is 4,664 per Person 95 hours while training hour per person is 95 hours and training expenditure per person is KRW 0.91 million. Five Key Tasks of Work Smart in 2015 Educational Expenditure per Person KRW 0.91 million task 01 task 02 task 03 task 04 task 05 Policy to Protect Human Rights Increased Work Clear Work Improved Improved Efficient Compliance with Human Rights and International Standards As a responsible global construction company, Hyundai Engagement Instruction Culture of Culture of Reporting/ E&C publicly endorses global standards on human and labor rights such as the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Meeting Leaving Work Approval Rights, ILO Conventions, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, Global Sullivan Principles, and UN Guiding Principles Process on Business and Human Rights. Since joined the UN Global Compact in 2010, we have complied with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption and aggressively participated in international corporate activities for the social responsibility. Care for Employee's Life Cycle We are operating an employee benefit system specialized for an employee's life cycle for the joyful work environment and better quality of life. An employee benefit point system is being operated for all employees while they can choose diverse benefits according to their needs, such as health management, self-development, and culture/ Activity and Monitoring for Protection of Human Rights Based on the Labor Standard Act, Hyundai E&C strictly leisure programs. In 2015, furthermore, we opened an online Employee Benefit Mall and thus increased a convenience prohibits child and forced labor and establishes human right protection standards to prevent the religious or racial discrimination for employees to use their benefit points online even at overseas sites. In addition, we assist employees to enjoy their leisure at overseas sites through various supporting systems. Furthermore, Hyundai E&C developed a human right risk framework based by encouraging the use of HDEC vacation facilities including Haevichi Resort, Daemyung Resort, and Hanwha Resort while on UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights; we analyze the human right risk exposure of all projects every year offering apparels for outdoor leports activity. We will promote advanced employee benefit systems reflecting needs of the era to prevent the abuse of human rights. Thanks to these multidimensional efforts, Hyundai E&C incurred neither restrictions nor for our employees to pursue a work-life balance. accusations in regard to human rights in 2015. Hyundai E&C Is Leading the Information Era through Knowledge Management System We Protect the Mental Health by Employee Healing Program (EHP) Since 2003, Hyundai E&C has been operating an IT-based Knowledge Management System (KMS) for an efficient use Since September 2015, Hyundai E&C has operated a corporate employee benefit system, Employee Healing Program of information; as of February 2016, total 68,128 items of knowledge and 7,333 cases are stored in the knowledge database. (EHP). The existing employee communication channels such as Employee Counseling Center (ECC) and online The KMS subdivides knowledge into diverse sections such as knowledge management, case management, and Q&A enabling recommendation menu are concentrating on issues related to the company. On the other hand, however, the EHP an easy information search by users. Consequently, the number of annual views has reached 735 thousands. covers a wide variety of issues including marital problem, child raising, interpersonal relationship, and financial/legal In 2015, on the other hand, Hyundai E&C developed and applied a Case Application System (CAS) to 40 sites for the prevention problems. Contents of consultations are being kept confidential in accordance with the Framework Act of Labor Welfare, of failures; the CAS contains about 6.5 thousands best and worst practices. The A-Dic (Abbreviation Dictionary) has been Article 83. Hyundai E&C will try its best for its employees to have time for thinking back on themselves and thus pursue created for employees at overseas sites to search for construction abbreviations easily and its convenience has been proved far more active life. with a record of 36,246 views as of February 2016. Case Application System (CAS) Consultants of Employee Healing Program (EHP) 54. 55. Achieving Work-life Balance Women-friendly Workplace Being deeply interested in the low birthrate problem of the Korean society, Hyundai E&C has Next Leader Board Next Leader Board is a young 'Idea Bank' of Hyundai E&C that has been operated for leading 23rd Next Leader Board, focused its efforts on creating a women-friendly work environment so that women can attain the self-realization through a workthe innovation of management and advancing the corporate culture. Established in 1990, its name was changed to Next Leader The Driving Force of Change life balance. Also, we supports female employees through various programs including childbirth and parental leaves. In 2015, Board from Junior Board in 2016; it is striving to cultivate innovative talents and build a corporate culture of trust. Through the 14 female employees used the 90-day maternity leave and 192 male employees used a paid paternity leave. For all of 206 discussion with the CEO, the Next Leader Board is conveying the philosophy and managerial plans to the entire company employees returned to work after the leave, the returning rate of 2015 is 100%. Besides, Hyundai E&C also provides financial and presenting employees' opinions and recommendation functioning as a communication channel of the company. In order supports to employees whose family has a difficulty to get pregnant. to develop qualifications of young leaders, moreover, it is actively promoting various activities such as 'Education for Fostering Leaders,' '2015 Sending Clothes to East Timor' campaign, and regular workshops. Healthcare Support To assure the pleasant work environment and employees' health, we are operating Support for Comprehensive Medical Check-up of Employee & Spouse the in-house medical center and conducting a regular medical check-up service for employees. In 2014, we visited Trust between Labor and Management Hyundai E&C has devoted for the corporate culture that considers harmony and (As of 2015) domestic sites to provide medical services which contributed to a significant increase in the percentage of employees trust between labor and management as one of top priorities. Thus, it guarantees an employee’s free join or withdrawal from receiving medical check-up, from 60% to 94% of total employees. In 2015, KRW 1.95 billion was invested in the Labor Union based on Article 3 and Article 5 of the Collective Agreement in the Labor Union Act. According to the duty to Beneficiaries 5,899 persons the comprehensive medical check-up for 5,899 employees and their families. In 2016, Hyundai E&C will introduce notify articulated on Article 10 of the Collective Agreement, furthermore, it is a compulsory principle to immediately give notice new check-up methods such as adding check-up items, conducting genetic test, and analyzing cell activation. to the labor union in advance regarding significant changes in the business such as organizational restructuring. As of December Amount of support KRW 1.95 billion Thus, we will be able to further advance the quality of the medical check-up improving the convenience 2015, 900 employees are members of the Labor Union and subject to the protection by the right of collective bargaining. through the expansion of check-up facilities. The figure counts 16% of the 5,464 employees who are qualified to join the Union. Stable Pension Plans Hyundai E&C has been operating retirement pension plans since 2011; employees can choose Increase of Employee Engagement In order to assess the level and factors of the corporate culture affecting the work to receive their retirement savings either as one-time payment in defined-benefit or defined-contribution pension type or as a and performance of employees, Hyundai E&C has conducted an annual Employee Engagement Index (EEI) since 2011. pension plan. We will build a reliable company by operating the retirement pension plan as well as continuously increasing the In 2015, it was further developed into an 'Employee Influence Factor Index' that focuses on not only the work environment but pension amount so that stable later years of employees are guaranteed. also the improvement of corporate culture. Through the Index, Hyundai E&C has identified corporate member, organization, and system as factors affecting employees and executed the survey and shared the result with all employees via email and Corporate Culture of Open Communication and Trust groupware. Based on divisional survey results, likewise, areas that need to be improved first have been selected and thus Enhancement of Employee Communication Based on the creative, human-centered corporate culture that prioritizes total 35 execution plans have been established and promoted; results of the plans executed are reflected to divisional KPIs for Two-day Workshop the communication and trust, Hyundai E&C implements systematic activities to enhance employees' sensibility by improving encouraging further improvement. the quality of life and enhancing the communication within the company. Through various communication channels, hence, we carefully listen to difficulties and enquiries of our employees. Through the annual Two-day Workshop for all employees at Hyundai E&C Newsletter on Facebook For employees at domestic as well as overseas sites to communicate in an web the headquarters, we encourage a free discussion identifying improvement points and gathering diverse opinions and thus easy and interesting way, we are operating a company newsletter page on Facebook, Hyundai E&C Today. We will hold Hyundai E&C Today on Facebook endeavor to create a pleasant workplace. Since 2015, besides, we have been operating an Employee Counseling Center various events for not only our employees but other followers and continuously diversify contents of postings aiming to build www.facebook.com/hyundaienctoday (ECC), an on/offline counseling center for employees, to increase the work engagement and corporate productivity by solving a platform of true communication. employees' problems. Family-oriented Corporate Culture Employee Participation Programs Family Participation Programs Through diverse employee participation programs, Hyundai E&C is striving for Hyundai E&C operates a range of family participation programs to build the sense of belonging and loyalty of employees. We assist new employees a warm corporate culture to communicate with employee families as a part to become accustomed to the company and present their capability by providing of 'Joyful Workplace' campaigns. For instance, 'Daddy Treats Today!' mentoring workshops and lectures by celebrities. Moreover, employees are program, which has been popular among employees, assist employees to able to cultivate their knowledge in the humanity through the 'Humanity Concert visit school of their children and spend meaningful time with the children and on Core Values' that provides lectures of experts in diverse fields. As one their friends. Also, employees' children came visit sites in December 2015 of programs for a joyful workplace, we held the '2nd Find Hidden STAR!' in 2015 and had time to understand their parents better. Additionally, we encourwith a wider scope of applicants than the previous year covering affiliates in aged our employees at sites in Latin America by delivering letters from their the construction industry as well. The 'Find Hidden STAR!' event is an in-house families. Through these multidimensional efforts including providing 'Family audition to find talented employees functioning as a communication channel Day' biweekly and encouraging employees to use their annual vacations, for employees. In addition, an Employee Healing Program (EHP) was introduced Hyundai E&C is striving for the work-life balance. in September 2015 for supporting the treatment and prevention of stresses through consultations. Lecture by CEO for New Employees 2nd Find Hidden STAR! Letter of Love from Family Site Visiting by Employee Family Humanity Concert on Core Values to Latin American Sites Daddy Treats Today! 56. 57. Strengthening Safety Management System Management & Strategy Reinforcement of Safety Management Activity The safety management is an essential factor for a sustainable business. The top management of Hyundai E&C Monthly Safety Campaign Through the monthly 'Monthly Safety Campaign' at all sites around the world with the top Monthly Safety Campaign has been leading the cultivation of HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) spirit of Hyundai E&C's every member and management attending, Hyundai E&C not simply inspects the on-site safety management but also increases the awareness of realization of the ‘TOTAL SAFETY’ to create a safe work environment where employees can feel relieved. the accident prevention delivering its strong will to realize the zero-accident. Hyundai E&C will check the compliance with HSE standards and the status of inspection for risk factors and establish strict precautions for the safety at sites by continuously advancing the regular Monthly Safety Campaign event. Also, we will contribute to the zero-accident through a range of Cultivating Realizing Innovative Talents Employee Value inspection themes encouraging all employees to participate in. web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/GreenSafty.aspx Improvement of Top Management's Safety Awareness By holding the Comprehensive Safety Meeting for the top executives on a quarterly basis, we have been strived to advance executives' mind on the safety management and settle Establishment of Infrastructure for Safety Management the corporate culture where a top priority is on the safety. At the Comprehensive Safety Meeting, executives establish HSE Safety Management Policy With the safety management as the first goal of the corporate management, Hyundai E&C strategies by analyzing the corporate-wide safety performance, preparing measures, and sharing key plans for each business has devoted for settling the safety culture. Therefore, the HSE Policy and Objectives are established on an annual basis to division. Additionally, we provided the safety leadership training to the top executives in 2015 where total 76 people including prevent industrial accidents while implementing systematic inspections and training for a safe work condition. the CEO and executives at the headquarters participated and sympathized with the importance of the safety-first management. In 2015, we greatly innovated the HSE system by intensifying the safety organization and inspection and expanding Hyundai E&C will keep improving the leadership by the top executives in the safety area through the persistent promotion the training and investment through a comprehensive safety management plan. For taking a leap as a leading company of the Comprehensive Safety Meeting for the top executives and safety leadership training. in the safety management who presents the best practice, we are also establishing and executing long-term safety management targets and strategies. Under a slogan of 'We Build Safe Tomorrow Together' we will enact the HDEC Safety Fundamentals and Permit to Work (PTW) Permit to Work (PTW), an accident prevention system of Hyundai E&C, requires to obtain a permit promote midto long-term safety management policies in 2016 aiming to reduce the accident rate by 40% until 2018 compared to work in advance by establishing a safety measure for all possible risk factors of every work executed at sites. If a work did to the level of 2014. not receive the PTW or execute safety measures as stated in the PTW document, it is subject to restrictions such as an immediate halt. Hyundai E&C enhanced the efficiency in delivering information and communications by visualizing the safety Midto Long-term Safety Management Strategies information. Furthermore, we share and conduct training about the result of risk assessments by providing employees with Mid-to One Page Sheet (OPS) by works and connecting it to the daily Tool Box Meeting. In 2016, we plan to use a QR Code that Establishing HDEC's own safety culture with「SAFETY」as the top priority Long-term can be viewed via mobile devices for increasing the efficiency of monitoring and work while reviewing a check list about a Risk Strategy We Build Safe Tomorrow Together Reduction Plan to prevent accidents. Mid-to Accomplishing a target to decrease the LTIR* by 40% until 2018 compared to the level of 2014 Long-term HSE Training We are implementing regular HSE trainings for all employees and subcontractors with an aim to advance → Achieving the Global Best LTIR in 2018 Target the awareness of the safety and environment. In 2015, we expanded the training scope to cover the top executives and Innovating Safety Awareness thus provided the safety leadership training; the total number of trainees in 2015 was 3,172. In particular, we developed Establishing HSE System of Global Top Level Key Task · Enacting HDEC Safety Fundamentals a standard training plan about the key six dangerous works to provide trainings suitable for the level of employees and to · Establishing advanced integrated HSE System · Promoting corporate-wide campaign to advance safety · Improving IT-based HSE System improve the training effect. Hyundai E&C will innovate the awareness of the safety by enacting safety regulations and maximizing awareness based on HDEC Safety Fundamentals the effect of the HSE training with a new HSE Guidebook for managers in 2016. Decrease of OHS Insurance * LTIR : Lost Time Incident Rate Expenses (Unit: KRW billion) Safety Management System With OHSAS 18001 certification which is an international OHS standard, Hyundai E&C Decrease of Accident Rate The accident rate of Hyundai E&C in 2015 substantially decreased to 0.14%, which is has been operating a safety management system according to international standards. Especially, a Safety & Health & Green 48% lower than 0.27% of 2014. Thanks to the significant decrease of accidents, we have been able to establish a safe work Environment Management System that integrates the management of safety & health, green, and energy has been in place environment generating economic values such as the reduction of OHS insurance expenses. The annual OHS insurance since 2012 for a further efficient management of sites. In addition, Hyundai E&C identifies safety risks in advance by operating expenses of Hyundai E&C were KRW 25.57 billion in 2013 and it decreased to KRW 24.71 billion in 2014 and KRW 21.46 billion 25.57 24.71 21.46 the HSE teams for each business division, which are dedicated for the safety management. The safety management in 2015, which has decreased by total KRW 4.11 billion. We will keep endeavoring to put the safety of our employees as the top performance of each site is also reflected to the KPIs of not only site managers but team/part leaders. Hence, Hyundai E&C will priority realizing the sincere safety management. 2013 2014 2015 consolidate a foothold for a safe work condition by cultivating employee's awareness of safety. In 2015, we assigned additional technical staffs from diverse fields to the HSE Innovation Team and safety teams of business divisions and thus enhanced the Technical Safety of Construction based on experiences in construction. An autonomous safety and health system of subcontractor has been also set by making it mandatory to deploy their own safety manager. Hyundai E&C is Attaining Meaningful Fruits of Its Efforts for Safety Management Enhancement of Safety Inspection In order to monitor the safety management at domestic and overseas sites and Attaining Zero Accident at Domestic Sites in 2015 Safety Inspection Hyundai E&C's devotion for the safety management has earned momentous performances: in 2015, Hyundai E&C incurred no at Domestic Sites to prevent accidents, we have been reinforcing the safety inspection. In 2015, safety inspections for executives including the accident achieving a record of 'Zero Accident' with a 50% decrease in general safety accidents compared to 2014. By a 'Preapproval (As of 2015) top management were conducted to encourage employees. Launched a petrol inspection, we further enhanced the accident for Work' system especially for weekend and holidays that the accident rate gets high, we were able to reduce accidents on Total 1,610 cases prevention activity by checking the usual safety management status at sites through spot inspection arousing attention. Also, holidays by more than 65%. On the other hand, an 'Incentive for Safety Inspection' system has contributed to excavating and supporting subcontractors that are excellent at managing safety. Hyundai E&C will continue to establish zero-accident sites through we are carrying out the thorough management by a real-time monitoring system for sites (CCTV). In 2015, total 1,610 cases intensifying the safety management for the prevention of accidents and improving the system in order to avoid unnecessary loss of safety inspections at domestic sites were conducted; the figure is 13.7% higher than the 2015 target, 1,416 cases. In 2016, Safety Inspection by CEO of lives. we will expand the safety inspections for the executives and implement weekly joint safety inspection while settling the safety management at overseas sites through the safety inspection of and training about construction equipment. 58. 59. Shared Growth with Suppliers Management & Strategy Suppliers are the most essential partners of Hyundai E&C. For accomplishing the shared growth, Hyundai E&C Support for Technology Development of Supplier Transferring and sharing technology with suppliers through provides comprehensive supports for the finance, education, and technology development of suppliers. Moreover, technological support programs, Hyundai E&C actively encourages suppliers to develop technology by themselves. we have established the sustainable supply chain management system while discovering capable suppliers and For instance, we hold Hyundai E&C Technical Forum every year to offer a platform supporting the technology development in endeavoring for enhancing their competitiveness. an 'Open Innovation' way which is the global trend. The Technical Forum is the only technology competition for the shared growth management by domestic construction companies. Hyundai E&C finds outstanding suppliers who develop new Empowering Accomplishing Value Chain Shared Growth technology and methods, provides financial supports for applying patents, and promotes joint technological researches web http://www.hdec.kr/KR/Sustainability/WinWin.aspx for collaborative patent applications. Winning suppliers are awarded R&D funds and incentives when registered as new suppliers. In 2015, total 15 patents of Hyundai E&C were released for free to suppliers advancing their technological capability. Expansion of Shared Growth System Educational Support for Suppliers For assisting the substantial growth of suppliers, Hyundai E&C provides various Quality and Transparent Ethical Training Increasing the competitiveness and managerial stability of suppliers is a foundation for the sustainable growth of Hyundai E&C. practical educations about the quality, process, and ethics and supports suppliers to enhance the capability to execute We are striving to stabilize the management of our suppliers through financial supports while attaining the shared growth with overseas projects through educations required for the overseas expansion, such as taxation by countries. In 2015, suppliers by the cooperation for the technology development and educational supports. a total of 927 suppliers received diverse training courses. With a Suppliers' Council, we have expanded educational supports by holding CEO seminars and quarterly shared growth seminars by work types for all registered suppliers. Shared Growth Management for Suppliers Hyundai E&C has been devoting to the shared growth management through the enhanced communication and cooperation with suppliers as their companion by providing supports for the Educational Support for Suppliers in 2015 finance, education, and technology development and operating communication programs. Thanks to diverse efforts, Hyundai E&C achieved an award from the Minister of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs at the 'Awards for the Promotion of the Course Name Trainees (person) Benefitting Suppliers (company) Construction Industry’s Cooperation 2012.' In addition, we accomplished the highest rating receiving more than 90 points Education about Process of Construction Supplier 95 93 at the 'Evaluation of Joint Cooperation among Construction Companies 2013' for two consecutive years. The MLTM’s Evaluation conducted by the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs (MLTM) annually evaluates the performance of the Education about Quality and Transparent Ethics 742 742 cooperation by industry players to create the environment for the joint cooperation and shared growth between integrated and special contractors as well as between large corporations and SMEs. Hyundai E&C, furthermore, was awarded the ‘Awards for Education about Overseas Advancement 100 84 the Promotion of the Construction Industry’s Cooperation 2015.' Education for Employees of Suppliers 8 8 under Construction Association of Korea Activities for Shared Growth Management Total 945 927 Supplier Satisfaction We have aggressively pursued the shared growth management by conducting the supplier Realizing Shared Growth through Cooperation satisfaction survey since 2009 to identify suppliers' requests and apply them to the management. Hyundai E&C developed its own survey system using VOC and IPA methods and optimized it to understand suppliers' actual needs and solve their Joint Technology Development Educational Support Operation of difficulties. The supplier satisfaction survey is carried out on a semiannual basis; each supplier evaluates and gives opinions and Joint Overseas Advancement and Satisfaction Survey Information System for Cooperation about Hyundai E&C according to provided indicators which cover from the selection process to the payment process; in 2015, we scored 82 points in the supplier satisfaction survey. Hyundai E&C will continuously endeavor to consolidate the foundation ∙ Delivering shared growth through transfer ∙ Developing and providing ethical ∙C hanging bidding/contract/payment/ of the shared growth management by carefully listening to and applying voices of suppliers to actual tasks. and sharing of technology management education to suppliers guarantee tasks on-line ∙ Jointly conducting overseas projects ∙ Establishing annual shared growth plan ∙R ealizing transparent e-commerce by providing opportunity to enter global through supplier satisfaction survey and reducing in/direct costs by on-line market ∙ Assisting suppliers to settle ethical contract process ∙ Cultivating suppliers for their stable management system performance in receiving orders Hyundai E&C Assists Its Suppliers to Take a Big Step into International Markets Financial Support for Suppliers Hyundai E&C has been providing financial supports to suppliers that suffer from financial Expansion of Financial Support Hyundai E&C is implementing an Overseas Expansion Training Program to assist Revenue Increase Benefitting Suppliers for Suppliers difficulties due to its weak financial base since signed the 'Joint Cooperation and Fair Trade Agreement' with suppliers in 2010. suppliers to penetrate into global markets. A number of suppliers have received of Benefitting Suppliers (Unite: company / Accumulated) (Unit: KRW billion) By arranging the Win-win Growth Fund of about KRW 20 billion with financial institutions, we assist suppliers to recover their trainings from Hyundai E&C; most of 455 suppliers that participated in the training (Unit: KRW billion / Accumulated) between 2012 and 2014 were found to achieve their dream of entering the overseas financial difficulty. In 2015, we expanded the scope of institutes that operate the Win-win Growth Fund to Shinhan Bank, Woori markets. The total accumulated amount of overseas orders they won reached KRW Bank, Korea Exchange bank, and Industrial Bank of Korea. Thus, we were able to loan total KRW 17.3 billion using the Fund 880.7 billion for the past four years starting from KRW 255.1 billion in 2012. We will and provide an emergency fund of KRW 15.1 billion to 25 suppliers contributing to their liquidity. For practical aids for our persistently contribute to the capability development and revenue increase of suppliers 15.1 14.5 17.3 366.9 749.5 880.7 203 325 455 through providing more opportunities of the Overseas Expansion Training Program with suppliers, we make a full cash payment of under KRW 100 million to subcontracts within 13 days on an average. Hyundai E&C various programs such as inviting suppliers to overseas sites. 2013 2014 2015 will continue to improve the financial stability of suppliers by developing various financial support programs. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 60. 61. Shared Growth with Suppliers Shared Growth by Communication Sustainable Supply Chain Management Hyundai E&C strives to enhance the communication with suppliers by operating a range of communication channels. By establishing the 'HDEC Sustainability Management Guideline for Suppliers' and efficient Supplier Sustainability Assessment Consequently, a greater synergy has been generated through efficient partnerships and a strong sympathy. system, Hyundai E&C has strengthened the supply chain management system of the best level among competitors. Hi-Partner For assisting effective work of suppliers and reinforcing the cooperation, Hyundai E&C is operating a 'HiPolicy for Sustainable Supply Chain Management For the first among domestic construction companies, Hyundai E&C Hi-Partner Partner' portal that is an information system for the cooperation with suppliers. All suppliers can attain various information such enacted the 'HDEC Sustainability Management Guideline for Suppliers' in October 2014 for the systematic and sustainable as electronic bidding, contract, tax invoice, guarantee, and payment through the system. Contract-related tasks are processed supply chain management. 'HDEC Sustainability Management Guideline for Suppliers' consists of three chapters: responsibility online as well contributing to the reduction of direct and indirect costs. Furthermore, we operate a Win-win Growth Support for sustainable business, responsibility for environment, and responsibility for stakeholders. Covering 64 items in 14 areas, Center within the 'Hi-Partner' portal for gathering grievances and recommends of suppliers and thus applying them to works. it defines standards of the sustainability management which Hyundai E&C requires suppliers. In addition, the Guideline clarifies a strong will for Hyundai E&C to disseminate its sustainability management policy to the entire value chain. Communication Channels Hyundai E&C solidifies the cooperation with its suppliers by operating diverse communication channels: the Suppliers' Council is a regular consultative group to communicate with suppliers and composed of five subcommittees. It is responsible for collecting and reviewing suppliers' grievances and suggestions by communicating on HDEC Sustainability Management Guideline for Suppliers ( ): Number of items in each area a regular basis. Moreover, we conduct the shared growth seminar for all suppliers and carefully listen to their opinions through Chapter Details separate brief meetings by work types. Products and Services (3) Internal Control (5) Responsibility for Sustainable Business Ethics and Human Right (4) Asset and Information Protection (3) Trade and Competition (9) Supplier Communication Method Environmental Management System (4) Sites (4) Responsibility for Environment Product and Service Process (5) Response to Climate Change (4) Joint Cooperation Committee Shareholder (5) Business Partner (5) • Operate on a monthly basis to secure fairness and transparency Responsibility for Stakeholder Employee (6) Local Community (4) in managing suppliers Customer (3) • Register/cancel a supplier; reward/impose sanction; select excellent suppliers; deliberate on low bidding price Supplier Satisfaction Survey • Fortify communications with suppliers and ascertain suppliers’ requests in a timely manner Supplier Sustainability Assessment In order to apply the 'HDEC Sustainability Management Guideline for Suppliers' • Develop corporate-wide measures to respond to suppliers’ Ethical Management System to actual tasks, we developed the 'Supplier Sustainability Assessment Framework' and have conducted analysis of requests in a timely manner Environment, Society & Governance (ESG) risks since 2014. In 2015, we further enhanced the assessment system • Operate Autonomous Compliance Program for Fair Trade (CP) and Cyber Audit Office by intensifying indicators by areas in accordance with global trends. Especially, Hyundai E&C proactively identifies and monitors • Establish Code of Conduct and legal violation prevention system negative risks in economic, environmental, and societal aspects that can occur within the supply chain with advices of external for Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act and Subcontracting Win-win Growth Support Center experts. Therefore, we have sought for an efficient supply chain management and improvement of suppliers' sustainability. Act • Collect suppliers’ grievances and suggestions Settlement of Supplier Selection System For the fairness in selecting suppliers, we operate supplier registration and • Request for and respond to supplier satisfaction survey (bi-annual) selection processes in a transparent manner. Besides, we conduct evaluations separately for the existing core suppliers and new Shared Growth Seminar suppliers to cultivate outstanding suppliers. In selecting suppliers, we also require suppliers to observe environmental, safety, and health policies by designating it as a contract term. Through the Low Bid Deliberation System, additionally, we prevent • Hold Shared Growth Seminars by work types for all subcontractors the excessively low bidding and thus guarantee reasonable profits of suppliers and encourage the managerial stability • Hold brief meetings by work types for all suppliers of suppliers. Reinforcement of Capability of Global Supply Chain It is necessary to discover and manage capable local suppliers in Overseas Partner's Information System a timely manner for the penetration into the global market and diversification of global businesses. Accordingly, Hyundai E&C established a 'Global Sourcing Team' in 2013, which is a responsible organization for managing overseas suppliers; as a result, management of overseas suppliers conducted for each business division has been integrated at the corporate level. Likewise, Hyundai E&C Paves a Road for Shared Growth through Communication a corporate-wide management system for overseas suppliers was developed in 2014 based on the ERP (companywide resource management) system consolidating a foundation to execute overseas construction efficiently. Furthermore, By holding brief meetings with suppliers for each division, Hyundai E&C has established a solid foothold for the shared growth by establishing an Overseas Partner's Information System in 2015, we advanced the system enabling an easy search of management listening to voices of suppliers who will accomplish the growth together. At brief meetings in November 2015, total information about new and existing suppliers within the groupware. In 2016, Hyundai E&C is planning to conduct the verification 79 suppliers participated for nine times covering 12 different parts such as steel, ready-mix concrete/equipment, construction, of suppliers subject to the bidding from an early stage of a project so that qualified suppliers participate in the bidding. Also, electricity, and facility. Participants discussed about their interests about each part and prospect of the domestic and overseas construction markets exchanging information about new technologies of various fields. Hyundai E&C listened to a variety we will stay in close contact with our suppliers by sending newsletters and visiting suppliers. of grievances suppliers have and thus set shared growth plans. We will keep enhancing the communication with suppliers through various channels. Suppliers' Brief Meeting 62. 63. Creating Shared Value through Social Contribution Management & Strategy Hyundai E&C is faithfully delivering a social responsibility as a global leading construction company by promoting Enhancement of Overseas Social Contribution Starting from the establishment of a community center for the lowScale of Overseas Social Contribution diverse social contribution projects based on industrial characteristics in overseas countries where we operate income class in Philippines in 2011, Hyundai E&C has actively promoted 27 social contribution activities in 15 countries such as Business business. We will realize a harmonious future where corporations and the society can coexist in a balanced Kenya, Kazakhstan, and Mozambique; activities include health hygiene, scholarships, cultural exchange, and relief for the poor. (Unit: KRW 100 million) way by accomplishing the shared growth with domestic and global local communities in various fields such as Also, we gradually increased the budget for the overseas social contribution activities which reached KRW 700 million in 2015 education, environment, and the culture. from KRW 320 million in 2013. In 2016, Hyundai E&C completed the construction of Vietnam Hyundai & KOICA Dream Center Project with Hyundai Motor Group which is the first global CSV project in the construction industry. Following the achievement, 3.2 4.4 7.0 Empowering Accomplishing Value Chain Shared Growth we will continue our sharing activities in diverse countries such as Myanmar, East Timor, Philippines, Chile, Sri Lanka, and web http://en.hdec.kr/EN/Sustainability/ShareIntro.aspx Indonesia. 2013 2014 2015 Leadership in Global CSV Business Vietnam Hyundai & KOICA Dream Center that was completed in February Social Contribution System Breakdown of Donations 2016 is the starting point of Hyundai E&C’s global CSV business. Through the Center which is the first CSV project (Unit: %) Strategy Hyundai E&C has been significantly contributed to local communities through its three sharing activities to fulfill of the construction industry, we provide not only equipment for practices but also professional education by safety and piping/ 2.4 2.2 2.7 the corporate social responsibility. In addition to the launch of a Community Service Corps for the first in the construction industry welding experts for developing the local community and cultivating construction talents simultaneously. Also, the education 4.0 in 2009, social contribution activities are being executed in three key areas: 'Sharing Love' to improve the living environment program was registered as a course about the safety in construction at a college in Vietnam for the first time; the first trainee and to advance the social welfare, 'Sharing Hope' which is a scholarship program such as Hillstate Dream Mentoring Corps, group will complete the course in the latter half of 2016 and courses for local employees will be additionally provided expanding 39.8 and 'Sharing Culture' to introduce the Korean history and culture and support art business. In particular, we further expanded 21.1 the scope of supports. Far beyond offering financial donations, Hyundai E&C will endeavor to take its responsibility and role for 100% the mentoring activity by initiating the Hillstate Dream Mentoring Corps in 2015, a volunteering group run by the talent donation the company and the society to grow further together by identifying global CSV businesses of Hyundai E&C. of our employees for the first in the industry. 27.8 International Social Contribution Activities in 2016 Three Major Social Contribution Activities Educational Support & Environmental Academic Research Protection Sharing Love Sharing Hope Sharing Culture Social Welfare Culture, Art, and Sport Support for Social Welfare Support for Education & Scholarship Protection of Cultural Assets International Aid & Emergency & Exchange Activities Disaster Relief · Social contribution activities · Support of underfed children · Restoration work for cultural assets Local Community in developing countries in local communities · Establishment of volunteer centers · Activities for overseas Improvement · Mentoring activity by talent donation in national parks Uzbekistan of residential environment (Home Repair Road) for local community · Collecting Coins of Love campaign Republic of the Union Uganda of Myanmar Asia Sri Lanka Colombia Vietnam Philippines Vietnam Hyundai & KOICA Dream Center: Indonesia Initiation of Construction, Vietnam Hyundai Motor Group’s Social Contribution System To deliver further sincere social contribution for communities, East Timor Hyundai E&C has participated in the six Moves of Hyundai Motor Group with its affiliates. Moreover, we consolidated a social Chile contribution system in accordance with the KPIs newly established for each Hyundai Motor Group’s affiliate. Hyundai Motor Group’s Social Contribution System Southeast Asia Central Asia Africa Improving mobility of Encouraging employee Promoting safe traffic the underprivileged and customer Vietnam East Timor Uzbekistan Uganda and society Africa in social/traffic aspects engagement (Hanoi) (Cova Lima; Suai) (Qarshi) (Jinja) Provision of Solar Power Flashlights, Uganda Constructing Technology School Improving quality of drinking water and Repairing local middle schools Providing 1,000 solar power flashlights (safety, piping, welding) hygiene in rest rooms in Loro Village, Suai Period: 2 years (2015-2016) Building new middle schools Protecting environment Conducting social Period: 3 years (2015-2017) Period: 8 months (APR 2016-DEC 2016) Period: 2 years (2015-2016) Generating jobs and responding contribution business to assist independence to climate change using corporate capability Indonesia Myanmar Southwest Asia Latin America (Jakarta; Tangerang, Banten) (Yangon) Jakarta: Improving water quality Remodeling elementary schools Sri Lanka Colombia and hygiene Providing solar power flashlight (Colombo) (Bogota) Performance of Social Contribution Tangerang, Banten: Improving living Period: 11 months (FEB 2016-JAN 2017) Constructing Technology School Repairing local orphanages environment Latin America Organization & KPI Launched the Community Service Corps in 2009 where employees and employee families participate (Heavy construction equipment course) Period: 3 years (2014-2016) Opening of Happy Home School, Colombia Logo & Slogan of Hyundai E&C Family Period: 1 years (FEB 2016-DEC 2016) Period: 3 years (2015-2017) Community Service Group altogether, we have actively implemented systematic social contribution activities in Korea and in foreign countries where we operate business. Besides, we are executing the volunteer mileage program to encourage the employee engagement while the Constructing Children Chile Philippines Education Center (Chiloé Island) performance has been reflected to divisional KPIs being managed efficiently. In 2015, the KPI evaluation was conducted twice (Manila; Iloilo Province) Period: 2 years (2016-2017) Providing hygiene education to 150 promoting the corporate-wide participation; points given by the KPI evaluation will further increase to 2 to 4 points from 1 point Manila: Providing solar power flashlight households and building houses for the Iloilo Province: Providing water poor class and thus inspire more employees to volunteer. Moreover, we achieved the corporate average of 11.3 miles exceeding the annual purification facility Period: 2 years (2016-2017) goal of average 10 miles in 2015. Period: 10 months (MAR 2016-DEC 2016) 64. 65. 2015 Hyundai E&C Social Contribution Highlights With the characteristics of the construction industry, Hyundai E&C has promoted ‘Sharing Love’ activities that are to increase the public interest of local communities and overseas underdeveloped countries and to improve the residential environment of low income families. Starting from building a community center in Philippines in 2011, we have actively implemented overseas social contribution activities in developing countries where we are operating business and thus contributed Sharing to the community development returning profits to local communities. By expanding benefitting Collecting Coins of Love Overseas Social Contribution Activities and Happy Move Volunteer Corps countries and budget in 2015, we conducted social contribution activities with about KRW 700 million Through the Collecting Coins of Love campaign, Hyundai E&C’s employees have voluntarily Implementing social contribution activities in counties such as Chile, Indonesia, and East Love in six different countries. In 2016, we will further intensify our global CSV projects through advancing collected part of their salaries every month and donated to the domestic and overseas underprivileged since 2009. In 2015, a total of 2,839 employees participated in the campaign Timor, Hyundai E&C is faithfully delivering its social responsibility as a global company. In accordance with the social contribution strategy of Hyundai Motor Group newly established domestic activities according to the new social contribution strategy of Hyundai Motor Group as well donating KRW 341.72 million. The donated funds were utilized for diverse activities in Korea in 2015, we are promoting global Happy Move volunteering works with the participation of not as providing more aids to earthquake-ravaged regions in Ecuador and Sarulla, Indonesia. and other countries, such as providing financial supports for medical operations of children only our employees but customers providing systematic supports to overseas underdeveloped with severe disabilities, repairing houses of the vulnerable, and improving the quality countries. By increasing the budget and expanding the scope of beneficiaries, Hyundai of drinking water in underdeveloped countries. E&C will further strengthen the global social contribution activity. In order to offer educational and emotional supports to children and teenagers in Korea and foreign countries, Hyundai E&C executes ‘Sharing Hope’ activities: since 2009, it has helped undernourished children of low income families through ‘Lunchboxes of Hope’ while constantly improving the activity through surveys/evaluations for recurring participants. ‘Hillstate Dream Mentoring Corps’ launched Sharing in 2014 is also implementing mentoring activities to help teenagers study and determine their dream. In addition, the ‘5th Home Repair Road’ volunteered in five areas with about 90 college students in Hillstate Dream Mentoring Corps 5th Home Repair Road ‘Hillstate Dream Mentoring Corps’ was launched in 2014 as a volunteering group run by Since established in 2011, ‘Home Repair Road’ has improved the living environment hope 2015 to improve the living environment of seniors living alone in remote areas. We also invited the participating college students to actual sites and our work mentoring meetings. We will continue to link the cooperation of Hyundai E&C and science and engineering major college students for the first in the domestic construction industry. For supporting dreams of teenagers and of seniors who live alone in remote and isolated areas by cooperating with engineering major college students. In 2015, about 90 students participated conducting the activity in five volunteer works with opportunities to experience on-site tasks in 2016. providing long-term mentoring programs, employees of Hyundai E&C collaborate with college areas; and the number of participants and scope of areas will continue to increase. Moreover, students and teenagers composing one team of a mentee, a mentor, and an employee Hyundai E&C will gradually expand the connection between the Home Repair Road activities mentor. In 2016, the third Hillstate Dream Mentoring Corps is to be launched for further and opportunities to experience on-site tasks for practical supports. systematic and efficient execution of educational social contribution activities. ‘Sharing Culture’ activities concentrate on preserving our environmental and cultural treasures as well as on promoting arts for the culturally isolated group. Since signed the ‘One Keeper for Every Cultural Asset’ agreement with the Culture Heritage Administration in 2005, we have implemented various activities to preserve cultural assets. For instance, we are currently executing a restoration project of Geumcheongyo, a bridge within Changdeok Palace. In 2015, about 1,000 employees and employee families participated Sharing in the activity. Additionally, Hyundai E&C initiated an ‘Improvement of Scenery in Bukchon Village’ project to advance the aesthetic view of the local community. With help of employees and their families, we Improvement of Scenery in Bukchon Village Restoration of Cultural Properties culture repaired worn-out walls of Gyedong Elementary School near the headquarters and drew murals on To improve the image of Gyedong where has the history and traditions of Korea and thus develop the area into a beautiful tourist spot, Hyundai E&C newly launched an ‘Improvement Since signed the ‘One Keeper for Every Cultural Asset’ agreement with the Culture Heritage Administration, Hyundai E&C has devoted the best effort to preserving the cultural assets in the wall using traditional pattern of Korea. By conducting a satisfaction survey for participants, we will of Scenery in Bukchon Village’ project in 2015 and conducted various activities. In 2016, Korea. In 2015, about 1,000 employees and employee families participated in the restoration persistently advance the activity and strive to improve the scenery of Bukchon Village. we will improve the environment around Jeongdok Public Library, one of key landmarks in construction of Geumcheongyo within Changdeok Palace, a UNESCO World Heritage Gyedong, by making a mural with tiles. The Improvement of Scenery in Bukchon Village Site; the accumulated number of volunteers of the past six years has reached 3,000. project will be the representative cultural CSR business of Hyundai E&C. Furthermore, we donated excavators for the restoration consolidating the foundation to protect the cultural asset. 66. 67. 재 Financial Performance appendix Consolidated Statements Description 2013 2014 (Unit: KRW million) 2015 of Income Sales 13,938,287 17,386,959 19,122,053 [Condensed] 69 Financial Performance Cost of Sales 12,729,837 15,845,677 17,512,570 Gross Profit 1,208,450 1,541,282 1,609,483 70 Key Sustainability Indicators Operating Income 792,870 958,903 986,560 72 Global Sustainability Partnerships Income before Income Tax Expense 761,972 802,725 798,300 73 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Net Income 569,644 586,697 584,027 74 Third Party Assurance Report 76 GRI G4 Index 80 Sustainable Value Creation (Unit: KRW million) Consolidated Statements 81 Major Awards and Accolades / Memberships Description 2013 2014 2015 of Financial Position Current Assets 11,108,964 13,642,088 14,343,666 [Condensed] Non-current Assets 3,624,248 4,797,605 5,114,866 Total Assets 14,733,212 18,439,693 19,458,532 Current Liabilities 6,905,974 8,256,605 8,582,804 Non-current Liabilities 2,624,163 3,216,776 3,384,463 Total Liabilities 9,530,137 11,473,381 11,967,267 Capital Stock 557,273 557,273 557,273 Other Contributed Capital 826,320 1,024,542 1,035,424 Components of Other Capital (21,944) 12,760 43,172 Retained Earnings 3,522,094 3,849,270 4,185,037 Total Equity 5,203,075 6,966,312 7,491,265 (Unit: %) Financial Stability Description 2013 2014 2015 [Separate] Current Ratio 160.9 165.2 167.1 Debt Ratio 183.2 164.7 159.7 Net Worth Ratio 35.3 37.8 38.5 Compliance Hyundai E&C strictly complies with tax laws and related regulations in all 59 countries where it operates business. In order to support the business operation and customer services more effectively, Hyundai E&C strives to pay tax efficiently within the legal limits by optimizing its domestic and overseas business structures. Hyundai E&C maintains an honest and positive relationship with the tax authorities of each country such as a National Tax Service, pays its tax faithfully in accordance with each country’s tax laws every year, and focuses on transparently disclosing all tax-related data. Every year, we specify the information of the corporate tax, deferred corporate tax, and effective tax rate on the audit report and disclose the information through the Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System (dart.fss.or.kr). In addition, Hyundai E&C paid penalties of KRW 54.674 billion in 2015 for four cases of collusion incurred while receiving orders such as the construction of a natural gas main run. Hyundai E&C will endeavor to prevent the reoccurrence not to impede the order of the free market as well as communicate with stakeholders in a transparent manner. 68. 69. Key Sustainability Indicators Long-term 2016 2018 2016 Area Category Measurement 2013 2014 2015 Area Sustainability Issue KPI 2013 2014 2015 Sustainability Target (Target / Estimation) (Target / Estimation) (Target / Estimation) Long-term Sustainability Target Sustainability KPI by Areas Sustainability Increasing Increasing the proportion of sales of climate change products* to more than 45% against total revenues by 2018 Environmental Minimizing Energy consumptions (TJ) 1,285.00 1,278.00 1,399.29 1,366.68 Long-term Target * Definition of Hyundai E&C's climate change products: Energy plants, products of green business, green buildings, and high-efficiency buildings Management Proportion of Management Environmental Waste generation (ton) 625,147 452,021 635,939 599,886 Climate Change Impacts Proportion of total climate change products (%) 27.79 27.76 39.56 43.02 45.0 Products Water consumptions (1,000 ton) 950 803 940 920 Proportion of climate change products in Infra & 3.84 1.08 1.40 1.25 2.0 Environment Works Division (%) Expenditures/investments for environmental protection activities (KRW 100 million) 367 474 548 560 Measurement Proportion of climate change products in Building Works Division (%) 11.39 12.72 23.19 29.25 29.0 R&D investments (KRW 100 million) 190 299 234 227 Technology Enhancement of Proportion of climate change products in Plant Works Division (%) 12.56 7.55 7.74 7.19 8.0 Management Core Technology Investments in operation of R&D human resource (KRW 100 million) 114 147 172 170 Capability Proportion of climate change products in Power & Energy Works Division (%) 0.00 6.41 7.23 5.34 6.0 R&D expenses (KRW 100 million) 39 39 45 55 Securing Core Investing KRW 93.5 billion in securing core environment-friendly and high-efficiency technology by 2018 Acquisition of R&D assets (KRW 100 million) 37 113 17 2 Long-term Target * Definition of Hyundai E&C's R&D investments: investments in operation of R&D human resources, R&D expenses, and acquisition of R&D assets Environment-friendly R&D human resources (person) 122 166 181 183 and High-efficiency R&D investments (KRW 100 million) 190 299 234 227 240 Technology R&D projects (case) 49 57 51 55 R&D human resources (person) 122 166 183 183 185 Patent applications (case) 55 75 83 80 Measurement Patent applications (case) 55 75 90 80 80 In-house technical consulting for sites (case) 227 148 242 250 Cost saving by in-house technical consulting for sites (KRW 100 billion) 248 401 1,030 1,000 1,050 In-house technical consulting for sites provided at bidding stage (case) 25 32 33 35 In-house technical consulting for sites provided at bidding stage (case) 25 32 33 35 40 Cost savings by in-house technical consulting for sites (KRW 100 billion) 248 401 1,030 1,000 Reducing Reducing GHG emissions to 528,375 tCO2-e, 10.5% lower than emissions of 2015 (590,364 tCO2-e) by 2020 Long-term Target GHG Emissions Customer Satisfaction Customer satisfaction (point) 94.4 96.3 85.0 88.0 Total GHG emission reductions (tCO2-e) 16,509.03 10,345.88 74,133.49 75,690.29 78,803.90 through Innovation Average time to process customer opinions Website (day) 2.2 2.4 1.9 2.0 GHG emission reductions by reduction methods (tCO2-e) 15,846.53 9,502.65 438.12 447.32 465.72 Measurement Response time to customer opinions Customer center call (%) 99.4 99.3 99.2 99.3 GHG emission reductions by introducing low-energy equipment (tCO2-e) 0.00 148.24 72,888.23 74,418.88 77,480.19 Talent Cultivation and Recruitments (person) 531 522 350 244 GHG emission reductions by energy saving campaigns (tCO2-e) 662.50 694.99 807.14 824.09 857.99 Management Acquirement New employees (person) 271 243 176 94 of Global Talents Experienced/Flextime employees (person) 207 230 141 150 Intern (person) 53 49 33 Training satisfaction (point) 4.60 4.40 4.40 4.50 2016 Job capability evaluation (point) 79.00 79.00 81.00 83.00 Area Sustainability Issue KPI 2013 2014 2015 (Target / Estimation) Work-life Balance Financial supports for complimentary medical check-up (KRW 100 million) 17.1 18.6 19.5 18.8 Sustainability KPI by Areas Number of benefiting employees/employee families of complimentary medical check-up 4,988 5,681 5,899 6,086 (person) Strategic Creation of Revenues (KRW 100 million, consolidated) 139,383 173,870 191,221 192,000 Management Sustainable Employee engagement (%) 84.0 83.0 83.3 83.5 Revenues (KRW 100 million, separate) 105,913 107,558 106,604 107,600 Economic Value 1,251 Fortification On-site safety inspections (case) 1,691 3,800 4,049 Overseas orders received (USD 100 million) 1,044.39 1,155.27 1,189.29 1,266.15 of Safety Supportive inspections (case) 875 1,181 1,265 1,288 Revenues from climate change products (KRW 100 million) 29,433 29,854 42,170 46,293 Management System Safety evaluations (case) 253 112 110 112 Revenues from climate change products in Infra & Environment Works Division (KRW 100 million) 4,071 1,158 1,489 1,341 Special inspections (case) 123 398 815 830 Revenues from climate change products in Building Works Division (KRW 100 million) 12,060 13,684 24,719 31,470 Executive-driven inspections (case) 1,610 1,819 Revenues from climate change products in Plant Works Division (KRW 100 million) 13,302 8,119 8,256 7,739 Accident rate (%) 0.21 0.27 0.14 0.13 Revenues from climate change products in Power & Energy Works Division (KRW 100 million) 0 6,893 7,706 5,743 Shared Growth Shared Growth Number of benefitting suppliers of Overseas Expansion Training Program (company) 99 122 130 135 Sound Corporate Attendance rate of external directors (%) 97.75 100 100 100 Management with Suppliers Governance Revenue generation due to Overseas Expansion Training Program (KRW 100 million) 1,118 3,826 1,312 1,198 Number of overseas hotlines (hotline) 27 27 27 28 Amount of Win-win Growth Fund (KRW 100 million) 151 145 173 175 Environmental Maximizing Total HSE training participants (person) 4,002 4,167 3,172 3,242 Management Eco-efficiency Number of benefitting suppliers of Global Leading Company Training Program (company) 29 24 19 20 HSE training satisfaction (%) 83.3 94.5 90.2 93.0 GHG emissions (tCO2-e) 390,113.63 377,751.88 431,870.32 422,801.06 Supplier satisfaction (point) 82.0 82.4 82.5 82.6 Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2-e) 13,245.11 13,232.21 20,043.07 19,622.17 Generation Donations at headquarters (KRW 100 million) 45.5 61.5 37.3 34.0 of Shared Value Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2-e) 53,049.52 52,923.67 53,885.25 52,753.67 Annual company-wide goal of employees’ volunteer mileage program (mile per person) 8 10 10 10 through Social Scope 3 GHG emissions (tCO2-e) 323,819.00 311,596.00 357,942.00 350,425.22 Contribution Donations by Sharing Love (KRW 100 million) 3.20 3.45 3.42 3.40 70. 71. Global Sustainability Partnerships Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement UN Global Compact To fulfill its role and responsibility as a sound corporate citizen, Hyundai E&C signed the UN Global Compact in 2010. Hyundai E&C Introduction Korean Foundation for Quality (hereinafter 'KFQ') has been engaged in Hyundai Engineering & Construction (hereinafter 'the Company') proactively upholds the ten major principles in four major sectors including human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption to independently verify its 2015 Report on the quantity of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from entire places of business nationwide (hereinafter throughout overall management practices and strives to create socially shared value such as the mutual cooperation, job creation, and 'Inventory Report'). protection of the socially vulnerable. Verification Scope KFQ's verification was focused on all of the greenhouse gas emission sources domestic and foreign (direct emission and indirect emission) controlled by the Company. UN Global Compact 10 Principles Verification Criteria The verification process was based on 'Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme (Notification No. 2014-186 of Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption Ministry of Environment)' (hereinafter 'the Scheme') for every applicable part. The indirect emissions (electricity) factor of foreign sites by country was based on IEA composite electricity/heat factor. Principle 1. Principle 3. Principle 7. Principle 10. Businesses should support and Businesses should uphold the freedom Businesses should support Businesses should work against respect the protection of internationally of association and the effective a precautionary approach to corruption in all its forms, including proclaimed human rights. recognition of the right to collective environmental challenges. extortion and bribery. Verification Procedure The Verification has been planned and conducted by the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme, and to reach Principle 2. bargaining. Principle 8. reasonable level of assurance. Furthermore, the entire verification process underwent internal review to ensure its methodology and Principle 4. Businesses should undertake initiatives Businesses should make sure that effectiveness. they are not complicit in human rights Businesses should uphold the to promote greater environmental abuses. elimination of all forms of forced and responsibility. compulsory labour. Principle 9. Verification Limitation In order to confirm the data and information provided by the Company, sampling method was applied in the Verification Plan. For Principle 5. Businesses should encourage Businesses should uphold the effective the development and diffusion of verification of foreign sites, the only document review was implemented. Therefore, KFQ acknowledged the data and information from abolition of child labour. environmentally friendly technologies. Company as it is. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect Conclusion / Opinion Based on verification process according to the Scheme, KFQ obtained reasonable basis to derive following conclusion on the of employment and occupation. greenhouse gas emission data in the Inventory Report. UN Sustainable UN Sustainable Development Goals are the global midto long-term development plan of the United Nations consisting of total 17 1) The Company’s 2015 Report on Quantity of emitted Greenhouse Gas was documented in accordance with Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target goals. It is being executed in order to solve economic, environmental, and social problems around the globe for the upcoming 15 years, Management Scheme run by the government. Development Goals 2) According to materiality assessment on the quantity of greenhouse gas emitted from every Company’s places of business nationwide in 2015, material (UN SDGs) from 2016 to 2030. Faithfully endorsing the UN SDGs for a better future of the Earth, Hyundai E&C has been concentrating every effort discrepancy is less than the criteria of 5.0% for an organization that emits under 500,000 tCO2-e in accordance with Greenhouse Gas and Energy participating in the realization of the Goals through the environment-friendly construction product and cutting-edge technological service. Target Management Scheme. Hyundai E&C supports the new UN Sustainable Development Goals by striving to accomplish the four key goals closely related to the 3) Please note that the Scheme does not concern Scope 3 emissions. The verification accuracy of Scope 3 emissions may be limited as it was conducted construction industry. with the data calculated by the Company Guidelines. 4 Key UN Sustainable Development Goals (Unit: tCO2-e) Company Site Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Scope 3 UN SDGs 06 UN SDGs 07 UN SDGs 09 UN SDGs 11 Clean Water and Affordable and Industry, Innovation Sustainable Cities Domestic 20,043 53,885 73,923 357,942 Sanitation Clean Energy and Infrastructure and Communities Hyundai Engineering & Construction Ensuring availability and Ensuring access to sustainable Upgrading industries to make Making sustainable cities and Overseas 401,513 114,928 516,441 505.179 sustainable management of energy by increasing the share of them sustainable, with increased human settlements by ensuring water and sanitation by achieving renewable energy and doubling resource-use efficiency and access to housing, providing universal access to drinking water, the global rate of improvement greater adoption of clean access to transport systems, and increase water-use efficiency, and in energy efficiency by 2030 and environmentally sound enhancing urbanization by 2030 4) Thus, KFQ concludes that the Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Consumption of Hyundai Engineering & Construction in 2015 is correctly calculated halving the proportion of untreated technologies and industrial and stated in accordance with “Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme.” wastewater by 2030 processes by 2030 UN Guiding Principles Hyundai E&C has proclaimed its endorsement of UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights that was adopted at the 17th on Business and UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) in June 2011; based on the Principles, Hyundai E&C developed a “HDEC Human Rights Exposure Human Rights Assessment Framework” in 2013 and thus has analyzed the exposure to human rights risks at all domestic and overseas sites every year preventing human rights violations. The Framework includes the due diligence process for three pillars of Policy Commitment, Operational Requirements, and Remediation; the due diligence process covers the identification of potential human rights issues, identification of vulnerable groups, and mitigation actions. The 2015 results of human rights exposure assessment for total 71 countries where Hyundai E&C generated revenues, conducted sales activity, and procured products and services are as following: 1) Proportion of revenues from high-risk countries: 5.61% of total revenues Iraq 2.41%, Turkey 1.50%, Colombia 0.44%, Saudi Arabia 0.37% 31 MAY, 2016 2) Proportion of product procurements from high-risk countries: 8.96% of total product procurement Saudi Arabia 3.43%, China 1.73%, India 0.95%, Bahrain 0.82% CEO Nam Dae-Hyun 3) Proportion of service procurements from high-risk countries: 6.08% of total service procurement Saudi Arabia 2.67%, Iraq 1.60%, China 1.20%, Turkey 0.29% Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) 4) Proportion of revenues from countries with violent conflicts: 2.82% of total revenues Iraq 2.41%, Sri Lanka 0.37%, India 0.04% 72. 73. To the Management of the 2016 Hyundai E&C Sustainability Report Third Party Assurance Report The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter Auditor ) was engaged to undertake a review of Hyundai E&C’s 2016 Sustainability Report (hereafter Report ) to provide independent third-party assurance on its contents. On the basis of the above, the Auditor presents the following third-party statement of assurance. Responsibility and Hyundai E&C is responsible for all information and claims contained in the Report regarding the establishment of its sustainability management [Responsiveness] Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and interests? The Auditor found Hyundai E&C to be providing an adequate response to issues of concern and interest to Company stakeholders. To this end, it has established various channels of Objective goals, performance management etc. The responsibility of the Auditor is to deliver the findings from its assurance undertaking to the communication for different stakeholder groups, while making a greater effort to account for how the Company has responded to various communication findings, while also noting management of Hyundai E&C. The key objective of the assurance is to check whether there are any material bias or errors present in the Report; achieved outcomes within its Report. The Auditor took note of broad-based efforts by Hyundai E&C to address and manage the needs of both internal and external stakeholder assess whether the underlying data collection system is in proper working order; while undertaking in an overall review of the Company's groups such as on-site quality assessments via quality experts, customized online quality training sessions for executives and employees responsible for quality improvements process for identifying issues of material importance to sustainability management as well as the produced results so that the Auditor may deliver intended as a way to achieve pre-emptive quality improvements for better customer satisfaction the launch of a new zero complaint team dedicated to delivering a rapid onrecommendations that can help improve the quality of future reporting. site response to any customer complaints, operation of a vender consultation council designed to identify and respond to the needs of its business partners, an ECC (employee counseling center) and EHP (employee healing program) made available for all employees, all of which are very much consistent with the principle of responsiveness. Assurance Type and The Report was reviewed against the following criteria and guidelines: (1) AA1000 Assurance Standards (2008)*; (2) Global Reporting Initiative’s [GRI In Accordance Criteria] Level (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines2**; and (3) B.E.S.T Sustainability Reporting Guidelines3*** The Auditor confirmed that the Report is in accordance with GRI G4 guidelines under the comprehensive option, as it reports on General Standard Disclosures and Additional Disclosures (materiality aspects, DMA, performance indicators) as indicated in the G4 Guidelines. Assurance Scope Contents of the 2016 Sustainability Report by Hyundai E&C [Reliability of Performance Indicators] Assurance Type Type II, Moderate level After reviewing the performance data stated in the Report, the Auditor found its underlying data collection system to be adequate and failed to find any material errors that can either & Level bias the Company’s judgment or compromise the reliability of the data. The following performance indicators were reviewed for the purpose of this assurance ∙ IPS Assurance Manual to verify compliance against AA1000AS (2008) standard's three core principles ∙ IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria to assess the reliability of performance indicators Sustainability Dimension Core Issue Performance Indicator Assurance Criteria ∙ GRI Guideline's in accordance options ∙ B.E.S.T Guideline's reporting level Sustainable Business Management Achieving the Company's Long-term Vision DJSI E&C Segment 1st Place Ranking Achieving Economic Outcomes Revenue KRW 19.1221 trillion Strategic Management Percentage of Companies Receiving Consultation Execution of Business Ethics 26% Work Undertaken and The Auditor confirmed 1) the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of the reported content; 2) the reliability of the reported performance data; after Filing Complaints to the Cyber Audit Office Scope 3) the Report’s level of compliance against GRI's G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines; and 4) the level of compliance relative to the B.E.S.T Environmental Management Environmental Management System No. of Persons Receiving Training 1,979 persons on Environmentally-friendly Business Management Reporting Guidelines through the process outlined below. Monetary Value of Cost Savings Achieved Review of the Company’s processes for identifying material issues and outcomes Acquiring Core Technologies KRW 103 billion Technology Management through On-site Technological Support Review of the Company’s stakeholder engagement processes Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Surveys 85 points Interviews with persons responsible for each performance dimension and the collection of performance data to determine the adequacy of the reported content Fostering Human Talent No. of Hours of Training per Executive/Employee 95 hours On-site review (Hyundai E&C's Head Office) to assess systems and processes in place for the collection and reporting of raw performance data (June 2016) Human Talent Management Safe Business Management Declining Trends in Industrial Accident Premiums Paid KRW 21.46 billion Review of underlying reference data on key economic, social, and environmental performance Compliance Sample testing of materiality issues to ascertain the completeness and accuracy of information contained in the Report Sustainability of Vendors Policies for Management of a Sustainable Vendor Network Win-win Management with Guidelines Review of the Report’s compliance against GRI/B.E.S.T reporting guidelines Social Contributions Scale of Overseas Social Contribution Activities KRW 700 million * Represents a partial sub-set of indicators most relevant to sustainability management Limitations The scope of this undertaking was limited to: [Level of B.E.S.T Guideline Application] Interviews with individuals responsible for different performance dimensions and the collection of performance data; review of the adequacy of the reported data In view of the coverage and reliability of the information provided, the Auditor finds the Report to qualify for a Level 4 Report (Levels 1 to 5) relative to the B.E.S.T Guidelines, which is On-site review of Hyundai E&C's Head Office indicative of a level of sustainability consistent with the anchoring phase. Assurance based on relevant data and information available for the relevant reporting period Review of the reliability of reported performance data This undertaking does not include data on green-house gas emissions, which is subject to a separate review. Recommendations The Auditor found the “2016 Sustainability Report by Hyundai E&C commendable in the following respects. The Report (1) represents the commitment of the Company to seek out new business opportunities linked with key mega trends affecting the E&C industry in a wish to respond pre-emptively to the UN SDG's; (2) sets out efforts by the Company to implement management policies and sustainability management initiatives Assurance Findings The Auditor does not find the Report to contain any material misstatements or bias. as prescribed in its system for execution of sustainability management as well as achieved outcomes (advancement of its crisis response and [Inclusivity] Does the Company have adequate stakeholder engagement strategy setting and related processes in place? management system, etc.); and (3) provides a full account of Company efforts to introduce new programs to better communicate and collaborate It is the Auditor's view that Hyundai E&C recognizes the importance of stakeholder participation in terms of its sustainability management, putting in place various processes for stakeholder engagement to better reflect relevant findings in its business management activities. Notably, the Company has defined its top six key stakeholder groups, which may with all internal stakeholders, etc. have a direct or indirect impact on Company operations, while running communication channels specific to different stakeholder groups to better collect stakeholder views. Based on these findings, the Company has been working to identify stakeholder-specific needs and issues requiring attention by the Company, to reflect into its sustainability management For future reports, the Auditor recommends considering the following. program and initiatives, all in line with the principle of inclusivity. Provide assessment and analysis of its business strategies as well as relevant social and economic values that can be generated across the value chain of the E&C industry; Continue to broaden the scope of stakeholder engagement and strengthen execution of responses to stakeholder expectations; and [Materiality] Does the Report contain information of the highest material importance to Hyundai E&C stakeholders across the economic, social, and environmental Strengthen reporting on the rate of progress achieved against stated objectives while providing time-series analysis of execution (performance) outcomes for better comparability dimensions? purposes. It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude issues of key importance to the sustainability management activities of Hyundai E&C. The Company has established a process for identifying major issues impacting its sustainability management in accordance with the GRI G4 international sustainability reporting guidelines, while planning its Report Independence Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report and has no contents around material issues of the key-most concern. The Auditor noted efforts by the Company to better satisfy stakeholders' right to be informed, by presenting a balanced account not only of the core-most issues but also other main as well as general report items, in line with materiality principles. commercial affiliation with Hyundai E&C that might compromise our independence. Qualifications of Commissioned by Hyundai E&C as the Auditor for this assurance undertaking, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) was established the Auditor in 1993 and has since developed into a specialized institution with broad expertise in the areas of business ethics, CSR, and sustainability management since 2002. * AA1000AS is a sustainability assurance standard developed by the UK-based Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability (AccountAbility) in November 1999 to assure organization-wide sustainability performance and accountability by improving the quality of accounting, auditing and reporting practices in the social and business ethics domain. The revised 2008 version has been in effect since 2010. ** The GRI G4 Guideline was established by the GRI, convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and UNEP in 1997. After the first universal GRI sustainability reporting guidelines for multinationals was released in 2000, the latest G4 version was introduced in May 2013, with enhancements in supply chain, governance, ethics & integrity, anti-corruption, GHG emissions & energy disclosures. 16 JUN, 2016 *** The B.E.S.T Guideline was jointly developed by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Energy (MOCIE), the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) in 2006 as a Chairman Lee Yoon-Cheol sustainability reporting and assurance guideline, and provides for five levels of reporting rigor (Level 1 5). The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies 74. 75. GRI G4 Index GRI G4 No. Indicators Page BEST 2.0 Remark GRI G4 No. Indicators Page BEST 2.0 Remark Governance A. P rocesses for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. General Standard Disclosures Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. G4-44 B. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to 26 GR5 Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 2-3 A_1 governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Analysis 04-2 Provides a description of Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2-3,30-31 A_2 A. The highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-45 B. W hether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management 26 GR8 Organizational G4-3 Report the name of the organization 4 A_3 of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Profile G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 4-5 A_4 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes G4-46 for economic, environmental and social topics 27 GR8 G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters 4-5 A_7 The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 26 GR8 G4-6 4-5 A_7 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that G4-48 all material Aspects are covered 27 G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 26 A_8 G4-8 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 4-5 A_9 G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 27 GR12 G4-9 Scale of the organization 4-5,22,52 A_10 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to G4-50 address and resolve them 56 G4-10 Total workforce 52 EM1 G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 27 GR7 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 57 EM12 Report the process for determining remuneration Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 63 G4-52 whether they are independent of management Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization 26 GR7 G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain About This Report B_8 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and G4-53 proposals, if applicable 26 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 30-31 GR11 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the G4-15 List Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 28, 54 GR10 G4-54 median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country 77 4.38 times Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant G4-16 and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization 81 A_11 G4-55 77 operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Identified Material A. All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 4-5 A_5, A_6 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 28 EM26 B. Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report Aspects and Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, Boundaries G4-18 A. The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. 20-21 G4-57 such as helplines or advice lines 29 B. How the organization has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 21 G4-58 29 such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary within the organization 20 B_1, B_2 Specific Standard Disclosures G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 20 B_1, B_2 Report why the Aspect is material G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements About This Report DMA G4-DMA Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts 20-21,37 DMA G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 37 B_5 Report the evaluation of the management approach Stakeholder G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 19 C_1 Economic Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 19 C_1 Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 19,22 EC1 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 19-20 C_2 Performance EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 37 EC2 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and G4-27 concerns, including through its reporting 19-21 C_3 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 56 EC3 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period such as fiscal or calendar year for information provided About This Report B_3 EC4 Financial assistance received from government EC5 Not applicable G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 76 JUL 2015 Market Presence EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation EM4 G4-30 Reporting cycle such as annual, biennial About This Report B_6 EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation EC4 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Cover B_9 G4-32 GRI Index (‘In accordance’ option, GRI Content index, and the external assurance report) 76-79 B_10 Indirect Economic EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 42-45 EC6 Impacts A. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 19 EC7 B. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 74-75 B_7 C. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. Procurement D. Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 60-62 Practices Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 27 GR1 Environmental Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental G4-35 18,27 and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 39 EV10 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, G4-36 and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body 26-27 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 38 EV11 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, Energy EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 38 EV7 G4-37 environmental and social topics If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body 26-27 GR12 EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 38 G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees 26-27 GR2, GR3 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer EN5 Energy intensity 38 G4-39 (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) 26 GR1 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 38,40 EV5 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, G4-40 and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members 26-27 GR4 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 40 G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 26-27 GR13 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 39 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, G4-42 value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts 26-27 GR6 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 38-39 G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics 27 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 39 76. 77. GRI G4 Index GRI G4 No. Indicators Page BEST 2.0 Remark GRI G4 No. Indicators Page BEST 2.0 Remark Biodiversity EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 43 EV22 Human Rights EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Biodiversity 43 EV22, EV26 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or Investment HR1 54 PN2 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 43 EV6, EV27 that underwent human rights screening EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk 43 EV28 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, HR2 including the percentage of employees trained 54 EM30 Emissions EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope1) 38 EV12 Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 54 EM7 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope2) 38 EV12 Freedom of EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope3) 38 EV13 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, Association and HR4 and measures taken to support these rights 28-29,60-63 EM8 EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 38 Collective Bargaining EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 38 EV4 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition Child Labor HR5 54 EM9 of child labor EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) EV14 Not applicable EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions EV15 Not applicable Forced of Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination HR6 of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 54 EM10 Compulsory Labor Effluents and Waste EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 39 EV17 Security Practices HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations EM31 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 39 EV16 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills EV21 Not applicable Indigenous Rights HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken 29 CO2 EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous EV29 Not applicable Assessment HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 63 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges EN26 42-43 EV19 Supplier Human HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 63 PN3 of water and runoff Rights Assessment HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 63 PN4 Products and EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 38-43 EV23, EV25 Services EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 39 EV24 Human Rights Grievance HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 53 Compliance EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 43 EV31 Mechanisms Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, Transport EN30 and transporting members of the workforce 42 EV30 Society Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 44-47 Local Communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 64-67 CO1, CO2 Supplier EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 63 PN3 Anti-corruption SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 42-43,64-65 Environmental SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 30 CO5 Assessment EN33 significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 63 PN4 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 28-29 CO5 Environmental SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 29 CO5 Grievance EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Not applicable Mechanisms Public Policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary CO7 Not applicable Social Anti-competitive SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 29 CS3 Behavior Labor Practices and Decent Work Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 69 CO9 Employment LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 52 EM5 Supplier Assessment SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 63 PN3 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation 53,56 EM20 for Impacts on Society SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 63 PN4 LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 56 Labor/Management Grievance LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 57 EM13 Relations Mechanisms SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help, monitor, and for Impacts on Occupational Health LA5 59 EM14 advise on occupational health and safety programs Society and Safety LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 59 EM19 Product Responsibility LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 58-59 Customer Health and PR1 Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 38-40 CS4 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 59 EM15, EM17 Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and PR2 CS11 Not applicable Training and LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category 59 EM27 services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Education LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 54-55 EM28 Product and Service Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of PR3 significant products and services subject to such information requirements 48-49 CS5 LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 55 EM29 Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, PR4 by type of outcomes CS13 Not applicable LA12 and other indicators of diversity 53 EM2 Equal Opportunity PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 49 CS6, CS9 Equal remuneration LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation 53 EM3 Marketing PR6 Sale of banned or disputes products CS10 Not applicable for women and men Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, Supplier Assessment LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria 63 PN3 PR7 promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes CS14 Not applicable for Labor Practices LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 63 PN4 Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data CS10, CS15 Not applicable Labor Practices Compliance Grievance LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms PN5 Not applicable PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services CS12 Not applicable Mechanisms 78. 79. Sustainable Value Creation Major Awards and Accolades Memberships Industry Leader of DJSI* In the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), the most authoritative sustainability index in the world, Hyundai E&C was honored to 2016 Major Awards Memberships Award Description Host / Provider Korean Society of Civil Engineers Korean Institute of BIM for Three Consecutive be selected as the Industry Leader of the Construction & Engineering Industry in 2015, following 2014 and 2013. It is the first in the Years global construction industry for a company to become the Industry Leader for three consecutive years. This meaningful achievement 2016 Money Today Korea Residential Service Awards Grand Prize (MLTM Minister’s Prize) Money Today The Korea Railway Association Construction Association of Korea *DJSI: is proving that the corporate value of Hyundai E&C as the global No. 1 construction company has been highly recognized. The DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index Architectural Institute of Korea International Contractors Association of Korea is the investment index developed by S&P Dow Jones Indices, the largest financial information company, and RobecoSAM, a Swiss 2016 Money Today Overseas Construction Awards Grand Prize (MLTM Minister’s Prize) Money Today assessment company. It annually evaluates the economic, environmental, and social sustainability of top 2,500 companies in market The Society of Air-conditioning and Refrigerating Korea Plant Industries Association Engineers of Korea capitalization by industries and announces the evaluation result. Korea Institute of Architectural Sustainable Fair Competition Federation Environment and Building System buildingSMART Korea 2015 Major Awards Award Description Host / Provider 2009 2010 2011 2015 * Partial list: 115 business/academic memberships in total Carbon Management Honors Club, 2015 CDP Korea CDP Korea Sector Winners DJSI KOREA DJSI WORLD DJSI INDUSTRY LEADER DJSI INDUSTRY LEADER First Inclusion to the Index First Selection as the Industry Selected as the Industry Leader 6th Korea Green Construction Awards Grand Prize (Housing category) The Seoul Shinmun Leader for 3 Consecutive Years (2013, 2014, 2015) 15th Herald Economy Green Residence Awards Grand Prize Herald Economy 2015 Second-half HanKyung Residential Culture Grand Prize (Brand category) HanKyung Awards * CDP Carbon In November 2015, Hyundai E&C was selected as a member of 'Carbon Management Honors Club' for two consecutive years, which 2015 Green Housing Awards Grand Prize (Green Design category) Hankook Daily Management Honors Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the most authoritative environmental index of the world, awards to excellent companies; the CDP Club for Two index is one of the most reliable sustainability management index in the world with Dow Jones Sustainability Index and Bloomberg 11th Korea Civil Engineering & Construction MaeKyung, MBN, Architectural Institute of Korea, Acknowledgement Grand Prize (Construction category) Technology Awards Korean Society of Civil Engineers Consecutive Years Indexes. It annually evaluates, analyzes, and reports activities of key listed companies’ activities to respond to the climate change. Awards for the Promotion of the Construction Industry’s For the evaluation of 2015, Hyundai E&C accomplished the perfect score (100 points) for Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) Grand Prize/MLTM Minister’s Prize CNEWS Sustainability Management Steering Group *CDP: Cooperation 2015 Carbon Disclosure Project and ‘Band A‚’ the highest level of the evaluation result in the climate action sector. As a result, we were included in not only 'Carbon Lim Kook-Il Management Honors Club' for the second time in 2015 but also 'Carbon Management Sector Winners' in the industrial material sector 4th eDaily Construction Industry Awards Overall Grand Prize (Overseas Construction category) eDaily Comprehensive Business Innovation Team Jeong Da-Young for 4 consecutive years. 2015 Asia Today Green Construction Awards Grand Prize (Housing Business category) Asia Today Kang Myung-Joon Procurement Planning Team Economic Park Jong-Hyun Business Policy Team 2015 Aju Economy Construction Awards Grand Prize (Officetel category) Aju Economy Kang Young-Min Green Environment Team 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Environmental 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Index Industry Leader, Construction & Engineering Industry Dow Jones Indices, RobecoSAM Kim Hyung-Tae R&D Planning Team Kim Hyo-Jung Human Resources Planning Team Special Award Carbon Disclosure Sector Carbon Disclosure Sector CDP Carbon Management CDP Carbon Management 2015 Money Today Korea Luxury Housing Awards Best of the Best Money Today of Carbon (Industrial material), (Industrial material), Honors Club (1st place), Honors Club (1st place), Societal Kim Se-Won Welfare Management Team Management for Leaders Leaders Sector Winners Sector Winners Hong Se-Hwa HSE Planning Team New Participation (No. 1 in the industry) (No. 1 in the industry) (No. 1 in the industry) 10th Asia Construction Awards Overall Grand Prize (Social Contribution category) Asia Economy (No. 1 in the industry) 2015 Korea Jungang Daily Joins Land Eco-friendly Grand Prize (Housing category) Joongang Daily Relevant Teams Construction Industry Awards 19th Energy Winner Awards Award for CO2 Reductions Consumers Korea Kang Sung-Soo CS Center No Tae-Sun Auditing Team 1 5 Awards at 2015 Hyundai E&C strengthened its foothold as the global environment-friendly construction company by winning total 5 awards in 3 sectors Building Works Design Kang Young-Kyung Brand Marketing Team Shim Jae-You Singapore BCA* Awards at 2015 Singapore BCA Awards held by the Singaporean government; Singapore BCA Awards is the most authoritative construction2015 Korea’s Representative Apartment Awards Grand Prize (Environment-friendliness category) Hankook Economy TV Planning Team related award that evaluates projects completed or being executed in the country in various areas such as construction, environmentKwon Sung-Jun Welfare Management Team Lee Kyung-Ho Building Works Mechanical Team *BCA: Building and Construction Authority friendliness, engineering, safety, and quality. Awards are given to clients, developers, and constructers. Since 1997, Hyundai E&C has 2015 First-half HanKyung Residential Culture Awards Grand Prize (Apartment category) HanKyung Kwon Young-Pil RM Planning Team Lee Yo-Soo Business Strategy Team won total 18 awards with its outstanding construction capability for diverse projects including Asia Square Tower 2, NV Residences, and Kwon Eun-hwa R&D Planning Team Human Resources Best of the Best (Quality Excellence Award category) Lee Ji-Yoon Specialist Shopping Center. BCA Awards 2015 BCA Operation Team and 4 others Kim Sae-Jin Customer Center Human Resources Development Jang Dae-Gyu 2015 Money Today Korea Residential Service Awards Best of the Best (Engineering & Design category) Money Today Kim Su-Jung Corporate Brand PR Team & Recruitment Team Jang Eun-Jong Investor Relations Team Kim Yoon Corporate Culture PR Team 2015 Money Today Overseas Construction Awards Grand Prize Money Today Cho Joon-Nae Procurement Planning Team Grand Prize & Best of the Best Best of the Best Kim Ji-Won Global Marketing Planning Team Prize of Excellence Choi Min-Ji R&D Planning Team Kim Hyung-Chul Welfare Management Team Chu Jin-Woo Win-Win Cooperation Team QEA Sector CEA Sector CPA Sector (For 2 Sites) Quality Management Roh Bong-Kyun Planning Team Han Myung-Seok R&D Planning Team (Quality Excellence Award) (Construction Excellence Award) (Construction Productivity Award) 80. Sustainable Value Creation Major Awards and Accolades Integrated Reporting Industry Leader of DJSI* In the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), the most authoritative sustainability index in the world, Hyundai E&C was honored to 2016 Major Awards Integrated Reporting Award Description Host / Provider for Three Consecutive be selected as the Industry Leader of the Construction & Engineering Industry in 2015, following 2014 and 2013. It is the first in the Hyundai E&C has been publishing its annual sustainability report in an integrated format since Years global construction industry for a company to become the Industry Leader for three consecutive years. This meaningful achievement 2011 2016 Money Today Korea Residential toAwards Service economic, the Prize discloseGrand environmental, (MLTM Minister’s Prize) Today to the stakeholders in a Moneyvalues and social *DJSI: is proving that the corporate value of Hyundai E&C as the global No. 1 construction company has been highly recognized. The DJSI faithful and balanced way; the integrated reporting refers to a method of sustainability reporting Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2016 Money Today Overseas Construction Awards Grand Prize (MLTM Minister’s Prize) Money Today is the investment index developed by S&P Dow Jones Indices, the largest financial information company, and RobecoSAM, a Swiss that covers both financial and non-financial performances. Hyundai E&C also participated in assessment company. It annually evaluates the economic, environmental, and social sustainability of top 2,500 companies in market the Integrated Reporting Pilot Program of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). capitalization by industries and announces the evaluation result. We will continue to lead the global sustainability management. 2015 Major Awards Award Description Host / Provider 2009 2010 2011 2015 Strategy Carbon Management Honors Club, 2015 CDP Korea CDP Korea Sector Winners DJSI KOREA DJSI WORLD DJSI INDUSTRY LEADER DJSI INDUSTRY LEADER First Inclusion to the Index First Selection as the Industry Selected as the Industry Leader Integrated 6th Korea Green Construction Awards Reporting Grand Prize (Housing category) The Seoul Shinmun Leader for 3 Consecutive Years Framework h wt (2013, 2014, 2015) Va lue 01. . 15th Herald Economy Green Residence Awards Grand Prize Herald Economy Risks/ 02 Gro Cre Opportunities ble ina 2015 Second-half HanKyung Residential Culture Grand Prize (Brand category) ati HanKyung on sta Awards Su INTEGRATED CDP* Carbon In November 2015, Hyundai E&C was selected as a member of 'Carbon Management Honors Club' for two consecutive years, which 2015 Green Housing Awards Grand Prize (Green Design category) REPORTING Future Hankook Daily Resource Management Honors Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the most authoritative environmental index of the world, awards to excellent companies; the CDP Outlook Distribution Performance Club for Two index is one of the most reliable sustainability management index in the world with Dow Jones Sustainability Index and Bloomberg 11th Korea Civil Engineering & Construction MaeKyung, MBN, Architectural Institute of Korea, Management 01. Grand Prize (Construction category) Technology Awards Korean Society of Civil Engineers Consecutive Years Indexes. It annually evaluates, analyzes, and reports activities of key listed companies’ activities to respond to the climate change. Financials Value Creation Awards for the Promotion of the Construction Industry’s For the evaluation of 2015, Hyundai E&C accomplished the perfect score (100 points) for Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) Grand Prize/MLTM Minister’s Prize CNEWS *CDP: Cooperation 2015 • Hyundai E&C’s value creation process 03. Carbon Disclosure Project and ‘Band A‚’ the highest level of the evaluation result in the climate action sector. As a result, we were included in not only 'Carbon • Future outlook based on the analysis of Integrated Value Non-financials megatrends 4th eDaily Construction Industry Awards Overall Grand Prize (Overseas Construction category) eDaily Management Honors Club' for the second time in 2015 but also 'Carbon Management Sector Winners' in the industrial material sector • Strategies on a new growth business and for 4 consecutive years. new market entrance 2015 Asia Today Green Construction Awards Grand Prize (Housing Business category) Asia Today 02. 03. 2015 Aju Economy Construction Awards Grand Prize (Officetel category) Sustainable Growth Integrated Aju Economy Value 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 • Establishment of midto long-term strategies • Connection between financial information and non2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Index on sustainability management Industry Leader, Construction & Engineering Industry financial Dow Jones Indices, RobecoSAM information • Activities and accomplishments in economic, • Analysis on the efficiency of sustainability Special Award Carbon Disclosure Sector Carbon Disclosure Sector CDP Carbon Management CDP Carbon Management environmental, and social sectors management activities 2015 Money Today Korea Luxury Housing Awards Best of the Best Money Today of Carbon (Industrial material), (Industrial material), Honors Club (1st place), Honors Club (1st place), • Catalogue of sustainability management • Report of the sales increase and cost reduction Management for Leaders Leaders Sector Winners targets of five areas and KPIs cases due to sustainability management Sector Winners New Participation (No. 1 in the industry) (No. 1 in the industry) (No. 1 in the industry) 10th Asia Construction Awards Overall Grand Prize (Social Contribution category) Asia Economy (No. 1 in the industry) 2015 Korea Jungang Daily Joins Land Eco-friendly Grand Prize (Housing category) Joongang Daily Construction Industry Awards 19th Energy Winner Awards Award for CO2 Reduction Consumers Korea 5 Awards at 2015 Hyundai E&C strengthened its foothold as the global environment-friendly construction company by winning total 5 awards in 3 sectors Singapore BCA* Awards at 2015 Singapore BCA Awards held by the Singaporean government; Singapore BCA Awards is the most authoritative construction2015 Korea’s Representative Apartment Awards Grand Prize (Environment-friendliness category) Hankook Economy TV related award that evaluates projects completed or being executed in the country in various areas such as construction, environment*BCA: Building and Construction Authority friendliness, engineering, safety, and quality. Awards are given to clients, developers, and constructers. Since 1997, Hyundai E&C has Contact 2015 First-half HanKyung Residential Culture AwardsUs Grand Prize (Apartment category) HanKyung won total 18 awards with its outstanding construction capability for diverse projects including Asia Square Tower 2, NV Residences, and Best of Best (Quality Excellence Award category) Specialist Shopping Center. BCA Awards 2015 BCA The Hyundai Engineering & Construction Sustainability Report is also available on our website (http://en.hdec.kr). and 4 others Should you want more information or have any enquiries, please do not hesitate to contact us via the contact 2015 Money Today Korea Residentialinformation below. Best Service Awards We appreciate your feedback. of Best (Engineering & Design category) Money Today Business 2015 Money Today Overseas Construction InnovationGrand Team, Awards Prize Hyundai Business Planning Group, Planning Division, Money E&C Bldg., Today Grand Prize & Best of the Best Best of the Best 75 Yulgok-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea, 03058 Prize of Excellence Tel/ 82-2-746-3827 Fax/ 82-2-746-4856 QEA Sector CEA Sector CPA Sector (For 2 Sites) Published: JUL 2016 Publishing Entity: Business Innovation Team, Business Planning Group, (Quality Excellence Award) (Construction Excellence Award) (Construction Productivity Award) Planning Division, Hyundai E&C Publisher: Jung Soo-Hyun Planning & Design: Nstein Co., Ltd. 82-2-336-7865 80.
