UN Global Compact Communication on Progress “In this, our second Communication on Progress, I am pleased to reiterate the commitment of Linklaters LLP to the ten principles of the Global Compact. We remain committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our firm, and I am pleased to commit anew to collaborating with others to address the Sustainable Development Goals that complement so closely the principles outlined below.” Robert Elliott, Senior Partner and Chairman In the 12 months since we submitted our first Communication on A second significant development has been the firm’s formal Progress (COP), we have considered how we can use the Compact adoption of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as as a means by which we progress the issues contained therein. the framework that will inform how we present our responsible We began this process in the spring of 2015 by commissioning business activity. Analysing the SDGs, we quickly identified a comprehensive, independent review of our first submission, that a majority are addressed through the advice we provide to wanting to understand our relative strengths and weaknesses clients, both fee-paying and pro bono. The direct running of our and to provide a focus for our activities for the next 18 to 24 business and our community investment activities provide further months. From the resulting list of recommendations, we are relevance. As such, it is natural for us to align our work as a firm now progressing a number of workstreams that will drive our with a framework which will inspire us all over the coming 15 performance. The review highlighted our leadership in matters years. We realise that this will bring a new level of transparency relating to the environment, governance and diversity and to our performance, and will bring much more of our business inclusion. It also identified a lack of targets and the non-disclosure into the reporting sphere. However, we believe that to be a truly of a number of policies and procedures that we should consider responsible organisation, we must challenge our entire business. making public. We are reflecting on how best to address these We believe that the SDGs present a timely and recognisable way observations and also how best to respond to the many modest in which to capture that ambition. We look forward to reporting recommendations proposed in the report. good progress in our next COP and are pleased to share our progress to date in the following pages.‎ Key contacts:  Kathryn Ludlow Partner, Chair of Corporate Responsibility Committee kathryn.ludlow@linklaters.com Matt Sparkes Global Head of Corporate Responsibility matthew.sparkes@linklaters.com 1. L  inklaters supports and respects the protection of health and safety, labour, anti-bribery and corruption and IT internationally proclaimed human rights. security.‎ This year our procurement team has been reviewing Our statement of intent on human rights makes explicit the breadth and depth of those requests, not least in relation our commitment and clarifies our ambition. The statement to modern slavery. In the UK, we are now employing a more endorses the United Nations Guiding Principles on rigorous set of questions and applying these to existing suppliers Business and Human Rights and supports the principles as well as through the tender process. We will maintain contained within the International Bill of Human Rights momentum in this over the coming year, where appropriate, and the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on looking to expand our monitoring and create a sense of shared Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The statement learning amongst our supplier community. is approved at the highest level, is publicly available and is Commitment: Learning from our work with clients, we will communicated internally and externally. It remains under continue to strengthen our monitoring of human rights within regular review, as does the extensive supporting material our own supply chain, raising awareness of this work across provided for additional internal guidance. all buyers internally and amongst larger existing providers. Our cross-practice Operational Intelligence Group continues 3. L  inklaters upholds the freedom of association and the to advise clients on developing human rights policies, effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. due diligence, impact assessments and supply chain risk management. In particular, we advise many large multi-national We have a firm-wide policy in place that we maintain corporations on the implementation of the Guiding Principles employment arrangements and agreements that do not prohibit and on the non-financial disclosure requirements around or discourage freedom of association or collective bargaining. human rights policies and considerations. We have provided Commitment: We will continue to implement this policy across legal training seminars to our lawyers in London and, with the all of our operations. expertise of the Bingham Centre for the Rule of Law, have developed and run a further series of seminars on international 4. Linklaters  upholds the elimination of all forms of compulsory human rights law for clients and community partners. or forced labour. We provide pro bono advice on dozens of matters related to 5. Linklaters  upholds the effective abolition of child labour. human rights every year. These include: We have a firm-wide policy in place that we will not use, be >> assisting the Office of the United Nations High complicit in, or knowingly benefit from forced, compulsory Commissioner of Human Rights by providing pro bono or child labour. We will engage our people on the basis of advice to its “Business and Human Rights: Enhancing recognised partnership, employment, collaboration and Accountability and Access to Remedy” initiative. We are consultancy arrangements established through national law providing cross-jurisdictional legal research in relation to the and practice. test for corporate liability, victims’ potential costs of litigation, In 2015, we have been advising clients on the implications of sanctions and remedies available to victims of gross human the UK Modern Slavery Act which will be coming into force in rights abuses by corporates 2016. As well as client advice, we have also been reviewing >> working with Penal Reform International to assist them our own operations to ensure that we are already complying in ensuring international adoption of the Bangkok Rules with the new legislation, not only in setting out a policy, adopted by the UN in 2010. In particular, we provided but also in monitoring our suppliers and by being prepared a comparative report analysing legal approaches in 10 to take action where we have concerns. We endeavour to jurisdictions in relation to Rule 57, which requires that ensure that we work solely with suppliers who have due sentencing alternatives be developed for women which take regard for social issues such as employment conditions and account of any history of victimisation or abuse of offenders welfare, and who adopt practices that are consistent with our >> research for India-based NGO, Vidya Sagar, reviewing own approach to operations, people and supply chain. Our legislation implementing the UN Convention on the Sustainable Procurement Policy is currently under review to Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which requires equal ensure it remains a robust and rigorous check on our suppliers recognition before the law and legal capacity for persons and that it also encourages dialogue in addressing issues with disabilities. This research will help them to lobby for of shared concern. In London, for example, we have hosted better rights and protection for their clients supplier roundtables looking at a range of responsibility issues Commitment: We will review our internal guidance to ensure including modern slavery and social mobility. We see these as it remains relevant and, in particular, the processes we have in a successful way to agree common understanding and share place to monitor‎ the firm’s performance in addressing human best practice. rights risks. Again, pro bono activities support this principle and include, in 2015, a report on modern slavery in the Philippines’ fishing 2. Linklaters makes sure that it is not complicit in human industry. Looking at how fishing industry legislation, guidelines rights abuses. and practice can be brought into line with international legal In line with the UN Guiding Principles, we strive to avoid causing and best practice frameworks, the report’s recommendations or contributing to adverse human rights impacts on our people will be used by human rights organisation Visayan Forum and, through the running of our offices, those who work for us Foundation to advocate for change to domestic law and policy. through our supply chain. We also commit to addressing such Commitment: We will continue to implement this policy across impacts immediately should they occur. all of our operations. We will include stronger and clearer We encourage our people to consider potential or actual adverse responsible purchasing principles in the firm’s Global Sourcing human rights impacts in their work. Our internal guidance on Policy. We will continue to explore ways by which we can human rights at the firm provides for a proportionate discussion effectively monitor suppliers’ performance and will work with of actual and potential human rights impacts as part of existing them in reinforcing good practice. consideration of wider business risk and reputational issues, particularly for higher risk areas. Our Operational Intelligence 6. Linklaters  upholds the elimination of discrimination in Group has developed extensive expertise in articulating how respect of employment and occupation. multi-national corporations should address human rights in Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) is an ongoing strategic priority for their operations, and we are asked increasingly to share this the firm. Linklaters opposes all forms of unlawful discrimination. knowledge more widely through participation at conferences We are committed to providing equal opportunity to everyone and through dedicated seminars. in all aspects of work including: recruitment, selection, training, For several years, we have asked potential suppliers to provide promotion, redeployment, performance improvement measures, information and assurance across the topics of environment, disciplinary and grievance procedures, redundancy situations and terms and conditions of employment. We believe that individuals the rush for resources and renewable energy. The impacts of should be treated on their merits and that employment-related version three of the Equator Principles (“EP3”) were reviewed, decisions should be based on objective job-related criteria such looking at the key changes which have been brought about by as aptitude and skills. Additionally, Linklaters is committed to them and how they are being applied in practice. ensuring that all professional dealings with third parties will be Our firm-wide Global Environmental Policy commits us to free from any discriminatory behaviours. minimising the potentially harmful effects our operations have Our Global Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and Action Plan help on the environment and ensures we focus on a programme us to give people an enhanced understanding of D&I through of continual improvement in our environmental performance. training and communications. Our strategy is developed by our Our certified and globally implemented Environmental Global Diversity Manager and Global Diversity Partners. It is Management System provides us with the framework to assess designed to allow for greater visibility of local initiatives and, in our environmental risk and manage those aspects which so doing, encourages and supports offices in developing their are of greatest significance. Within this system, we identify own locally-appropriate responses. those legislative requirements (e.g. energy audits) which are applicable to our operations. By using the skill and expertise We are committed to championing diversity. In 2015, we joined of our in-house environment and energy team, these issues “Open For Business”, a newly-formed coalition of nearly 20 are then addressed by setting objectives and targets against international businesses partnering together to address the our most significant environmental impacts: climate change workplace discrimination experienced by people in the LGB&T through energy use and business travel, our use of resources, community. We are proud to be one of the founding members specifically paper and water, and our generation and disposal of this new initiative. of waste. By measuring and monitoring these impacts, we are Within the firm, the “Women’s Leadership Programme” Leading able to report our progress publicly into the Carbon Disclosure Lights has been developed in conjunction with Cranfield School Project (CDP), and our greenhouse gas emissions are externally of Management for our leading female senior lawyers (managing assured against the CDP-recognised VeriSustain method. associates). The programme aims to increase the proportion of Commitment: We will undergo recertification of our Global female partners who can act as role models in the firm. We are Environmental Management System and continue our also pleased that unconscious bias training is now available to programme of transition to meet the requirements of the all of our people, with bespoke sessions developed for specific revised ISO14001:2015 standard. jurisdictions and specific recruitment groups such as our 8. Linklaters  undertakes initiatives to promote greater Graduate Recruitment Panel and Partner Election Committee. environmental responsibility. Naturally, the firm has an internal global whistle-blowing policy We are one of only two global law firms to have achieved which is regularly reviewed to ensure that it provides the most ISO14001 certification of our Environment Management effective means for employees to raise concerns in the public System (EMS) comprehensively across our global operations. interest, while protecting them against suffering any detriment We aim to be early adopters and have pushed ahead with a as a result of making a relevant disclosure. number of energy efficiency initiatives (e.g. energy focussed In articulating our employee proposition, “Our Deal” highlights maintenance rather than planned preventative maintenance) how individuals in the firm can give mutual support to one and implemented re-use programmes. We work with our another and we provide a number of tangible ways of getting people and our suppliers to ensure the evolving green and involved. In London, a range of groups foster an inclusive circular economies prosper. Every year, we raise awareness culture: the Allies Network, Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic by celebrating the UN Environment Programme, World (BAME) Network, Women@Linklaters, LGB&T Network, Environment Day (WED), with the support of our global network of over 125 environmental champions. In 2015, we recognised Christian Fellowship, Hindu Forum, Islamic Society, Jewish the 800th anniversary of the granting of the Magna Carta by Forum and Family and Carers Network. We want to grow such holding a “Magna Carta for the Earth” campaign, whereby we networks elsewhere. asked our people to devise an environmental protection clause Raising awareness on the subject of disability and the workplace which would support positive change. Entries arrived from 15 is important to us. In London, we are founding members of the of our Linklaters locations around the world and were shared Interlaw Forum on Disabilities, a group of law firms across the throughout the firm to challenge and inspire. city working together to break down the stigma of disability. We share best practice, learn and exchange knowledge in We also are founding members of the City Mental Health being members of a number of industry groups. As executive Alliance working with mental health NGOs MIND and SCOPE to members of the Legal Sustainability Alliance, we collaborate bring visibility to this often invisible strand of diversity. within the legal sector to reduce environmental impacts and External benchmarking is a good indicator of progress, promote a sustainable future. particularly in our larger offices. We were the first organisation Responding to our clients is critical to us and, through these to achieve the UK National Equality Standard and in the UK relationships, we report both our environmental management have also been recognised by the Times and Opportunity and greenhouse gas performance. We achieved a 99B in Now as one of the Top 50 Places for Women to Work. the CDP supply chain module in 2015, are silver rated in the We want to retain such leadership and will use it to inspire Ecovadis sustainability benchmarking platform (within the top similar success elsewhere. 30% of 21,000 suppliers in 101 countries) and scored 100% Commitment: We want to reflect our recent D&I success for Environment within the CIPS Sustainability Index. in London with similar progress and recognition across our We share this progress with our clients and use it to drive forward environmental responsibility within our own supply chain. office network. Commitment: We will continue to use World Environment 7. Linklaters supports a precautionary approach to Day to engage with our staff on environmental issues and environmental challenges. promote local action. We will engage with our suppliers on the Our practice areas specialising in sustainable finance, climate circular economy and be responsive to our clients’ environmentchange, product stewardship and environmental regulation related requests. and sustainable real estate support companies as they seek ever more innovative and practical advice from their lawyers. Our lawyers have acted on many of the world’s most complex, multi-jurisdictional and cutting edge transactions, addressing concerns related to security of energy supply, carbon reduction, 9. Linklaters encourages the development and diffusion of Our pro bono work has included leading a global initiative with environmentally friendly technologies. the UN to create a Guide for General Counsel on Corporate Our thought leadership report, “Renewable Energy in Africa”, Sustainability. This provides practical advice to in-house presents analysis which shows that economic development counsel on how to advance corporate sustainability issues and the deployment of renewable energy technology are within their organisations, while also reinforcing each of the becoming increasingly synergistic, driven by the falling costs UN Global Compact’s ten Principles. Published in 2015, we of renewable energy. The report also discusses de-risking are continuing to champion the Guide to support lawyers policies that might be employed in African markets worldwide effect sustainable change from within. to encourage investment in this space, and provides case Linklaters is a particular leader in governance and its studies of the experience of Morocco and South Africa. challenges in emerging markets, having unique experience in Linklaters’ expertise in energy covers the full spectrum of navigating the relationships between public and private actors, renewables projects, including onshore and offshore wind, and serving as fluent interpreters in complex environments. solar, biomass, biofuels, wave/tidal, geothermal, hydropower, In addition to its extensive fee-earning work, which includes waste and waste to energy. We support clients to achieve clients in the multi-national corporate and financial sectors, increasingly ambitious projects in the renewable energy the United Nations, multilateral financial institutions, sector, advising on the project financing of three biomass INGOs, and government agencies, our Risk, Regulation developments in the UK and on another seven biomass and Governance team has developed additional experience mandates in Europe. We also produced a guide to support through work undertaken pro bono. A significant aspect of this our clients navigate the cross-border demands of the EU is our annual “Advancing Good Governance in International Energy Efficiency Directive 2012 energy audit requirements, Development” seminar, which brings together senior where potential sanctions for non-compliance differ government officials, members of the not-for-profit community, significantly across the EU Member States. academics, foundations, social entrepreneurs and the private sector to discuss, and take steps toward solving, some of the We are committed to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions most entrenched challenges facing international development. through improvements in the energy efficiency of our In 2015, Linklaters, in collaboration with its seminar partners premises, including incorporating low carbon technologies. and delegates, worked to support – and strongly urged that One Silk Street, in the City of London, has undergone a the international community include – governance and the number of retrofits over the years. Since 2005, the firm rule of law in the post-2015 sustainable development agenda. has invested almost £3.5m in a variety of energy efficiency Given the prominence of those themes in the “Agenda upgrades, including: five new chillers; works to the boilers; 2030 – Sustainable Development Goals” that were ultimately new lighting and the associated controls; new air handling agreed by UN Member States, the 2016 seminar, the theme units; linking the building management system to both the for which is “Peace, Security and Governance in Goal 16: lighting and comfort cooling systems (IQ controllers); and IT How Do We Tackle This?”, will seek to unpack the challenges, upgrades. These improvements have been recognised, and complexities, sensitivities and ambiguities contained in this shared, in a case study for the Mayor of London’s Business highly ambitious goal. Energy Challenge. In providing advice to clients on these themes, we must, of In our efforts to reduce business travel, we have course, take steps to encourage our people to show leadership implemented telepresence facilities in our Frankfurt, in every jurisdiction in which we operate. ‎We have robust London, Hong Kong and New York offices, and are currently policies and procedures on anti-bribery and corruption and undergoing an upgrade to enhance our global videothese are under regular review. Our people are encouraged conferencing facilities. to raise concerns quickly and confidentially, and our Risk Commitment: We will implement environmentally efficient function provides 24/7 support to our lawyers wherever they technologies in our operations at every opportunity and may be. Suppliers’ contractual commitments prohibit corruption externally promote the efficiency benefits of such schemes. and, as part of our wider review of procurement, we are reflecting on the questions we ask on this theme and anticipate 10. L  inklaters works against corruption in all its forms, strengthening our approach further in coming months. including extortion and bribery. During the last 12 months, we have celebrated the 800th Linklaters’ work in risk, regulation and governance addresses anniversary of the Magna Carta. Linklaters was delighted many of the most critical challenges faced by our clients. to sponsor the British Library’s celebratory exhibition of this Our Operational Intelligence Group and our International original statement of rule of law. We were also privileged to Governance and Development Practices bring together a enable the once-in-a-lifetime reunification of the four surviving broad range of expertise, specialist knowledge and innovative originals. We believe that the rule of law is essential to human thinking to enable us to offer holistic advice to any given progress and, towards the end of 2015, we published a paper situation. Of particular note is the team’s work advising on reflecting a growing sense of its erosion in jurisdictions across the application of anti-bribery frameworks in emerging and the globe. We will continue to highlight where we feel the rule new markets. Recent matters have included designing a of law is being undermined. governance model and training regime for a multi-national extractive sector company and providing an integrated Commitment: We will continue to ensure that our advice regulatory assessment for a multi-national operating in to clients is reflected in our own response to bribery and transport infrastructure in respect of antitrust and bribery. corruption risk, and will continue to seek out ways to advance progress with SDG 16 through our business. linklaters.com/responsibility GC6145_F/01.16 Linklaters LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC326345. The term partner in relation to Linklaters LLP is used to refer to a member of the LLP or an employee or consultant of Linklaters LLP or any of its affiliated firms or entities with equivalent standing and qualifications. A list of the names of the members of Linklaters LLP and of the non-members who are designated as partners and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at its registered office, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, England or on www.linklaters.com and such persons are either solicitors, registered foreign lawyers or European lawyers.
