International SOS Communication on Progress September 2016 1 CONTENTS Introduction Statement from Co-Founders 1 About This Report 2 About International SOS 3 Human Rights Principles 4 Labour Principles 5 Environmental Principles 6 Anti-Corruption Principles 7 2 1 Statement of continued support from Our Co-Founders 3 Arnaud Vaissié, our Chairman and CEO signed the CEO statement of support for the UNGC’s Sustainable Development Goals. 4 About this Report 2 Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative to promote Our COP is shared with all our stakeholders by detailing our practical actions and outcomes within the area of corporate responsibility. Our COP will be sustainable development, with over 12,000 shared via our company website as well corporate participants and other as in our CSR report. stakeholders from over 145 countries. It is We are an improvement driven company, a strategic policy initiative for companies therefore, we welcome all feedback. to embrace ten universal principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption, by partnering with the United Nations. The Global Compact incorporates an accountability and transparency policy, which is known as the Communication on Progress (COP). This report is the International SOS Communication on Progress for the UNGC for 2016. It demonstrates our commitment to the UNGC and its principles. This is a public disclosure to our stakeholders on the progress made by our company as a result of the implementation of these principles 5 About International SOS International SOS is the world’s leading medical and travel security risk services company. We care for clients across the globe, from more than 1,000 locations in 90 countries. Our expertise is unique: More than 11,000 employees are led by 1,400 doctors and 200 security specialists. Teams work night and day to protect our members. We pioneer a range of preventive programmes strengthened by our incountry expertise. We deliver unrivalled emergency assistance during critical illness, accident or civil unrest. We are passionate about helping our clients put ‘Duty of Care’ into practice. With our expertise, care and global capability, multinational corporate clients, Governments and NGOs can mitigate risks for their people working remotely or overseas. 6 A quick overview Principle Highlights 1. Businesses should support and Key Human Rights are contained in the respect the protection of Declaration and are included in our Code of internationally proclaimed Human Conduct. We respect these principles and Rights; and enforce them in our workplace. We ensure that the protection of Human Rights is 2. Make sure that they are not carried throughout our company. Some complicit in Human Rights examples are: abuses.  The company’s Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy  The company’s Policy on Individual Rights  The company’s Occupational Health and Safety Policy  The annual submission to the Equal Human Rights Opportunities for Women in the Workplace Agency (EOWA)  Our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility via activities such as: o Kokoda Track Foundation o Nossal Scholarship o Yaws Study o Supporting a Child’s Dream o London Air Ambulance o Reducing Malaria o Fighting Ebola 7 Principle Highlights 3. Businesses should uphold the At International SOS, we do not use forced freedom of association and the or compulsory labour and under no effective recognition of the right to circumstances does the company approve collective bargaining the use of child labour. 4. the elimination of all forms of International SOS is committed to provide forced and compulsory labour; equal opportunities to all employees. We recruit based on merit and provide a work 5. the effective abolition of child environment free of discrimination and labour harassment where diversity is respected via a range of policies and practices including: 6. and the elimination of discrimination in respect of  The company’s Code of Conduct and employment and occupation Ethics Policy  The company’s Policy on Individual Rights  Our commitment and research into the company’s “Duty of Care” Labour  The company’s Cross Border Travel Policies  Discrimination, Harassment and Bullying Policy  E-learning modules  Working From Home Policy  Some recent examples include: o On-the-ground assistance in Vanuatu after the recent Hurricane o The company’s Employee Assistance ProgrammeOptum o LearnX impact award o Employer of the year TAFEP in Asia 8 Principle Highlights 7. Businesses should support a We have made significant efforts to create precautionary approach to sustainable operations worldwide. All our environmental challenges; practices are aligned with our Environmental Policy, in which we are committed to meet 8. Undertake initiatives to promote international environmental best practices greater environmental that are consistent with our business responsibility; and activities and operations worldwide for our own employees, customers, and other 9. Encourage the development and stakeholders. We encourage the diffusion of environmentally development of environmentally friendly friendly technologies. technologies. Some examples of our Environment commitment to the environment include:  The company’s Environmental Policy  Our Global ISO 9001 Accreditation  Environmental Best Practices  Real Estate Environmental Best Practice at our Chiswick Park Office 10. Businesses should work against We have a zero tolerance to corruption and corruption in all its forms, this is communicated to employees on a including extortion and bribery regular basis. We are committed to apply our professional expertise and highest ethical behaviour to deliver outstanding quality of service to our clients. Some examples of our commitment to anticorruption include: AntiCorruption  The company’s Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy  Policy on Individual Rights  Our supplier’s Code of Conduct Policy  The company’s Data Protection Policy 9 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses 10 Providing equal opportunities to 3 our employees Our employees are expected to treat their colleagues, clients and patients with respect. We do not tolerate bullying or harassment in our workplace. Equal Employment Opportunity International SOS is committed to providing equal opportunities for all individuals. All employees are treated fairly and have equal access to resources. We are committed to work proactively to provide a discrimination and harassment free environment to ensure that all our employees are treated with dignity, courtesy and respect International SOS actively supports and to enable everyone to reach their full potential. respects the Universal Human Rights, including the right to work, to just and Equal employment opportunity for favourable conditions of work, to equal pay women in the workplace: for equal work, and to a just and We recognise the importance of fully utilising favourable remuneration, among others. the potential of all our employees. International SOS Australasia has developed Key Human Rights are contained in the this policy aiming to ensure equal Declaration and are included in our Code opportunities for women in the workplace and of Conduct, which sets out principles on by doing so, fulfil the obligations under the the elimination of forced labour, child equal opportunity for Women in the labour, and discrimination. We respect Workplace Act 1999. these principles and enforce them in our workplace. International SOS is committed to contributing to the well-being of people in over 90 countries. We provide employment, training and healthcare to pursue the protection of Human Rights. We believe that a good record in this area will be reflected on our business performance We have explicitly stated this commitment in our Individual Rights Policy and our Code of Conduct and Ethics and Respect. 11 Leaving a legacy in our communities International SOS has been present in Papua New Guinea for close to 20 years providing Health care for expatriates and local communities. During that time we have contributed to the development of public health by offering training and employment for more than 500 health professionals and care for thousands of people. The Kokoda Track Foundation At International SOS we respect Human Together with our employees, we have Rights and ensure compliance with raised over $60,000 for KTF. This money international laws and standards. We are has been used to build a first aid post for a aware of the importance to access basic local village in PNG. In addition, the money Human Rights such as health and raised will pay for the employment of two education. This is why we have developed community health workers. various programs in order to support education and health for communities. We have also utilised our medical expertise and professionals in PNG to train The Kokoda Track Foundation provides local health care workers. We are proud of the indigenous people of Papua New our partnership with KTF and the Guinea with education, health and difference we are making to the people of community service programs. KTF. 12 Thank you International SOS for your commitment to my family and community. You are making a difference . 13 Supporting a Child’s Dream in London Air Ambulance Thailand This Charity is focused on helping children For more than 11 million people within who have suffered in the awake of greater London, the London Air Ambulance humanitarian crises in the Mekong Valley provides specialist care delivered by in Thailand and Cambodia. Established in helicopter to where it is urgently needed. 2003, a Child’s Dream is dedicated to The service transports and provides providing children with healthcare and treatment to critically ill or injured people. education. In South-East Asia, our International SOS’ Chiswick headquarters employees have been able to build formed a strategic partnership with this schools, nurseries, vocational training charity to share not only financial resources centres and colleges. In addition, $30,000 but also medical expertise, whilst creating USD was raised in 2011-2012, which fundraising activities. Our employees have enabled us to support further healthcare donated more than £35,000 to support this programs and the Children’s Medical Fund, great charity. while also allowing us to provide first-aid training to the teachers and children. The Nossal Scholarship The Nossal Institute for Global Health has the global health area, in a country where partnered with International SOS and its life expectancy is 20 years less than in subsidiary International Health and Medical Australia and children are 12 times more Services (IHMS) to promote public health in likely to die before age five, in a country Papua New Guinea. International SOS will impacted by malaria, tuberculosis and HIV. provide $100,000 to the programme over the course of a 3 year programme. This partnership is intended to promote education in graduate research degrees in global health related fields. The scholarship was awarded to Dr Patricia Rarau who has been attending the Melbourne School of Population and Global Health. Launched in 2012, this scholarship aims to support the next generation of leaders in 14 Providing education to fight diseases Successful YAWS study Education and mosquito nets to reduce malaria in Africa The study conducted at International Being a company that operates in many SOS’ Lihir Medical Centre, Papua New locations where malaria is endemic, we Guinea in collaboration with the Centre believe that prevention can make the for International Health Research of difference for future generations in Africa. th Barcelona (CRESIB), has provided The 7 of April is the World’s Health Day promising results published by the New for Malaria and we use this day as an England Journal of Medicine, showing opportunity to educate and reduce cases a significant decrease in the of malaria. prevalence of yaws following mass treatment of residents in the rural In 2014 International SOS purchased and villages of PNG. distributed the “World Malaria Beads Bracelets”. A portion of the cost for each This illness affects mostly children bracelet went towards buying mosquito under the age of 15, in populations nets and distributing them throughout the living in overcrowded conditions. continent. These bracelets provided funds Quality of water is an important factor, to support the ‘Unite against Malaria as well as personal hygiene and lack of Organisation’. sanitation. The disease is currently documented to be present in 13 With this program, we were able to countries spread around Africa, provide 750 mosquito nets that helped in Southeast Asia, and the Western the protection against malaria for an Pacific Region. estimated 3000 children. On this same day, our offices located in Angola, Ghana, In 2013 yaws was added to the list of Nigeria, Democratic Republic of Congo diseases endorsed for global and Mozambique joined efforts to educate eradication by 2020 and International surrounding communities on malaria. SOS plays an important role by funding this initiative. With this type of funding, In addition to these initiatives employees we strive to improve the health and donated hundreds of bed nets, gave well-being of not only our employees, educational talks, circulated informational but also the communities where we posters and passed on a lot of useful operate. information on how to prevent malaria. 15 COP 2016 International SOS is committed to continuous improvement We remain committed to the protection of Human Rights within our sphere of influence, ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all through a number of partnerships and initiatives. Ongoing support to KTF (The Kokoda Track Foundation) in Papua New Guinea International SOS keeps on building strong relationship with KTF in Australasia, and raised AU$ 20,000 through diverse initiatives including company contribution and staff engagement to support continued medical education of primary health care workers and scholarships. Projects: KTF is working closely with National and Provincial authorities in PNG to develop an advanced school of health that will train committed Community Health Workers (CHW’s). We are supporting the KTF leadership scholarship program that fosters the next The school will provide a two-year diploma in generation of PNG leaders and provided community health care, and International mentoring and work experience in our SOS will support the CHW’s training program: Sydney office.  Assist with printing of nursing curriculum booklets  International SOS medical staff to help deliver the content of some courses either on sites or at our clinic in Port Moresby. 16 Fight against Malaria This year was the fourth year running where In N’Djamena, Chad, a delegation of the we ran our bracelet campaign in partnership International SOS staff went to the NGO “SOS with United Against Malaria. Children's Villages” where a presentation on Malaria risks and prevention was given to the children by Dr Ali Djibrine, International SOS doctor Our global offices banded together to Some highlights of our efforts include: purchase 5800 bracelets buying 1450 impregnated mosquito nets. These bed nets  Mozambique, Andarko: Our employees protect 5800 children against mosquito bites performed a malaria drama to 90 which can lead to malaria. contractors on showing the pros and cons of wearing short versus long sleeved shirts.  Mozambique Pemba: Staff performed a malaria-themed drama and dance at SOS Children's Village. The children received colouring books, prizes and toys.  Nigeria Amadi Clinic: Our staff visited a local orphanage and educated children about the disease and how its spread. The children were given colouring books and playing cards. Specific initiatives in Africa  Nigeria Onne Clinic: We gave a malaria presentation to community women From our South Africa office, we created involved in the Women Empowerment malaria themed playing cards. These are very Project Scheme. The women were also effective in Africa as a low-tech way to provided with pocket guides and packs of educate people on the ground about the playing cards. disease.  DRC: Across the province, we ran We developed an educational malaria pocket educational malaria workshops and gave guide and a colouring book for children. a malaria educational presentation to 740 TFM employees and government officials.  Dubai: The office raised over 3,000 Euros to support SOS Children's Village in N, Djamena, Chad. 17  Chad: An International SOS delegation provided an educational session on site A milestone of all the work on yaws carried in N,Djamena. We also donated 375 bed out in Lihir is that the results from our studies nets, 600 kilograms of rice and oil and have contributed towards a new strategy to soap to the SOS Children's Village with Eliminate Yaws (Morges Strategy) by the 792 children living onsite. World Health Organization using Azithromycin as a standard treatment for Yaws to be used  Ghana, Accra: We hosted a breakfast worldwide. session with local health workers to share information and discuss strategies against Ebola, malaria and Zika virus in West Africa.  Ghana, Newmont: Newmont H&S and International SOS provided a malaria Progress on Nossal Scholarship demonstration. We also handed out nets, bracelets and playing cards. Dr Rarau is a PNG doctor currently This year's malaria week was a great completing a PhD, focusing on nondemonstration of International SOS' CSR and communicable disease (NCD) epidemiology, how we promote a health and safety culture in with the Nossal Institute for Global Health at the many places we operate. Thanks to all the School of Population and Global Health, involved in this important programme which University of Melbourne with a scholarship of helps saves lives. International SOS. Progress on Yaws study The study was funded by International SOS and Newcrest Mining Ltd as part of a sustainability and development program on Lihir Island to make Yaws eradication possible. August Kapa (Public Health Supervisor) attended the most prestigious conference in Infectious Diseases as a speaker at the – AAS (American Society for Microbiology 2016 Conference). His presentation was based on the results from the study carried out in Lihir Medical Centre that proved that a single dose Azithromycin (Oral Tablet) could cure Yaws. First Pilot study demonstrated the efficacy of mass treatment with Azithromycin in Lihir showed:  Reduced clinical manifestations by 90%  Reduced onward transmission  Reduced the prevalence of latent infection  No evidence of resistance to azithromycin  No serious adverse events reported. 18 19 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 20 Providing a Safe and Healthy 4 Work Environment International SOS has an approach to good corporate citizenship through a focus on “Healthcare and Education”. This is where our expertise lies and the reason why we can make a difference in our workplace, with our clients and members and in the communities surrounding us. We encourage ethical conduct, cultural diversity, fair hiring and equality in our workplace. These standards are reflected in our Code of Conduct and Individual Rights Policy. Protecting our employees Employee’s rights Protecting our employees is essential to our At International SOS we clearly state and long-term business success, therefore we communicate employee’s rights, comply with the health and safety laws and responsibilities, their compensation and regulations within the countries in which we benefits. We also guarantee fair and operate and adhere to our Health and Safety equitable remuneration. Wages are Policy. All employees are expected to reviewed on an annual basis and benefits understand and comply with the OH&S are regularly reviewed to ensure equal Policy and the Standards, Procedures and treatment of all employees regarding their the Processes that are relevant to their work. working conditions. We also strive to We believe this commitment adds value to improve our employees’ competencies and our customers and employees. skills by regular performance reviews, undertaking education, recognising A healthy and safe work environment potential, coaching and training as benefits both our company and our appropriate, and we also offer professional employees. Our occupational health development opportunities within the services provide employers with preventive company. health service and management advice on hazardous situations or prolonged and Individual Rights policy repeated sickness that results in absenteeism and declining productivity in Within 30 days of joining the company, all the workplace. employees are required to read and comply with our individual rights policy. This At International SOS, we do not use forced includes a clear approach and respect for or compulsory labour and under no communities and people living near our circumstances do we approve of child operations, a declaration not to employ labour. child, forced or bonded labour, compliance with labour laws in the countries we operate in, statement of International SOS’ political 21 neutrality, promotion of cross-cultural enables security and line managers to awareness and respect by our employees, communicate and provide emergency compliance with neutrality, promotion of support to travelling employees and cross-cultural awareness and respect by our overseas staff should there be an incident. employees, compliance with the health and Cross-border travel policies safety laws in the countries we operate in, providing fair and equitable remuneration to We have developed policies and procedures attract and retain the best talent in the for the Duty of Care and health and security industry of employees travelling and working abroad. All employees going abroad need to have Duty of care prior approval and those who are going to a medium or high risk location are required to: We believe that an employer’s Duty of Care responsibilities do not stop at the office door.  Use our Travel Risk Assessment tool Our business practices help companies with specific advice on the standards mitigate medical and travel security risks that must be applied for the trip. when their employees travel and work abroad.  Travellers must acknowledge that they have received and read standards and Our proprietary systems rank country risk had a pre-travel briefing on health and level by low, medium, high and extreme. For security. Employees are required to employees needing to travel to medium and comply with the required security and higher risk destinations, as part of their safety measures. booking trip, they are required to get appropriate approval, review the specific  Our TravelReady system enables risks like crime, infectious diseases, food oversight and compliance with cross and water safety and partake in education border travel policies and procedures. sessions. Employees are informed on In addition, our Health Risks Map is a tool to vaccination requirements, malaria help our clients understand the medical risks precautions and are encouraged to get in the countries where they operate and inoculation and necessary prophylaxis. identify how to anticipate health threats to During the trip, our TravelTracker system their employees. On-the-ground assistance team in Vanuatu Aiming to assist clients on the ground in the wake of Cyclone Pam an Incident Response Team was deployed to Vanuatu. The team formed by specialists in medicine, security and th logistics, was deployed on the 16 of March 2015 to evaluate the medical and security risks as well as evacuation options for expatriates and travellers in Vanuatu and to support our clients and their employees with any medical, security or evacuation services. 22 Training for our employees International SOS is committed to provide all employees with training as part of their orientation, development and on-going responsibilities. Within 30 days of joining the company, every employee must complete a series of elearning modules. We also expect our service providers to comply with our policies in similar ways as we do internally. These modules refer to the business structure, mission, vision, business overview, policies in: discrimination, bullying, harassment and data management. All employees are expected to complete them and act according to the guidelines provided by the e-learning courses as well as the Code of Conduct and the Individual Rights Policy. The modules refer to labour standards, rights and responsibilities of employees, as well as benefits of working within our organisation. We have developed 106 e-learning modules in total. We provide a full range of training services for our clients that leverage our medical and International SOS is a rewarding place to travel security expertise. This includes work. The nature of our work means we training in first aid and emergency medicine, respond to world events as they happen, so general health and wellness, and a range of we are continuously looking for individuals travel risk courses. All our training is with a can-do attitude, who are creative and delivered by experts either through a thrive on challenges traditional classroom, via the web in a ‘virtual To ensure consistency in our recruitment classroom’ format or through our e-learning methodology, recruitment workshops have catalogue. been developed for managers and team leaders where the objective is to attract a Recruitment and selection diverse range of candidates and high quality International SOS understands that employees selected by a merit based recruiting, retaining and developing the right recruitment and selection process. talent is critical to support our organisation’s All internal and external advertisements are culture which is based on the values of reviewed by Human Resources to ensure Passion, Expertise, Respect and Care. We our standards are met and there is no are a dynamic and growth-oriented business gender bias. All permanent vacancies and that offers exciting opportunities globally for temporary assignments of greater than 3 people who wish to have a challenging and months are advertised internally. This allows unique career experience. all employees equal opportunity to apply for promotions and transfers, including 23 overseas relocations. We have also implemented an employee referral program across our Australasian region to encourage a wider candidate pool and to reward employees financially for successful referrals. Performance appraisal We provide a yearly performance management review between our employees and managers to establish objectives, review performance and identify development needs. To ensure that this process is undertaken in a professional and mature way and that the results obtained by it are beneficial to both the company and the employees, briefing sessions are provided to explain to managers and employees how the process works. The end of year performance review is an important opportunity for us to evaluate the outcomes of the past financial year in regards to the achievement of our corporate objectives. This is a key element of the performance management process (PMP) within International SOS. Work-life balance Implementing more flexibility in the workplace is a priority in International SOS. We offer various types of leave such as Looking after the wellcareer breaks, additional annual leave and being of our employees volunteer leave, to help employees achieve a better work-life balance. In partnership with Optum, International SOS Australasia The parental leave policy is designed to provides our employees with Employee Assistance Program support our employees prior to, during and (EAP) services. immediately following the birth of a child. This provides the opportunity for employees Employees get access to to devote time to their child or children different wellbeing services that during the first year of their parenting help them manage personal and relationship, without career disadvantage. work-based issues that might have an impact on their Health, We also aim to provide a work environment Wellbeing, behaviour, that respects diversity, in order to promote performance and development. These services can be accessed employee development and positive via telephone, face-to-face or workplace relationships where differences online. among individuals are valued. This is included in our Discrimination, Harassment and Bullying Policy. 24 2015 at a glance International SOS is committed to maximize the potential of all of our people. Our Australasian Region is a clear example of how our company provides equal opportunities to employees, as shown on the below graphics Regional Director Level Australasia-All Employees Australasia Female Male Female Male 52% 48% 40% 60% Manager Level Employee Level Australia Australasia Female Male Female Male 38% 62% 54% 46% 25 Employer Awards LearnX Impact Award 2015 Exemplary Employer of the Year from TAFEP in ASIA 2014 International SOS won the best learning project for online candidate assessment and This award is presented by the Tripartite on boarding for our global concierge agents Alliance for Fair and Progressive (Aspire) in this year’s LearnX Impact Awards Employment Practices (TAFEP) and it aims 2015 within the subcategory of e-learning on to recognize organisations that have a Budget. The project demonstrates our implemented fair, responsible, and inclusive excellence in developing Best in Class employment practices. Some of these eLearning solutions for new hires. These practices include the adoption of a diverse accolades have started to gain recognition workforce management, merit-based HR and have been considered to be one of the policies, and a strong commitment from leading awards in eLearning and corporate senior management. This award reflects our training field in the Asia-Pacific region. This high standards and commitment to is proof of the hard work of our employees to implementing best practices in the guarantee high levels of training and workplace. continuous improvement towards a better workplace environment 26 COP 2016 International SOS is committed to continuous improvement We remain committed to the protection and promotion of Labour Principles. Global and regional internal communications initiatives: We ran a second employee survey ‘Your Say’ to hear staff views, opinions, and suggestions on the progress the company has made since our first survey and how we can continue to improve as an organisation. 74% of the staff completed the survey globally. Monthly lunch with CEO, for informal interaction between staff and senior management with positive staff engagement. Awareness of Mental health: Promotion of “R U OK ?” day ? At International SOS we recognise the importance of mental health wellbeing, especially in our workplace, and whilst we encourage the above questions. We provide completely free and confidential counselling services to our employees through our EAP (Employee Assistance Programme) via Optum Health Services. Promoting and protecting our employees’ well-being. Employee benefits include fresh fruit delivery, flu vaccination, health insurance advice, preferential tariffs for gym membership and quarterly free financial advice. 27 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 28 Our commitment 5 International SOS has been in business for over thirty years, and during this time we have put significant efforts to create sustainable operations worldwide. Our efforts towards achieving environmentally friendly strategies are reflected through examples of programs, policies and practices we have implemented across the globe. Our Environmental Policy All our practices are aligned with our As explicitly mentioned in our environmental Environmental Policy, in which International policy, we are also committed to: SOS is committed to meet international environmental best practices that are  Adhere to International SOS’ consistent with our business activities and contractual obligations in regard to operations worldwide for our own environmental matters; managers are employees, customers, and providers. In this responsible for ensuring that way, we are able to identify, assess and appropriate resources are provided to effectively control the environmental risks to enable compliance with these all stakeholders and the environment. Our obligations. environmental policies are in place for all  Ensure reporting, investigation, and sites. analysis of all environmental accidents and incidents, with the intention of In order to be aligned with our environmental creating and implementing corrective objectives, International SOS is committed and preventive action to eliminate to apply international environmental recurrence. standards whenever local environmental  Strive to reduce the consumption of regulations and laws do not exist, or when energy, utilities, and other resources in they provide a lower standard. This is our day-to-day operations. performed to ensure the best standards are  Implement controls to mitigate the always met to satisfy both employees and potential for environmental pollution the community as a whole. due to our activities, including waste reduction and recycling programs In addition, as part of our focus on continual where reasonable and practicable. improvement, we are committed to initiate a  Foster employees’ awareness and management review process to analyse the respect for the environment at all levels possible environmental impacts our activities of our organization to ensure optimal and operations may have. environmental protection in everything that they do.  Require our suppliers and contractors to adopt similar standards and demonstrate visible and sustainable environmental management practices in the execution of their activities. 29 Protecting the Environment In most of our offices, we have implemented Electricity consumption minimisation a scheme that encourages employees to through: recycle waste including paper, plastic,  Reminding employees to switch off newsprint, cardboard and aluminium cans. electronic equipment and appliances Some of our most modern buildings have such as photocopiers, shredding been developed with a high technology that machines, computers and monitors, and enables them to maximise energy savings, printers when they are not in use. by having an automatic light shutoff. These  Maintaining air conditioning systems so buildings are also designed to monitor waste they are more energy efficient. Our of light/heat, which helps to identify where general recommended indoor the major wastes take place in and temperature is between 23 and 26 C. implement practical solutions to reduce waste. We motivate our employees to follow  Reminding employees to switch off our clean desk policy, in which all our lights when they leave their workplace, laptops are shut down after close of and only use lights when necessary. We business and locked in cupboards. We also also encourage the use of energy saving ensure our clients’ and colleagues’ privacy lighting systems. by destroying all our confidential documents Top environmental practices at before recycling them. Chiswick Park headquarters Environmental practices Our London headquarters was moved to Paper consumption minimisation through: Chiswick Park in 2012, an award winning building. At Chiswick Park, we utilise a green  Development of electronic management building for environmental sustainability: systems for operations management to replace paper-based workflow  Over 90% of waste is recycled. processes. We continue to make efforts  We capture used water, use washroom to move away from paper-based taps to reduce water consumption and workflows to meet or exceed all relevant have waterless urinals. regulatory requirements.  Automatic light shutoff and monitoring  Encouraging the usage of electronic light/heat usage to identify waste. communication.  Roof-mounted solar panels to heat  Reduction in the use of paper and paper water. products. Reuse of envelopes and reuse of boxes for storage, providing collection  A bike to work schemes. of paper for recycling, reconsidering the necessity of printing or copying  Chemical reduction in cleaning, documents, using double-sided printing gardening and engineering activities. and copying, ensuring compliance with information security guidelines, and reusing paper printed only on one side for drafts. 30 Global ISO 9001 Accreditation All of our 27 assistance centres are fully certified by a leading global auditor of quality management systems. Global ISO 9001: 2008 certification recognises the commitment that International SOS has towards continuous improvement in order to demonstrate the highest standards among its operations. This accreditation is recognized and respected worldwide while ensuring high levels of customer satisfaction In addition to this, International SOS is certified by the Swiss Association for Quality and Management Systems (SQS), as a mechanism to develop an external certification programme to validate the company’s internal quality management system. SQS was selected due to its specialist auditors with medical expertise. 31 COP 2016 International SOS is committed to continuous improvement We remain committed to the protection and promotion of Environmental Principles:  As a result of working smarter, we modified our workspace to encompass hot desking with the overall result being we reduced our office ‘footprint’ in Sydney from 3 to 2 floors (1,000 m2 less).  We continued to sponsor remote working technology such as OCS and VSee to enable audio and video conference and reduce travel.  Our printing is force set-up to ensure double-sided non color printing including a reminder material asking employees for the necessity of printing.  We introduced force set management control management control procedures that requires staff to separate waste into appropriate recycling bins. 32 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 33 Implementation International SOS attaches great importance to the honest and ethical conduct of staff, customers and third parties, including fair dealing and ethical handling of conflicts of interest. There is a zero tolerance to corruption and it is reminded to all employees on a regular basis. These statements are expressed in our Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy which is distributed to our staff and is available to our stakeholders in the company’s website. Training on the Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy is undertaken by all employees, as they are expected to act with the highest levels of honesty, integrity, ethics and fair dealing and to hold our core values: passion, expertise, respect and care. International SOS’ commitment to dealing legally and ethically with governments applies worldwide. The company policy, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar anti-bribery laws around the world prohibit our employees or their agents from giving or offering to give money or anything of value – whether cash or not, or whether directly or indirectly through others – to any government official to induce that official to affect any governmental act or decision, or to assist the company in obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper advantage. 34 Contributing to our sustainability in the global marketplace  Relevant global data protection laws and As stated in our Providers Code of Conduct, regulations; providers may not act in any way, in their  Contractual commitments to our business relationship with International SOS customers. or otherwise, that violates the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other antiThis is of paramount importance for us, as we corruption law around the world. International are the world´s leading provider of medical SOS entities use providers that do not violate assistance, international healthcare and our ethical standards through bribes, security services, and we need our customers kickbacks, or other similar improper or to entrust us with sensitive personal data such unlawful payments. as medical data. This is why this policy goes beyond the requirements of the law and The Code has been developed to ensure that adheres to the data protection laws of each of all employees and providers adhere to the the countries in which we operate. highest ethical standards when conducting business and it is available for employees’ Provider’s personnel and operations are also review upon request. Providers are required requested to operate in full compliance with to take reasonable steps to ensure that the the laws of their respective countries and with Code is communicated throughout their all other applicable laws, all statutory, organizations and to make the Code available regulatory and other legal requirements. to their employees. Data Protection Policy International SOS is committed to protecting the personal information of its employees, contractors, vendors and members in accordance with applicable privacy and data protection laws. This is communicated through our Data Protection Policy that has been adopted to guarantee the correct storage and destruction of personal data. Within 30 days of joining, all employees are required to undergo e-learning on data protection policies. Our data protection policy complies with:  The United States’ Safe Harbour Framework;  Binding corporate rules sanctioned by the European Union’s data protection authorities; 35 COP 2016 International SOS is committed to continuous improvement We remain committed to the protection and promotion of Anti-Corruption Principles.  All regional management teams received training on our new incident reporting software system, Hydra. The system is live and we are now rolling out anonymous reporting system for fraud and corruption. An e-learning package has also been developed and implemented for completion by all International SOS employees.  A review of our data management has been conducted globally in July 2016 to ensure the security of any confidential information. A report of compliance is in preparation for submission to our Board.  Project: launch a biennial fraud risk assessment 36 For further information about our company, please visit: www.internationalsos.com 37
