CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 COMMUNICATING ON OUR PROGRESS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 3 Cover: Visualisation of the Helsinki Central Library, which will be a modern addition to Töölönlahti Bay’s KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 cultural hub and provide city residents with a cultural living space. Ramboll is responsible for project and construction management, structural engineering, cost estimation and quantity survey, as well as energy calculations. Visualisation: ALA Architects CONDUCTING GLOBAL GENDER DIVERSITY ANALYSIS ADVOCATING TECHNICAL SOLUTIONS TO COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE AT COP21 91% OF EMPLOYEES COMPLETED CODE OF CONTENT CONDUCT TRAINING Ramboll in brief 3 Our commitment to sustainability 4 UN Sustainable Development Goals 5 Our approach 6 People 8 Environment 16 Business integrity 26 KPI reporting overview 34 Global reporting initiative table 36 About this report 38 91% Read the report online here: www.ramboll.com/CRreport2015 RAMBOLL IN BRIEF ­ Ramboll is a leading REVENUE IN EUR M engineering, design and consultancy company 1,419.5 Revenue 2015 founded in Denmark in 1945. EBITA IN EUR M The company employs 13,000 globally and has especially 63.6 EBITA 2015 strong representation in the EMPLOYEES Nordics, UK, North America, 13,000 employees on Continental Europe, Middle a global scale East and Asia Pacific. www.ramboll.com GLOBAL PRESENCE 300 offices across 35 countries CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 4.27 On a scale from 1-5 4 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 5 OUR COMMITMENT UN SUSTAINABLE TO SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT GOALS Ramboll’s vision is to create inspirational, global challenges, which includes targets As a sustainable society consultant, Ramboll takes an active role in developing the global long-standing solutions that allow people and indicators. Ramboll is well-positioned to community we are part of through the solutions we provide. In 2016, Ramboll will prepare a and nature to flourish. The vision fuels our support both the public and private sectors as new strategy for 2017-2020. In this process, the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ambition to be a leading sustainable society they work towards achieving these goals. The will be included as a framework for developing specific targets and actions for Ramboll’s consultant in line with the UN Global Compact SDGs will be an opportunity and priority for corporate responsibility effort, to ensure that these become integrated into our business. Principles. We continuously operationalise Ramboll going forward, as they emphasise the The figure below highlights the SDGs considered most relevant to Ramboll. our holistic approach to creating value for our need for our technical and integrated solutions clients, employees, society and shareholders to global challenges. by considering social, environmental and economic risks and opportunities in our We continue our focus on conducting business business processes and strategies. in a responsible way. This is not only to ensure that our employees are aware of our The global challenge is to continue targets and progress, but also to ensure that developing society and create growth with a responsible behaviour becomes embedded limited adverse impact on the environment throughout the organisation, leading to and society. Engaging with — and even uniform high performance. During 2015, we encroaching upon — nature is inevitable when have continued our work to achieve exactly meeting the growing needs for infrastructure, that. Highlights include: housing, energy production, transportation, goods and services. We are consultants whose • Conducting global gender diversity analysis holistic, technical and scientific capabilities are • Advocating technical solutions to combat needed to advise our clients on decisions and climate change at COP21 in Paris add solutions that empower our clients and • Delivering Code of Conduct e-learning society to develop in a more sustainable and training to 91% of our employees. balanced way. Our stakeholders increasingly look to us The UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable for both continuous improvement and Development, which identifies a set of transparency in our own sustainability 17 universal Sustainable Development Goals performance. In 2016 we will develop a new (SDGs), is an action plan to combat these 2020 business strategy that further integrates sustainability thinking and action into our business goals and processes. We will intensify our focus on risk management, target-setting and holistic reporting based on international reporting standards. I am proud to introduce Ramboll’s Corporate Responsibility Report, which accounts for our holistic performance in 2015 and demonstrates how we help create value for our clients, UN GLOBAL UN SUSTAINABLE employees, society and shareholders. COMPACT DEVELOPMENT GOALS PRINCIPLES Jens-Peter Saul Group CEO, Ramboll Throughout the report, these icons will be used to indicate which of the ten UN Global Compact Principles and 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals are reflected in the various sections. 6 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 7 OUR APPROACH Since our founding, responsibility towards CR is anchored with Ramboll’s Group ENVIRONMENT clients, employees and society has been Executive Board, while the responsibility of Ramboll’s technical skills and knowledge embedded in Ramboll’s business behaviour. developing, embedding, communicating, within sustainable solutions have high potential for positively influencing the We remain committed to acting responsibly ensuring compliance and reporting on CR environment and contributing to overcoming towards people, the environment and is headed by the Compliance function of the global challenges society faces today. the economy, and we seek to promote Corporate Legal. Each principal business unit We make an effort to deliver optimal and sustainable solutions to our clients. and provide services and solutions that has a local CR coordinator and compliance contribute to sustainable development. manager. Status and progress on CR is reported to the Group Board of Directors, who We operationalise Ramboll’s holistic approach convey the information annually to the Ramboll to creating value for clients, employees, ACH society and shareholders by integrating Foundation, the majority owner of Ramboll. PRO social, environmental and economic AP R impacts and opportunities into strategies, O U policies and processes as expressed in the figure to the right. Our definition of corporate responsibility (CR) is based on the European Commission’s definition of corporate responsibility as ’the responsibility of enterprises for their impact on society’. Our approach is rooted in our values, mission, vision and ambition to become the leading sustainable society consultant globally. Our broad services and talented employees position us to achieve that ambition, and are supported by our valuedriven culture, which is embedded throughout the organisation by policies, processes and continuous efforts to communicate, PEOPLE BUSINESS INTEGRITY train and develop our employees. Ramboll is entirely dependent Ramboll places continuous on our employees’ creativity, focus on conducting Since 2007, Ramboll has been a UN Global insight and integrity in the responsible business, and Compact (UNGC) participant, which provides effort towards becoming a complying with applicable laws a guiding framework for our continuous efforts leading sustainable society and international standards. consultant. Therefore, Our Code of Conduct is a to improve CR performance. Ramboll is also a supporting our employees’ guiding tool for our employees member of the UNGC Nordic Network, where inherent capabilities and on how to behave responsibly, promoting quality of working and we strive to keep we share both challenges and best practices life are top priorities. improving and embedding our for implementing CR. Our Global Commitment, global policies and guidelines. which serves as our policy, is an expression of our commitment to sustainability, based on our values, international principles of the UNGC and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and also FIDIC’s Integrity Management Guidelines (International Federation of Consulting Engineers). 8 PEOPLE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 9 Ramboll directly and indirectly impacts people’s lives across the globe. We strive to ensure that we provide our employees safe and equal working conditions, conduct business in a responsible way and engage with the communities where we work. PEOPLE The inspirational solutions we provide In 2015, the ESES response rate was to our clients spring entirely from an impressive 93% − the highest UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES our employees’ creativity, insight ever recorded in the company. The and integrity. Ramboll fundamentally overall result in 2015 shows an index These principles are covered in this section believes in supporting people’s of 4.0 on a 5-point scale, which is 1, 2: Human Rights inherent abilities and works to ensure similar to 2014. 85% of the responding 3, 4, 5, 6: Labour Rights equal opportunities and safe working employees are satisfied or very conditions. satisfied with their job as a whole, and UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 83% would recommend Ramboll as a great place to work. SUPPORTING EMPLOYEE These goals are covered in this section As in previous years, the survey DEVELOPMENT 5: Gender equality areas that received the highest scores 8: Decent work and We aspire to be the preferred are engagement; having sufficient economic growth employer within our profession, and independent responsibility and we support measures that enhance challenging tasks; and working in KEY ACHIEVEMENT the quality of working life to increase a unit that supports the individual Conducting a global gender employee motivation, engagement employee. The results also emphasise diversity analysis across markets and and satisfaction. By continuously that the immediate manager remains geographies to ensure fact-based recommendations for improvement focusing on the competencies of our the strongest factor for creating a employees, we develop the company, high engagement index. For this as well as the services we provide to reason, we continuously focus our clients and society at large. on developing and equipping our people managers with the necessary Employee satisfaction tools and knowledge to ensure high It is important to Ramboll to have employee satisfaction. In 2015, we satisfied, motivated and dedicated focused on awareness training of employees, and to engage in dialogue our HR functions, and 79% of all HR with our employees to ensure quality employees have read and signed of working life. This is why a yearly the revised Group policy ‘Employee Employee Satisfaction & Engagement Satisfaction and Engagement Survey’. Survey (ESES) is carried out across In 2015, the voluntary turnover was all Ramboll business units. The 11.9%. We monitor employee turnover survey also serves as a ‘grievance on country level and compare to local mechanism’ for employees to raise level. In general we are performing potential complaints. at the average industry level. 10 PEOPLE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 11 FOCUS AREAS FOR GENDER DIVERSITY Strengthening employee gender equality challenge across performance the consulting engineering industry, GROUP POLICIES Our Performance & Development which is dominated by men. Our • Employee satisfaction Process (PDP) is important for Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) • Performance and ensuring the ongoing development on gender equality attest to this development and motivation of our employees. shared challenge, which is why we It contributes positively to people’s continuously work to promote equal ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 right to enjoy just and favourable opportunities across our business. conditions at work. Two yearly Our equal gender policy calls • Satisfaction rate of 4.0 manager-employee dialogues to for each gender to be represented • Policy awareness training set and measure expectations and by two members in our Group of global HR function development goals are fundamental Board of Directors. In 2015, the to the PDP process. gender distribution in the Group AMBITIONS 2016 The PDP approach has been Board of Directors was 17% female Mentoring and Setting • Maintain or improve 2015 ESES Satisfaction rate implemented successfully in all and 83% male. It is a target to internal career targets • Maintain or improve 2015 Ramboll business units. In 2015, 91% elect a female candidate the next networks of all employees had a dialogue with time a replacement is made in ESES Response rate their manager in line with the PDP the Group Board of Directors. DEVELOPMENT DIALOGUE, process, which is up from 88% in TARGET 90% 2014, and above our target of 90%. Gender Diversity Initiative Furthermore, 82% of all employees In October 2014, Ramboll launched 91% of all employees have had a development dialogue now have a dedicated Performance a Gender Diversity Initiative to with their manager in 2015 & Development Plan. As part of evaluate how effectively we provide DEVELOPMENT PLAN a focus on awareness training of equal opportunities and career Flexible working Diversity arrangements awareness our HR functions, 81% of all HR employees have read and signed the advancement for both genders across the company. During the first phase 82% of all employees have a Performance & Development Plan training revised Group policy ‘Performance of the initiative in 2015 (the research & Development Dialogue’ in 2015. phase), we analysed Ramboll’s current VOLUNTARY TURNOVER, % gender diversity. The final report was based on academic and industry IMPROVING GENDER research, internal data and feedback EQUALITY 11.2% 11.6% 11.9% from employees. Achieving gender equality remains The analysis showed that overall a global challenge − which is why female representation in Ramboll Pay gap Gender achieving gender equality and is close to the industry average empowering all women and girls is an (32% in 2014, FRI). However, 2013 2014 2015 analysis neutrality in official UN Sustainable Development females are underrepresented in communication Goal (5). management and especially top and policies At Ramboll, we work to ensure management positions (B-level: 7%; equal opportunities for career C-level: 17% and D-level: 25%), as Transparency development and advancement for well as in management successor both genders. Gender balance adds pools. Both cultural and structural in recruitment value to our workplace and the way barriers to women’s and men’s equal and promotion we perform as a company. We also opportunities for career advancement see it as part of our responsibility seem to result in lower representation as an equal opportunity employer. of women in management. Factors However, we are not immune to the such as perceptions of who an ideal EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION 100 4.4 AND ENGAGEMENT A record number of employees 90 4.2 completed the employee survey in 2015. The overall result for Ramboll shows a satisfaction and engagement 80 4.0 index of 4.0 on a 5-point scale. 70 3.8 60 3.6 The 2015 analysis of gender diversity in Ramboll identifies the above focus areas to be essential for 50 3.4 improving gender diversity across the company. 2011 2012 2013 2014* 2015 Response rate, % (left axis), target > 80% An action plan will be developed in 2016 based on Employee satisfaction and * New index calculation for 2014 based on new survey questions. the findings and recommendations in the final report. engagement index (right axis), target > 4 On comparable questions, score in 2014 was similar to 2013. 12 PEOPLE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 13 manager is and culturally embedded HEALTH & SAFETY GROUP POLICIES expectations towards women were found to negatively influence (some) No client, project or schedule is more • Equal gender women’s interest in or possibilities for important than the health, safety • Non-discrimination • Recruitment taking on or positioning themselves and security of our employees. To • Non-harassment for management roles in Ramboll. ensure that Ramboll respects the and Non-violence The evidence did suggest, though, right of our employees to a safe and ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 that gender diversity promotion healthy working environment, we measures do work. Gender diversity continuously elevate our awareness of • Gender diversity analysis is a business imperative for Ramboll. potential hazards and risks and work • Gender diversity focus areas identified To improve progress in this area, to eliminate or mitigate them through a gender diversity action plan will adequate risk mitigation procedures be developed in 2016 based on the (also referred to as ‘operational AMBITIONS 2016 findings and recommendations in controls’). In 2016, Ramboll will adopt the final report (see page 10). In a Group Health & Safety Policy as • Gender diversity action plan based on focus areas 2015, we also introduced a revised part of our development of a Global • Global recruitment process Group Policy on Equal Gender, Occupational Health and Safety which was read and signed by Management System in line with the GENDER DISTRIBUTION, 73% of all HR employees. new ISO 45001 standard previously IN TOTAL 2015. TARGET 32/68% known as OHSAS 18001. (INDUSTRY AVERAGE) Encouraging women in engineering During 2015, Ramboll launched Health & Safety consultancy initiatives aimed at promoting Ramboll’s health and safety experts diversity across the engineering deliver scientifically sound and industry. pragmatic solutions that help For example, Ramboll in the UK protect our clients’ most valuable 34% 66% hosted an ‘employee diversity event’ assets—their employees. By providing 1 at the London office, which included insight and guidance related to global coaching sessions, presentations regulatory developments, navigating AGE DISTRIBUTION 2015 and networking. At the event, workplace health and safety 25% the employees discussed how to scenarios, and/or bringing clarity > 50 encourage the next generation of through evaluative science, we offer 68% women to pursue the engineering support and reassurance to clients Influencing living conditions for worker accommodations to ensure 30-50 profession. In order to ensure a who are facing complex business construction workers adequate living standards for the GROUP POLICIES 7% < 30 focused approach, two working decisions. Ramboll’s occupational All workers have a right to safe and construction workers employed • Global Risk groups were established: one health professionals work to healthy working conditions, which on the project. Although working • Weapon-free workplace dedicated to engaging and assist clients on a broad range of includes not being subjected to in locations that are criticised inspiring young women to become issues, including industrial hygiene; slavery, servitude or forced labour. for inadequate protection of engineers, and the other to establish designing or auditing occupational, Employers must respect this right and human rights can be a challenge, ACHIEVEMENT 2015 mentoring connections. The two health and safety (OH&S) programs; provide adequate living standards Ramboll can contribute positively working groups will continue and understanding and managing risks of and housing to workers. In recent on a project-by-project basis. • Group Health and Safety develop their efforts in 2016. workplace chemicals and/or physical years, several high-profile cases Policy developed exposure; communicating with have revealed instances where the HUMAN RIGHTS regulators, interested parties and/or construction industry violates these stakeholders; and talking frankly to rights by providing sub-standard Ramboll is in the process of AMBITIONS 2016 employees about their occupational accommodations and living standards implementing policies, due diligence risks. at building and construction sites processes and grievance mechanisms • Approval of Group Health around the world. in line with the UN Guiding Principles and Safety Policy • Development of a Global Occupational For Ramboll, this situation presents on Business and Human Rights. Health and Safety Management System both a challenge and an opportunity. Ramboll’s policy commitment in line with ISO 45001 (target 2017) Mitigating actual and potential risks (Global Commitment) is in place. It for workers on the many projects is defined by relevant internal and where we are engaged as consultants external expertise, and adopted GENDER DISTRIBUTION BY MANAGEMENT LEVEL is a challenge. However, through by the Executive Board and the AND IDENTIFIED SUCCESSORS (A-D LEVEL), FEMALE % our health and safety expertise and Board of Directors. Ramboll’s Group consulting services, we have the policies are aligned with the Global 1 In Denmark, a cross2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 opportunity to positively influence Commitment and communicated to disciplinary team of Ramboll Management A-level 0% 0% 0% Successor A-level health and safety standards and all employees, as part of the Code of experts have mapped the practices on these projects, and can Conduct. The Global Commitment is conditions on three different Management B-level 7% 8% 7% Successor B-level 14% 14% 9% assist in the assessment of impacts also communicated to clients as part sizes of construction sites for the purpose of ensuring and practical control measures. of tender material or documentation adequate living conditions Management C-level 12% 15% 17% Successor C-level 23% 16% 15%* For example in Qatar, Ramboll and made publicly available on on the sites. The report was appointed Design Verification our website. Lastly, in 2015 it was makes it easier for the Management D-level 23% 27% 25% Successor D-level 24% 26% 24%* Engineer for the construction of embedded in the organisation Danish Working Environment the Doha metro green line, an by training all employees in our Authority to detect potential adverse impacts at the All Ramboll employees are mapped into a global job family architecture. The architecture ambitious plan to develop a public responsibility to respect human construction sites and consists of a number of profiles reflecting job levels ranging from Ato H-level. transport railway in Doha. Ramboll rights and ensure access to grievance help ensure better living * All Principal Business Units except Water and Environment & Health. was engaged by the client to inspect mechanisms, as part of the Code of conditions for the workers. 14 PEOPLE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 15 experts from Ramboll in the UK Promoting safe led four teams of local engineers drinking water and surveyors to assess the 1.8 billion people around the world damage at ten hospitals across lack access to safe drinking water and the country. The teams provided a 2.4 billion lack access to adequate detailed breakdown of the damage sanitation (UN). As part of Ramboll’s sustained and proposed solutions social investment programme in for how the hospital buildings India, Ramboll supported Water for could be repaired. The work was People a global non-governmental carried out on behalf of the Nepali organisation focusing on issues government and contributed of water and sanitation. Ramboll to the country’s earthquake supported the development of reconstruction programme. a pipeline for water supply in Digambarpur village. The project Chennai flood relief caters to the water needs of approx. In December 2015, Chennai in 2,500 people of 500 households. Southern India was affected by The cooperation with Water for massive rainfalls causing serious People enables us to support the flooding. Led by Ramboll employees achievement of the Sustainable in India, a total of EUR 4,556 was Development Goal (6) on water and raised for the Chennai flood victims. sanitation. The aim of the fundraiser was to aid the flood victims by supplying them with emergency relief kits. 2 Conduct e-learning training projects in the long run. One example RAISING MONEY FOR (see page 28). is Ramboll’s project in the Arabian SYRIAN REFUGEES DONATIONS 2015 In 2016, the priorities will be to emirate, Fujairah. In the fall of 2015, Ramboll The Ramboll Foundation is the main employees and the Ramboll identify potential, actual and salient The emirate is planning for growth owner of Ramboll. The Foundation Foundation raised EUR 134,000 human rights impacts of Ramboll’s against a backdrop of existing and grants financial support for research, through an internal donation studies and education, in particular own operation, to align project due emerging issues such as regional campaign for Syrian refugees. within science and engineering. In diligence processes to identify effects security, geopolitical pressures and The Ramboll Foundation matched addition, it supports charities and employee donations, effectively related to our projects (see page 32) opportunities, high growth rates, humanitarian aid. The Foundation has doubling the amount raised. The and to align procurement practices. climate change, environmental made the following donations to nonmoney was donated to Red Cross profit organisations or charities in 2015: considerations and employment International to support their generation. Ramboll’s role has been efforts to help the estimated 12 ENGAGING WITH OUR • EUR 75,000 to Red Cross International million Syrian refugees with basic to develop a strategic master plan COMMUNITY for the refugee crisis in Syria. needs such as medical treatment, with a 25-year horizon, with a focus • EUR 122,000 to a research project shelter, food and water. We aim to make a positive impact on key urban growth drivers such as with the Technical University of Denmark dealing with plastic in the local communities we are demographics, economy, strategic dimensioning of concrete structures. part of by offering our knowledge transport links and residential growth, • EUR 6,500 to IASS (International and resources to relevant activities. with sustainability as the guiding Association for Shell and Spatial Ramboll employees engage star. With stakeholder engagement Structure) for the participation in a conference on masts and towers. frequently with local communities for and local ownership as key elements, • EUR 4,000 to UNF Physics camp for instance by raising funds for charity four major public workshops and high school pupils with the aim of and doing pro bono engineering more than 20 stakeholder meetings strengthening their interest in physics. work. Ramboll also engages with were conducted to involve the • EUR 6,500 to HITEK to support the NGOs to support urgent challenges local community and ensure digitisation of engineering magazines. • EUR 150,000 to the Technical in the local communities, and the commitment to the final plan. University of Denmark for a Ramboll Foundation supports research project within pharma. research, education and humanitarian Pro bono engineering • EUR 160,000 to a research project aid. Furthermore, community Partnering with disadvantaged with the Technical University of Denmark dealing with water resources. engagement is at the core of our communities to improve their • EUR 110,000 to the UN Live consulting services. quality of life through education Museum of Humanity. and implementation of sustainable • EUR 3,350 to Rebuild Chennai. Stakeholder engagement engineering projects, while promoting In many of our consulting projects, global experience for motivated local community engagement plays engineers, is the aim of Ramboll’s UK a vital role to ensure the needed charity team. 2 Ramboll employees in India support, ownership and commitment Following the two earthquakes collected EUR 4,556 for the that will determine the success of in Nepal in April and May 2015, Chennai flood victims. 16 ENVIRONMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 17 As an engineering, design and consultancy company, we impact the environment on various levels. We actively work to minimise the adverse impact our own operations have on the environment by continuously improving the way we conduct business. The very nature of our business enables us to contribute positively to the environment through the scientific and technological services and solutions we deliver to clients. ENVIRONMENT Ramboll seeks to promote and Carbon footprint 2015 provide services and solutions At Ramboll, we work diligently to UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES that contribute to sustainable minimise our company’s contribution development. In particular, we seek to climate change by minimising These principles are covered in this section to develop and market our offerings our own carbon footprint. 2015 is 7, 8, 9: Environment within sustainable cities, energy, the fifth year we have measured the environment and water. worldwide CO2 emissions resulting Through strategic acquisitions we from our energy consumption and UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS have moved into a position as number business-related transport. In 2015, 8 globally on the Environment we measured Ramboll’s total CO2 These goals are covered in Analyst’s list of environmental emission as 20,127 tonnes CO2 (2014: this section companies. We now have a full 21,614) equal to 2.15 tonnes per Full 6: Clean water and sanitation, 7: Affordable range of environment, health and Time Employee Equivalent (FTEE) and clean energy, water services in our portfolio (2014: 2.25). This is a slight decrease 9: Industry, innovation and combined with engineering services, compared to 2014, but on level with infrastructure, 11: Sustainable enabling even more solutions for 2013. Considering that the increased cities and communities, 13: Climate action global challenges – creating value global presence requires more travel, for clients, employees and society. it is very satisfactory achieving KEY ACHIEVEMENT a decrease in our overall carbon Advocating for technical solutions to footprint. In 2016, we will focus on combat climate change at COP21, the CLIMATE UN private Sector Forum and New revising our method for collecting and York Climate Week. Ramboll supports The continuing impact of climate calculating our CO2 emission data the global agreement on climate change is inevitable and calls for to meet international standards and providing a clear political framework immediate attention, as evidenced to ensure global reporting on carbon that will accelerate the transition by the number of UN Sustainable emissions in the future. towards a low-carbon society Development Goals that focus on curbing the effects of climate change. Improving environmental Ramboll provides consultancy in management all aspects of climate change. We A significant element in Ramboll’s cover areas such as climate strategy, environmental impact is related to the mitigation and adaptation, and have way our business operates, including the capability of applying a holistic how our offices are run. and full-service delivery approach. In Denmark, the Facility Management organisation is responsible for the estate portfolio and related services at 18 ENVIRONMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 19 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Ramboll’s locations. During 2015 with a concrete frame, using just a – FOCUS AREAS the organisation developed an fraction of the materials that would ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 Environmental Sustainability Strategy have been used if the building were that prioritises four areas based constructed with traditional materials. • Group Environmental Management Policy on material aspects: reduction in developed CO2 emissions; reduction of water Sharing our insights • Advocating technical consumption; increased recycling; and Climate action has been high on our solutions to combat sustainable materials. The strategy agenda this year, and we have actively climate change at COP21 is supported by a yearly action plan tried to influence the global climate AMBITIONS 2016 that describes more specific and action agenda by sharing our insights • Approval of Group Environmental measurable actions to be taken. and solutions in influential forums. Management Policy In September, Ramboll Group • Continue development of Global Value engineering CEO, Jens-Peter Saul, participated Environmental Management System Sustainable Value engineering encompasses in the UN Private Sector Forum according to ISO 14001 (target 2017) materials everything from ensuring the and the New York Climate Week. continuous development of our Climate Week brings together society in the face of the global influential global parties and new challenges of urbanisation, climate voices from business, government change and resource scarcity to and society who are leading choosing the right bolt for a new the low-carbon transition. structure to secure its long-term When policy makers and business sustainability. Value engineering leaders gathered in Paris for the considers the entire life cycle of a December COP21 event, Ramboll project. participated in a variety of venues One example of this approach is to share our insights and experience Ramboll’s decade-long expertise in and to present new knowledge about cross-laminated timber construction. climate adaptation and mitigation Timber is a viable option for many solutions. Leading up to COP21, we types of buildings, offers shorter published a collection of thought Reduction in Increased construction programmes and leadership articles featuring best Leading up to and during CO2 emissions recycling delivers numerous sustainability practices, insights and processes the COP21 conference, benefits. Dalston Lane in London that can strengthen cities. Our goal Ramboll took an active is set to be the world’s tallest and was to equip public and private largest cross-laminated timber stakeholders around the world role in sharing our building of its kind and is the latest with a set of tools that enable insights and experience example of how to build housing informed decisions to ensure resilient and presented new capacity rapidly and sustainably − cities and sustainable growth. knowledge about particularly in cities. Ramboll carried The historic UN climate agreement out full structural engineering and at COP21 confirms a global approach climate adaptation and the design of the project, which to addressing climate change. The mitigation solutions. will provide over 12,500 m2 of agreement is a joint effort among residential space and over 3,460 m2 nations, cities and businesses to of commercial space. Dalston Lane reduce carbon emissions and keep will save 2,400 tonnes of carbon, the global temperature rise below compared to an equivalent block 2 degrees Celsius compared to the Reduction of water consumption CO2 EMISSIONS PER EMPLOYEE, (FTEE), TONNES ENERGY CONSUMPTION BUSINESS-RELATED TRANSPORT TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS 4 4 4 2.15 2.25 2.15 2 2 2 The Environmental Sustainability Strategy developed in 1.35 1.43 1.37 2015 prioritises the above four areas for the management 0.83 0.82 0.78 of Ramboll’s facilities in Denmark based on material aspects. The strategy is supported by a yearly action plan 0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 that describes more specific and measurable actions to be taken. See page 38 for notes. 20 ENVIRONMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 21 CARBON FOOTPRINT pre-industrial level. For Ramboll, because the loss of trees required for participation means that we will wood pellets leaves fewer trees to GROUP POLICY Reporting period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 support sustainable development by absorb carbon emissions. Over the See page 38 for notes • CR Guideline on suppliers, utilising our technical excellence and past three years, Ramboll has been sub-consultants and knowledge, and we are committed advising DONG Energy on two major consortium partners, to reducing our own carbon retrofit and conversion projects in including Supplier emissions. The Paris agreement will Denmark. The aim of these projects Declaration accelerate the transition towards a is to convert the former coal-fired ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 low-carbon society. This new global plants to either 100% biofuel or 100% framework will enable us to deliver fossil fuel, adding both flexibility and • Development of Environmental integrated, responsible solutions an extra 15-25 years of operation. Sustainability focus areas across sectors and geographies to The renovation, which optimises • Reduction of energy support climate change action. energy production and minimises consumption from environmental impacts, is more 0.81 to 0.78 tonnes CO2 (per FTEE) energy-efficient and cost-effective ENERGY • Reduction of transport than constructing a new plant. related CO2 emissions Society has become entirely from 1.43 to 1.37 dependent on readily available energy Promoting sustainable energy tonnes (per FTEE) in order to function and ensure In addition to our client projects, AMBITIONS 2016 continuous development. The race is we take an active role in promoting • Identify CO2 reduction targets on to find the most efficient, costsustainable energy. Energy experts • Establish new global process effective and stable energy sources. from Ramboll delivered a number of and tools for our carbon 37% Energy efficiency, optimisation and transition are all areas that Ramboll presentations at the World Future Energy Summit, the Middle East’s emission calculation process • Integrate supplier requirements in Airplane new Global Procurement Process prioritises to respond to the global largest gathering on future energy challenge expressed by the UN and one that drives actionable LYNC VIDEO CONFERENCES Sustainable Development Goal 7: solutions to the world’s energy 26% ‘to ensure access to affordable, challenges. We also participated in 162% Increase in the use of 0% Electricity reliable, sustainable and modern various panel debates during the Abu Lync video conferencing at Ramboll. Lync video Ferry energy for all’. SDG 7 also includes Dhabi Sustainability Week. conference calls increased the target to substantially increase from 18,146 in 2014 the share of renewable energy in Reducing energy consumption to 47,556 in 2015 the global energy mix by 2030, as While the very nature of our work LYNC INSTANT MESSAGES well as expanding infrastructure and contributes with environmental upgrading technology to supply benefits, we continuously focus 2015 modern and sustainable energy on the energy consumption of our 20,027,075 services. own operations. As part of these Many of our hallmark projects efforts, we have measured Ramboll’s 2014 provide the societal benefits worldwide CO2 emissions for five 12,712,491 of securing the energy supply, years. In 2015, the CO2 emission 5% 22% mitigating climate change impacts, improving energy efficiency generated by energy consumption (electricity, cooling and heating) was 2013 135,158 Public transport Cars and securing and delivering 0.78 tonnes per full-time employee increasingly scarce resources. equivalent (FTEE), an improvement GLOBAL VIDEO CONFERENCES, TOTAL NUMBER OF CALLS from 2014 (0.82). Looking back at the 10% Providing clients with energy solutions figures from 2013 (0.83), the latest measure of CO2 emissions indicates a Heating 59,814 Ramboll advises clients on stable level. 53,408 cost-effective, sustainable and environmentally sound energy TRANSPORT 36,308 strategies and master planning, implementation of the full range Air pollution is the number one of renewable and fossil-fuel based environmental health risk today. energy production technologies, as Globally, an increasing demand for 2013 2014 2015 well as energy storage, transmission instant mobility has resulted in a and distribution. 57% increase in the number of motor The conversion of heat and power vehicles worldwide, and vehicle plants from coal to biomass, which is emissions are the main contributor to taking place principally in Northern decreasing air quality in congested Europe, can help to diversify the urban areas (WHO). energy supply and reduce greenhouse A comprehensive, sustainable Ramboll is dedicated to minimising its carbon gas (GHG) emissions. Biomass urban mobility approach would footprint related to business travel and energy use, represents a reliable alternative to achieve a significant decrease in and we measure our CO2 emissions to keep track of coal during the transition to fossilemissions. Cycling and walking free energy systems, such as wind networks, attractive and reliable the development within the area. The above figures and solar power. Yet biomass itself alternatives to private vehicles, as show how much each aspect contributes to our total is a limited resource that must be well as cleaner technology and fuels CO2 emissions. produced and used sustainably, for vehicles can all contribute to 22 ENVIRONMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 23 1 ADAPTING CITIES TO 2 CLIMATE CHANGE Extreme storm water and flooding are becoming more and more common, especially in cities. Over the years, Ramboll has assisted cities around the world with developing climate strategies as well as specific mitigation and adaptation measures. 2 INCREASING CLIMATE RESILIENCE IN ASIA PACIFIC The Asian Development Bank has engaged Ramboll to prepare a comprehensive study to position them to invest more effectively in increasing climate adaptation and reducing carbon emissions in the fast-growing urban areas in the Asia Pacific region. The purpose of the study is to provide an overview of relevant options that would enable climate-resilient urban infrastructure development and their associated costs and benefits. Image: Mike K. Dreamstime.com 1 more sustainable urban mobility. even forego travel in favour of Sustainable Development Goal conducting virtual meetings using ENVIRONMENTAL ACCREDITATION (SDG) 9 addresses the need to video technology instead of meeting SCHEMES, NUMBER OF LICENSED foster innovation leading to resilient in person. While in-person meetings ASSESSORS and sustainable infrastructure are still a necessary aspect of our 2013 2014 2015 and industrialisation. Ramboll business, we have increased the is working to support this goal number of Lync video meetings 24 34 38 BREEAM in many of our projects. by 162% and the number of Video 16 16 28 LEED Conference calls by 12% from 2014 Light rail link helps to 2015. The total travel-related CO2 10 10 20 Miljöbyggnad improve the environment emissions decreased from 13,799 8 8 9 Cert. Energy Expert The future light rail connection tonnes and 1.43 per FTEE in 2014 to 6 5 7 DGNB along ‘Ring 3’, the ring road just 12,841 tonnes and 1.37 FTEE in 2015. west of Copenhagen in Denmark, 5 3 4 ESTIDAMA will not only promote a more 5 3 4 CEEQUAL WATER coherent city infrastructure, but 3 3 4 CSH will create a platform for residential The basic human right to have 3 0 1 OCDEA and commercial development in access to clean water is a major the cities it passes through. The driver for the development of urban 1 3 4 EPC light rail will also facilitate a more areas and regions alike. One of the 0 0 0 GRIHA sustainable transportation option for UN SDGs addresses this challenge: 5 6 GSAS more than one million passengers, Ensuring availability and sustainable as the system will run entirely on management of water and sanitation 1 Green Star electricity. The system will achieve for all (6). 1 GMM emission reductions by decreasing Ramboll established a separate 10 BEAM Prof. the number of private vehicles and business unit for Water services 1 Envision buses in the area. Ramboll provides in May 2015. Our experts address client consultancy on the light rail global water and climate challenges 2 CEM transportation system, including across the water cycle from water 2 FiGBC operation and maintenance. resources and supply to processing 12 IES and treatment to sewage and 4 CFD ANALYSIS Business travel carbon emission discharge. Ramboll handles all Ramboll is dedicated to minimising project phases: from initial strategic 78 105 138 Total the carbon footprint related to our analyses to design of master plans business travel. We encourage our and implementation of final solutions. Environmental accreditation schemes employees to use available public Working with municipalities, utilities covering different themes in relation transport whenever possible, and and industrial clients, we draw to buildings and communities. 24 ENVIRONMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 25 4 RIVER CITY, on multidisciplinary expertise to both a challenge and an opportunity environmental and social impacts. GOTHENBURG, SWEDEN create innovative and sustainable to build urban areas with longEnvironmental and Social Impact The vision for the new ‘River solutions for our clients and society. term perspective. This is why UN Assessment (EIA/ESIA) is an ideal City’ in Gothenburg calls Sustainable Development Goal 11 tool for embedding sustainable for the transformation of the old harbour area into a Promoting sustainable deals with ’making cities and human social, environmental and economic green, attractive and liveable water solutions settlements inclusive, safe, resilient performance into projects and neighbourhood. Ramboll is the In addition to our client projects, and sustainable’. mitigating adverse impacts. lead consultant for a feasibility we take an active role in promoting Achieving the outstanding Ramboll’s technically robust EIAs/ study of the Gullbergsvass sustainable water use. master planning that is essential ESIAs and Strategic Environmental district with EG Architects and Lijewall Architects. Saudi Arabia faces serious water to many of Ramboll’s projects Assessments (SEA) helps position The new district covers 1.5 scarcity challenges. A Ramboll requires working across disciplines consenting authorities to make million m2 with capacity for delegation participated in a seminar and sectors. To achieve liveable informed decisions. Our scientific, 20,000 residents and 20,000 in the Saudi Arabian capital of solutions requires bridging the gaps interdisciplinary approach is workplaces. The ambitious undertaking aims to bring Riyadh arranged by Water Alliance between stakeholders. We apply sensitive to local customs and Gothenburg into Europe’s top Exchange, a group of international a holistic and integrated urban legislative requirements. Our experts five cities for growth potential. companies working together to planning model encompassing the include relevant authorities and Visualisation: EG Architects. promote new technologies. The social, environmental, economic and stakeholders early in the process 5 HELSINKI CENTRAL purpose of the seminar was to physical aspects of a city, rather to ensure that any challenges are LIBRARY, FINLAND inspire innovative and effective than treating the elements of the identified in time to be resolved or The new Helsinki Central solutions to enable the Saudi Arabian urban environment, such as water or mitigated in the design phase. Library will be a modern Ministry of Water and Electricity transport infrastructure, in isolation. As an independent advisor, addition to Töölönlahti Bay’s cultural hub and provide and the National Water Company our assessments are firmly based city residents with a cultural to create a common platform for on technical rigor, expertise and ENVIRONMENTAL living space and a multimedia addressing some of the country’s experience, providing stakeholders IMPACT ASSESSMENTS centre hosting a variety of most critical water access challenges. with confidence in the accuracy and events. The building is being Demonstrable long-term effectiveness of our conclusions, designed in accordance with Helsinki City’s guide to lowsustainability has become a basic recommendations and subsequent URBAN PLANNING energy building and the element of most development management plans. project has goals for both Two-thirds of the world’s population projects, which increasingly must electricity and heating energy use. Ramboll is responsible 4 is predicted to live in cities by 2050 be undertaken in accordance for project and construction (World Bank), and 60% of the urban with recognised standards, such management, structural areas expected to be developed as the Equator Principles, the IFC engineering, cost estimation by 2030 have not yet been built Performance Standards and other and quantity survey, as well (Secretariat of the Convention on IFI requirements such as the OECD as energy calculations. Biological Diversity). This represents Common Approaches, which address Visualisation: ALA Architects. 3 ENSURING SAFE DRINKING WATER Five years ago, the city of Skellefteå in Northern Sweden suffered from problems with the drinking water, making people ill. The municipality decided to replace the old and worn waterworks with a new treatment plant that treats the water with artificial groundwater recharge followed by oxidation, filtration and disinfection to ensure high drinking water quality. Ramboll is the lead consultant on the project which is the largest of its kind in Sweden. 3 5 26 BUSINESS INTEGRITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 27 Ramboll applies a continued focus on business integrity. Our ownership, the Ramboll Foundation, requires Ramboll to act as a good corporate citizen — to be known as a trustworthy and independent adviser who upholds business integrity beyond doubt. BUSINESS INTEGRITY UN Global Compact Principle 10 IMPLEMENTING states that ‘Businesses should work GLOBAL POLICIES UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES against corruption in all its forms, This principle is covered in including extortion and bribery’. One To ensure that Ramboll conducts this section of the UN Sustainable Development business in accordance with 10: Anti-corruption Goals (16) identifies the need to international standards and ‘promote peaceful and inclusive legislation, it is crucial to have clear UN SUSTAINABLE societies for sustainable development, policies that our employees can DEVELOPMENT GOALS provide access to justice for all and consult for guidance. This is why we build effective, accountable and launched revised versions of all global This goal is covered in this inclusive institutions at all levels’. policies in May 2015. Our high growth section 16: Peace, justice and In order to ensure that Ramboll rate outside of the Nordic home strong institutions develops in line with best practice markets and our latest acquisitions in this respect, the company − created a renewed focus on training KEY ACHIEVEMENT comprising all employees − must at all employees in our policies to Delivering Code of Conduct all times act in compliance with our establish a strong compliance culture e-learning training to 91% of our Code of Conduct, internal policies and across Ramboll. employees to ensure that our people procedures, as well as the prevailing We are committed to introducing know how to act when they face legal requirements where we operate. awareness training in the Ramboll dilemmas in their daily work In 2015, Ramboll continued to policies gradually over the next focus on adequately, effectively few years through the use of the and systematically managing Compliance Management System and business integrity through our by conducting workshops, webinars policies, procedures and systems. or other training programs. Due to risk and legislation requirements, we require all employees to read and sign selected global policies. 28 BUSINESS INTEGRITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 29 CODE OF CONDUCT Employees invested approximately 30 minutes (approx. 6,500 hours or Ramboll’s Code of Conduct expresses 270 days) in the adaptive e-learning our standards for responsible business training, which had three modules: behaviour. This figure exemplifies how Human Rights, Environment and Antiit is used in practice by our employees corruption. The training also included a section that guided employees on STEP 2: what to do and whom to contact EXAMPLE if they experience situations that If a gift is offered, employees compromise the Code of Conduct. must consider whether they Ramboll acknowledges that STEP 1: can accept it TRAINING employees may be faced with All employees are trained in our Code dilemmas or situations where of Conduct, which governs the way we they do not know how to act. work with partners and clients Ramboll encourages employees to bring these situations up for open discussion with colleagues and management, as these are ? Ramboll dilemmas and not dilemmas to be solved by the individual employee without guidance. Depending on the issue, employees are encouraged first to look up the YES Code of Conduct, which provides NO guidance on what to do. If they do not find a sufficient answer there, employees should go to their immediate Manager or Compliance STEP 4: Manager for guidance. Alternatively, ADHERENCE Gifts should only be accepted if they do not employees can use the Whistleblower present a breach to our Code of Conduct hotline to raise a flag anonymously. STEP 3: IN CASE OF DOUBT ANTI-CORRUPTION There are three options for seeking advice: contact immediate Manager Corruption both decreases incentives contact Local Compliance Manager for investments and increases the use Whistleblower hotline cost of doing business in high risk markets. According to Transparency International (T.I.), corruption can add up to 50% to project costs. Ramboll is committed to acting honestly, responsibly, professionally, GLOBAL CODE OF values are embedded across our and transparently in our business investments being made in this CONDUCT TRAINING organisation. The Code of Conduct CORPORATE INCOME TAX, activities. Ramboll takes a zeroarea will flow through new and GROUP POLICIES puts our values into practice and DKK MILLION tolerance approach to bribery and uncoordinated channels where the • Tax Working in a responsible way is guides the daily decision making corruption, as it is fundamental to risk of corruption is high. Ramboll is • Treasury part of being a Ramboll employee, of our managers and employees. 2013 2014 2015 our core values to uphold high ethical engaged in two of the three sectors since we aspire to become a leading An internal survey conducted in standards and comply with legislation. most prone to corruption (1. public sustainable society consultant late 2014 revealed that 17% of Ramboll 36.0 45.1 86.7 Denmark By 2025 the global construction works/construction and 3. oil and gas; globally. In 2015, we continued our people managers were unfamiliar output is predicted to increase the second is arms and defence, T.I.). ACHIEVEMENT 2015 21.3 23.4 23.4 Sweden focus on implementing the Ramboll with the Code of Conduct and 23% by 70% to USD 15 trillion per year • Group Anti-corruption Code of Conduct throughout the of people managers did not know 33.2 19.1 7.7 Norway worldwide (The Global Construction The most common pressure points Policy and Guidelines organisation. Training our employees where to find the Code of Conduct. 13.4 10.7 15.5 Finland 2025 by Global Perspectives and of corruption in our industry (Source: developed was an essential element of this This led to a decision to improve Oxford Economics). The dominant Ramboll Corruption Risk Assessment; 1.6 -3.7 United Kingdom implementation. awareness among employees. In 2015 source of this growth will be three Biggest Risk of Corruption in The 8.6 10.0 10.5 Rest of world AMBITIONS 2016 The Code of Conduct expresses we introduced e-learning training in countries in particular, China, Construction Industry, K&L gates): a set of standards for responsible the Code of Conduct for all 13,000 114.0 104.7 143.8 Total India and the US. The public work • Conflicts of interest in tendering for • Anti-corruption Policy and Guidelines business behaviour as laid down employees. This was found to be contract and construction sector is contracts approved and implemented • Leadership training in Anti-corruption in our policy statement, the the best way to train employees recognised as carrying the highest • Anti-competitive practice in Global Commitment. The Global across all markets, countries and risk of corruption, especially for tendering for contracts CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING Commitment is based on The newly acquired companies, while long-term contracts with complex • Facilitation payments in tender 91% UN Global Compact Principles causing as little disruption as supply chains. The Energy sector, process and interaction with of all employees have and the UN Guiding Principles on possible to the daily business of including oil and gas, is also government officials (permits, successfully completed Business and Human Rights. As an the company. Because this initiative perceived to be more susceptible licences and planning permissions) online Code of Conduct training in 2015 international engineering consultancy, had strong support and followto bribery than other sectors. • Gifts, entertainment and hospitality we have a continuous focus on legal up from Directors and Managers Climate change is one of the during tender process compliance, adhering to global across the business, we managed to biggest challenges our planet • Client and third-party travel standards and ensuring that our achieve a completion rate of 91%. is facing. Many of the global expenses 30 BUSINESS INTEGRITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 31 THE ANNUAL COMPLIANCE CYCLE REPORT PLAN Analysing & summarising compliance performance Preparing annual compliance plans Recommending next year’s focus areas Identifying & recording compliance obligations Conducting & submitting compliance reports Establishing focus areas & KPIs Identifying training needs Q4 Q1 Q3 Q2 MONITOR ACT Conducting audits Planning audits Assisting with group compliance audits Providing/organising training & communication Completing self-assessment of local processes Image: Øyvind Hagen, Statoil • Client discounts and ‘freebies’ in the industry is a priority for behalf of Danida Fellowship Centre The cornerstones of the programme and conducting the first compliance • Use of third parties to win and Ramboll, for instance by engaging focusing on public sector leadership, are the 2014 ISO 19600 compliance audits. Systematic monitoring and GROUP POLICY retain business in close dialogue with governments, financial management and good management guidelines and the handling of compliance incidents have • Global Compliance Policy • Requests to waive rules when diplomats, civil society and other governance, including anti-corruption. newly launched Ramboll Compliance been implemented across Ramboll supporting a bidding review relevant parties in the markets In total, we have trained more than Policy, which outlines the scope to ensure effective and professional process we serve. For example, our Group 300 managers from countries and content of the programme and responses to incidents as they arise. • Offer of incentives from contractors CEO Jens-Peter Saul attended across Africa and Asia. We have also expectations of the behaviour of 2015 was dedicated to creating a ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 to sign off on substandard works a roundtable discussion on antiassessed public procurement systems, all Ramboll employees. These have shared understanding of compliance • Offer of incentives from bidders corruption with among others the including the risk of corruption, on formed the basis for the development and its importance across Ramboll. • Global Compliance to evaluate tender submissions Danish Prime Minister at the UN behalf of the World Bank in a number of an annual compliance cycle that We also worked on building a System implemented favourably Private Sector Forum in New York. of countries (eg Zimbabwe, South illustrates how we in Ramboll work strong compliance capacity in and Local Compliance Managers appointed • Assessment of corruption risk Ramboll believes that the public Sudan, Ethiopia, Papua New Guinea). with compliance planning, acting, all of our business units, with a in each Principal factors when entering new markets and private sectors (as well as civil monitoring and reporting. The annual focus on adapting global tools Business Unit (PBU) • Cost-cutting on building materials society) should join forces in the compliance cycle is supported and processes to local conditions COMPLIANCE • Focus areas and KPIs (poor quality material used and fight against corruption, as we all by various compliance tools and and different risk landscapes. set for all PBUs surplus funds pocketed instead). have an interest in doing things right. The Ramboll Global Compliance processes and the newly launched • Compliance incident process and report Ramboll supports and encourages Programme is a natural development Compliance Management System. The GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS in place Operating in high-risk industries, transparency and a systematic stemming from our foundational system will be used for the reading while at the same time having a approach in public tender processes. focus on business integrity. The and signing of policies, training, A grievance mechanism, also AMBITIONS 2016 zero-tolerance policy towards bribery We are already engaged and ready programme was initiated in 2013 to testing, risk assessment and due known as a ‘dispute’, ‘complaint’ • Global data privacy gap analysis and corruption, is a challenge and to address the issues further with address the increasing demands from diligence processes. or ‘accountability’ mechanism, is • Assessment of compliance risks a serious risk to Ramboll. In 2015, relevant authorities in the markets our clients, partners and regulatory In 2014, we focused on defining a formal complaint process that • Training to be tailored according we developed a new Group Antiwhere we operate. Ramboll also authorities to document compliance processes and developing tools in employees or stakeholders can use to specific global and PBU risks Corruption Policy and Guidelines supports industry organisations with legislation and Ramboll policies. order to establish the foundation for if they are being negatively affected both to decrease corruption risks and international anti-corruption the rollout of the Global Compliance by business activities and operations by providing specific guidance initiatives. For example, Ramboll The ultimate goals of the programme: Programme. In 2015, we focused on or to report illegal acts, breaches of to employees on how to handle is a supporting participant of • Conduct training, awareness and establishing the compliance policy, contract or policies that come to their dilemmas, and to ensure that Transparency International, Denmark. monitoring to mitigate the risk of training the newly appointed Local attention. adequate policies and procedures employees and partners violating Compliance Managers responsible As Ramboll wishes to have an are in place. The revised policy and Providing advice on anti-corruption laws and Ramboll policies for all business units, and assisting open dialogue about dilemmas, nonsupplementary guidelines will be As part of Ramboll’s consultancy • Respond to increasing client them with setting the first compliance compliance issues and potential implemented across the organisation services, we offer advice to demands for an effective focus areas and Key Performance negative impacts, we make a number in 2016. governments around the world on compliance programme Indicators (KPIs) for all business units. of grievance mechanisms available. anti-corruption and good governance • Improve relations with employees The 2015 compliance focus areas and Ramboll encourages employees to Advocating anti-corrupt behaviour practice. For example, we have and clients, and enhance the KPIs focused on training all managers take up any irregularities with their Demonstrating leadership and developed and delivered several general reputation of the company. in compliance, disseminating the Manager and/or Local Compliance advocating for anti-corrupt behaviour tailor-made training programmes on first policies for reading and signing Manager. If they do not feel 32 BUSINESS INTEGRITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 33 comfortable with this approach, they initiative is to create and implement CR PROJECT DUE DILIGENCE PROCESS may contact the Global Compliance a global and integrated HSEQ GROUP POLICIES Function or use the anonymous management system reflecting the • Project excellence Whistleblower hotline available on the standards ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and • Business risk management Ramboll intranet to raise concerns or ISO 45001 (OHSAS 18001). We expect • Global risk to report non-compliance incidents. to complete the project in 2017. • Contract with clients on 15 incidents were filed in 2015. The As part of this project, the CR consultancy services incidents were reported through project due diligence procedures • Operational organisation and delegation different grievance mechanisms: are being revised to ensure of authority orally or written to Local Compliance systematic management of project ACHIEVEMENT 2015 Managers, emails or letters to top CR opportunities and risks. This management or Whistleblower includes procedures for how we • Started development of reports. As 2015 was the first year identify, assess, prevent, mitigate new Global CR project the Compliance Programme was and account for Ramboll’s potential due diligence procedures in place, and we are focusing on or actual CR impacts in projects − awareness and training activities especially in relation to third parties. AMBITIONS 2016 in 2016, we expect an increase in filed incidents in 2016. • Finalise development of Global CR Generally, the trend in the incidents project due diligence procedures SCREENING • Identify due diligence tools in 2015 showed that there is room for Identify Corporate CATEGORISATION improvement within approval control Responsibility risks Categorise risk level REGISTERED CR PROJECT FILES (CR level rating: low, mechanisms related to procurement. medium, high) PROJECT DUE DILIGENCE 5 CR project files registered in 2015 (A CR file is documentation for the conducted CR As a consulting firm, projects are at due diligence procedures the core of Ramboll’s business and in high risk projects.) client relationships. A systematic and documented CR project due diligence CR PROJECT AUDITS approach is essential for meeting client requirements and maintaining our position as a preferred supplier to 226 COMMUNICATION ASSESSMENT our clients. 181 Communicate Assess CR risk for certain This is why we have local project preventive/mitigating risk levels and formulate due diligence procedures that 117 actions to project preventive/mitigating actions operationalise CR in Ramboll’s project team and continue/ delivery to ensure compliance with adapt dialogue with stakeholders our Global Commitment and legal requirements. The procedure is an integrated part of Ramboll’s Project 2013 2014 2015 Excellence as well as the Health, Safety, Environment and Quality (HSEQ) management system. Recognising our increasingly global structure and business diversity, in 2015 we initiated a large-scale project FOLLOW UP & DOCUMENTATION across Ramboll to develop a revised Follow up on effectiveness of Global HSEQ management system preventive/mitigating actions and document actions/decision in CR log to replace various local management and CR plan systems. The primary goal of the COMPLIANCE INCIDENTS REPORTED IN 2015* Category incidents In process Remedied Total and/or closed Human Rights 3 3 6 Ramboll is introducing a corporate responsibility project Environment 0 0 0 due diligence procedure which can be scaled to each Business Integrity 6 3 9 specific project. All our projects must follow it in order Total 15 to identify, assess, prevent, mitigate and account for how *The reported incidents are divided into categories to create a simple overview. Ramboll addresses potential or actual CR impacts in our The incidents often overlap categories and are therefore difficult to divide, however they are categorised under the most relevant category. project management. 34 REPORTING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 35 KPI REPORTING OVERVIEW PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS INTEGRITY VALUE CREATION Principal Business Unit KPI Year Employee Voluntary Females (%) Females on Females on Females on Development Works council CO2 CO2 Total Code of Number of CR audits Customer (PBU) satisfaction rate employee management management management dialogue (%) meetings emissions, emissions, CO2 conduct registered satisfaction rate (scale 1-5) turnover (%) level B (%) level C (%) level D (%) energy transport emission e-learning CR files (scale 1-5) per FTE per FTE training Key Performance Indicator >4 <year before 32% 32% 32% 32% >90% >1 100% >4.2 (KPI) target Denmark 2015 4.1 10.8 30 0 0 26 97 4* 0.70 1.88 2.58 94 0 58 4.33 2014 4.0 9.9 33 25 6 30 92 12* 0.88 2.09 2.97 0 58 4.38 2013 4.0 30 77 4 0.88 2.17 3.05 1 40 4.26 Sweden 2015 4.1 16.9 30 0 23 24 89 13 0.44 0.90 1.33 69 0 3 4.23 2014 4.0 12.7 31 0 24 31 84 17 0.40 0.89 1.29 2 3 4.23 2013 4.0 31 61 4 0.30 0.58 0.88 0 2 4.22 Norway 2015 4.0 9.7 32 0 35 32 90 4 0.65 0.98 1.62 88 0 56 4.13 2014 3.9 9.7 35 0 35 34 81 4 0.62 0.69 1.31 0 3 4.16 2013 3.9 35 79 4 0.63 0.73 1.36 0 2 4.15 Finland 2015 3.9 8.1 34 0 16 28 94 4 1.28 1.15 2.43 96 0 0 4.21 2014 3.8 6.9 38 0 14 32 89 4 0.97 1.15 2.12 1 0 4.24 2013 3.8 39 66 4 1.00 1.18 2.18 0 0 4.24 UK 2015 4.0 18.4 29 0 14 5 97 4 0.54 1.10 1.64 89 1 41 4.35 2014 4.0 11.0 31 0 11 3 92 4 0.82 0.92 1.74 1 44 4.25 2013 3.8 31 79 3 0.92 0.74 1.65 1 28 4.48 New Markets 2015 4.1 15.7 20 0 0 7 95 10 0.85 1.69 2.54 94 0 18** 4.22 (India/Middle East) 2014 4.0 22.3 19 0 8 90 1** 0.95 2.14 3.09 1** 25** 3.90 ** 2013 4.1 14 87 14 0.86 2.02 2.88 0** 16** 4.27** Management Consulting 2015 4.0 19.2 43 0 8 38 90 4 0.48 1.31 1.79 81 0 0 4.39 2014 4.1 14.8 46 0 13 43 92 4 0.71 1.82 2.52 0 0 4.46 2013 4.1 52 74 4 0.70 1.96 2.66 0 0 4.43 Oil & Gas 2015 4.0 14.9 26 0 8 16 96 24*** 1.34 1.27 2.62 99 0 32 4.35 2014 4.0 13.8 27 0 10 17 92 24*** 1.41 1.45 2.85 0 34 4.35 2013 4.0 26 97 20*** 1.33 1.28 2.61 0 21 4.27 Energy 2015 4.0 8.6 20 0 0 13 97 4*** 0.64 1.38 2.03 92 4 12 4.33 2014 3.9 7.1 21 0 0 14 84 4*** 0.73 1.66 2.39 0 14 4.33 2013 3.9 21 84 4*** 0.71 1.23 1.94 0 8 4.31 Environment & Health 2015 3.8 9.1 51 0 29 24 79 6**** 0 3 4.31 2014 2013 Water 2015 4.0 10.3 42 100 43 41 91 2***** 0 3 4.30 2014 2013 Business Support 2015 4.1 7.4 40 29 29 94 4* 95 2014 4.1 7.8 43 20 33 91 12 2013 44 Ramboll Group 2015 4.0 11.9 34 7 17 25 91 1****** 0.78 1.37 2.15 91 5 226 4.27 2014 4.0 11.6 32 8 15 27 88 1****** 0.81 1.43 2.25 5 181 4.27 2013 3.9 11.2 31 7 12 23 76 1****** 0,80 1.35 2.15 2 117 4.26 Measure not applicable * Measure in 2015 covers the main Works Council only. The measure in 2014 includes local Works Councils ** Only Ramboll Middle East *** Represented in Danish Works Council **** 6 in France (Nordics represented in Nordic Works Councils) ***** 2 in Romania (Nordics represented in Nordic Works Councils) ****** Global Works Council with representative employees from each business unit 36 REPORTING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 37 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TABLE GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES REFERENCES AND COMMENTS STATUS UNGC PRINCIPLE SDG GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure CR page 6, AR page 34-35, www.ramboll.com/about-us/ organisation Ramboll is currently transitioning the CR Material aspects status of our reporting on each GRI reporting process and data to become The report describes our material aspects performance indicator: where full ETHICS AND INTEGRITY aligned with the Global Reporting based on experience; the risks we face, disclosure is available; where partial G4-56 Values, principles, standards, code of conduct CR page 27-28 10: Anti-corruption Initiative (GRI) G4 Reporting Framework. the challenges that relate to our industry, disclosure is available. Furthermore, it and code of ethics Thus, this report contains Standard the business opportunities we pursue, is stated where in the CR report you will Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability and the dilemmas that arise in our find the relevant data and information. GENERIC DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Reporting Framework, though we are projects. We are aware that a more formal If it is not available in this report, we G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach CR page 38 not meeting the ‘in accordance’ criteria materiality assessment is necessary have provided a link or reference to yet. Ramboll is currently reporting on (see About this report, p. 38). Since only either our Annual Report (AR) or our SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES: MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 37 GRI performance indicators. We indicators on which we disclose either full company website www.ramboll.com. will continue our work to develop and or partial reporting have been included, Additionally, the table provides ECONOMIC mature our reporting process and data the indicators regarding material aspects information on the correlation between Economic performance collection, with the aim of improving and boundaries have been omitted. The the GRI indicators reported on, the G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR page 3 + 50 our performance and consequently same applies to the indicators related to UN Global Compact Principles and G4-EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities for the CR page 17 7: Environment 13: Climate meeting the ‘in accordance’ criteria. stakeholder engagement, as we have no Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). It organisation’s activities due to climate change action GRI is a global reporting framework formal process for this currently. Such a should be noted that Ramboll is adhering G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan AR page 50-51 that provides performance indicators process is in the pipeline for 2016. This to more UN Global Compact Principles obligations on social, environmental and economic CR report is not externally assured. and SDGs than included in the table, performance, applicable to all which is evident throughout the report. ENVIRONMENTAL organisations of all types and industries, Understanding the table Emissions across the world. The GRI framework The following GRI table provides an G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions CR page 14-21 + 34 8-9: Environment helps Ramboll to generate reliable, overview of our performance aligned Transport comparable, relevant and standardised with GRI G4 performance indicators. To G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting CR page 19-21 + 34 8: Environment information on our holistic performance. create an easy overview and increase goods, materials and members of the workforce transparency, we have indicated the LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires CR page 11 + 34 6: Labour 5: Gender equality and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Occupational Health & Safety G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk CR page 12-13 8: Decent work of diseases related to their occupation and economic GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX growth Training and Education G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance CR page 11 + 34 6: Labour 5: Gender equality and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES REFERENCES AND COMMENTS STATUS UNGC PRINCIPLE SDG Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of CR page 11-12 6: Labour 5: Gender equality employees per employee category according to gender, age STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS group, minority group membership, and other G4-1 Statement from CEO CR page 4 indicators of diversity Labour practices grievance mechanisms ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, CR page 32 8: Decent work G4-3 Name of the organisation Ramboll addressed, and resolved through formal grievance and economic G4-4 Primary brands, products, services www.ramboll.com/ mechanisms growth services-and-sectors G4-5 Location of headquarters CR page 39 HUMAN RIGHTS G4-6 Countries of operation AR page 4-5, www.ramboll.com/ worldwide Investment G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR page 6 G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies CR page 28-29 1: Human Rights or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are G4-8 Markets served AR page 13-14, www.ramboll.com/ relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees services-and-sectors, www.ramboll. trained com/worldwide Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-9 Scale of the organisation AR page 7, www.ramboll.com/ worldwide G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts CR page 32 1: Human Rights G4-10 Employee breakdown (gender, type, contract) CR page 12 6: Labour 5: Gender equality filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-13 Changes during the reporting period AR page 8-11 (size, structure, ownership) G4-14 Addressing the precautionary approach Code of Conduct: www.ramboll. SOCIETY com/about-us/responsible-andAnti-Corruption holistic/global-commitment G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and In progress (2016) 10: Anti-corruption G4-15 External charters, principles or other initiatives endorsed CR page 6 procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken CR page 32 10: Anti-corruption IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-17 Coverage of entities included in the AR page 47 G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, CR page 32 organisation’s consolidated financial statements addressed, and resolved through formal grievance G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information CR page 38, AR page 8-11 mechanisms provided in previous reports REPORT PROFILE PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-28 Reporting period Calendar year 2015, CO2 Product and service labeling reporting: 1/7 2014-30/6 2015 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction CR page 34 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 27 March 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions CR Manager Stine Jeppesen: STIJ@ramboll.com 38 REPORTING ABOUT THIS REPORT This report is Ramboll’s annual ‘Environment & Health’ took place non-environmental friendly electricity corporate responsibility (CR) 1 May 2015. Thus, CO2 and certain has been changed from 40 g/kWh to 344.47 g/kWh for, based on the report, which complements our other CR KPIs will not be reported on Residual mix in the Nordic countries annual reporting, and constitutes a for these PBUs in 2015. Furthermore, • Electricity for Public Transport is ‘Communication on Progress’ (COP), the unit Ramboll Studio Dreiseitl based on water power, and Ramboll in compliance with the UN Global under the Ramboll New Markets PBU Sweden has bought carbon credits, Compact and the current reporting is not included in the CO2 accounts. which explains the very low number. Finland: requirements of the Danish Financial • The CO2 emissions from Statements Act on Corporate heat consumption are only Responsibility (§99 a) and Gender measured on one location. NOTES CO2 REPORTING Composition of Management (§99 b). • RFI acquired Pöyry’s Building and • Reporting period is 1 July Construction Management businesses The purpose of the CR Report 2014 to 30 June 2015. in Finland, during the reporting 2015 is to report and communicate • If the International Energy Agency period, which explains the increase on Ramboll’s holistic performance factors (IEA statistics, “CO2 Emission in transport, due to more company from fuel combustion highlights”, (social, environmental and economic fleet and manager cars, and also 2011 edition) are used instead of performance and impacts) including the increase in heat consumption. national factors, this is stated in United Kingdom: approach, policies, actions, results, the business unit notes below. • Better data regarding transport challenges and ambitions to Ramboll’s • Full Time Employee Equivalent has been provided this year, stakeholders; owners, clients, (FTEE) figures are average FTEE in due to a new contract with the the reporting period. In this reporting employees, potential employees travel agency Via Egencia. period we have retrieved data from and the UN Global Compact. • This year, RUK has used national CO2 a new system, which provides more emission factors compared to last We welcome our stakeholders accurate and globally comparable year, where IEA factors were used. to give us feedback on the report data than previously, but this also New Markets: implies that comparability with and performance. Please forward • The principal business unit New Markets previous years is weakened. the feedback to the Group CR is split into two separate accounts, one for India and one for Middle East. & Compliance Function. Denmark: • The unit Ramboll Studio Dreiseitl is • The CO2 emission factor for not included in the CO2 reporting. Reporting principles cars have been changed: India: • Gas: from 175g CO2/km to 130g CO2/km The body of the report compares • A department was sold off which has • Diesel: from 147.5g CO2/ data for the complete Ramboll caused a decrease in public transport. km to 133.5g CO2/km • A short-term project caused the need to Group over the past three years. In • During the reporting period, some allocate private taxis for engineers, the ‘KPI Reporting overview’ section, offices have been closed and moved which explains the increase. to new locations: Our Horsens the detailed reporting on Principle Management Consulting: office closed and moved to Vejle. Business Units (PBUs) is presented • Ramboll Putz & Partners is not Our Køge office closed and moved included in the reporting since the on selected KPIs. An overview of our to Roskilde. We have no data on merger took place in May 2015. organisational structure is available electricity or heat from Roskilde. Oil & Gas: here: http://www.ramboll.com/ Sweden: • Partly use of IEA factors. • The CO2 emission factor has been about-us/organisation changed to 170 g/km as compared to 150 g/km for cars in previous reporting Structure of the report periods, as it is a more reliable number. This year, we are starting to align • The CO2 emission factor for all our CR report with GRI G4 and we recognise that we are still in a learning and development process towards meeting all criteria. In 2016, focus Ramboll works to continuously improve performance will be on conducting a structured on corporate responsibility. On an annual basis, we and externally-assured materiality are guided by the UN Global Compact Management assessment to determine where our Model to support our efforts in integrating the ten greatest impacts lie. This year, we principles on human rights, environment and antireport on three main themes within corruption into core strategies and business operations. CR that also form the structure of Head Office: the report: People, Environment and Ramboll Group A/S Business Integrity. Hannemanns Allé 53 DK-2300 Copenhagen S Limitations Danish CVR No. 10160669 Our CR reporting contains some limitations this year. The reporting Editors: Stine Jeppesen, Roos Nederveen period for our CO2 account is 1 July Art Director: Lone Olai 2014 to 30 June 2015. The acquisition Digital Image Maker: Per Rasmussen of ENVIRON took place 1 January Photographers: Mike K. | Dreamstime.com, ALA Architects, EG 2015 and the reorganisation of the Architects, Øyvind Hagen Statoil, Scanpix, Polfoto, Morten Larsen. two Business Units ‘Water’ and Printers: Cool Gray A/S. 541-492 WWW.RAMBOLL.COM
