Communication on Progress Report 2016 27th February 2016 – 27th February 2017 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) We are pleased to confirm that bvba 32 (Ann Demeulemeester) supports the ten Principle 1 principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. environment and anti-corruption. Principle 2 We are committed to advance the 10 principles within our sphere of influence in Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. the fashion industry. We continue to include the principles in our strategy and day-to-day operations. We continue to engage further in collaborative projects Principle 3 which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Since 2012 our company has taken leadership in promoting Children’s Rights and Principle 4 Business Principles in Belgium. The business case for respecting and supporting The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; children's rights is clear. Supporting the health, education and safety of children is vital to creating a stable and productive business environment. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; Taking positive action for children's rights is key to building strong relationships with the communities in which companies work. Promoting skills-training and Principle 6 youth employment is critical to ensure that the next generation has the skills The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. businesses need to prosper. Building and nurturing creativity and talent is at the heart of our business. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our Principle 8 company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Attached is a brief Principle 9 summary of our commitment. We are working on an in depth report ( according Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly to the GRI) that will be released in January 2017. technologies. Principle 10 Sincerely yours, Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anne Chapelle CEO HUMAN RIGHTS Our commitment Principle 1: BVBA32 is committed to promote the human rights values in our Code of Conduct and Human Resources Policies and Practices. We are committed to fostering an environment of integrity and respect for our employees and customers wherever we do Business should support and business, and we expect that our business partners will operate accordingly. respect the protection of internationally proclaimed We aspire to work with suppliers that share our values and we expect high standards of business conduct from those who human rights represent us or do business with us. Regardless of where we operate we will not compromise on our integrity. We aim to create social and economic value, contribute to sustainable economic development and promote the exchange of kills and knowledge. It is the policy of the BVBA32 group to ensure equal employment opportunity without discrimination on the basis of race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, disability, citizenship, age or any other characteristic protected by law. Actions and outcomes Principle2: Business should make that Before the start of a new business relationship with a potential partner serious due diligence takes place. they are not complicit in human rights abuses The BVBA32 has continuously helped young talents from all backgrounds move ahead in their careers. We believe young people have to be nourished to build knowledge to continue to strengthen their competences. LABOUR Our commitment Principle3: Our employees are the cornerstone of our company‘s success a respectful working environment has the highest priority. We Business should uphold the abide to the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining . freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Actions and outcomes right to collective bargaining We provide an environment of open communication where our employees can speak with their managers about their concerns, problems or ideas to address workplace issues. Our commitment The BVBA32 group does not accept, under any circumstance, the exploitation of workers and does not maintain business Principle4: relationship or hire services from organizations which adopt any form of forced or compulsory labor. Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of Actions and outcomes forced and compulsory labor We actively source and work with small suppliers and subcontractors. We have started a sourcing program to strengthen sustainable supplier relationships We provide competitive compensation and benefits, a safe and friendly work environment, and offer opportunities for learning and career advancement. LABOUR Our commitment BVBA 32 does not accept under any circumstance, the exploitation of children. Principle 5: Actions and outcomes Business should uphold the We work with smaller/ private ateliers and production sites who respect human rights principles. Further on we try to keep effective abolition of child our production in Western Europe . We do not have production places in emerging markets where hidden child labor is harder labor to detect. In case of production in China or India – for reasons of expertise and preserved craftsmanship – our production sites are carefully checked. We also want to support small ateliers, preserve the locals and their traditional knowledge of handcrafting artisanal skills. We often visit our production sites. It is important to closely engage with our partners to build a sustainable value chain. Our commitment BVBA 32 is committed to a Human Resources policy focused on integrity and professionalism. We do not accept, in our principle 6: processes or at the workplace, any form of discrimination related to race, gender, sexual orientation, color, religion, age, ethnic Business should uphold the origin, physical or mental disability or any other classification. elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Actions and outcomes occupation The BVBA32 has always maintained its commitment to diversity and equal opportunities in recruitment. Over 10 nationalities are represented among our staff for which multi-cultural management is required. The diversity within the BVBA32 community underlines its energy, vibrancy and connectedness. All applicants are considered for employment based on their experience, skills and attitude. We adhere to all labor laws, respect the freedom of association, privacy and equal employment opportunity. We expect from our suppliers and contractors to embrace similar standards and values. . ENVIRONMENT Our commitment BVBA 32 acts in order to protect the environment in all the localities in which its business activities are developed. We commit Principle7: to use natural resources rationally, use recyclable material whenever possible and taking other measures to reduce to a Business should support a minimum air, sound and visual pollution. precautionary approach to We promote environmental responsibility, not only in our usual operation, but also with consciousness-raising actions, environmental education and education for a conscious consumption. We will encourage our employees and partners to environmental challenges embrace sustainable values and a zero waste ideology. We are endeavored to the development and adoption of environmentally sustainable technologies within the characteristics of our businesses. We will consider the best practices and technologies for implementing the most efficient pollution prevention programs that will minimize the use of hazardous materials and waste. Principle8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Actions and outcomes We have reviewed processes and established a recycling program for most of the consumables being used by our company as well as our wasteespecially for paper/ cardboard, left over fabric and plastics. Principle9: Our production partner in Portugal uses a high technology and complex waste recycling system. In the future we want to Business should encourage the encourage our business partners to invest in such sustainable environmentally friendly technologies. development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Our Quality Management implemented the REACH-, CIQand Flammability tests which are set according to specific technologies international ISO/EC standards. The tests are done every season and declares the nonuse of harmful substances for textiles and clothing's. We do not use any hazardous dyes and pigments for our garments that can cause harmful consequences for our workers, the end customer an.d the environment ANTI-CORRUPTION Our commitment BVBA 32 does not accept any form of corruption. We are committed to fair and responsible business and prohibit all forms of bribery or corruption. We expect our employees to follow the rules of conduct that will protect the interests and safety of all employees and the organization. Actions and outcomes We do not accept corruption in any country where we do business. Training is organized when members of staff do travel and meet our manufacturing partners or our retailers worldwide. Principle10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery
