Road 2016 Sustainability Report to sustainability 008 2015 Highlights News highlights of Hyundai Motor Company in 2015 020 CSV Highlights IONIQ Health Care Project for Taxi Drivers Wearable Robotics for Walking Assistance 044 Sustainability Performance Product Responsibility· Eco-friendliness · Suppliers · Employees · Society About This Report Content This is the fourteenth Sustainability Report of Hyundai 004 CEO Message Motor Company (“Hyundai”), with the focus of this 006 Company Overview year’s report being on the company’s five core values for sustainability management. In particular, this report 008 2015 Highlights shares the blueprint for the company’s sustainability Hyundai opens a new chapter in “future mobility” management by setting out the mid-to long-term through new thinking and new challenges. strategic directions for each of the five defined core values. In addition, there are special sections on major 020 CSV Highlights highlights of the year, with significant business impacts Hyundai creates economic and social values in and stakeholder interests, and on new activities in harmony through its distinctive CSV activities creating shared value (CSV) over the period covered by the report. 044 Sustainability Performance Hyundai thinks from the perspective of its Reporting Principle stakeholders, in order to grow with them through Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core guidelines sustainability management. Reporting Scope The economic (based on Korean International Financial 128 Facts & Figures Reporting Standards), social and environmental performance 135 GRI Index of Hyundai Motor Company and its subsidiaries 138 Independent Assurance Statement Reporting Period January 1st, 2015 December 31st, 2015; also includes some data and information from 2013 March 2016 Reporting Cycle Annual (last report was published in June 2015) Assurance Separate independent assurances are given by thirdparty assurance service providers concerning Hyundai’s This report has been published sustainability management as a whole, and its greenhouse as an interactive PDF, allowing gas emissions and energy consumption readers to move quickly and easily to pages in the report, and including Headquarters shortcuts to related web pages. 12, Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 06797, Korea Contact Information CSV Strategy Team, Hyundai Motor Company Content Previous Next Chapter Page Chapter (Phone: +82-2-3464-2025, E-mail: hmcsr@hyundai.com) Reference Page Related Link Hyundai has set up various on-line channels in order to actively communicate with its stakeholders. www.hyundai.com http://blog.hyundai.com www.facebook.com/abouthyundai https://www.youtube.com/user/AboutHyundai https://www.instagram.com/hyundai.official https://www.instagram.com/hyundai_ioniq CEO Message We will make proactive responses to market changes and work to our best ability toward enhancing value for, and growing together with customers and other stakeholders. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 004 Dear customers and stakeholders, Overseas are our social activities as extensive as our global presence, focusing on health, technology, education and cultural issues. In the It is my great pleasure to greet you through the U.S., we support children’s tumor research and treatment through the Hyundai Hope on Wheels program; in Europe, provide solutions 2016 Sustainability Report, a 14-year long trend. to youth unemployment problems through the Skills for the Future; and in India, help farmers attain economic independence through our Hyundai Motor Company (“Hyundai”) is dedicated to bringing Dream Village project. aspirations of our societies to reality based on ‘unlimited sense of responsibility’, ‘respect for mankind’ and ‘realization of possibilities’— In the environmental aspect, we are making progress in minimizing the cornerstones of our management. In terms of vision, Hyundai environmental impacts of automobiles by improving the efficiency of aims to become a ‘Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond’ the powertrain and developing alternative fuel vehicles. Namely, in by producing not a mere means of transportation but vehicles of 2016 we developed the world’s first dedicated vehicle platform that optimum mobility that make people’s lives more convenient and supports three distinct powertrain systems—electric, hybrid and pleasant. Pursuing this vision in 2015, we sold 4.96 million units plug-in hybrid—thereby successfully launching an IONIQ line-up. worldwide, continuing the growth trend that has been unbroken since 1998 for 17 consecutive years. Such a feat would have been Lastly, Hyundai works to facilitate communication with its impossible without the unwavering support and encouragement of stakeholders. In 2015 we held a series of management-customers our customers and stakeholders, and for that I would like to express sessions at which we explained our product development philosophy my sincere gratitude. and steps taken toward enhancing customer value, listening to their opinions and answering their questions. We also set up the Corporate In product responsibility, our goal is to achieve ‘zero human casualty’ Governance & Communication Committee, exclusively consisted of through development of intelligent highly-safe vehicle technologies. outside directors and dedicated to the protection of shareholder The Genesis G90 (locally named EQ900 in Korea), introduced in and investor rights, and sought to reflect market opinions in the 2015 as the first of the luxury brand Genesis embodying ‘Humanmaking of major business decisions. In working with suppliers, we are centered Innovation’, features such safety and convenience-focused refining the three win-win growth strategies developed on the basis technologies for both drivers and pedestrians as Highway Driving of Hyundai’s co-prosperity philosophy. In addition, Hyundai Motor Assist (HDA) and Driver Attention Alert (DAA) systems. Our R&D Manufacturing Czech, Hyundai Motor Brazil and Hyundai Motor India focus will stay human-centered, firmly fixed on developing Advanced were named outstanding business in the areas of personnel and Driver Assistance System (ADAS) and other innovative technologies labor-management, testaments to our efforts of solidifying trust that contribute to the safety and convenience of customers. In between labor and management. We will continue our efforts at addition, by proactively expanding car connectivity technologies meeting stakeholder expectations on all our business sites. and services, we will provide solutions to individual preferences for lifestyles available in the new era. 2016 is expected to be another challenging year for the world automobile market; and Hyundai and its 110,000 global employees In conducting social responsibilities, Hyundai is working on creating will make proactive responses to market changes and work to their shared value (CSV) beyond the realm of economic activities to best ability toward enhancing value for, and growing together address social issues through a variety of programs, including startwith customers and other stakeholders. We hope this report will up support programs, launched at home and abroad, which have remain a communication medium of disseminating messages of our contributed to lessening unemployment among younger generations sustainability. as well as to making the auto industry of respective countries more competitive. Also introduced are activities demonstrating Hyundai’s Thank you. technological prowess and commitment to its social responsibility, such as a recreational attraction, a health program and an invention, all to bring joy and happiness to customers and community members: a kids race track, called the ‘Cha*-Car-Cha-Car Playground’, where even sight-impaired children can experience driving; the ‘Health Care Project for Taxi Drivers’; and wearable robotics for walking CEO, Hyundai Motor Company assistance. Wonhee Lee * Cha means a “car” in Korean. CEO Message 005 Company Overview Hyundai is leading a new culture in the automobile industry, to improve quality of life by embracing new possibilities. Since our founding in 1967, we have pioneered the development of the automobile industry in Korea, achieving many firsts and bests in the process, and have now grown into a global brand. We will continue to think from new perspectives and take on new challenges, thus create a sustainable future for all. Company Profile Major Management Activities Company Name Hyundai Motor Company Launched the New i40 Launched All New Tucson Chairman/CEO Mong Koo Chung Launched All New MIGHTY No. of Employees 112,072 persons Launched SANTAFE The Prime Launched 2016 Grand Starex Manufacturing business (Production and Headquarters Type of Business Launched the New Maxcruz sales of automobiles) Launched the New Avante Date of Establishment December 29, 1967 Launched the luxury brand ‘Genesis’ and released the EQ900 (G90) Launched Accent TUIX Crayon Total Asset KRW 165,367.9 billion Launched the 2016 Aslan Sales KRW 91,958.7 billion BHMC Launched the new Sonata targeted at the Chinese market Production 4,948,315 units Mass-produced the new Sonata HMMA Mass-produced the new Avante * As of the end of 2015; Based on K-IFRS consolidated financial statements Mass-produced the i20 Active HMI Mass-produced the Creta, compact SUV HAOS Mass-produced the H350 HMMC Mass-produced the new Tucson HMB Mass-produced the HB20 Special Edition Best-selling models (Unit: Vehicle sold globally) * As of the end of 2015 Avante 811,723 Accent 669,509 Tucson 580,831 Sonata 450,169 Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 006 9 Network * Newly established in 2015 14 4 3 12 1 10 2 17 18 7 5 16 8 6 11 15 Asia Pacific 13 1 Hyundai Motor Company 10 Sichuan Hyundai Motor Company Headquarter (HMC) (CHMC) 2 Namyang Technology Research 11 Hyundai Motor India (HMI) Center 12 Hyundai Motor Japan (HMJ) 3 Hyundai Motor China R&D Center 13 Hyundai Motor Company Australia 4 Hyundai Motor Japan R&D Center (HMCA) 5 Hyundai Motor India Engineering 14 Hyundai Motor Group China (HMGC) Pvt. Ltd. (HMIE) 15 Asia & Pacific Regional Headquarter 6 Hyundai Motor Ulsan plant 16 CV Asia & Pacific Regional Headquarter 7 Hyundai Motor Asan plant 17 Africa & Middle East Regional 8 Hyundai Motor Jeonju plant Headquarter 9 Beijing Hyundai Motor Company 18 CV Africa & Middle East Regional 23 (BHMC) Headquarter 32 35 26 27 19 28 34 30 20 24 33 25 21 29 31 22 EUROPE 19 Hyundai Motor Europe Technical 27 Hyundai Motor Netherlands b.v Center GmbH (HMETC) (HMNL)* 20 Hyundai Motor Europe Design Center 28 Hyundai Motor Poland (HMP) 21 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Czech 29 Hyundai Motor Company Italy (HMCI) (HMMC) 30 Hyundai Motor France (HMF) 22 Hyundai Assan Otomotiv Sanayi 31 Hyundai Motor Espana, S.L. (HMES) (HAOS) 32 Hyundai Motor Commonwealth 23 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Independent States (HMCIS) Russia (HMMR) 33 Hyundai Motor Czech s.r.o. (HMCZ) 24 Hyundai Motor Europe GmbH (HME) 34 CIS & Eastern Europe Regional 25 Hyundai Motor Deutshland GmbH Headquarter (HMD) 35 CV CIS & Central Europe Regional 26 Hyundai Motor United Kingdom. Ltd. Headquarter (HMUK) Americas 41 38 36 Hyundai Design Center America 40 Hyundai Motor America (HMA) 40 36 37 Hyundai Translead (HT) 41 Hyundai Auto Canada (HAC) 39 37 38 Hyundai America Technical Center 42 Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB) 44 Inc. (HATCI) 43 Hyundai Motor de Mexico (HMM) 43 39 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing 44 Central & South America Regional Alabama (HMMA) Headquarters 42 Company Overview 007 2015 Highlights Human-centered Innovation Vice Chairman Eui Sun Chung, During a press conference at the launch of the Genesis brand Customers are our reason for taking on new challenges. We pursue ‘Human-centered innovation’ with passion and enthusiasm, based on our confidence in the Genesis brand. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 008 Official Website of Genesis ⦁ Social Interest ⦁ Business Impact New global luxury brand for ‘Human-centered innovation’ In November 2015, Hyundai introduced its all-new global luxury brand, ‘Genesis’, in order to respond to sharp growth in the high-end automobile market, as part of its efforts to secure a new growth driver. The first Genesis model, based on the brand identity ‘Human-centered luxury’, was the ‘G90’ (locally named EQ900 in Korea), a full-sized luxury sedan that features Hyundai’s highest standards of performance, design and innovation. The G90 has been well received by Korean customers and markets, and its sales have continued to grow ― as of the end of March 2016, sales commitments had exceeded 15,000 units. The G90 will continue to expand into global markets with its launch in the U.S. in July 2016. ⦁ 1st ⦁ 1st 56 2015 Highlights 009 Innovation that matters Innovation is what we do every day at Hyundai. We have never accepted the status quo or conventional thinking. Instead, we ask new questions and prepare for a new way forward. Fresh thinking has enabled us to uncover opportunities and help our businesses grow stronger. Despite uncertainties and difficulties in 2015, we sought to transform challenges into opportunities by thinking ahead, which enabled us to build new growth momentum. Modern Premium ― the right way to be a global brand Hyundai was ranked 39th on the list of Best Global Brands 2015 selected by Interbrand, a global brand consulting group. This was one position higher than in the previous year. The value of our brand reached USD 11.3 billion, and we were top among automakers in terms of proportionate growth in brand value. This success was mainly attributable to our extensive efforts to give customers special experiences based on our brand direction, which we define as ‘Modern Premium’. ⦁ 10th ⦁ 4th 68-70 Hyundai Motor Company Brand Homepage Hyundai Motor Company 2016 2016 Sustainability Sustainability Report Report 010 Cracking the China code through the highest quality Hyundai confirmed its reputation for outstanding quality in one of the biggest markets in the world when the company received the highest available rating in the 2015 China Initial Quality Study conducted by the renowned global market research firm, J.D. Power & Associates. In addition, the Verna, Langdong, Mingtu and ix25 models were all chosen as segment winners. Hyundai has also ranked highest two years in a row in the China Sales Satisfaction Index, earning a recordhigh score of 812 points in 2015, and was second highest in the Customer Service Index. The company also earned top spot among China’s mass-market automotive brands in the China Brand Power Index financed by the Global success of Chinese Ministry of Industry and Information localized models Technology, which is recognized as one the most reliable consumer surveys in China. Hyundai’s global strategy of localizing its strategic models in key markets has been a ⦁ 1st ⦁ 1st 69 great success. Examples of this achievement include the Creta, a compact SUV localized for the Indian market, which became the bestseller Sales growth 17 year in a row in the Indian SUV market only one month after its launch in July 2015. The Creta also won the ― another new records coveted ‘Indian Car of the Year 2016’ award. 2015 was another record-breaking year for In Russia, despite weak market conditions, Hyundai; the company sold a total of 4,964,831 the market share of the Solaris has grown to units, and sales volume has now grown every stand at number two in compact car sales in year for 17 consecutive years. Sales revenues 2015, in addition to being the ‘Compact Car of were KRW 91,958.7 billion, up 3.0% year-onthe Year’ for four years in a row since 2012. year. Of particular note was an increase in In Korea, the Aslan, a medium-large sedan, sales in Korea, up 4.2% over the previous year was named the safest car of the year by the to 714,121 units, despite fierce competition Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport from imported brands. Overseas, we added at the ‘2015 New Car Assessment Program’. more “firsts” and “bests”. In September 2015, Hyundai celebrated the sale of its ⦁ 1st ⦁ 1st 61, 73 three millionth vehicle in the Middle East, 39 years after beginning exports to the region in 1976. Cumulative sales in the U.S. reached 10 million units, 29 years after Hyundai Motor America (HMA) began operations in 1986, and cumulative sales by Beijing Hyundai Motor Company (BHMC) exceeded 7 million units. ⦁ 10th ⦁ 4th 55-56 ⦁ Social Interest ⦁ Business Impact 2015 Highlights 011 Dreaming a Bigger Dream Vice Chairman Moon Sik Kwon, During his speech at the Maum Dream event We will listen very closely to our customers as we accelerate our R&D efforts, so that we can stay ahead in today’s highly competitive global marketplace and lead the future automobile industry. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 012 ‘Truth and Misunderstanding’ section in the official blog of Hyundai ⦁ Social Interest ⦁ Business Impact Maum Dream communication to seek better answers Hyundai has launched a new customer communication program, ‘Maum* Dream’, as part of our commitment to improving communications with customers. Every month from October through December in 2015, we hosted face-to-face meetings between our executives and customers, where we explained our continuing efforts to enhance product quality and customer value. Ahead of the meetings, there were on-site visits to the Namyang Technology Research Center, so that customers could see for themselves the efforts being made by Hyundai to develop high quality, high performance vehicles. * Maum means “heart” in Korean. ⦁ 3rd ⦁ 13th 71-72 2015 Highlights 013 Seeing the Bigger Picture Focusing on short-term achievements risks missing out on long-term gains. That is why Hyundai looks at the bigger picture, and strives to grow in partnership with our stakeholders. We aim to achieve sustainable growth by creating both economic and social value all over the world. In 2015, we centered our efforts on stakeholder communications with passion and integrity, which in turn has been making positive differences. Driving shareholder value through transparency and communication In April 2015, Hyundai launched the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee within the Board of Directors, in order to enhance shareholder value and management transparency. Global labor management to To guarantee the Committee’s independence, all ensure win-win success four of its members are outside directors, and it has been engaging in various activities to expand As global business management of Hyundai has dialogue with shareholders and increase returns accelerated, Hyundai focused on establishing to them ― a Committee member participated in systematic standards for global labor the company’s first Non-Deal Roadshow (NDR) management in 2015. We, therefore, published with overseas institutional investors in July 2015, management guidelines for each corporate and the Committee was also represented at visits entity across the different regions in which to major investors. These help us to listen to we operate. Also, in order to reinforce global shareholders’ opinions and reflect them in our Employee Relations (ER), we provided relevant business decision making, and those activities are trainings to 2,026 people, including overseastransparently disclosed through various channels, stationed employees and locally hired staff. including this sustainability report. Hyundai also strengthened links between ⦁ 6th ⦁ 10th 52-53 headquarters and overseas subsidiaries by hosting events such as a global ER conference and a global ER seminar. In Korea, we have made about 6,000 contractors into permanent employees over the last four years, which helps with job stability for staff, and gives a boost in quality improvement for the company. ⦁ 4th ⦁ 2nd 102-103 Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 014 More open communication in customer relations In 2015 Hyundai sought to earn back customer trust in the Korean market following concerns about product quality. We conducted a unique “car-to-car” test ― one randomly selected Sonata manufactured in the U.S. and one from Korea were deliberately crashed front-on, in the open and in public; this event, the first ever in the world, was well received by customers and markets, and helped to prove that Hyundai offers same level of quality and safety at home and abroad. In March 2015, we dispelled concerns about the safety of the Sonata Hybrid in the case of a rearend collision by staging a rear-end collision, after which the vehicle did not explode. In addition, in July, Hyundai conducted an overlap crash test on the Genesis, to prove that the safety level of Genesis vehicles in the Korean market is equal to the safety of cars made for the U.S. market. ⦁ 3rd ⦁ 13th 67 ⦁ Social Interest ⦁ Business Impact 2015 Highlights 015 Moving the World Together Chairman Mong Koo Chung During his 2016 New Year address to Hyundai Motor Group We are committed to making a better society through joint growth with suppliers, job creation for young people and more active social contributions, while achieving continued growth of our own. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 016 CSR Website of Hyundai Motor Company ⦁ Social Interest ⦁ Business Impact Trustworthy partner for today & tomorrow Hyundai Motor Group has reorganized its corporate social responsibility (CSR) structure with an aim to strengthen companionship and partnership with stakeholders. The Group, therefore, has expanded pillars of its CSR activities to include ‘Dream Move’ and ‘Next Move’, with the unifying theme of ‘movement’, under the mid-to long-term CSR vision of ‘Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow’. The six pillars are now defined as ‘Easy Move’ for convenience in mobility; ‘Safe Move’ for traffic safety; ‘Green Move’ for environmental conservation; ‘Happy Move’ for social contributions; ‘Dream Move’ for self-reliance; and ‘Next Move’ for contributing to society through our business expertise. We also encourage our staff to make society better by expanding CSR tasks to be applied to all business sites of the Group affiliates around the globe. ⦁ 2nd ⦁ 17th 113, 116 2015 Highlights 017 All Together Better Hyundai Motor Group is committed to sustainable growth, so that more of us can enjoy prosperity and happiness. It strives to share its success with stakeholders, as shown in the Group’s vision, ‘Together for a better future’. In accordance with this vision, Hyundai Motor Company undertook various social contribution activities in 2015, to reflect recent social trends and support requirements, as a ‘Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow’. Supporting smart starts of start-ups Hyundai helps start-ups and venture firms with innovative ideas and technologies. We established the ‘Venture Plaza’ within the company in 2000, and have continued to discover and invest in start-ups inside and outside of the company. In January 2015, in partnership with Gwangju City Government, Hyundai opened the Gwangju Center for Creative Economy & Innovation, and has been promoting the venture ecosystem through various support programs. In March, Hyundai was nominated as a partner for the Tech Incubator Program for Start-ups operated by the Small and Medium Traffic safety campaigns for Business Administration, designed to nurture promising start-ups. In particular, we have been supporting starta safer tomorrow ups and SMEs in our own areas of expertise, including Hyundai undertakes traffic safety campaigns across machinery, materials and IT. In addition, we hosted startthe world, with a particular focus on traffic safety up competitions in Israel and Lebanon, two neighboring education for children. The educational animation countries where there is a thriving new business culture. series ‘Traffic Safety Story with Robocar Poli’ began These competitions saw active participation and earned airing in India last November, and it is available in positive feedback from participants, thus helping to eight languages as of the end of 2015. In Brazil, we improve our brand image across the Middle East. built attractions for children to experience traffic ⦁ 22nd ⦁ 9th 97 safety at the theme park ‘Monica’s Gang Park’. In Kazakhstan, the ‘Abay bol*–Drive·Think·Care’ program was launched in August 2015, offering traffic safety education for children and car maintenance training for adults. In Korea, Hyundai spent 2015 preparing the ‘Traffic Accident Zero for Children’ campaign, which will be put into practice in 2016. *Abay bol is a Kazakh phrase meaning “be safe” or “be careful”. ⦁ 2nd ⦁ 17th 117, 124 Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 018 ⦁ Social Interest ⦁ Business Impact The only and very special kids race track To commemorate the 30th anniversary of the Sonata in 2015, Hyundai created the ‘Cha*-Car-Cha-Car Playground’, a new concept of kids race track, and donated it to the Seoul Grand Park. At this special playground, even sight-impaired children can drive the ‘Mini Sonata’, equipped with our autonomous driving technology, by sound and by touch. There are other areas for fun and relaxation, including the ‘Giant Sonata’, which is a play structure shaped like the Sonata model, and the ‘Animal Story Trail’, which offers stories on endangered species and a mini playground. This playground is a special place where children can enjoy the pleasure of driving, including offering sight-impaired children new experiences and excitement, making the playground a perfect place for children and families to enjoy together. * Cha means a “car” in Korean. ⦁ 2nd ⦁ 17th 115-116 2015 Highlights 019 CSV Highlights Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond Provide new space to make a better life by creating the best in mobility through customer-centered, eco-friendly, innovative technology and comprehensive services Partner for a lifetime Provide products and services to support customers at every stage of their lives Partner for everyday life Provide the best customer experience in the automotive industry Partner for happiness Provide maximum comfort, convenience and pleasure by extending the concept of an automobile to a space for living Build a leading position in Create value for our the automotive industry customers and wider society by providing services for and fulfill our responsibilities customers’ everyday lives as their life-long partner Economic Value Social Value CSV Perspectives Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 020 Creating Shared Value (CSV) through our expertise as a global automaker is the cornerstone of our approach to business. We make economic value into social value so that we can have a positive impact on society as a whole, thus achieving sustainable growth in partnership with our stakeholders. CSV is a similar concept to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), but with a greater focus on business. CSV looks to strengthen corporate competiveness and also creates value for the company itself, and customers and local communities as well. CSV Policy Directions for CSR/CSV Programs Youth Unemployment Mobility/Safety Environment Sharing skills Expanding markets to Strengthening mobility/ Company-wide responses to Using our core skills, such create jobs safety care programs for issues around the environment as vehicle IT, to help address seniors and children and air pollution social issues CSV Highlights 021 New Drivers of Next Mobility Challenging the Imagine a future not so far away—a future where neither barriers to daily activity nor limits to mobility exist—then you will see IONIQ in motion and action: an eco-friendly car setting new industry standards and a lifestyle project creating new standards in future mobility. By developing innovative products and services as well as creating lifestyles that let us look beyond the possibility of mobility, Hyundai is opening new horizons in ‘Freedom in Mobility’. Social Interest Business Impact 20th 3rd Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 022 status uo CSV perspectives for the IONIQ brand and the Project IONIQ Hyundai Value Social Value Expanding the presence in the eco-friendly Popularizing eco-friendly vehicles auto market Decreasing CO2 emissions Securing future growth drivers Increasing mobility conveniences Enhancing the brand image of Hyundai CSV Highlights 023 Opening a New The brand name IONIQ contains ‘ion’, an atom that Chapter for the generates power from the shift of electric charge and Future of Mobility symbolizes the ‘unique’ characteristics of Hyundai. Eco-friendly vehicles are opening up a new chapter in automobile business. In 2015, more than 2 million units were sold around the world, and the number is forecast to reach 6 million by 2020. In particular, shocked by ‘Dieselgate’, one of the most troubling industry scandals last year, consumers are increasingly turning their heads and minds toward automobiles that are more eco-friendly. Also, many countries are expanding their policy supports for the development and production of eco-friendly vehicles, while tightening their regulatory grips on automobile standards such as fuel efficiency. Moreover, as the Beyond Driving Machine, recent introduction of the Paris Agreement clearly implies, the development of eco-friendly cars is Driving Device essential for capturing the future automobile market and achieving sustainable growth as well. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 024 ‘IONIQ’ is our answer to challenges we face today, to succeed in the auto market tomorrow. The development of a new eco-friendly car began in 2014 when we envisioned a mid-size hybrid vehicle superior both in fuel efficiency and driving performance. In the pursuit of innovation and perfection, we began to develop a dedicated eco-friendly vehicle platform ― vehicle platform is the basic structure of automobiles, consisting of engine room layout, underbody layout, Following the launch of the IONIQ Hybrid in Korea in January 2016, Hyundai introduced the IONIQ lower body and chassis. Although our competitiveness PHEV and IONIQ EV at the 2016 Geneva Motor Show in March, thereby completing the world’s in developing eco-friendly vehicles had been globally first line-up of hybrid, plug-in hybrid and all-electric vehicles sharing a dedicated single eco-car recognized, it was not easy at all to develop a dedicated platform. All three models are engineered to optimal performance and equipped with futurevehicle platform. Through trial and error, we succeeded oriented technologies. in developing the world’s first dedicated eco-friendly vehicle platform, and introduced the IONIQ Hybrid in January 2016, thus opening new horizons for ecoSetting New friendly cars. Standards for EcoIONIQ is more than a fuel-efficient, friendly Vehicles eco-friendly vehicle. Hyundai recognized early on that the concept of automobiles evolves not only with the Breaking away from the conventional progress of technology but also with the progression of acceptance that eco-friendly vehicles may sacrifice social norms and lifestyles. We understand that change performance to fuel efficiency, IONIQ delivers both the and innovation are inevitable in a global auto market pleasure of driving and the satisfaction of going green. which is undergoing a paradigm shift. We, therefore, IONIQ has overcome the structural disadvantage and poured our talent and efforts into the creation of the limitation of conventional eco cars which usually opt IONIQ, upholding our legacy as a first mover in the auto for lighter suspension systems and other body parts industry. Armed with all three eco-friendly powertrain to compensate for the weight of the battery and the options ― fully electric, hybrid and plug-in hybrid ― the motor at the expense of driving performance. IONIQ will shape the realm of mobility to come. The IONIQ Hybrid boasts a best-inclass fuel efficiency (New Label: 22.4km/l, Old Label: 23.4km/l) and delivers a dynamic driving performance Advanced Hybrid System made possible by both a new Kappa 1.6 GDi engine and 40 a permanent magnetic electric motor. The lithium-ion polymer battery also plays a key role in stable driving performance. The world’s first battery of its kind is 1.6-liter Kappa GDi Engine superior to the nickel-metal hydride battery found World’s highest thermal efficiency of 40% in many other eco-friendly vehicles, for it delivers outstanding charge and discharge performances, optimizing the output of the high voltage motor and 95.7 enabling rapid regeneration. The IONIQ Hybrid also features a six-speed dual-clutch transmission (6DCT), Hybrid-exclusive 6DCT exclusively developed by Hyundai. Class-leading power transmission efficiency of 95.7% In addition to the dedicated vehicle platform and a low center of gravity, the IONIQ Hybrid 43.5 uses more advanced high strength steel, which enables a lightweight, high-strength architecture superior in safety and comfort. As for sales goals, Hyundai plans Permanent Magnet Electric Motor to sell 30,000 units of the IONIQ Hybrid in 2016, with the Maximum output of 43.5ps (32kW) Korean and overseas markets equally contributing to the number; in 2017, when overseas sales are forecast to be in full force, we expect to sell 77,000 units ― 15,000 in Korea and 62,000 overseas. CSV Highlights 025 Inspired by Nature IONIQ, an embodiment of Hyundai’s eco-friendly technologies, has been inspired by nature. Its exterior design resembles the shape and has the Inspiring Our Lives aerodynamics of a killer whale effortlessly slicing through water flows in perfect harmony with the The automobile has gone through surrounding elements. In addition, the C-type headlamps many changes and improvements to become an integral shaped to minimize air resistance and the rear spoiler part of transportation for mankind. Yet, it still has limits for enhanced lift coefficient have set new standards in and flaws: Age and physical requirements need to be met automobile aerodynamics. before one can drive; and traffic congestion awaits and The interior design complements the accidents lurk on the road. Moreover, as environmental distinctive identity of an eco-friendly vehicle, creating a issues are gaining traction, so are growing demands progressive space without sacrificing any of the basic for improving the efficiency of finite energy sources. features of a car. The use of eco-friendly materials, both Meanwhile, the progress of networking technologies inside and outside, adds to its eco-friendliness: the trims is crumbling the barriers that have separated driving of door sensors are made with sawdust and volcanic from other ordinary activities, abridging the separation stones; the headlining contains raw materials extracted between people on the move and their other ordinary from the sugarcane; and the body paint is eco-friendly. lives. Nor has the auto industry been an exception to the The use of new materials made of natural materials for shock wave of the progress. At this rate, the future of the interior of the IONIQ captures Hyundai’s unique and mobility will be very different from the way it is delivered forward-looking ingenuity. at present. Also, according to many experts, the shifting paradigm in the auto industry will bring about radical changes in the lifestyles of customers. In order to proactively respond to such changes, Hyundai has made a plan to realize as much ‘Freedom in Mobility’ that automobiles will enable as possible, and, while pursuing the goal, adopt new roles Beyond All Limits, and boundaries. Such are some of the backgrounds of the ‘Project IONIQ’, a research into how looming changes Freedom in Mobility on the horizon of mobility will take shape and affect consumers’ lifestyles. Freedom in Mobility consists of four pillars: the freedom to use mobility wherever and whenever; the freedom to connect everyday life; the freedom from traffic hazard, congestion and burden; and the freedom from environmental pollutant and energy exhaustion. Hyundai has been developing selfdriving, eco-friendly and vehicle connectivity technologies. The Project IONIQ is about integrating and converging these technologies with automobile products and services for the purpose of presenting Everything is created anew. Backed by our technological new concepts of mobility. Eco-friendliness, in particular, is the most fundamental and essential prowess, IONIQ embodies Hyundai’s will to be the feature in the changes to come in the future mobility; frontrunner of the eco-friendly auto market. IONIQ which is why the debut of the IONIQ, the world’s first will keep evolving beyond the limit of existing vehicles, car to offer three distinct eco-friendly powertrains, to reach the ultimate freedom in mobility. has been chosen as a starting point for the project. We will pave a new pathway toward a future where Kyoung Cheol Oh, Part Leader, HEV Performance Development Team Freedom in Mobility is possible from constrains and limitations, enabling people to lead more prosperous and meaningful lives. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 026 Directions of the Project IONIQ Pursuit of Freedom in Mobility Expanding the role and territory to new mobility Free To 1 2 Use Mobility Environmental Pollutant & Wherever & Whenever Energy Exhaustion 2 1 Connect Traffic Hazard, Everyday Life Congestion & Burden Free From Overcoming limitations of existing mobility To Free From 1 2 1 2 Use Mobility Wherever & Connect Everyday Life Traffic Hazard, Congestion & Environmental Pollutant & Whenever Burden Energy Exhaustion Relevant Areas Relevant Areas Relevant Areas Relevant Areas Personal micro mobility Connectivity based on Internet Intelligent safety control, Vehicle Eco-friendly technology Car-sharing/car-hailing services of Things (IoT) -to-vehicle (V2V) communication Research on energy and materials Services to connect lifestyles system Human factors engineering, Robotics CSV Highlights 027 Hyundai’s commitment to the safety of the road and the happiness of society extends to taxi drivers. We think that healthy body and mind of taxi drivers contribute a great deal to the safety of the general public. Always ahead of others in thinking and finding solutions outside of the box, Hyundai saw a solution to road safety in the health of those who spend the better part of their lives behind the wheel more than any other people. Committed to the betterment of communities of which we are part, Hyundai continues to seek solutions to social issues with a fresh perspective. Social Interest Business Impact 2nd 17th Recharging Health, Reassuring Safety CSV perspectives for the Health Care Project for Taxi Drivers Hyundai Value Social Value Enhancing a brand identity of “caring” for Preventing traffic accidents and improving customers road safety Maintaining the dominance over the Korean Building a sound taxi culture taxi market Contributing to the public health Boosting the corporate image Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 028 Hyundai is pretty special to me. I began taxi driving 31 years ago with a Hyundai Stellar, and now I’m driving a Sonata. I’ll take care of my health so that I can do my job as a best taxi driver. Thank you, Hyundai!” Gwang Cheon Lee, Taxi Driver In 2015, LF Sonata accounted for 50% of the new cars sold to the taxi industry in Korea, raising Hyundai’s market share to 76.4%, an all-time high. As the market leader, we take as much responsibility for caring for taxi drivers’ health as possible, based on the rationale that not only the quality of taxi vehicles but also the health of drivers are essential to traffic safety. 250 km Average daily Average daily mileage per Vs. length of break taxi per taxi driver Hour CSV Highlights 029 Some studies show that Korean taxi I used to take back pains for granted, thinking that drivers drive 250km on average per day; but due to a they were part of being a taxi driver. But after trying lack of time and places to take breaks, many suffer from illnesses related to the lumbar and nervous out this program, I have realized I should take care system. In addition, about 20% of taxi drivers are of my health as I do my taxi. Hyundai has made over 65 years old, one of signs of the nation being many taxi drivers rethink about their conventional an aging society. Such health and age issues can thoughts. What a wonderful program. seriously undermine the taxi driver’s reflexes which may in turn cause traffic accidents and have negative Pyeong Hwa Chung, Taxi Driver impacts on road safety as well. Hyundai turned its at tention to Taxi drivers are vulnerable to abdominal obesity, social issues facing taxi drivers, who are an integral high blood pressure, diabetes and other kinds of part of Korea’s public transportation system. And seeing a direct connection between the health of taxi metabolic illness, due to a lack of exercise and drivers and the safety of the road and the public, we irregular lifestyles. Incorrect driving positions cause began to put together a project to help improve taxi musculoskeletal and urinary-system disorders. drivers’ health. Specifically, we focused on building I will do my best to help them develop healthy infrastructure and creating programs which even busy taxi drivers can use in their spare time, and in lifestyles, avoid illnesses and enjoy their jobs. March 2016, we unveiled the ‘Health Care Project for Hye Ok Yoon, Exercise Specialist Taxi Drivers’. Moving the World Together The ‘Health Care Project for Taxi Drivers’ comprises ‘Energizing Station’, ‘Energizing Bus’, and health exam programs. The Energizing Station and Energizing Bus are facilities open to all taxi drivers while the health exam offers both physical examination and vehicle maintenance services to aging drivers of Hyundai taxies. A creative CSV program developed to help taxi drivers improve their health in their spare time, the project also presents practical and effective ways of reducing chronic problems that have plagued the taxi industry for decades. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 030 Energizing Station Recharging Health and Safety Taxi driving is a profession that travels a maximum distance just about every day with a minimum body movement. Since mileage has a direct bearing on income, most drivers don’t get out of their taxies except for fueling or eating. Having noticed that LPG stations function as taxi drivers’ main rest area, Hyundai, in collaboration with SK Gas, has built the Energizing Station at LPG fueling stations of SK Gas. We turn a shipping container into a station equipped with healthcare equipment such as blood pressure monitors, body composition analyzers, as well as weight-lifting machines designed to help strengthen the lumbar and cervical spines. Also, exercise specialists regularly visit the stations to help taxi drivers exercise properly. The taxi drivers go through a special three-step program to check their health conditions, do “smart stretching” and are advised by health professionals on optimum exercise programs for their individual conditions. They can have their health and exercise data securely stored at the station for future visits. In addition to health check-ups, the Energizing Station functions as a place for taxi drivers to socialize with fellow drivers and take a break from their monotonous daily routine. The ‘Healthy Life Up to 100 Years Old’ program is a physical welfare service developed by KSPO with a goal to improve public health through evaluation of physical fitness and provision of exercise prescriptions. CSV Highlights 031 The Energizing Bus is a good example of ‘Government 3.0’, which aims at implementing policies and services from the perspective of the general public. I hope many taxi drivers take advantage of this program, for healthy taxi drivers contribute to the safety of passengers, others on the road, and overall road safety. Byung Jin Yoon, Manager, Korea Sports Promotion Foundation United for one goal to contribute to a safer and happier tomorrow, all participating entities of the Health Care Project for Taxi Drivers work together by bringing in their expertise. It is a truly success story of how conglomerates, a public enterprise, and a specialized institution collaborate to create shared values for the benefit of the whole society. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 032 The Energizing Bus to Drive Healthier Society While the Energizing Station is Sharing the Value Together stationary, located at taxi drivers’ conventional rest areas, the Energizing Bus is mobile, bringing the health care services to taxi drivers at their spare time. Hyundai modified its 45-seater bus into the Energizing Bus which is equipped with Uijeongbu-si, Gyeonggi-do body composition analyzer, automatic weight and height scale, blood pressure monitor and treadmill, Goyang-si, Gyeonggi-do all donated by Korea Sports Promotion Foundation (KSPO). It offers health check-up services based on the ‘Healthy Life Up to 100 Years Old’ program developed by KSPO and is administered by experts specializing in tailoring exercise programs to different physical conditions of people. As a supplementary to the Energizing Seocho-gu, Seoul Station program, the Energizing Bus makes regular visits to areas with a high concentration of taxi drivers. The program is expected to provide customized health promotion services to around 20 taxi drivers a day or Gwacheon-si, Gyeonggi-do 5,000 a year, mostly in the Seoul metropolitan area. Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do Equipped with various healthcare and exercise equipment open to all taxi drivers, Hyundai’s Energizing Station was first introduced in March 2016. As of now, there are five stations at Health Check-ups for major LPG fueling stations in the Seoul metropolitan area. Lifetime Customers Hyundai pays special attention to Hyundai works together with SK Gas, the health of elderly taxi drivers who have long KSPO and KAHP to improve taxi drivers’ health and been driving Hyundai models. We provide physical thus enhance road safety. Hyundai develops interior and examinations customized to taxi drivers 65 years and exterior designs for the Energizing Station and provides older as well as maintenance services on their taxies, physiotherapy services, and SK Gas provides sites for at the same time. The check-up services, provided the stations and operates them. KSPO provides the in partnership with Korea Association of Health Energizing Bus with the ‘Healthy Life Up to 100 Years Promotion (KAHP) are available with two options ― Old’ program, which is one of the most popular programs one fully covered by Hyundai and an extended one among state-run sports-related projects, and, owing to for which taxi drivers partially pay but still a 1/5 in the Energizing Bus project, expected to expand to the cost compared with regular health check-ups. general public. As a public medical institute, KAHP offers physical examination services tailored to taxi drivers at While the taxi driver undergoes 16 check-up centers nation-wide. a physical check-up, Hyundai’s visiting vehicle maintenance team thoroughly examines the taxi. The In partnership with these organizations, health of elderly taxi drivers and the state of their we plan to promote the Health Care Project for Taxi vehicle conditions directly affect road safety. We, Drivers through SNS, outdoor ad, and other on-line therefore, will continue to help our loyal customers and off-line channels and share actual cases with maintain their health, and together with them, we will the public, all in an effort to foster the cultivation of make our society safer and happier. a safe and pleasant taxi culture. Cooperation is not only a solution to overcome growth limits, but also a rational choice to create synergy for the better. CSV Highlights 033 Hyundai strives to make everyday life more convenient, and helps people overcome their limitations. Building a better future for ourselves by “caring” for the quality of people’s lives is the ultimate form of innovation we pursue. In line with this, by developing exoskeletons for mobility assistance, an innovative and distinctive CSV case of which Hyundai is capable, we contribute to society and cultivate a future business model at the same time. Social Interest Business Impact 1st 1st Human Centered & Future Oriented Human-caring CSV perspectives for developing an exoskeleton Hyundai Value Social Value Advancing into new business through collaboration Offering a new concept of mobility to the among affiliates of Hyundai Motor Group mobility impaired Demonstrating the technology prowess of Reducing environmental pollution through use of Hyundai efficient means of transportation Advancing auto technology through application Preventing industrial accidents and improving of robot technology work productivity Enhancing the brand image of Hyundai Contributing to the development of robot business Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 034 Recognition Vision/Hearing/Touch/Distance/Biometric Sensors, Human-Robot Interaction, Visual/Voice/ Emotional/Biometric Recognition, Environment Recognition, Self-learning System Control Balance Control & Autonomous Driving/Walking, Learning/Deduction/Coordination Algorithm, Control Structure & Simulation, Sensor Signal Processing Mechanism Automobile-based Mechanism, Multi-actuated Manipulator, Structure Design (Optimal/Robust Design), System Integration & User Experience/User Interface novation Platform Controller Platform (OS, Middleware, etc.), Actuator (Electric, Hydraulic, Artificial Muscles, etc.), Energy Infrastructure (Battery, Fuel Cell, etc.), Sensor-integrating Interface CSV Highlights 035 Walking into the Future, Now I thought Hyundai was just an automobile manufacturer. It is inspirational that Hyundai has expanded its concept of mobility to include helping people walk. The idea of putting on a wearable robot and walking all day long excites me. I.H. Kim, H-LEX Pilot Test Participant Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 036 Developing wearable robots is a good answer to the question of how to apply Hyundai’s technological know-how to the improvement of society. By cooperating with our affiliates and partners, we are accumulating the technology essential to our endeavor of “caring” for mankind. Hyunseop Lim, Research Engineer, Human Factors & Devices Research Team Today Meets Tomorrow The “Iron Man” in the movie has become a reality: A wearable robot, also known as ‘exoskeleton’, is now available assisting or strengthening the wearer in using his/her limbs or muscles by sensing their movements and purposes. Many scientists around the world have been developing wearable robots. The U.S. has made significant progress in the development of bullet and fire-proof military robots, while European countries are far advanced in robotic technology for medical and rehabilitation applications. In addition, in the era of aging society, the employment of exoskeletons extends to industrial, disaster relief, and even personal assistant areas. The automobile industry as a whole is keenly interested in synergy effects it can benefit from the robot industry, for the artificial intelligence technology of robotics, including as recognition, control and perception, is also applicable to automobiles. Moreover, large-scale vehicle assembly facilities can be used for manufacturing robots. Based on the know-how we have accumulated as a global automaker, Hyundai has been developing wearable robots for walking assistance. We extend our core value of product responsibility— “caring” for customers through superior products— to wearable robots as well; and make a special means of transportation by which even the mobility impaired can enjoy the freedom and joy of mobility and through which we create shared value and offer a new concept of mobility. CSV Highlights 037 Walking the Walk on Development Status of Wearable Robotics Wearable Robots Life-assist · Assisting the elderly in daily lives Hyundai constantly pushes the · E xtending mobility service to the mobility challenged as a response to boundaries of mobility. If the Project IONIQ is the the aging of society first initiative we have taken to expand the roles and · Applying modular design to expand its application territory of automobiles, then the development of HAMO KAMO H-LEX wearable robots is the first step to extend our reach Hip-type Knee-type Walking assistance to all movements of mankind. As such, Hyundai is growing beyond the realm of a traditional automaker into that of a ‘Total Mobility Developer’. We are developing robots to help the mobility-challenged elderly move about as well as victims of accidents regain their mobility. We have so far developed four prototypes: KAMO (knee-mounted wearable), HAMO (hip joint type), H-LEX (combination of KAMO and HAMO) and H-MEX (for medical purposes). Medical Industrial Considering the trends evolving around an ageing and · A ssisting the paraplegic · Preventing high-risk society, such robots are expected to be an musculoskeletal · Rehabilitation support and medical purposes additional means of short-distance mobility making disorder · Helping those paralyzed below the waist walk everyday life more productive and pleasant. · Work assist The KAMO and HAMO are designed to H-MEX v1.0 H-MEX v1.5 H-WEX Helping the paraplegic Helping the Supporting back assist basic walking as well as ascending and descending walk and walking paraplegic walk muscles stairs. The H-LEX (Hyundai Life-caring Exoskeleton) assistance for ordinary people can be preprogrammed to control the wearer’s leg movements, so that it is used for rehabilitation purposes. The H-LEX received the Engineering Impact Award in the high-tech manufacture and control category, for the first time in Korea, upon its debut at the National Instruments Week 2015, a global conference for engineers, in August 2015. The H-MEX is an upgraded version of the H-LEX, developed to enable individuals with a lower-body paralysis to walk on their own. Hyundai is accelerating its R&D in wearable robotics with an aim to mass-produce robots for medical and rehabilitation purposes by 2018, and for home assistance by 2024. Roadmap and CSV Perspectives of Wearable Robotics Short-term Mid-term Roadmap Sector: Rehabilitation I Consumer: The disabled Sector: Life-care I Consumer: The elderly 2 015 2 016 2 017 2 018 Develop prototypes for Conduct small-scale Secure technology Complete prototypes of medical commercialization of production and distribution for commercialization walking-assist models rehabilitation and life-assist to test the market product line-up · Contribution to society · E xpanding the customer pool amid CSV Perspectives · Improving mobility in the area an aging society of ‘mobility zero’ · Improving competitiveness by utilizing robot technology Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 038 Finding a Pathway to the Future The fusion of Hyundai’s automobile and robotic technologies is an innovation in the making. Our assist robots, such as KAMO, HAMO and H-LEX, feature ergonomic designs and are equipped with micro high-power motors and artificial intelligence to recognize human-robot interactions. The micro high-power motor, in par ticular, is exclusively developed by Hyundai. The H-MEX features the world’s first high-safety algorithm that controls horizontal balance. Featuring stateof-the-art robot technologies made possible by Working Together, to Walk Farther a long-accumulated know-how as an automaker, our exoskeletons are 20% lighter on average than competitors, and superior in walking speed and battery run-time. Partnership for Investment in robotics will help us redefine future mobility and advance into a new Better Tomorrow market as robot technology is to complement the development of smart cars. For instance, speed Industry experts project that the control technology in walking assistance robots can global market for robots will have entered the be used for building motors in the wheels of EVs; and developing stage by 2018, amounting to around balance control technology for preventing vehicles USD 21.1 billion. In particular, wearable robots for from overturning and improving driving comfort. supporting various human activities are expected to In addition, obstacle avoidance and the automatic be in the greater demand. According to a report of sensing and timely warning of users’ health WinterGreen Research of the U.S., the market size for conditions to medical services can make future cars medical and rehabilitant robots will be USD 1.8 billion smarter. Hyundai thus continues to invest in robotics, by 2020, compared with USD 43.3 million in 2013. lay the foundation for developing fully autonomous vehicles, and grow robotic operations into a new To establish a viable presence in growth driver. Moreover, we will contribute to make such fast-growing markets, Hyundai Motor Group Korea competitive in the global race of robotics. has decided to consolidate the robotic technology of its subsidiaries into the establishment of ‘Maximum Mobility’, a common platform, and thus creates industry synergies and secures a competitive advantage in the market for wearable robots. Under the close coordination of the Group, Hyundai Motor Company conducts overall sales and R&D; Hyundai Long-term Rotem designs products, develops components, and oversees the production, quality management, and Sector: Leisure, Professional I Consumer: People in general distribution of final products manufactured by Easy Move Inc., a social enterprise. Easy Move specializes 2 019 2020 in producing personal assist and rehabilitation devices on consignment, and by successfully playing its role Set up mass production Release products through facilities mass production in such project, the company will function as a role model for social enterprises contributing to social and economic development. In addition, by conducting · Improving the quality of life as a “Lifetime public business in cooperation with government partner in automobiles and beyond” agencies, Hyundai will create shared value and fulfill · Providing distinctive solutions in special sectors such as construction and military its social responsibility as a corporate citizen living up to its reputation as Korea’s business leader. CSV Highlights 039 Follow-up Story Reinvent the wheel Creating shared value (CSV) is not something that can be achieved in a day or two ― it takes time, passion and effort. That is why Hyundai plans CSV ahead of time. In our 2015 Sustainability Report, we introduced examples of our distinctive and creative CSV activities, including producing the first Korean bobsleigh for the Korean national bobsleigh team, developing self-driving vehicles and pursuing clean mobility. In 2015, we continued to make progress in relevant fields, and we are pleased to share the follow-up stories of those achievements. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 040 ENGINEERED by Hyundai Customized bobsleigh made by Hyundai Hyundai and the Korean national bobsleigh team work in unison to win the “race of possibilities”. The national bobsleigh team had never had a decent bobsleigh, and used to have to borrow a bobsleigh from other countries or buy a used one. Despite this, the team had achieved great results at many international competitions, and Hyundai came up with a plan to unlock their full potential. We began to sponsor the team in 2014, and by producing a bobsleigh, Hyundai is contributing to the development of winter sports in Korea. N Bobsleigh N ‘N Bobsleigh’ is the official name for the bobsleigh exclusively ‘N’ is Hyundai’s sub-brand launched in September 2015. The developed by Hyundai. It is an advanced model of the ‘Concept N performance brand will offer high-performance cars that Bobsleigh’ first unveiled at the 2015 Seoul Motor Show, and deliver the most thrilling driving experience for customers brings together our leading-edge automotive technologies. who truly love cars. In January 2016, the national team made a successful debut of Hyundai is using the high-performance ‘N’ concept and the new bobsleigh, on which the word ‘Korea’ is engraved, at technologies in developing the new bobsleigh, which is why the Europe Cup Tournament held in Saint-Moritz, Switzerland. it is called the ‘N Bobsleigh’. In our 2015 Sustainability Report, The team completed the track at a maximum speed of 139 km/h. we set out how producing a bobsleigh would be connected to Hyundai will continue to make improvements, so that the technologies for future-oriented, high-performance cars. In Korean national team can have the world’s best customized line with this, we launched the N performance brand in 2015, bobsleigh. followed by the unveiling of the N Bobsleigh in 2016, showing the significance and value of the CSV activities embodied in the bobsleigh production. At first, I was not familiar with bobsleighs, but I soon realized that there are many similarities between a car and a bobsleigh. Relevant teams at the Namyang Technology Research Center worked closely together on the project, and, through continuous improvements, we were able to develop a bobsleigh with the ‘Hyundai’ mark on it. Sang-Hyun Park, Senior Research Engineer, Aerodynamic Development Team Follow-up Story 041 ZERO Accident Self-driving vehicles with perfect safety Hyundai continues to make intensive and extensive efforts to deliver convenient and safe mobility. Self-driving cars, which do not require driver input, are a major outcome of our “human-centered” innovation. Our technologies in the Advanced Driver Assistance System (ADAS), the basis of autonomous driving, have met global standards, and we now apply ADAS to many of our mass-produced cars. We are also playing a leading role in popularizing the next generation of smart cars by improving relevant technologies. G90 When will autonomous driving technology be commercialized? The commercialization of a completely autonomous driving system that does not require a driver may In general, autonomous driving is broken down into five steps, based on rely more on laws and changes in the social system different degrees of automation as defined by the US National Highway than any technical difficulties. Traffic Safety Administration. Step 0 refers to absolutely no ADAS From the ‘Talk about self-driving vehicles’ in function; step 1 signifies the automation of a specific function; step 2 for the 2015 Sustainability Report of Hyundai Motor Company the automation of multiple functions; step 3 for limited autonomous driving; and step 4 signifies fully autonomous driving. Will self-driving cars actually become reality? By Hyundai currently applies step 2 technology to many of our massdemonstrating an unmanned vehicle in downtown Seoul produced vehicles, and our goal is to reach step 3 by 2020 and step 4 by in 2015, we showed that autonomous driving technologies 2030. The Genesis G90, launched last year, is a leading example of our will soon be commercialized. In November 2015, Hyundai autonomous driving technology. Embedded in the G90 is Highway Driving became the first company in Korea to demonstrate Assist (HDA), which combines Advanced Smart Cruise Control (ASCC), Lane autonomous driving technologies on public roads ― it Keeping Assist System (LKAS), and Autonomous Emergency Braking (AEB), was a remarkable sight to see a self-driving Genesis on to enable partially autonomous driving on highways. the streets of downtown Seoul without any direct driver intervention. The Genesis used LKAS and other advanced technologies for driving in downtown areas, so it was able to perform maneuvers such as passing a slowmoving vehicle and then returning to its lane. 1 2 3 Hyundai took a step forward towards autonomous driving on actual roads. In March 2016, the Genesis became the first self-driving car in Korea to receive temporary driving permission for public roads from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. Earlier, in December 2015, the Genesis and the Tucson Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle (FCEV) received 01. ASCC a highway self-driving license from the State of 02. LKAS Nevada in the U.S., making the Tucson the first 03. HDA FCEV to receive a self-driving license. This showed Hyundai’s world-leading competitiveness in both smart mobility and clean mobility. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 042 New HO2RISONS Bringing about a future of clean mobility Clean mobility, generating zero CO2 emissions, is the ultimate goal of Hyundai’s eco-friendly car development. Technological prowess is a critical factor, but there are other important factors as well, such as innovative ideas and commitment to social responsibility. We are therefore leading the drive towards a “hydrogen society” through our stateof-the-art technologies and creative thinking, so that we can achieve sustainable growth as a global automaker and fulfill our responsibilities as a corporate citizen. 73,592 In our last Sustainability Report, we reported on the 2014 announcement of the ‘2020.22.2 Project’, our strategy to build an eco-friendly car line-up that consists of at least 22 vehicles by 2020, thus making us the world’s second largest manufacturer of ecoSales of eco-friendly cars are going well. Hyundai and Kia saw record friendly cars. This project resulted in the launch performance in the eco-friendly car market last year, selling a combined total of the Sonata PHEV in August 2015 and the IONIQ of 73,592 units, up 4.9% over the previous year. This total was comprised of Hybrid in January 2016. With the launch of the IONIQ 64,383 hybrid cars, 8,651 electric vehicles, 306 plug-in hybrid vehicles, and EV and PHEV models in June 2016, we are confident 252 FCEVs. The eco-friendly car market has stuttered slightly, but is expected of achieving our goals. to grow in 2016. We will strengthen our market position in 2016, particularly through the IONIQ line-up of three models. Sales Composition FCEV 0.3% PHEV 0.4% EV 11.8% 2020.22.2 HEV 87.5% Collaboration to Expand the Eco-friendly Car Market CASE I Hyundai signed a memorandum of CASE II As reported in the 2015 Sustainability Report, Hyundai understanding with POSCO ICT in June 2015 to began the world’s first mass production of FCEVs in 2013. As part of expand EV charging infrastructure. Hyundai will our continuous efforts to supply eco-friendly vehicles, we undertook build around 120 charging facilities by the end the pilot test of a hydrogen fuel cell bus. We began cooperating with of 2016, and POSCO ICT will be in charge of Ulsan Metropolitan City in May 2015 on the development of ecooperations and maintenance. Existing charging friendly hydrogen fuel cell bus technology, and the promotion of facilities are mostly set up in places that cannot the relevant industry. Hyundai lent hydrogen fuel cell buses to Ulsan be easily accessed by the general public, so we City for free until April 2016, and is now evaluating bus performance will build charging facilities in convenient public and eco-friendliness during the period of the pilot operation. The locations, such as large supermarkets and hydrogen fuel cell buses used for the pilot test are eco-friendly, movie theaters; this will increase accessibility pollution-free vehicles that emit only water, instead of exhaust gases, and convenience, which will, in turn, contribute and they can travel 440 kilometers on a single charge. to the popularization of eco-friendly cars. The two companies are world leaders in their respective fields, and their partnership will lead the expansion of the eco-friendly car market. Follow-up Story 043 As a world-renowned automaker and global corporate citizen, Hyundai seeks sustainable growth by fulfilling our economic and social responsibilities. The 2016 Sustainability Report of Hyundai Motor Company describes what we attempted and achieved in the pursuit of sustainable management in the year. This report also details our prospects for the future as well as steps we plan to take toward growing together with our stakeholders. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 044 Our System Our Value 46 60 98 Sustainability Product Responsibility Employees Management System Global Highlight Global Highlight India 73 Brazil 111 52 Corporate 74 112 Governance Eco-friendliness Society Global Highlight Global Highlight 55 USA 87 Europe 127 128 Creating and Sharing Economic Value 88 Suppliers Facts & Figures 58 Global Highlight Korea 97 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Sustainability Sustainability Performance Performance 045 Sustainability Management System Based on advanced and efficient management systems, we strive to grow together with our stakeholders and contribute to social and economic development for the benefits of all. Management Philosophy and Vision Vision 2020 Our ‘Vision 2020’ is to be a “Lifetime partner in Management Philosophy automobiles and beyond”. It represents the Hyundai The spirit and values that have driven Hyundai Motor Motor Group’s goals for sustainable growth and a future Group are defined by three key phrases: ‘unlimited sense that Hyundai pursues. Automobiles have gone beyond of responsibility’, ‘realization of possibilities’, and ‘respect merely being a means of transportation; they help people for mankind’. Based on these, Hyundai Motor Company to have a better quality of life. The philosophy and will has established a management philosophy to ‘realize the of Hyundai are reflected in the Vision 2020 which is dreams of mankind by creating a new future through designed to embrace the changes in what an automobile ingenious thinking and continuously challenging new means. By pursuing this vision, Hyundai has set out to frontiers’. become not just a carmaker, but a company that creates more value and shares in the daily lives of our customers ‘Unlimited sense of responsibility’ signifies the pursuit as a lifetime partner. of sustainable growth while maintaining responsibility towards all of our stakeholders; the ‘realization of Hyundai sets a new concept of an automobile as a possibilities’ signifies the pioneering spirit that has ‘partner for lifetime’, tailored to the needs of customers motivated us to invest in new areas; and the ‘respect for from childhood to senior years. It is also a ‘partner for mankind’ represents our commitment to improve living happiness’, a space for living, working, and resting that conditions for everyone. With this philosophy in place, Hyundai will continue to grow as a respected company Vision and 3 Major Strategic Directions which makes a positive contribution to humanity. Vision Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond Pursuing sustainable growth with a sense of Providing new space to make a better life by creating Unlimited responsibility towards employees, suppliers, the best in mobility through customer-centered, eco-friendly, sense of and their families innovative technology and comprehensive services responsibility Pursuing the highest quality, to be responsible for the safety and happiness of customers 3 Major Providing the best Finding new growth Optimizing global DNA that strives for unlimited growth and Strategic customer experience opportunities operation advancement Directions Realization Entrepreneurship that enables us to break – Service innovation – Launching strategic, – Realizing “smart of out of our comfort zone and to take risks across all customer regional vehicles, scale” possibilities Creating real value by turning small contact points and improving sales – Creating synergy possibilities into real achievements – Ensuring perfect channels between overseas quality – Expanding and business sites Improving living conditions by providing – Improving brand value strengthening the – Social contributions products and services of the highest quality materials and parts and globality – Developing humanindustries to the greatest number of people centered technology Respect for Being proactive in tackling environmental – Developing ecofor the future mankind issues friendly cars, green technology, and new Contributing to the global community by materials sharing our success Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 046 Our System O u r Va l u e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis provides exceptional comfort and pleasure. As a ‘partner Core Values for everyday life’, we will ensure the best customer Customer We have selected five core values to practice our experience from the moment a customer chooses our management philosophy and to realize our vision ― brand by providing a complete range of the services We promote a customercustomer, challenge, collaboration, people, and globality. associated with automobiles, from finance to product driven corporate culture by providing the best quality These core values were created by identifying the experience, IT services, and used car sales. and impeccable service with unique characteristics embedded in the mind-set of our all of our efforts aimed at employees that have contributed to our success, and then Partner for lifetime satisfying our customers. adding to that a set of values that will act as guidelines We provide brands, products, and services that cater for everyone at the company. The core values will guide for our customers from childhood to senior years. not only our business operations but also the decisionWe envision our future being one in which we are the making and daily work lives of our employees. They will automobile of choice for our customers at all stages of Challenge also help to develop a strong sense of community among their lives. our employees, and provide a basis for sustainable We refuse to be complacent, Partner for everyday life embrace every opportunity growth. for greater challenge, and We understand service innovation is needed to provide are confident in achieving greater value to customers. We therefore provide services at all stages of the ownership process, from our goals with unwavering passion and ingenuity. Socially Responsible Management selection to purchase, possession, and repurchase, to As most corporate entities step up their socially ensure the best customer experience. responsible management in response to the growing number of socially conscious stakeholders and a Partner for happiness Collaboration toughening regulatory environment, Hyundai pursues Our automobiles have gone beyond a means of socially responsible management not only to improve We create synergy through transportation, and are now a symbol of comfort and our brand image but also to hire talent and enhance a sense of “togetherness” pleasure. With Hyundai, cars will become more versatile that is fostered by mutual employee satisfaction, all directed toward contributing to and provide innovative services to make driving faster, communication and maximize customer value. Accordingly, we strive to fulfill safer, more comfortable and more enjoyable. We will stay cooperation within the company and with our our economic, environmental, and social responsibilities, close to our customers, and offer them more ecofriendly for the benefits of all, by strengthening ethical management business partners. and advanced IT technologies. and compliance programs and by building cooperative partnerships and thus communicating with stakeholders. In 2016 we changed our vision for socially responsible People management from ‘The Sustainable Value Provider’ to ‘Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow’, to We believe that the future of our organization lies in be consistent with the Group vision and to reflect the hearts and capabilities social trends of late. Through partnerships with our of individual members and stakeholders, we plan to operate types of business that will help them develop enable us to create economic value and help solve such their potential by creating a corporate culture that social problems as climate change, the aging of society, respects talent. and youth unemployment. Globality We respect the diversity of cultures and customs, aspire to be the world’s best at what we do, and strive to become a respected global corporate citizen. Sustainability Performance 047 Mid-to Long-term CSR Strategy Structure Ethical Management Ethical Management System Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow In 2001, we established the Ethics Charter, the Employee Code of Conduct, and the Guidelines for Ethical Business Conduct, to set clear guidelines for all employees in the practice of ethical management. Furthermore, all relevant Balanced documents are made available on-line for effective sharing communication and for on-demand reference. In 2002, we adopted a voluntary fair trade compliance program (CP) to enhance fairness and transparency in trading with suppliers. In addition, we joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 to declare our commitment to ethical management. In 2013, the Ethical Management website was completely revised to make it more accessible for stakeholders as well ing together Grow as employees, so that the information on the site can be r Pr ov used in ethical business conduct. In 2015, we expanded and fo id k reorganized the composition and functions of the existing Best co Local bility mpa t mo Ethics Committee to launch the Corporate Governance & ny san communities to lea Communication Committee, thus strengthened our will and wo gp Employees Customers capability to practice transparent management. r in Stakeholders Ethics Charter ur Shareholders/ The purpose of the Ethics Charter of Hyundai is to ss Suppliers Investors ha ru help employees make ethically correct decisions in wit ste Global dp business operations. It also applies to the suppliers of ny Compa countries art ner the company. More information on the Ethics Charter is an T ce available on Hyundai’s ethical management website. Tra tity nspa rent business en Partnership Future value Cyber Audit Office Ta s kin se gt he l respon Hyundai operates the Cyber Audit Office to collect ead in e climate chang information on unethical business practices such as bribery and corruption on a regular basis, and to provide consulting if a staff faces with ethical dilemma. All reports need to be made under real names, but are then handled through investigations that do not disclose the name of the person reporting the incident. Typical cases reported to the Office include: unfair trade practices related to personal connections such as school alumni or hometown friends; a request for or acceptance of bribes and unjustified gifts; abuse of authority; a request for special consideration; and other actions that violate ethical business conduct. Reports of social or ethical issues with which many of our stakeholders are concerned, such as human rights, labor, local community and supply network, are directed to and followed up by relevant departments. Reports can be made via the internet, by phone, fax, or letter; Hyundai’s Ethical Management and reporters are notified of actions taken by relevant Website departments. The identity of the informant is strictly http://audit.hyundai.com protected under the policy on secret assurance, identity protection assurance, and responsibility reduction. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 048 Our System O u r Va l u e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Ethical Management Milestones Implementation Since 2013, Hyundai has been developing and enforcing 2001 Established the Ethics Charter and Employee Code of Conduct compliance guidelines covering key legal risks inherent 2002 Implemented a CP in our business, all in an effort to mitigate the risks. 2003 Declared ethical and transparent management initiatives Concerning operations in Korea, the guidelines address Issued the first Sustainability Report eight key areas such as Trade Secrets Protection Act, 2004 Reorganized the Cyber Audit Office Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act and Privacy Act. 2005 Published guidelines on ethical business conduct Those on overseas operations include copyright law and design rights. We also have published and distributed to 2006 Announced win-win collaboration initiatives our business sites in Korea a compliance management Provided an ethics management program to new managers handbook detailing the compliance support system and 2007 Established the Ethics Committee under the BOD explaining the importance of compliance, as well as 2008 Joined the UN Global Compact general legal risks related to automobile business and Signed Korea’s largest fair trade agreement countermeasures, helping employees understand the Declared Hyundai CSR management initiatives company’s compliance management and the system 2009 Received ‘AA’ rating for CP from the Fair Trade supporting it. As for overseas operations, a ‘Global Commission Compliance Handbook’, covering among basic laws of Established the Hyundai Social Responsibility Charter many fields, was made and distributed in the early 2016. 2010  igned fair trade agreements with subcontracting S suppliers ― 2nd phase In 2015, to enhance the overall compliance awareness of Announced win-win growth initiatives with suppliers employees, we expanded compliance training programs 2011 Adopted the International Financial Reporting Standards for new executives and employees as well as for staff accounting standards members at relevant departments. Of particular note, two Signed fair trade agreement with subcontracting on-line programs covering compliance in general and the suppliers ― 3rd phase Act on the Prohibition of Illegal Solicit were administered 2012 CEO declared voluntary CP practices to employees in our global business sites. Also, as part Provided CP training at company level of the strategy to strengthen the compliance support 2013 Established ethical standards to strengthen ethical system, we established a Compliance Counseling Center, management system in China as a communication channel to promote employee Added regulations on accepting gifts or treats participation in building the foundation of a sound Began operations of the Cyber Audit Office corporate culture of compliance. Through the center 2014 Reinforced CP training at company level can employees request for compliance guidelines and 2015 Ethics Committee was expanded and renamed the education, ask for an assessment of legal risks, and Corporate Governance & Communication Committee report legal violations. Strengthened transparent and ethical management education programs for employees and suppliers •Purpose: To collect employee requirements on compliance Compliance support and reports on legal violations Compliance Management Counseling Center •Channels: E-mail (compliance@hyundai.com), Phone (+82-2-3464-3300) Purpose Hyundai is committed to complying with all applicable laws •Designate a compliance personnel to promote the compliance culture at company level and regulations. The primary purpose of our compliance •Continue to publish and distribute compliance guidelines and offer management is to accurately assess various legal risks Tasks for 2016 compliance trainings to reinforce staff competence in compliance associated with all business operations of Hyundai and •Prevent legal risk from becoming a clear threat through to manage them before they become a clear threat. compliance inspection Furthermore, through compliance management within the framework of sustainability management, Hyundai seeks to gain stakeholders’ trust and build the basis for fulfilling our social responsibilities. To accomplish these objectives, Compliance Slogan we have established a compliance management support system and through this system, implement diverse compliance programs. Sustainability Performance 049 Mid-to Long-term Direction for Compliance Risk Management Risks facing the automobile industry of today have grown Strengthening employees’ competence in compliance, in complexity and diversity over the years, harboring promoting compliance culture at company level potential ripple effects of growing magnitudes. As such, if an auto company does not promptly and properly respond to all risks it faces, not only its profitability Stage of Compliance Support System but also its very survival could be jeopardized. In fact, • Designating a compliance personnel there has been an increasing number of cases in which • Establishing standards for compliance control and automakers suffered substantial business damages implementing guidelines due to inappropriate responses they had made to core Adoption • Establishing implementation plans sustainability issues such as environment and safety. • Identifying key legal risks Hyundai has been strengthening its risk management 2012~2013 by taking preemptive actions against uncertainties in the business environment. Furthermore, to turn risks • Providing 33 compliance guidelines into opportunities to create competitive advantages and • Providing on-line and off-line compliance trainings strategic countermeasures, we have built a companyMaturity • Regular compliance inspections wide comprehensive risk management system. Our risk • Building a global compliance support system management, in particular, aims at preempting risks by identifying the fundamental sources and analyzing cause 2014~2015 and effect from a multifaceted perspective. It also seeks to mitigate negative impacts associated with risks and • Strengthening employees’ competence in compliance turn them into business opportunities. • Promoting the compliance culture at company level Expansion • Designating a compliance personnel at company level Major Risks • Expanding and reinforcing a global compliance support Today, automakers including Hyundai are facing many system types of risk never known before. Macro environmental risks include natural disasters, severe fluctuations of oil 2016~ prices or exchange rates, as well as economic recessions of such emerging markets as China, which has been driving the growth of the global economy, including automobile business, since the 2008 financial crisis. In Voluntary Fair Trade Compliance the area of automobile business, there have been such Hyundai fulfills its duty and responsibility as a leading dramatic changes as increasingly toughening regulations global company practicing fair and transparent on greenhouse gas emissions and fuel efficiency in many management. In 2015, the CEO publicly pledged Hyundai’s countries, rapid developments of electronic vehicles will to comply with fair trade and began reflecting fair and smart cars, rising calls of stakeholders for vehicle trade compliance guidelines in business activities. We also safety; and facing such challenges, automakers feel more educate and train new executives and employees, and than ever the need to invest in and develop innovative staff members at relevant departments on the importance technology. of fair trade practices, thereby cultivating a corporate Risks associated with business operations include major culture of fair trade compliance. In addition, we produce recalls, shortage or loss of core talents, regulation a monthly fair trading newsletter to help employees stay violations, patent disputes, and increasing terror and informed of relevant issues and practice fair trade. violence caused by political conflicts. Especially in 2015, the entire automobile industry faced substantial difficulties due to the unstable economies of emerging nations, fluctuations in exchange rates, and plunging oil prices. Amid such a challenging environment, Hyundai took proactive risk management actions in Russia, Brazil and other emerging markets, such as launching new recession-resilient products, introducing a variety of Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 050 Our System O u r Va l u e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Risk Structure Macro environment Social factors Natural factors Nation Economy Domestic politics Society Crisis/Disaster Climate/Ecology Industrial environment Governmental Technology/ Labor unions Civil society New entrants Customers Competitors partners Alternatives Policy-related Governance Organization Brand Communication Sustainability Value-creation Production/ Logistics/ Marketing/ R&D Purchase activities Quality Sales Customer service Strategy Operation HR/ Environmental Support activities Compliance IT/Security Finances Labor affairs safety Business-related Business portfolio Partnership Business plan customer-focused finance programs, and stepping up social contributions involving local communities, in order Stakeholder Key Issues Communication Channels to minimize inevitable business and financial losses. •Sustainable mobility Motor show and new car launching ceremony, •Excellent quality test driving, sports sponsorship, customer service, Global Risk Management System Customers •Enhancement of vehicle safety  customer satisfaction survey, car club, website, To effectively respond to a variety of increasing internal •Customer satisfaction on-line communication, reports (financial report, and external risks, Hyundai operates a dedicated risk improvement sustainability report, etc.) management team, established in 2014, within the Business Strategy Planning Division of the headquarters •Employee satisfaction improvement Labor-management committee, occupational •Fostering outstanding employees safety committee, internal publication, office. Also, designated risk management personnel at Employees •Human rights protection newsletter, grievance counseling center, each of Hyundai’s global business sites play an important website, stakeholder interview, reports •Health and safety role in managing risk on a global scale in a systematic manner. Through these risk management organizations Win-win growth and fair trade agreement, and systems, Hyundai monitors various internal and Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry external risk factors on a daily basis. In dealing with • Win-win growth Promotion, seminar and training for suppliers, Suppliers/ major risk factors, we analyze scenarios and takes •Fair trades stakeholder interview, Energy-Saving Dealers Technology Exchange Meeting, R&D Tech Day, countermeasures, thus preemptively respond to all •Long-term partnership R&D symposium, R&D Motor Show, purchasing potential risks. portal, reports •Improvement of the corporate Stakeholder Communication Sharevalue Annual general meeting, Corporate Governance holders/ •Shareholder interests protection  & Communication Committee, company briefing, Investors •Stable growth IR meetings, website, reports To earn the trust of stakeholders, a company must •Transparent information disclosure respect them and maintain the highest standards of ethics and transparency. Hyundai has shared the value • Invigoration of local economy Social contributions, communication with local of business based on trust with its stakeholders, and Society •Job creation communities near worksite, youth support continues to strengthen the ethics and transparency of •Social contribution activities program, website, stakeholder interview, report its business operations. Sustainability Performance 051 Corporate Governance A transparent and efficient corporate governance system centered on a BOD exemplary in both integrity and expertise has been the back bone of the strong and sound growth of Hyundai. BOD Structure Corporate Governance & Communication Committee In 2015, the Ethics Committee was expanded and renamed The Board of Directors (BOD) of Hyundai is the top Corporate Governance & Communication Committee, and decision-making body of the company, and is comprised all four of its members are outside directors to ensure of four executive directors and five outside directors, in its independence and transparency. The Committee line with relevant regulations. The BOD acts on behalf deliberates on and reviews important business matters, of shareholders and other stakeholders to meet their internal transactions for their transparency, and ethics interests. It also makes decisions on key management management. A director in the Committee is assigned issues and other matters stipulated in the articles of to protecting shareholder rights, acting on behalf of association, with the aim of continued business growth, shareholders, and functioning as a communication and supervises directors and executives. In addition channel between the BOD and shareholders by attending to regular quarterly meetings, BOD meetings are briefing sessions for investors and non-deal roadshows held by the chair or appointed directors whenever a for overseas investors. resolution of the BOD is required. A resolution is valid Thanks to these efforts aimed at improving shareholder if supported by at least half of the votes cast, and with interest, Hyundai in 2015 paid out interim dividends for more than half of the BOD members being present, the first time; and total dividends also rose substantially unless otherwise stipulated in the relevant laws. The from the previous year. The company also announced the BOD runs sub-committees that are in charge of certain Corporate Governance Charter to promote transparent roles to strengthen the supervision and execution of and responsible management under the supervision of an the duties of the directors while enhancing expertise independent and professional BOD. The Committee will and efficiency in decision-making. The sub-committees continue to improve the transparency of the BOD and are the Audit Committee, the Outside Director Candidate expand shareholder participation, while finding better Nomination Committee, and the Corporate Governance & policies and activities to promote shareholder rights. By Communication Committee. so doing, the Committee will play an important role in helping the company share its future growth strategy Audit Committee with its shareholders and achieve sustainable growth. The Audit Committee, which is comprised of four outside directors to ensure transparency and independence, Vision of the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee is responsible for auditing the company’s finances and operations. It also requires directors to provide information on business operations and investigates the financial Being a socially responsible company by increasing status of the company, which is then reported to the BOD. shareholder returns, strengthening shareholder communications, In addition, it communicates with external auditors about improving the transparency and expertise of the BOD the plans and the results of audits of the company’s financial statements to perform efficient auditing work. Finding ways to build a corporate governance system that meets global standards Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee The outside directors of the BOD have all been screened More shareholder More communication More transparency More expertise returns with shareholders by the Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee and appointed with approval from shareholders at the Continuous effort to Having more NDRs Corporate Governance Education of annual general meeting (AGM). When designating new raise dividend Charter announced outside directors and posted on the outside directors, Hyundai submits a ‘Confirmation of company website Qualification for Outside Director’ to Korea Exchange that ensures the independence of new directors and other legal To the level of other Meeting with major Sharing information Hosting seminars by global automakers in investors about activities of the governance experts compliance. As of now, more than half the Committee the mid-to long-term Corporate Governance outside the company members are outside directors: two internal directors ― & Communication Mong Koo Chung and Wonhee Lee ― and three outside Committee directors ― Se Bin Oh, Sung Il Nam, and You Jae Yi. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 052 Our System O u r Va l u e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Corporate Governance Charter Activities of the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee Goal Category Detail To publicize our will to improve corporate governance and earn Date July 6th ~ 9th, 2015 (3 days and 4 nights) shareholder trust by declaring the Corporate Governance Charter which emphasizes our pursuit of transparent management Listening to opinions of major overseas shareholders on the establishment Purpose of the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee and explaining To establish the framework of improving corporate governance related issues to them by enacting operational regulations of the BOD and the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee Outside director in charge of protecting shareholder interest, CFO, Participants Executive in charge of IR Process Meetings with governance personnel of 25 major institutional investors Feb. 2016 Mar. 11, 2016 Mar. 2016 ~ • London: 13 institutes including Schroders, Fidelity Investments, F&C, Governance The BOD Resolution Announced the Posted on the HSBC, Invesco, L&G, M&G, T.Rowe Price, USS NDR Institutions on the Charter Charter at the AGM company website • Singapore: 5 institutes including Morgan Stanley, Government of visited Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC), Eastspring Investments, UBS Features • Hong Kong: 7 institutes including BlackRock, Allianz, Wellington, Insisting our will to build advanced corporate culture based on Capital, APG stable, transparent governance system Explaining the founding purpose of the Committee and roles of the outside Stipulating rights and responsibilities of shareholders, and director in charge of shareholder interest protection composition and roles of the BOD Key issues Presenting key issues on the company’s shareholder return policies and Indicating the founding purpose of the Corporate Governance development strategies for Environment·Social·Governance (ESG) & Communication Committee and its operational regulations Stating responsibility of an audit organization and its obligation to fair disclosure Governance Improvements Category Detail Hyundai Corporate Governance Charter Meeting with governance personnel at major institutional investors http://worldwide.hyundai.com/WW/Corporate/InvestorRelations/ (Including meetings with outside directors) CorporateInformation/CorporateGovernancebrCharter/Preface/index.html Overview Meeting • National Pension Service (Sep. 3, Dec. 8), BlackRock (Sep. 10), with major APG (Sep. 11, Dec. 2) Hermes (Oct. 7), Finepoint (Dec. 8) BOD Status investors Detail Current status of Hyundai’s corporate governance; plans to operate the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee Information on the BOD of Hyundai, including the Meeting with a proxy advisory firm and governance advisory institutions composition of the BOD and sub-committees, BOD Meeting Overview • ISS (Proxy advisory firm, Nov. 17), ACGA (Asian Corporate Governance resolutions, profiles of BOD members, their attendance with major Association, Oct. 27), GES (European governance advisory institution, Dec. 11) and salaries, is available in our business reports and on governance institutions Importance of improving corporate governance; plans to secure expertise the company website. The AGM is notified three weeks in Detail and independence of BOD advance, earlier than the standard two weeks stipulated in Inviting specialists outside the company for governance trainings to the commercial law, so that shareholders have sufficient time Governance Overview improve expertise of BOD (Dec. 22) to examine the agenda in detail. We also notify shareholders seminar with holdings of less than 1% about the AGM, so that all Detail BOD roles for internal control; cases of other companies shareholders can benefit from their rights and interests. In 2016, in particular, the company disclosed its audit statements and dividend payments under the current law, report two weeks rather than one week before the AGM Hyundai handles these at the AGM, to promote a focus as done in the previous years. In addition, we directly on the shareholder. We communicate with the market reported to shareholders on the appointment of an by improving transparency in governance through strict independent auditor at the AGM, all in an effort to bolster compliance with the relevant laws, and by sharing with the prompt and transparent disclosure of information major stakeholders our mid-to long-term roadmap, we pursue. Although the BOD can approve financial including plans on R&D investment. Sustainability Performance 053 BOD Status Name Title Committee Role Date of appointment Term Gender CEO, Chair of the BOD, Outside Director Candidate Mong Koo Chung Chairman & CEO Chair of the Outside Director Mar. 14, 2014 3 years Male Nomination Committee Candidate Nomination Committee Internal Eui Sun Chung Vice Chairman Mar. 11, 2016 3 years Male Directors Gap Han Yun President & CEO CEO Mar. 13, 2015 3 years Male Outside Director Candidate Wonhee Lee President & CEO CEO Mar. 11, 2016 3 years Male Nomination Committee Audit Committee, Corporate Governance Chair of the Corporate Se Bin Oh Outside Director & Communication Committee, Outside Governance & Communication Mar. 14, 2014 3 years Male Director Candidate Nomination Committee Committee Audit Committee, Outside Director Sung Il Nam Outside Director Chair of the Audit Committee Mar. 11, 2016 3 years Male Candidate Nomination Committee Outside Corporate Governance & Communication Directors In charge of protecting You Jae Yi Outside Director Committee, Outside Director Candidate Mar. 11, 2016 3 years Male shareholder rights Nomination Committee Audit Committee, Corporate Governance Dong Kyu Lee Outside Director Mar. 13, 2015 3 years Male & Communication Committee Audit Committee, Corporate Governance Byung Kook Lee Outside Director Mar. 13, 2015 3 years Male & Communication Committee * As of March 11, 2016 Qualifications for Directors Shareholders (Unit: Share ― ordinary share) Hyundai’s directors are required to hold qualifications as specified in relevant laws and regulations, possess 20.8 exemplary ethical and professional value sets, diligently exercise the duty of representing the rights and interests of shareholders and other stakeholders in a balanced 7.5 % manner. They also should be able to allocate sufficient time to the conduct of their duties, and demonstrate strategic thinking, practical knowledge, and the mature 6.0 ability to make judgment as well as a strong sense of responsibility. Outside directors are required to 58.3 7.4 have expertise and experience in finance, economy, management, law, accounting, or relevant fields. They are also required to have no major conflicts of interest with Hyundai MOBIS 45,782,023 the company and make independent decisions. Affiliated persons 16,418,894 Expertise of the BOD Treasury shares 13,209,474 Outside directors of Hyundai visit production plants National Pension Services 16,344,357 and research centers at home and abroad on a regular Others (financial institutions, etc.) 128,521,731 basis to enhance their expertise. Also, the company helps them better perform their duties by providing educational opportunities at professional institutions outside the Total 220,276,479 company. * As of December 31, 2015 Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 054 Our System O u r Va l u e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Our pursuit of innovation as a global automaker and our responsible approach as a corporate citizen will help us achieve sustainable growth with our stakeholders. Global Business Performance Global Production (Unit: Vehicle) In 2015, the automobile industry grew 2%, the lowest Korea since 2010, due mainly to a recession in emerging Overseas markets caused by falling prices of oil, raw materials and other commodities as well as by uncertainties in global politics. Despite these challenging circumstances, Hyundai Korea 1,858,395 sold 4.96 million vehicles worldwide, continuing its growth U.S. 384,519 trend. In addition, the company has been enhancing 1,858,395 China 1,052,000 India 645,012 the brand value of Hyundai by launching all-new global Czech Republic 342,200 luxury brand ‘Genesis’ and introducing a new line-up of Turkey 226,500 eco-friendly vehicles. Russia 229,500 2015 Brazil 175,002 Market Share (Unit: %) China 30,552 (Commercial) Consignment 4,635 2013 2014 2015 (Commercial) 3,089,920 Korea 41.6 41.2 38.9 Total 4,948,315 Overseas 5.1 5.1 4.9 Global 5.7 5.8 5.6 Korea 1,876,428 1,876,428 U.S. 398,851 China 1,120,000 Global Production India 610,650 Czech Republic 307,450 Hyundai has an annual 4,915,000 unit production capacity, Turkey 203,157 2014 led by its Korean plants equipped to produce 1.78 million Russia 237,000 vehicles, followed by eight overseas subsidiaries, in China, Brazil 179,480 India, the Czech Republic, and other countries, whose China 22,520 (Commercial) combined production capacity stands at 3,135,000 units. 3,079,108 In 2015, we increased the production capacity of Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Czech to over 30,000 units as part Total 4,955,536 of the strategy of expanding our presence in Europe and securing supply flexibility in the global market. In addition, to advance into the small commercial semi-bonnet car 1,850,727 Korea 1,850,727 market of Europe, we signed a strategic partnership U.S. 399,500 agreement with Karsan of Turkey and established a China 1,040,018 India 633,006 local production base. In 2016, our fourth plant in China, Czech Republic 303,460 with a production capacity of 300,000 units, will begin its 2013 Turkey 102,020 operation and contribute to expand sales in the Chinese Russia 229,400 market. Brazil 167,346 China 44,800 (Commercial) 2,919,550 Total 4,770,277 Sustainability Performance 055 Global Sales* Business Performance In 2015, the global automobile industry grew at a record low rate, mainly attributable to worsening economies in Financial Highlights (Unit: KRW billion) emerging markets. Hyundai, however, set a record in its sales history by selling 4,964,831 vehicles globally, 1,296 2013 2014 2015 units more than the previous year. In Korea, our sales Sales 87,308 89,256 91,959 rose 4.2% over the previous year, thanks to the strong sales performance of the Sonata, and the launch of New Operating profit 8,315 7,550 6,358 Consolidated Avante and All New Tucson. In addition, the launch of the Net profit 1) 8,993 7,649 6,509 G90, the first model of our global luxury brand Genesis, EBITDA 2) 10,867 10,100 9,152 contributed to enhancing the brand value of Hyundai. Sales 41,691 43,046 44,440 The number of Hyundai vehicles sold overseas, however, Operating profit 3,721 3,735 4,267 decreased by 0.6% to 4,250,710 vehicles, owing mainly Separate to a 5.7% sales decrease in China where the growing Net profit 5,182 4,914 5,435 popularity of SUVs has had a negative effect on sales of EBITDA 2) 5,341 5,349 6,047 sedans. The ratio of overseas sales to total sales is about 1) Includes minority interest 86%, similar to that of the previous year. 2) Operating profit + depreciation of tangible assets + depreciation of real estate held for investment + By region, the company sold 940,171 vehicles in North depreciation of intangible assets America, 1.8% more than the previous year, as low interest rates and falling oil prices fueled the growth of SUV sales. In Western Europe, sales grew 9.1% year-onSales by Overseas Subsidiary (Unit: KRW billion) year to 476,530 vehicles, as the European Central Bank’s interest rate cuts and quantitative easing contributed 2013 2014 2015 to improve the appetite of auto consumers. In India, the HMMA 7,385 7,437 7,510 biggest market among the emerging economies, stable exchange rates and continued interest rate cuts, as well BHMC 19,433 19,756 19,203 as our localization strategy, helped push the number of HMI 4,737 4,637 5,404 Hyundai vehicles sold to 476,001, a 15.7% increase. Of HAOS 1,816 2,744 3,186 particular note, the launch of the compact SUV Creta and HMMC 5,450 5,398 5,794 the new i20 drove the growth. In 2016, we aim to reach HMMR 2,751 2,384 1,930 the 5 million mark and set a new record in our history of global sales. HMB 2,384 2,263 1,710 * Based on sales performance before adjustment for consolidation Global Sales* (Unit: Vehicle) 2013 2014 2015 Korea 640,865 685,191 714,121 Overseas 4,091,668 4,278,344 4,250,710 Total 4,732,533 4,963,535 4,964,831 * Based on shipments Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 056 Our System O u r Va l u e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Distribution of Economic Gains We share our economic gains with our stakeholders, Hyundai will continue to flourish through economic including shareholders, investors, suppliers, local growth and stability, and to share more value with our communities and government agencies, as part of stakeholders. our commitment to fulfilling our social responsibilities. Distribution of Economic Value in 2015 Generated Shareholders and Employees Suppliers Government Local community economic value investors Dividends & Sales Salaries Raw materials costs Income tax Donation Interest expenses 91,959 KRW billion 1,339 KRW billion 8,846 KRW billion 52,095 KRW billion 1,950 KRW billion 66 KRW billion * Consolidated figures basis Distribution of Economic Value by Stakeholder (Unit: KRW billion) 2013 2014 2015 Dividends 534 817 1,080 Shareholders and investors Interest expenses 341 300 259 Employees Salaries 8,308 8,538 8,846 Consolidated Suppliers Raw materials costs 47,354 49,677 52,095 Government Income tax 2,703 2,302 1,950 Local community Donation 75 71 66 Total 59,315 61,705 64,297 Dividends 534 817 1,080 Shareholders and investors Interest expenses 121 123 111 Employees Salaries 5,994 6,211 6,259 Separate Suppliers Raw materials costs 25,844 26,311 26,740 Government Income tax 1,142 1,194 1,245 Local community Donation 57 50 51 Total 33,692 34,706 35,484 * Adjustment of information disclosed in the previous reports: The calculation of the economic value distributed through business operations has been replaced with the disclosure of data disclosed in the company’s business report, a material submitted to the Financial Supervisory Service for public disclosure, exclusive of internal data, such as training expenses, outsourcing labor expenses, and direct expenses for operating social contributions; thereby economic value distributed via employees, suppliers, government, and local communities for the year 2013 and 2014 has been recalculated and thus disclosed. Sustainability Performance 057 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis We chose major issues of sustainable management carefully based on the stakeholder perspective and report them transparently, clearly and efficiently. Materiality Analysis Materiality Analysis Process Our sustainability reports focus on high priority issues that have been identified, through rigorous analysis of internal and external issues, as being of highest interest Step 1 to stakeholders and as having a major impact on business We brought together key issues from existing sustainability operations. In 2015, to identify high priority issues and Collecting issues on sustainability management reports, and formed a pool of 31 issues which reflect amended measure their materiality, we analyzed the agendas of regulations and our own management policies. subjects discussed at the meetings of top management, assessed their relevancy to management strategies, and Step 2 conducted a survey among staff members of key areas responsible for sustainability management. In addition, as Analyzing external 1. Media coverage analysis part of our transparent information disclosure policy, we issues More than 233,000 news articles relevant to sustainability sought to share information of other auto companies’ management were identified, of which 8,926 articles were analyzed. Key issues were classified into categories such as the sustainability management practices deemed pertinent economy, the environment and society, and then divided into to stakeholder interest. We will continue to publish positive and negative. sustainability reports that contain the information that is most important to our stakeholders, and will ensure 2. Global guideline analysis that our sustainability activities are communicated in full The latest sustainability management guidelines, such as GRI G4, the UN Global Compact, ISO 26000 and DJSI, were analyzed as through those reports. regards to their reporting requirements and guidelines. 3. Competitor and industry leader benchmarking Sustainability reports by other automobile manufacturers were analyzed for best practices. Step 3 Analyzing internal 1. Connectivity analysis with respect to management strategy Among agenda items reported or submitted for approval to BOD, issues management strategy council and other regular meetings of top management, 31 items deemed relevant to sustainability issues were analyzed. 2. Financial/non-financial evaluations Through employee surveys, financial impacts (revenues, profits, sales volume, production cost, etc.) and non-financial impacts (reputation, brand image, PR effects, etc.) of issues were evaluated. Step 4 Priority of each issue was identified through step 2 and 3, and Selecting priority issues we defined a reporting scope by considering the impact of the priority issues on stakeholders. Step 5 Issues deemed high in materiality were reported in a descriptive Building reporting manner, detailing 2015 performances, mid-to long-term direction frame and defining a and key data by issue. disclosing scope Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 058 Our System O u r Va l u e Sustainability Management System Corporate Governance Creating and Sharing Economic Value Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis ⦁ Composite Ranking ⦁ Social Interest Materiality Analysis Results ⦁ Business Impact ⦁ Previous Ranking Major Issues ⦁ Page ⦁ Issue ⦁ ⦁ Stakeholders ◦ Analysis on materiality change ⦁ 1 Product and service quality 1 1 Customers, Suppliers, Shareholders/Investors 1 Chosen as the top priority issue as last year 8-9, 11, 60-70 Labor-management Chosen as a top priority issue as last year, but grew a bit in materiality due to strikes for 2 4 2 Employees, Customers 3 14, 102-103 relations four years in a row and delays in wage negotiations 3 Economic performance 10 4 Shareholders/Investors, Employees 2 Chosen as a top priority issue as last year 10-11, 55-57 Development of ecoCustomers, Shareholders/ Social interest decreased due to low oil prices and other factors, but business impact was assessed 4 20 3 4 22-27, 77-81 friendly products Investors, Local community high due to the launch of eco-friendly vehicles, such as the IONIQ Greenhouse gas Local community, Sharply increased in materiality due to the growing business relevancy to such responses to climate 5 11 6 27 82-84 emissions management Employees, Government change as Korea’s emission trade system and the 2015 Paris Agreement* Ethics and compliance Somewhat increased in materiality as social interest and criticism spiked following the Volkswagen 6 7 8 All stakeholders 11 48-50 management scandal which led to product boycotts, hefty fines and other negative financial impacts Financial/non-financial Sharply increased in materiality due to the growing importance of compressive risk management in 7 8 7 All stakeholders 22 50-51 risk management response to uncertainties in the business environments amid a continued global economic recession Compensation and Sharply increased in materiality recording high in business impacts for its connectivity with 8 14 5 Employees 17 108 benefits labor-management relationship and economic performance, whereas low in social interest Moderately increased in materiality following the launch of the Corporate Governance & Communication 9 Corporate governance 6 10 Shareholders/Investors, Employees 18 14, 52-54 Committee and other related activities in response to a growing social interest in corporate governance 10 Suppliers management 5 11 Suppliers, Customers, Employees 8 Chosen as a priority issue as last year 93-97 External stakeholder Customers, Suppliers, Shareholders/ Somewhat decreased in materiality due mainly to relatively low business impact despite 11 3 13 6 12-13, 15, 51 communication Investors, Government, Local community high social interest Chosen as a top priority issue in the aspect of social interest due to growing calls for more active 16-19, 28-33, 12 Social contribution 2 17 Local community 10 corporate participation in addressing social issues 112-127 * The agreement within the framework of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, signed at the Paris climate conference (COP21) in December 2015, to establish a new climate change management system after the expiration of the Kyoto Protocol which was adopted in 1997 and is to be expired 2020 Other Issues by Stakeholder 100 1 2 ⦁ Issue Stakeholders ⦁ Issue Stakeholders 90 Business Impact Job creation and Employees, Local Management of 13 Local community, 4 retention community 23 pollutants and harmful 80 Government 3 substances 14 Employee communication Employees 8 Participation in public 70 5 24 Government Sustainability policy 15 All stakeholders 7 6 management system 13 Management and 9 Suppliers, Customers, 60 16 Support for suppliers 25 recycling of raw Local community 10 Employees materials 16 11 Strengthening Waste discharge 50 19 Local community, 26 Local community 17 environmental management 14 Employees 17 management system 12 Management of impact 40 18 27 Local community 24 23 Improvement of energy on society 27 22 15 Local community, 31 25 18 consumption and Awards and agreements 21 20 Employees 30 26 efficiency 28 regarding sustainability All stakeholders Voluntary compliance to management 19 All stakeholders international standards 20 29 Biodiversity Local community 28 Employees’ human rights Employees, Local 20 and diversity community Water resources 30 Local community 10 Employees health and management 30 29 21 Employees safety Strengthening security 31 Customers, Employees Social Interest management Human resources 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 22 development and career Employees development Sustainability Performance 059 01 Product Responsibility 2015 Performance Launched the Genesis Unveiled the Lambda G90 and the Sonata 3.3 Turbo engine mated Plug-in Hybrid Electric with a front-wheel-drive Vehicle (PHEV)* 8-speed transmission, and exclusively developed * Chosen as one of the 2016 Ward’s 10 Best Engines by an electronic system to WardsAuto, for the first time control gasoline engines in the world for a PHEV powertrain and transmissions Facts & Figures Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 060 The Creta (a compact SUV localized Launched the ‘Maum for the Indian market) won the Dream’ event and coveted ‘Indian Car of the Year’; the conducted a ‘car-to-car’ Xcient (a heavy duty truck, locally test to improve customer named “Changhu” in China) was communication chosen as the “Truck of the Year” in China; and the G90 was named the best car of the year in Korea Our footprint is global Management Approach All products of Hyundai are made with the aim of caring for our customers. We strive to offer superior quality and innovative safety and convenience features, so that customers feel cared for, and are proud of driving their vehicles. To achieve this, we focus on accelerating vehicle performance, to enhance the pleasure of driving. In particular, we put our efforts on offering features and technologies to ensure product quality, by carrying out thorough analysis on values that customers truly appreciate and through “emotional product quality”. Moreover, Hyundai always reacts proactively to the rapidly changing automobile industry, in order to secure our leadership in vehicle safety and convenience, which in turn will provide new value to our customers. To pursue ‘Quality Excellence & Customer Focus’ which exceeds customer expectations, we look beyond everyday quality issues to explore all potential problems. In doing so, we improve the durability and quality of our products. Sustainability Performance 061 01 Product Responsibility 2015 Performance Launched the Genesis Unveiled the Lambda G90 and the Sonata 3.3 Turbo engine mated Plug-in Hybrid Electric with a front-wheel-drive Vehicle (PHEV)* 8-speed transmission, and exclusively developed * Chosen as one of the 2016 an electronic system to Ward’s 10 Best Engines by WardsAuto, for the first control gasoline engines time in the world for a PHEV and transmissions powertrain And yet truly local Plan for 2016 Mid-to Long-term Direction • Launch new localized strategic models: Verna and • Achieve “zero casualty” by improving technologies Yuedong for China; and the i30 for Europe which help drivers avoid accidents • Strengthen new electronic technologies and • Mass-produce advanced autonomous driving upgrade autonomous driving technologies vehicles by 2020, and fully autonomous vehicles • Build mobile booths to expand ‘the Before Service’ by 2030 and provide the Hyundai mobile experience area • Maintain global quality management to satisfy in Europe customers and meet market demands • Expand connectivity technology and offer • Improve the development processes for our luxury customized services, based on phone connectivity, vehicles to ensure the success of the Genesis brand in local markets • Offer the best customer communications programs • Have more channels and programs for customer communication Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 060 The Creta (a compact SUV localized Launched the ‘Maum for the Indian market) won the coveted Dream’ event and ‘Indian Car of the Year’; the Xcient conducted a “car-to-car” (a heavy duty truck, locally named test to improve customer “Changhu” in China) was chosen as communication the “Truck of the Year” in China; and the G90 was named the best car of the year in Korea Sustainability Performance 061 01 O u r Va l u e Key Sustainability Data Product Indicators Unit 2013 2014 2015 Responsibility Sales Vehicle 4,732,533 4,963,535 4,964,831 1) New Vehicle Quality Index PP 100 2) 106 [5th] 94 [1st] 95 [2nd] [Ranking] 63 No. of customers experienced the Before Person 4,300,000 4,340,000 4,750,000 Service — Overseas Developing Safety Technologies for Future No. of customers participated in customer satisfaction Person 2,800 3,100 4,000 survey — Korea Development of Autonomous Driving Vehicles 63 Hyundai Global Satisfaction Score 835 841 882 Development of Collision Damage Mitigation Index — Overseas (Out of 1,000) (22 countries) (25 countries) (26 countries) Technology 65 Vehicle IT Technology 65 Hyundai Customer Score 80.4 82.0 81.8 Satisfaction Index — Korea (Out of 100) (2nd) (1st) (1st) Vehicle Safety Tests 67 1) Initial Quality Study (IQS) conducted by the J.D. Power and Associates, a U.S.-based global marketing information services firm; the IQS scores a vehicle 90 days after its purchase based on the number of complaints per 100 units 68 2) Points per 100 vehicles Brand Innovation Based on Quality and Service Stakeholder Interview Improving Product Quality 68 Improving Services 69 What do you think are the Hyundai is well positioned in Brazil. It has overcome difficult strengths of the Hyundai market conditions by understanding market trends, and by brand? providing high-quality products and customer satisfaction. The 71 most competitive aspects of Hyundai are its constantly evolving product line-up, and the ten year warranty, backed by its Enhancing Customer Value quality management guideline, ‘The Hyundai Way is the Quality Way’. Hyundai also helps dealers to build pleasant, modern Improving Customer Communication 71 dealerships, and offers other support, which is another major Enhancing Customer Satisfaction 72 plus for dealers from Hyundai. All these efforts are improving its brand competitiveness in the Brazilian market. Protecting Customer Information 72 How do you expect Hyundai Hyundai’s current dealer assistance programs are good. 73 to help local dealers improve their retail sales? However, I would like to suggest the following: firstly, improving price competitiveness over major competitors; secondly, providing financial support at favorable interest rates as low Global Highlight as those of major competitors; and last but not least, regular public relations activities, including retail sales promotions, TV India 73 commercials and other media exposure on a regular basis. What is your company’s We are a full-service car dealership, selling vehicles from eight core competitiveness? brands including Hyundai. All our businesses and services are completely aimed at customer satisfaction. We undertake active promotions for retail sales, and preemptively respond to market conditions by sharing strategies with our automakers, including Hyundai. In addition, we are well-located and equipped with high-end facilities. Interviewee Fernando Coelho CEO, Grande Coreia Agency in Fortaleza, Brazil Car dealer who sells products from eight automakers, including Hyundai 69-70 Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 062 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Developing Safety Technologies Suppliers Employees for Future Society Classification 2015 Performance Mid-to Long-term Direction • Applied safety and convenience features, such as Highway Driving Assist • Mass-produce advanced autonomous driving vehicles by (HDA) and Driver Attention Alert (DAA) systems, to the Genesis G90 2020 (Investment of KRW 2 trillion) Development of autonomous driving • Unveiled the R-Car (Research Car), a pilot model for an autonomous vehicles driving vehicle • Obtained an autonomous driving license in the U.S. state of Nevada • The Aslan was named to be the safest care in Korea • Develop weight-reduced robust body structure optimized Development of for each product line-up. • The Sonata recoded the highest score at the China-New Car collision damage Assessment Program (C-NCAP) mitigation technology • The Tucson received ‘5★’ at the Euro NCAP, and chosen as the Top Safety Pick Plus* by the U.S. Insurance Institute for Highway Safety • Collaborated with global IT firms for joint R&D on smartphone • Improve vehicle-to-external (V2X) connectivity connectivity Upgrade car safety (eCall, V2X technologies) Google: Applied the Android Auto to the LF Sonata for the North Expand driver convenience (Internet of Things, smart American market, the world first ever among mass-produced cars home connectivity) Vehicle IT (April 2015) technology • Develop vehicle intelligence technologies Apple: The development of CarPlay under way Baidu of China: Formed partnership for connected car technology Develop customized services based on voice or (January 2015) context recognition system Lead IT convergence technology * Received the highest grade ‘Good’ on every evaluation item of all crash tests including small overlap Development of Autonomous Driving Vehicles The ultimate goal of Hyundai’s vehicle safety technology to its destination, safely and comfortably. In addition, is “zero casualty”, by helping drivers to avoid accidents. if, for example, a vehicle is in smart cruise mode at Our commitment not only to driver safety, but also to 110km/h on a 110km/h speed-limit highway and then the safety of passengers and pedestrians is reflected joins a 100km/h speed-limit highway, the vehicle is in our efforts to develop autonomous self-driving cars. automatically caused to run at 100km/h. Autonomous driving technology recognizes driving conditions using sensors, and can then control driving Driver Attention Alert System The Driver Attention without input from the driver. Hyundai is pushing the Alert (DAA) system analyzes driving patterns based on development of autonomous driving vehicles, with the information from the LDWS camera installed behind a target of commercialization by 2020. room mirror. If the driver is driving too close to the edge of a lane or making sudden lane changes or steering Safety and Convenience Features of the G90 movements, a careless driving indicator is displayed on the instrument cluster. If these driving patterns are Highway Driving Assist System The Highway Driving repeated, a warning message and an alarm encourage Assist (HDA) system, which was first applied to the G90 the driver to get some rest. The DAA system can be in 2015, is a smart cruise mechanism equipped with activated when a vehicle is running at between 60km/h Lane Departure Warning System (LDWS) and Rackto 180km/h, on any type of road. Motor Driven Power Steering (R-MDPS). The LDWS detects lanes, and keeps the car in its lane with steering assistance from the R-MDPS until the vehicle gets Sustainability Performance 063 Key Features Highway Driving Assist System Driver Attention Alert System Safety and convenience system to maintain Alert system to call driver’s attention and encourage to have a break a set distance from the vehicle ahead, by analyzing driving pattern and estimating the level of fatigue and help the car stay in the correct lane Key Features on a highway Careless Driving Patterns 1 2 3 Recognition Detection Warning Front Camera Front Camera Pop-up Alert Zigzag A pattern in which a Lane monitoring: Analyzing careless Careless driving vehicle’s movement fluctuates Steering/torque, driving patterns level, Pop-up alert horizontally within a lane Acceleration/ on cluster deceleration signal, Navigation Front radar Front camera Turn signal (Recognize a highway) + (Maintain a set distance) + (Stay in the correct lane) Key Specifications G90 Unintentional lane departure A pattern in which a vehicle slightly Lane information Recognition departs the lane and gets back Analysis Steering patterns, signal Acceleration/ Recognition deceleration pedal •Maintaining a set distance and the correct lane Limit on early driving 10 minutes driving after Warning period break time Improving the safety and convenience of longAbrupt steering A pattern in distance driving and traffic congestion condition Limit on repetition 1 minute which a vehicle’s handle is steered •Working in partnership with a navigation system abruptly after being hardly steered 1 level increase for each Control speed by recognizing speed limits Measure for long-time driving hour of unrested driving Recognize if a car joins a highway Automatically deactivated at junctions, exits, ramps Controlling turn signals and and toll gates Measure for normal driving acceleration/deceleration •Available speed range pedals Insufficient steering A pattern in Up to 150km/h Available in ‘Normal’ and which the driver loses grip of the Reflection of driving tendency handle and the vehicle is being ‘Early’ modes * Speed range extended to include lower speed; lane tilted to edge of a lane keeping assistance is available at 60km/h or faster Indicating/warning method Level/Pop-up R Car and Autonomous Driving License In addition, the company has obtained an autonomous in Nevada driving license for highways in the U.S. state of Nevada, to test four of its self-driving vehicles, including In 2015, Hyundai unveiled the R Car (Research Car), a the Tucson FCEV. This was particularly pleasing for pilot model for an autonomous driving vehicle, based Hyundai as Nevada is strict in issuing driving licenses on the Tucson. The R Car is equipped with Hyundai’s for autonomous vehicles, and requires detailed technologies of the future, including the world’s first presentations on the technology and road tests of mass-produced eco-friendly fuel cell. In addition, the the vehicles. The models which now can be tested on LiDAR sensor, installed near the license plate, sends out public roads in Nevada have various Advanced Driver beams to enable the car to dodge obstacles. The R Car’s Assistance Systems (ADAS) developed by Hyundai, roof has solar panels for power generation, and ecoincluding Traffic Jam Assist (TJA), Emergency Stop friendly interior materials on its doors. System (ESS), and the Narrow Passage Assistant System. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 064 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Development of Collision Damage Vehicle IT Technology Mitigation Technology Blue Link Service Pedestrian Protection Technology We introduced our first telematics service, ‘Mozen’, in 2003, and the launch of the smartphone-based Pedestrian protection technology minimizes injuries to service Blue Link in 2012 was the beginning of providing pedestrians in car accidents. Hyundai has developed telematics services in earnest. In 2013, the secondthe Active Hood System, and built it into the Genesis, generation Blue Link was applied to the new Genesis. the Aslan and the All New Tucson. We also apply highThe new Blue Link comes with the ‘Concierge+’ efficiency energy absorption structures and materials to service which includes a GPS navigation application, bumpers and hoods, the main collision impact spots, to and runs automated self-diagnostics to prompt the minimize damage and injuries in accidents. In addition, driver to visit the nearest Hyundai repair center if we have increased the number of models with an needed, as well as existing functions such as smart autonomous emergency braking system, in order to control, safety/security features, vehicle diagnostics prevent collisions with pedestrians by recognizing their management, and information services. A new ‘Blue presence on the road. Link Truck & Bus’ telematics service for use with the Trago Xcient, a heavy-duty truck, was launched in 2013. Robust Body Structure It offers services such as vehicle diagnostics, safety/ Hyundai has continued to focus on developing robust security features, heating without starting the car, airbody structures that are optimized for each of its conditioning control using a smartphone; it also provides products, and based on our mid-to long-term platform the driver with a Digital Tachograph (DTG)-based realstrategy. As the backbone of a vehicle, the body time control service, optimized for heavy-duty trucks, structure is a major factor in driving performance, as free of charge for two years. In 2014, we offered a well as in controlling noise, vibration and harshness five-year service plan for the first time with the Aslan, (NVH). It also has a vital role in protecting passengers to improve the safety of our customers. from the effects of traffic accidents. We are committed Blue Link service was launched in North America in to developing robust body structures that can resist 2011, and China in 2012. Hyundai has also launched a collisions from all angles — front, rear, and broadside new service in North America, the ‘Hyundai Assurance collisions, and even roll-over. To improve both fuel Connected Care Program’, with various safety and car efficiency and safety, Hyundai is developing a lighter care features, including automatic collision notification, but robust body structure by using Advanced High SOS emergency assistance, vehicle maintenance and Strength Steel (AHSS) for more than 50% of the vehicle recall alert services, to improve driver safety and body, and also by using lightweight materials such as convenience. In China, the service has been recognized aluminum and carbon composite materials. as innovative, safe, secure, and convenient program, Device to Reduce Personal Injury thus boosting the product value of SUVs and full-sized cars with high growth potential. In the event of a collision, passengers risk severe injury due to their own kinetic energy, even if a robust vehicle Smartphone Connectivity Technology frame minimizes deformation of the passenger cabin. With the number of smartphone users continuing Hyundai uses a technology that minimizes impact on to grow, the need for connected services is also passengers by forcibly tensioning the seat belt reel at increasing. Hyundai therefore, in partnership with global the moment of impact to reduce injuries to the head, IT companies, is focusing on technologies related to chest, and abdomen. In addition, the nine-airbag system, smartphone connectivity, to enable drivers to enjoy including front airbags for the driver and passenger, a wider range of connected services and contents side airbags for front and back seats, curtain airbags, conveniently and safely in their vehicles. knee airbag for the driver and rollover sensors, is simultaneously deployed to absorb the remaining kinetic energy of the passengers, to minimize severe injuries. Airbag pressure and deployment time automatically vary according to the nature of the collision, which helps with passenger safety. Hyundai also leads in protecting infant and child passengers by offering a child seat as a standard feature. Sustainability Performance 065 Connected Car Connecting the ‘Car to Life’ whereabouts and destinations of other vehicles, in at a Glance order to inform drivers of the optimal route for their With IT rapidly evolving, customers’ interest in the journeys. Internet of Things (IoT) is also increasing substantially. The car is a good example of the IoT, with extensive Lastly, the connected Mobility Hub will use computing data being generated and transferred via in-vehicle power to make daily life and interaction with cars and networks, which in turn implies a major impact if their surroundings smarter. The Mobility Hub enables the in-vehicle IoT can connect outside the vehicle. a car to become a “moving life space” in which drivers Hyundai is aiming to create the ‘Ultimate Intelligent can access services which were previously only Car’ by developing the services and technologies of available at home or work. the future. A connected car — one with information and communications technology, capable of providing 4 development focus of connected cars: passengers with Internet and mobile connectivity — in-vehicle networks, cloud technology, big data, is fundamental for the automobiles of the future, and security system including self-driving vehicles and eco-friendly cars, for it enables safer and more efficient driving and more Hyundai is developing connected car technologies convenient use of information outside the vehicle. Just through the ‘Open Innovation’ partnership with global as the convergence of conventional cellphones and companies, to support in-vehicle networks, the highconnectivity gave birth to smartphones, connected cars speed transfer of large amounts of data, and integrated will also evolve into different forms of mobility, beyond security systems. We have also a cloud technology merely being means of transportation. system to collect vehicle data and to provide computing power, based on which our data scientists research and develop products, improve product quality, and listen to The future of Hyundai’s connected cars and customer feedback, among many other services. 4 mid-to long-term service fields The car is the next frontier of the connected life of Firstly, smart remote maintenance will remotely the future, and these new technologies will help to put diagnose and fix vehicles, without the customer mobility at the center of people’s lives. Hyundai centers needing to call in at a service center. This will offer its R&D efforts on connected car technologies, based substantial convenience — even customers who are on which more people will enjoy a new experience of not used to IT devices, such as the elderly, will easily mobility and innovation in their lifestyles. be able to deal with unexpected situations, and will not have to wait for emergency services. Secondly, autonomous driving will provide the utmost in safety by connecting a vehicle to other vehicles and the road infrastructure, taking drivers beyond the limits of what they can simply see. Current autonomous vehicles recognize nearby factors using sensors installed in the vehicle; connected car technology of the future will enable more autonomous driving by also using other vehicles’ information, including destination and directions, as well as other information such as traffic conditions. Thirdly, smart Traffic will reduce energy consumption, speeds up journeys, and minimizes pollution by analyzing traffic and road conditions and the Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 066 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Vehicle Safety Tests Vehicle Safety Test Results In 2015, Hyundai models earned exceptional safety rating. The 2016 Tucson was selected as the Top Safety ratings in tests in Korea and overseas. In Korea, the Pick Plus by the U.S. Insurance Institute for Highway Aslan recorded 97.3 points, far higher than competitor Safety, receiving the highest grade on every evaluation vehicles, at the Korean New Car Assessment Program item on all crash tests, including small overlap. The (NCAP), and was named the safest car of the year by Tucson also received a ‘5★’ rating at the Euro NCAP. the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. These achievements are the fruits of Hyundai’s Overseas, the Sonata recorded the highest score at the continued commitment to vehicle safety. China-NCAP, 60.7 points out of 62, and obtained a ‘5★+’ ‘Car-to-Car’ Event The “car-to-car” test took place on August 22nd 2015. One randomly selected Sonata Turbo manufactured at the Alabama plant in the U.S. and one from the Asan plant in Korea were deliberately crashed front-on, in public. The Korean car was chosen by a well-known Korean blogger, Dae-Hwan Lee, and the overseas model was selected by Professor Pil-Soo Kim from Daelim University College. The vehicles were deliberately crashed into each other at 56km/ h with 200 meters in between. Both models were proved to be identical in terms of safety according to the evaluation Background standards of the Korean NCAP; both earned passing marks for three major factors, namely A-pillar damage, door Hyundai is well aware that customers’ trust comes not opening/closing, and airbag activation. The level of injuries only from great product quality but also from great to the dummies inside the cars (head, neck, chest, and upper communications, and that is why we made extra efforts for legs) were calculated to be equal as well. After the success customer satisfaction in 2015. In particular, to earn back of this test, we will continue to focus on earning customer customer trust in Korea following concerns about product trust into 2016 and beyond.. quality and vehicle safety, we undertook regular customer communication programs and a special “car-to-car” event, Test Conditions to test if there was any difference in product quality and vehicle safety between a product made for the Korean •100% front-on collision test at 56km/h market and one made for overseas. (KNCAP standards basis) •Unmanned driving system with a crash test dummy Sustainability Performance 067 Brand Innovation Based on Quality and Service Classification 2015 Performance Mid-to Long-term Direction • Initial Quality Study (IQS: quality study of new vehicles during • Maximize safety and quality, and minimize customer the early days of ownership) complaints Improving product U.S.: 2nd among 21 companies | Models: Accent (RB), Tucson (LM) Global product quality management from a customer quality China: 1st among 46 companies | Models: Verna, Langdong, Mingtu and market perspective and ix25 Europe: 3rd among 20 companies, as rated by Auto Bild (2.42 points) • Established the base for digitalizing services by expanding the • Open the Hyundai Motor Studio Goyang Workshop Automation service system and the digital ‘Before Service’ The first multipurpose complex in Korea for sales, • Offered ‘Before Service’ events to 4.75 million customers in 94 services and branding countries Open the service center of the future • Launched the ‘365-day Open Maintenance Service’, the first of • 4 strategic tasks for overseas customer services its kind in the Korean automobile industry Green (safety/environment): focus on EV services and Improving services customer safety Connected (digitalized): expand Workshop Automation and auto care services Interactive (communication between business sites) Unique (differentiation): provide distinctive services for the Genesis brand and expand the ‘Hyundai Assurance+’ service Improving Product Quality Hyundai Quality Improvement System Proactive & Creative Global Safety Quality Management Our quality management philosophy is to provide customers with high quality vehicles that do not Global Leading Company break down. To support this, Hyundai has established Premier global brand a ‘Proactive & Creative Global Safety Quality Management’ system, a company-wide initiative through which everyone at Hyundai communicates and collaborates to bring about the best in safety and Sales Global sales competitiveness quality for our customers. We are also committed to improving throughout the entire quality management BBB chain, from development to manufacturing, sales and (Best Buy Brand) Achieve the BBB after-sales servicing. In addition, Hyundai has established a customerQuality Marketing Enhance perceived quality based quality management system and ‘Q-Cluster’, the company-wide comprehensive quality assurance infrastructure. Using these systems, the company aims Global Quality Winner Win global quality awards to detect quality issues and resolve them proactively. In the after-sales servicing aspect, the early detection, Mind–set Innovation Customer-oriented quality morale early response and the offering of early solutions to quality problems enables Hyundai to avoid serious product safety and quality issues in advance, so that we can provide our customers with the highest quality, safest vehicles possible. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 068 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Quality Assurance to Best Respond to U.S. In the Initial Quality Study performed by an Customer Safety American-based global marketing institute J.D. Powers & Associates, Hyundai ranked second among non-premium There is increasing focus on driver safety after a automakers, one of the highest for two consecutive number of major recalls in the automobile industry. years. The Accent and the Tucson were segment Hyundai has undertaken a number of preemptive recalls, winners in the small car and the small SUV segment, and is responding with continuous quality enhancement respectively. The Elantra (locally named Avante in the and repairs for vehicles that show potential quality U.S.) and Santa Fe also won their segments. These four problems. The company will continue to provide wins once again proved the excellence of Hyundai’s immediate responses to customer complaints, and will product quality. dedicate itself to quality improvements at company level. China Hyundai’s products also performed very well in quality surveys in China. In the 2015 C-NCAP, Hyundai Product Quality Surveys was first out of 46 non-premium brands, and of the 11 Product quality is essential for a brand, as well as for segments in the survey, the company won four segment earning customers’ trust and for maintaining sustainable winners, through its Verna, Langdong, Mingtu and ix25 competitiveness. That is why our slogan, ‘The Hyundai models. This was the most segments won by a single Way is the Quality Way’, reflects our commitment to company ever since the survey has begun in 2000. In quality. In 2015, Hyundai earned many outstanding particular, the Langdong ranked the first at its segment results in studies and surveys from globally renowned for the second year in a row, confirming its leadership institutions thanks to its global product quality in the semi-medium sedan market in China. management with focus on customers and markets. Europe Europe is the home of the global automobile Hyundai will communicate with its customers for quality industry, and Hyundai is proving its competitiveness management throughout the entire lifecycle of its there as well. In the 2015 Quality Report from Auto products, thus grow into the most beloved brand by Bild, a highly-regarded German automobile magazine, customers. Hyundai earned third place out of 20 automakers. This was especially satisfying because Auto Bild’s survey is Countermeasures for thorough, taking into account feedback from owners, Major Product Quality Issues in 2015 recall information, results from regular check-ups, detailed car tests, durability, customer complaints, Recall of the Sonata for Recall of the Sonata over maintenance requirements and warranties. Engine Failures (U.S.) Brake Pad Defects (U.S.) Problem: engine makes noises and the Problem: brake lights of the old Sonata Improving Services engine alert signal remains on while driving, model, manufactured in the U.S., could stay and if the driver ignores the noise and on due to a defective stopper pad Proactive Customer Service keeps driving, the engine can possibly stop Customer Care Center The Hyundai Customer Care Center Cause: impurities gather in the engine Cause: insufficient durability in high (HCCC) is the helpline for global customer service, during the manufacturing/assembling temperatures and humidity dealing with general inquiries and complaints about process, impacting oil flow Hyundai vehicles, and we are always looking for ways to make it better through regular check-ups and other Countermeasure: check for engine noise, Countermeasure: replacement of the with an engine replacement if the noise brake-pedal stopper pad (the component management activities. In 2015, as part of call center exceeds a certain level; warranty extended between the brake pedal and its switch) management, we commissioned a third-party institution to 10 years/120,000 miles •Period: Dec. 11 2009 ~ Jun. 30 2011 to undertake a ‘mystery shopper’ survey of 41 offices •Period: Dec. 11 2009 ~ Apr. 12 2012 •Vehicles affected: 304,900 units throughout the globe. We have also used feedback from •Vehicles affected: 470,000 units customer complaints to improve the call centers. In-depth solution: installed new equipment In-depth solution: improved the Before Service In order to provide the best service to to improve the cleanliness of the engine management of raw material mixture customers across the world through our global service manufacturing/assembling process used in the manufacture of brake pedal network, Hyundai offers the world’s first ‘Before stoppers Service’, including ‘Visiting Before Service’ and ‘Social Contributions Before Service’. In 2015, the Before Services were offered to 4.75 million customers by Sustainability Performance 069 94 companies, agents, and dealers across the world, Home-to-home Service Since 2011, to improve vehicle and have helped to improve customer satisfaction and Key Before Services servicing, Hyundai has offered its Home-to-home Hyundai’s brand image. One example of the Before Service, through which Hyundai picks up a customer’s Service is in Europe, where Hyundai has developed a Visiting Before Service vehicle and then returns it after finishing all required mobile booth where people can experience ‘Modern in collaboration with sales vehicle maintenance. We even loan a luxury car to the Premium’, our brand direction, and new services are activities such as test driving customer whose vehicle is being repaired. This is a prime being prepared to give customers various mobile or new car exhibits example of Hyundai’s efforts to expand our services to experiences. U.S. hosted special events at big satisfy varying customer requirements. shopping malls and stadiums Capacity Building for Overseas Dealer Service To ensure Brazil all dealers participated in Smart Customer Services that we provide the best service quality across the the ‘Mega Before Service’ and ‘National Before Service’ events Workshop Automation Services Hyundai is extending world, Hyundai is focusing on strengthening our workshop automation services, to improve customer overseas dealerships. We founded the internet-based Europe provided extensive free vehicle maintenance services, satisfaction through more efficient vehicle maintenance. Hyundai Training Academy in 2015, so that mechanics linked to the release of a new This service is intended to digitalize all customer contact and service advisors overseas can get the information model points of vehicle maintenance process from reservation they need, quickly and easily from smart devices. The to drop-off, release and even follow-up services. In company also holds various education programs and Together with Before 2015, workshop automation was extended to Hyundai’s seminars for overseas staff and dealers, including Service in collaboration with dealerships in 37 countries, helping to improve customer customer satisfaction (CS) seminars and the Hyundai local community events in different countries satisfaction by automatizing maintenance services Service Leaders Program. Every two years for the last and communicating with customers in real-time. This 20 years, Hyundai has hosted its World Skill Olympics, a India provided free vehicle maintenance for military vehicles standardized service process also creates a virtuous circle contest to find the best mechanic in the world, with the on Armed Forces Day between increasing maintenance capacity and increasing 11th event being held in 2015. Canada joined in with festivals dealer profitability. 365-day Open Maintenance Service Hyundai has in Ontario and Vancouver Mobile-based Next Generation Diagnostics Hyundai is introduced its ‘365-day Open Maintenance Service’ in Turkey hosted Before Service developing high-tech devices and services linked to IT, 23 directly-managed service centers in Korea, the first events at shopping malls to commemorate Children’s Day to overcome the limits of time and space in customer service of its kind in the Korean automobile industry. service. In 2014, the company became the first one in the Customers can access maintenance services any time Caring Before Service to world to develop mobile-based next-generation diagnosis they want, even at weekends and holidays. This service assist fleet management equipment, equipment which is now commonplace in the came about from the idea that many customers find it companies and motor clubs global market. Starting from more conventional laptopdifficult to visit service centers on week days, and so Singapore provided free vehicle based diagnosis equipment, the current tablet-based the 365-day Open Maintenance enables them to get maintenance to a taxi fleet equipment improves maintenance efficiency by being vehicle maintenance in their free time, and they can management company faster, and offering a greater variety of services. These even deal with emergencies due to traffic accidents Taiwan, Philippines, Indonesia next-generation systems will be rolled out to more service or unexpected breakdowns at weekends or holidays. invited motor clubs to take advantage of Before Services centers, so that more mechanics can use them. In addition, Thanks to the Service, Hyundai customers, excluding Hyundai will put in place an additional check-up system commercial vehicle owners, can go to service centers Peru provided free vehicle maintenance for police vehicles ahead of vehicle delivery, to further enhance customer and get high quality vehicle maintenance on any day satisfaction. of the year, even without a reservation, if they have an Social Contribution Before emergency. In addition, Hyundai’s service supplier, Blue Remote Vehicle Maintenance Services To handle problems Service offering natural Hands, provides 365-day service in six major cities of disaster relief in automobiles in every region of the world, Hyundai Korea, to maximize customer convenience. has offered remote vehicle maintenance services since Flood-affected areas in Chile emergency vehicle maintenance 2010, and has supported from the center in Korea. Also, MERS Prevention Treatments For six weeks in June and other help for disaster relief the company has hosted regular operation improvement and July 2015, Hyundai launched nation-wide free Areas affected by volcanic seminars since 2012, in order to encourage the use of disinfection services to prevent the spread of Middle activity in Argentina vehicle this system, by inviting the key people from each region, East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) in Korea. At maintenance and other free and sharing service information, including details on new service centers and Blue Hands centers, as well as services for damaged vehicles technology and the information needed for specific repairs. In for customers of Before Service, disinfection services Quake-affected areas of Nepal doing so, we have continued to enhance our competitiveness were provided to about 600,000 vehicles — regardless free maintenance and other in maintenance, as part of our commitment to world-class, of brand — fumigating parts of vehicles that could services for damaged vehicles, including repairing body panels world-wide customer satisfaction. threaten to transmit MERS, such as the steering wheel, transmission, door handles, floor mats, etc. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 070 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Enhancing Customer Value Suppliers Employees Society Classification 2015 Performance Mid-to Long-term Direction • Proved vehicle safety and quality through a collision in public • Communicate with customers with sincerity Improving customer • Improved customers’ understanding and formed ties • Develop new communication programs between executives communication and customers • Develop programs to increase customers’ interest in Hyundai • Ranked first in the Hyundai Customer Satisfaction Index, • Establish a virtuous circle system for customer experiences as in the previous year and the improvement process based on the HCSI (Customer • Recorded 882 points in the Hyundai Global Satisfaction Index, experience → Feedbacks for improvement → Operation/ Enhancing customer measured across 26 countries Improvement process → Customer-oriented reward system) satisfaction • Strengthened customer service response for luxury vehicles • Establish an all the year around support system to further improve employee skills • Received external customer satisfaction awards • Provide customers with greater satisfaction at all customer contact points • Established a new Personal Information System to control access • Expand training and monitoring for all contractors who handle to and protect customer information data customer information Protecting customer information • Improve the monitoring and management of access to and use of customer information by building a monitoring system to process customer information Improving Customer Communication When we perform customer communication activities for marketing, Hyundai neither invades privacy, applies double standards, nor abuses upon vulnerable social group such as children. Also, for marketing communications in different regions all around the world, we perform preliminary reviews and collect local opinions, so that our marketing activities coincide with ethical and cultural norms in respected regions. Thanks to these efforts, there has been no such cases as violations or fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning marketing communications for the last four years since 2012. Maum Dream Communication Following on from the “car-to-car” crash test in August 2015, Hyundai accelerated its efforts to asked questions concerning negative comments made improve communications with customers, including about Hyundai and its products on-line, and about the more dialogues with so-called “anti-fans”. With the future vision of Hyundai. The company did its best to perspective to consider customers with bitter opinions answer their questions honestly and openly. At the as advisors, rather than anti-consumers, the company second event, on November 16th, the company talked launched a new customer communication program, with college students majoring in natural sciences ‘Maum Dream’. Maum means “heart” in Korean, and and engineering about its ‘N’ performance brand, reflects our heart-felt commitment to doing the best autonomous driving, and eco-friendly technologies. For we can for our customers, as well as our wish to have the third event, on December 16th, the company invited conversation with customers about future and dream. members from the on-line automobile community There were three Maum Dream events in 2015. In ‘Bobaedream’, which has been highly critical at October 27th, about eighty customers and 23 journalists times about Hyundai. We listened and replied to their Sustainability Performance 071 questions and criticisms, including questions about new • Korean Customer Satisfaction Index: first place at all cars and technologies, their complaints, and suggestions Product and segments — 22 consecutive years for passenger car; for improvements. Service Labeling 12 consecutive years for RV • Korean Service Quality Index: first place at all We will continue to host face-to-face meetings Information for Customers segments — 5 consecutive years for sales/maintenance between company executives and customers, and we on Compliance with aim to develop sub-programs to turn negative thoughts • Korean Net Promoter Score: first place at all segments — Regulations of customers into positive ones while diversifying the 9 consecutive years for passenger car/RV program to attract more customers. In addition, as Korea promised at the last Maum Dream event, we will launch Label confirming authenticated an ombudsman system through which customers can information on exhaust gases Protecting Customer Information deliver their suggestions directly to us. Label on fuel efficiency Vehicle information label — Personal Information Protection vehicle ID, weight, identification In 2011, Hyundai established the Personal Information number, and tire information Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Protection Committee, under the supervision of a Warning label about front Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) at each respective field, in passenger seat airbags, Customer Satisfaction Survey order to build a foundation for personal information discouraging small children protection management system. We minimize the amount The Hyundai Customer Satisfaction Index (HCSI) is an from sitting in front seats of personal customer information stored by staff, and annual survey in which we survey new car owners who China continue to emphasize the importance of the protection have purchased their vehicles within the last three years, Ignition battery label, ID label, of personal information through regular training. in order to measure customer satisfaction (CS) and look Vehicle identification number, for changing trends in customer requirements. The 2015 Label for refrigerant of an air Personal Information Protection System HCSI encompassed face-to-face interviews with 4,000 conditioner people and additional focus groups for extra in-depth Through training and monitoring, Hyundai encourages Label on fuel efficiency, surveys, which enhanced credibility. Certificate of Conformity (COC) not only its employees but also suppliers and other label, Child Restraint System contractors to comply with all applicable laws and The survey showed that the overall CS level in the (CRS) warning label regulations on customer information. The company also automobile industry has decreased since 2012, mainly Airbag label, Antitheft label has established the Personal Information System (PIS) to because of the increasing expectations of customers. manage the entire customer information process, which Hyundai, however, has defeated competitors, and has held Europe helps to control and monitor suppliers and contractors on to its leading position in vehicle maintenance services ID label — vehicle weight, who are handling customer information, thus building for two years in a row. Where the survey showed there Whole Vehicle Type Approval authentication number, etc. the stable customer information transaction system. was need for improvements, Hyundai has set targets for such improvements, and will liaise at customer contact North America (USA/Canada) Certification for Personal Information points to make sure that those improvements satisfy Protection Management Manufacturer’s Suggested customers. Retail Price (MSRP) label Hyundai has established a company-wide system to — fuel efficiency, NCAP and other information in manage personal information, and is committed to CS Performance and Efforts accordance with Automobile complying with all applicable laws and regulations Since the launch of the Genesis G90, there has been Information Disclosure Act on technological and managerial countermeasures an increasing need to build a service culture to attract VECI label — authenticated to protect privacy throughout the entire transaction more customers, especially luxury car buyers. Hyundai information on exhaust gases process from collection to disposal of information. In has therefore focused on creating consistent customer Compliance label — vehicle 2014, the company acquired the Personal Information experiences at every contact point through customized weight, tire information, etc. Management System (PIMS) certification, a voluntary education programs for our staff. certification concerning information protection, from the Korean government. In 2016, as we have become Success in Customer Satisfaction a subject that is required to earn Information Security • National Customer Satisfaction Index: first place Management System (ISMS) authentication, we are at all segments — compact, semi-medium, medium, making preparations to fulfill the requirements needed semi-large, large, RV — for the first time in the Korean to acquire such authentication. We will continue to reauto industry test or renew all the relevant certifications and systems, • Korean Standard-Quality Excellence Index: first place thus strengthen our personal information protection, at all segments — 6 consecutive years for semi-medium, and secure safety and continuity in managing our medium and SUV segments; 5 consecutive years for after customer information. services Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 072 Global Highlight The Creta, our strategic model for India, demonstrates our passion and commitment to the best in CS India Customers are the ultimate goal of our product responsibility. Hyundai therefore goes beyond just producing vehicles with a good driving performance, and looks for ways in which we can care for customers’ health and happiness. For the entire process of designing, manufacturing and selling the Creta, Hyundai has been thinking from the perspective of the Indian market, so that we can deliver great customer satisfaction in India. Made for the Indian Market, Because of India’s road conditions, we used Loved by Indians additional AHSS for vehicle rigidity, and our own staff undertook over 6,000km of road tests on Hyundai established Hyundai Motor India (HMI), an public roads during the development stage, to overseas subsidiary for the Indian market, in 1996. improve vehicle durability. We even submerged a We were particularly keen to find better ways to vehicle in water to test water tightness, which is meet the expectations and requirements of Indian important in India where extremely heavy rains customers, and, as a result, HMI has maintained a during the monsoon season can affect vehicles. leading position — first in exports, second in local Even with all these improvements, by using locally sales — among local automakers in India. produced vehicle parts for more than 90% of the The driving force of our success has been vehicle, both costs and weight fell. strategic models, localized for the Indian market. In Thanks to these efforts to take into account the September 1998, Hyundai began mass production preferences of local consumers, and backed by of the Ssangtro compact car, its first localized our innovative engineering, the Creta has been a model, at the Chennai plant, and sold 60,321 units great success in the Indian market. Within the first in 1999, becoming the second best-selling car in month of its launch, 6,783 units were sold, ranking India. In addition, we established Hyundai Motor it first in the Indian SUV market, and the Creta has The Creta has won the hearts of Indian customers India Engineering in 2004 to focus on localized maintained this leading position by selling 22,948 R&D, and, by working closely with the Namyang units in the first quarter of 2016. Technology Research Center in Korea, Hyundai has built on success stories in India, including the Accumulated sales volume development and launch of the Creta. Indian Car of the Year 2016, (July 2015 ~ April 2016) The Creta is available with three powertrain Made by Hyundai 63,836 options — a 1.6–liter gasoline engine that produces The Creta won the coveted ‘Indian Car of the a maximum of 123 horsepower, and two diesel Year 2016’ award, beating 12 other finalists. 14 units engines which are a 1.4-liter engine that produces specialist jurors, who are reporters of nine media a maximum of 90 horsepower and a 1.6-liter with specializing in automobiles, choose the winner a maximum of 128 horsepower. Because Indian through a comprehensive review of sales, price, Market share (compact SUV basis; as at end-April 2016) drivers prefer automatic transmissions (AT), the performance, technological innovation, design, two diesel models are equipped with AT, the first 19.4 fuel efficiency, cost efficiency, safety, creating vehicles in their segment to offer AT. There is also new markets, and consumer reviews. The award an additional space to store a water bottle in the is one of the most renowned in India, and also a % door trim, air conditioning in the back seats, and significant factor in new car purchases. the audio buttons have been re-arranged for a Hyundai’s i10, Grand i10, and New i20 have * Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers right-hand drive car. In addition, to add luxury previously won the ‘Indian Car of the Year’ award, specifications, the Creta offers such features as in 2008, 2014, and 2015, respectively. With the 17-inch diamond cut alloy wheels, LED position Creta’s win, Hyundai has now won four times lamps, a 5-inch touch screen audio system, and in last 10 years, as well as becoming the first side curtain airbags. automaker to win the award three years in a row. Sustainability Performance 073 02 Eco-friendliness 2015 Performance Production Expanded the use Secured the technology Strengthened line-up for all models of AHSS up to 53% to mass-produce monitoring completed satisfying luggage covering by of pollutant Euro 6 emissions recycling seat foam of generation, and standards end-of-life vehicles standardized facility maintenance Facts & Figures Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 074 Reduced GHG The Tuscan (locally Reduced 8.1 tons of GHG emissions by 0.4% named ix35 in emissions of the Sonata over the previous Europe) received PHEV, compared to the year’s, thanks to an international existing model * GHG reduction certification on activities eco-friendliness * Measured the total amount of carbon dioxide created by the entire process of manufacturing a vehicle and then driving it for 120,000km More driving pleasure Management Approach Since its declaration of the ‘Management Philosophy and Policy on Global Environment’, Hyundai has been pursuing ecofriendly growth by balancing economic growth and environmental preservation. Our environmental management policy is not limited to dealing with global environmental regulations; it also recognizes climate change issues as a fundamental task that an automaker should embrace in earnest. Accordingly, we work to improve vehicle fuel efficiency, reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to which we contribute, recycle resources, and better manage hazardous substances. Particularly, by deploying a low-carbon technology strategy dubbed ‘Blue Drive’, we seek to improve the fuel efficiency of internalcombustion engines in the short run, and through an eco-friendly vehicle strategy ‘2000.22.2’, develop and deliver ecofriendly vehicles in the long run. Moreover, we have set up the GHG Emission Management Council to reduce GHG emissions at the production level and share information on our GHG reduction performances and technology. Sustainability Performance 075 02 Eco-friendliness 2015 Performance Production Expanded the use Secured the technology Strengthened line-up for all models of AHSS up to 53% to mass-produce monitoring completed satisfying luggage covering by of pollutant Euro 6 emissions recycling seat foam of generation, and standards end-of-life vehicles standardized facility (ELV) maintenance Lower ecological footprint Plan for 2016 Mid-to Long-term Direction • Expand the IONIQ line-up (Hybrid, EV, PHEV) • Implement the eco-friendly vehicle full line-up • Comply with the fuel efficiency regulations of the EU project by 2020 (2020.22.2 Project) and develop and Korea, and improve the average fuel efficiency clean mobility technologies by 4% over the 2015’s • Improve the average fuel efficiency by 25% • Institute the GHG Emission Management Council compared with 2015 by 2020 and reinforce the GHG reduction activities of each • Save energy, eliminate loss, reduce GHG emissions business site to reduce by 1.1% year-on-year and energy consumption through overhauling of • Reduce the use of highly hazardous chemical unproductive heating and cooling systems materials through extensive use of reverse osmosis • Adopt high efficiency equipment, improve lighting, method at pure water manufacturing facilities implement eco-friendly plants through recovery of (Approx. 2,200 tons) waste energy and waste heat • Improve the energy efficiency to reduce GHG emissions through highly efficient air compressors Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 074 Reduced GHG The Tuscan (locally Reduced 8.1 tons of GHG emissions by 0.4% named ix35 in emissions of the Sonata over the previous Europe) received PHEV, compared to the year’s, thanks to an international existing model * GHG reduction certification on activities eco-friendliness * Measured the total amount of carbon dioxide created by the entire process of manufacturing a vehicle and then driving it for 120,000km Sustainability Performance 075 02 O u r Va l u e Key Sustainability Data Eco-friendliness Indicators Unit 2013 2014 2015 MWh/ Energy consumed in producing one vehicle 1.10 1.09 1.07 Vehicle tCO2e/ GHG emissions per vehicle production 0.512 0.521 0.519 Vehicle 77 International certification Vehicle 9 11 12 Cumulative on eco-friendliness Developing Eco-friendly Vehicles number of GHG emission models certified Vehicle 12 14 15 Improving Fuel Efficiency 78 certifications as eco-friendly Reducing Exhaust Gas Emissions 79 vehicles Low-carbon product Vehicle 1 2 4 certifications Lightweight Vehicles 79 Costs and investments for environmental Resource Recycling of End-of-life Vehicles 80 KRW billion 123.6 133.5 115.6 protection* Eco-friendly Certification 81 * Sum of direct and indirect costs associated with pollution reduction, such as facility investment and waste disposal by third party, and risk management costs associated with pollution reduction 82 Responding to Climate Change Stakeholder Interview GHG Emission Reduction at Business Sites 82 Participating in the Carbon Market 84 Tell us about your overall first I think the main attraction of the IONIQ Hybrid is its design. impression of IONIQ Hybrid. I was first impressed with its modern yet fresh style evoking an eco-friendly image. As for performance, it is distinctively 85 superior in acceleration, overcoming the problem common among most hybrid vehicles. This can appeal to customers Minimizing Environmental Impact who consider vehicle performance an important buying point. However, I feel that the braking needs some improvement. Pollutant Control 85 I might be overly sensitive but I think the braking is not so solid. It also is a little weird that RPM doesn’t display in the Handling of Hazardous Materials 86 sports mode except for the Q trim model. However, I am generally satisfied. 87 Please describe on how much I drove about 4,500km up until end of April after receiving IONIQ Hybrid’s fuel efficiency the vehicle in January 29, 2016. I compared it with the Global Highlight affected the purchase Avante. Without hesitation, I was inclined to buy a car with USA 87 decision. high fuel efficiency considering driving the car for a long time. I am receiving a favorable response from friends and neighbors for owning an eco-friendly car that also saves on fuel cost from driver’s perspective . As a consumer, what do I was quite surprised when I first drove the IONIQ. For the you expect from Hyundai pleasant surprise I do thank Hyundai. I hope that Hyundai regarding eco-friendly vehicle continues to grow on the global stage and becomes development? successful in the global eco-friendly vehicle market. Keep up the good work. Interviewee Seokyoon Han IONIQ Hybrid customer 80-81 Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 076 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Developing Eco-friendly Vehicles Suppliers Employees Society Classification 2015 Performance Mid-to Long-term Direction • GDI (gasoline direct injection) line-up completed for all • Improve the average fuel efficiency by 25% compared with 2015 segments, T-GDI engine (downsized engine with enhanced fuel by 2020 Improving fuel efficiency while the performance maintained by combining the efficiency GDI technology and the turbo charger) developed • Developed a new transmission for full-sized cars (front-wheel drive 8-speed transmission) • Production line-up for all models completed satisfying Euro 6b • Develop mix technology (convergent control of engine with emissions standards post-treatment) for off-cycle NOx reduction • Diesel passenger vehicles • Strengthen the competitiveness of new engines New engine developed to Euro 6c standards: 9% better in fuel Apply new technology: Integrated heat control, lubrication efficiency and 16kg lighter control LNT system developed to Euro 6b standards: IR52 awarded New technology for higher fuel efficiency the Jang Young-shil Award for 33 weeks in 2015 Reducing exhaust • Develop engines to Euro 6c emissions standards and its internal gas emissions • Diesel light commercial vehicles adoption Mass-production of engines that meet Euro 6b standards: • Produce diesel sedans with Active SCR system that meet the SDPF (SCR on Diesel Particulate Filter) applied for the first RDE regulation time in the company history • Promote cost reduction in the RDE system in the short-, mid-, Mass-production of SDPFs in compliance with Euro 6b and long-term standards • Formed a task force team in response to the Real Driving Emissions (RDE) Regulation • Sound absorbing wheel in mid-air: Lightweight vehicle and • Extensively apply aluminum suspension parts from mid-size cars Noise, Vibration, Harshness (NVH) improvement achieved to eco-friendly cars through the realization of a mid-air structure • Maximize lightweight technology using more hot stamping (150k • Expanded the use of Advanced High Strength Steel (AHSS) segment) parts Lightweight vehicles to 53% • Develop cost-saving light plastic mix materials • Applied all-in-one hot stamping side outer parts to products (i30’s follow-up model) • Developed a Front End Module (FEM) carrier (3.0 kg/vehicle, Veloster’s follow-up model) • The Tucson received an international certification on • 2020.22.2 Project for eco-friendly vehicles (establishing the full eco-friendliness line-up of green cars by 2020 and developing technology for Eco-friendly realizing the goal of clean mobility) • The Sonata Hybrid and PHEV models certified as low-carbon certifications products • The IONIQ received a GHG emission certification Hyundai is working to improve the fuel efficiency of internal combustion engines in the short run and develop zero-pollution vehicles in the long run. To achieve these goals, we are developing zero-emissions technology, reducing the use of hazardous chemical substances, and in the process, have obtained various international environmental certificates. Hyundai continues to develop eco-friendly drivetrain systems and plans to establish a full lineup eco-friendly vehicles by 2020. Sustainability Performance 077 Improving Fuel Efficiency The DCT has realized the cost effectiveness and comfort of manual transmissions and increased fuel Engine Downsizing efficiency by 5-7% compared with most same-speed transmissions. The 7-speed DCT, an upgraded version of Hyundai seeks to improve fuel efficiency by downsizing the current 6-speed DCT, is featured in the 2014 Sonata gasoline engines and improving turbocharge and direct and 2015 i30. Hyundai is selectively applying multi-speed injection technologies, both of which increase the fuel transmissions and CVT depending on the horse power efficiency of engines. Engine downsizing is a way to of the vehicles. The CVT is currently installed in the improve fuel efficiency and boost output by reducing Accent and the Avante hybrid for which fuel efficiency the number of cylinders or displacement. As the engine is a top priority. accounts for a large portion of vehicle weight, the smaller the engine, the lighter the vehicle. Also, fuel efficiency improves when the number of cylinders or Roadmap for Fuel Efficiency Improvement displacement decreases, which reduces the frictional resistance or loss caused by incoming air. However, a turbocharger compensates for the output loss caused by engine downsizing. A technology derived from Improve the average fuel efficiency by 25% compared with 2015 by 2020 diesel engines with a turbocharger is GDI (Gasoline Direct Injection) which injects fuel directly into the Annual Goal Direction engine which improves fuel efficiency. The GDI option is available for all vehicles we produce and we have developed the T-GDI engine, a downsized engine combined with GDI and turbocharge technologies. 25% Fuel Efficiency Improvement Step 3 25% Hyundai Motor plans to expand the line-up of Expand +4%p +5%p +5%p +5%p +6%p downsized T-GDI engines for all of its vehicle models. the sales volume of eco-friendly cars We also plan to develop a new engine with optimized fuel efficiency and gradually replace the current engine 19% line-up since old engines have limits to improvement. 23% Step 2 14% Strengthen fuel efficiency More Gears in the Transmission 9% technologies The transmission has a great effect on fuel efficiency 4% Step 1 since it transmits power from an engine to the axle Base 18% that turns the wheels. A transmission with more gears Improve fuel ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19 ’20 efficiency of improves acceleration and ride quality in addition to powertrains and fuel efficiency, depending on driving conditions. But vehicles the addition of gears contributes to the complication of the structure which in turn adds to weight, which necessitates vehicle downsizing. The continuous variable transmission (CVT), which has no gears, improves fuel efficiency and has a seamless shifting feel; but it hampers acceleration and lowers ride quality. Hyundai developed the CVT in 2012, a 7-speed double clutch transmission (DCT) in 2014, and a new frontwheel drive 8-speed transmission for full-sized vehicles in 2015. We are now developing a new transmission that entirely improves fuel efficiency by increasing the transfer efficiency of current 6 (front-wheel drive) and 7 (rear-wheel drive) speed transmissions and improving internal friction. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 078 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Reducing Exhaust Gas Emissions Lightweight Vehicles Exhaust Gas Emission Reduction Increasing Use of New Materials Hyundai completed the line-up of all diesel models that Hyundai has been focusing on reducing vehicle weight comply with Euro 6b. We finished the production of by realizing the cost advantage of high-strength SDPF, a new complex reduction technology integrated steels and expanding the use of new materials such as SCR and DPF for the purpose of reducing NOx and PM/ aluminum and magnesium and carbon fiber composites. PN (micro dust) in the meantime. Also, Hyundai began We have expanded the use of AHSS to 53%, and preparing to respond the Real Driving Emissions (RDE), extensively applied hot-stamped parts in order to which is one of the regulatory trends (Euro 6c, applied improve collision safety. Moreover, we have developed Sep. 2017) of NOx emissions and other emission gas a local reinforced front bumper back-beam made of in real driving, required globally after the Volkswagen carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP) by making CFRP emission gas scandal. for vehicle parts. Clean Diesel Engine Developing New Process Technology Hyundai is actively developing combustion improvement, In the process of producing aluminum engine comweight-reduction and electronic-control technologies ponents, sand casting is used to hallow out the in response to increasingly stringent diesel engine components; and Hyundai has developed an ecoemissions standards, and to reduce GHG emissions friendly casting method that significantly reduces as well. The development of new, cleaner-burning harmful gases that generate during the molding diesel engines has enabled a significant combustion process. This technology improves not only the work improvement through 2200bar high-pressure injection environment but also product quality. For shaft steel and LP-EGR system, and a substantial friction reduction parts, hollow-forge technique is used to make the inside between moving parts. In addition, we reduced CO2 of the product hollow, which drastically reduces weight. emissions by replacing cast iron blocks with lightweight This new technology can help reduce vehicle weight by aluminum blocks. We have also improved fuel efficiency a minimum 10% to a maximum 30% without requiring and reduced hazardous exhaust emissions by applying the use of new materials. an adjustable oil pump and an integrated thermal management system and other electronic control Developing Next-generation Weight-reduction techniques. For diesel sedans, we have released a Technologies new engine equipped with SDPF and SCR systems, Hyundai has laid the groundwork for developing for the first time in the company history, in order to technology for advanced vehicle body materials improve combustion efficiencies, and as a response to by implementing a government-supported project, the Euro 6b standards. In addition, we are developing “developing ultra-lightweight vehicle bodies of multian engine that adopts to various real-road conditions material mix”. Through the implementation of the and environmental conditions, using the ‘Design of project, we were able to develop an optimal material Experiments’ test method and the environmental deployment technique based on weight, performance, chamber. cost and mass production factors, while improving our Not only does Hyundai Motor consistently improve vehicle weight reduction technology. diesel vehicles but also is expanding the diesel vehicle line-up. We are currently selling small and mid-size Strengthening Metal Forming Research vehicles equipped with a diesel engine and plan to apply and Development diesel engines to large-size vehicles and all models in We are utilizing metal forming facilities in our technology the near future. research center to obtain source technology related to lightweight materials such as aluminum and magnesium. Along with developing high tensile lightweight materials and researching for ways of applying the materials for maximum effect, we are accelerating our efforts to develop a cost-saving forming process. Such efforts will bear fruit in the form of contribution to enhancing the technology related to upgrading material quality through the tech network of our affiliates and suppliers. Sustainability Performance 079 Application of High Tensile Steel and Vehicle Weight Reduction Resource Recycling of End-of-life Vehicles Model Application Plastic Recycling •AHSS covering 53% of the vehicle body The interior and exterior plastic parts used in cars IONIQ •Aluminum applied to hood, tailgate, front-wheel Hybrid include Polypropylene (PP), Polyamide (PA), Acrylonitrile, knuckle, front-wheel lower arm, back-wheel carrier, front-wheel caliper and front back beam Butadiene, Styrene (ABS), Polycarbonate (PC), and other thermoplastic polymer materials. As such plastic •AHSS covering 52% of the vehicle body parts develop surface corrosion or lose their physical (16% for the existing model, 17kg lighter than before) Genesis G90 properties over time due to their extended exposure •Increased application of aluminum: suspension to the elements, recycling them requires techniques (rear-wheel upper, lower and assist arms) that remove pollutants and restore physical properties. •AHSS covering 53% of the vehicle body Hyundai is reusing plastic materials recycled from old Avante (21% for the existing model) vehicles using relevant technologies we have either developed on our own or acquired from our suppliers. •AHSS covering 51% of the vehicle body Tucson The recycled materials are used mainly for producing (18% for the existing model) wheel-guards and undercover parts. The company is also diversifying the reuse of materials by introducing Increased Application of Aluminum vehicle body weight reduction and other related Contribute to the improvement of fuel efficiency and driving technologies. performance (handling stability) by developing high-strength aluminum alloy and process simplification technology Recycling of Seat Foam The foam used in car seats is thermoset polyurethane Knuckle foam and, unlike other plastic parts, it is difficult to (40% lighter) reuse. Hyundai, however, developed a technology that can be applied to turning recycled seat forms into car insulation materials and since been using the technology to mass-produce luggage partitions and luggage covering materials, while conducting experiments on applying the technology to other types of parts. In addition, we will try to extend its application to the Lower arm production of not only auto parts but also building (20% lighter) materials such as sound absorbing panels. Expanded Application of Hot Stamping (150K segment) Improve average strength and optimize the thickness of vehicle body frame Existing specification Newly developed specification 150K 1.2t 45K 1.4t 150K 150K 1.2t 1.2t 60K 1.2t 120K 1.2t 10 parts per vehicle 2 parts per vehicle Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 080 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Eco-friendly Certification Life-cycle Assessment Carbon Labeling To improve the eco-friendliness of its new models, Hyundai measures the total amount of carbon dioxide Hyundai is conducting a life-cycle assessment on all created by the entire process of manufacturing a models based on the ISO 14040 series. The life-cycle vehicle and then driving it for 120,000km, and reports assessment is a technique to assess environmental this information to customers. More advanced hybrid impacts associated with a product during its entire technology that used in the Sonata PHEV has reduced life cycle, from raw material extraction to production, the total amount of GHG produced during its lifeuse, and disposal. Using this method, we have been cycle by 8.1 tons. 18 Hyundai models have acquired monitoring the environmental impact of each new car carbon labeling certifications since 2009 as of the compared with the existing one. The extended use of end of 2015. We will continue to focusing on reducing the method has earned us a number environmental carbon footprints through development of better hybrid certificates. This life-cycle assessment is also used as a technologies and eco-friendly driving guidance systems, basis for obtaining environmental certifications. use of bio materials, and other efforts. International Standard Certification for Carbon Labeling Certification Environment Since achieving its first eco-friendly vehicle certification in 2010 from TÜV NORD for the Tucson ix (locally Year Model named ix35 in Europe) and ix20, Hyundai has acquired environmental certificates for 12 vehicles, as of the end 2009 Sonata of 2015. Tucson, Avante 2010 2011 International Standards for Eco-friendly Vehicle Certification Grandeur, Accent, Veloster, i40 (Smart 2.0), i30 Year Model (Region) 2010 Tucson (Europe), ix20 (Europe) Santa Fe, YF Santa Hybrid (Low-carbon), i40 (Diesel 1.7VGT) 2012 2013 2011 i20 (India), Eon (India) i30 (Europe), Santa Fe (U.S., Europe), Genesis 2012 Avante (U.S.) 2014 Sonata, Grandeur Hybrid (Low-carbon), Aslan 2013 Tucson FCEV (Europe), i10 (Europe) 2015 Tucson FCEV (Korea, U.S.), 2014 All New i20 (Europe), Sonata Hybrid (Korea) 2015 All New Tucson (Europe) LF Sonata Hybrid (Low-carbon) LF Santa PHEV (Low-carbon) IONIQ Hybrid Sustainability Performance 081 Responding to Climate Change Classification 2015 Performance Mid-to Long-term Direction • Established a council to address GHG issues • Mid-to long-term direction for GHG emissions reduction at business • Strengthened GHG reduction activities, resulting in a 0.4% sites cut compared with the year before Supply equipment: Improve equipment efficiency, operation, and technology • Pursued energy conservation and higher efficiency in GHG emission the production process: conventional lighting and thermal Production equipment: Standardize operating hours and energy reduction at power sources replaced with more energy-efficient sources business sites systems Indirect equipment: Standardize management guidelines and • Reduced transportation costs by shipping more cargo optimize buildings’ energy uses by railroad New technology: Adopt self-power generation and renewable energy sources • Expand the use of railroad services for long-distance transportation In December 2015, the world agreed to limit the global GHG Emission Reduction temperature increase to 1.5℃ above the pre-industrial at Business Sites level at the Paris climate conference (COP21) of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. GHG Emission Management Council In response, each government has released its post-2020 Hyundai is responding to climate change by making reduction targets. The Korean government has vowed to financial assessments of the associated risks and cut GHG emissions by 37% from the Business As Usual opportunities. The company, in particular, has a natural (BAU) level by 2030. disaster emergency response system to anticipate Hyundai has joined the national reduction effort by circumstances in which normal business cannot continue implementing an energy target management system from due to drastic declines in productivity, cost increases or 2011 to 2014 and an Emission Trading Scheme (ETS) in the effect of natural disasters or climate change. 2015. For the short run, we are trying harder to conserve To better respond to the ETS, which was introduced energy, prevent energy loss, and raise efficiencies in in 2015, Hyundai has established the GHG Emission energy use. For the mid and long run, we are working to Management Council to addressing GHG-related issues. build low-carbon emitting plants by exploring various new Through this consultative channel, the company has technology options such as small-scale combined power examined its GHG emission reduction program and generation, solar energy, and energy storage. performances, and analyzed the results from the Organization to Respond to GHG at Business Sites GHG Emission Management Council Assistant Administrator Technology Strategy Planning Team Production Business Sites Buildings Technology Ulsan: Facility Asan/Jeonju: Service Equipment & Utility General Affairs R&D General Sales Support Production Administration Engineering Management Group Affairs Group Group Support Group Group Group Group Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 082 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society financial perspective. The Council consists of members take part in government policies promoting eco-friendly representing all business aspects including business sites, business operations, the plant is reviewing and investing buildings and production technology. It promotes energy in renewable energy sources and relevant new projects. conservation and awareness, efficient energy use, As a result of these efforts, the Ulsan Plant was able to investing in the reduction of energy use and adopting reduce GHG emissions per car by 2.5% in 2015 compared energy-related technologies and sharing energywith 2014’s figure, despite a 0.3% increase in vehicles reduction techniques. Meanwhile, overseas business produced. sites are flexibly responding based on their respective country’s regulatory and business environments. Jeonju Plant The Jeonju Plant has completed a system of monitoring its energy uses by energy type. Every GHG Reduction Efforts by Plant month, employees in charge of energy management get together, analyze findings of the monitoring system and Hyundai manages its GHG emissions and energy produce solutions to a more efficient use of energy. consumption while responding to the government’s As a result of its continued efforts to improve process climate change policies. While the number of vehicles efficiency, save energy and reduce loss, the plant was produced declined by 0.1% from 4,955,536 in 2014 to able to reduce its 2015 GHG emissions by 6% to stand at 4,948,315 in 2015, the GHG emission was reduced by 0.4% 136,439 tons compared with the 2014 figure of 144,394 over the same period, from 2,581 thousand tons in 2014 tons. to 2,570 thousand tons in 2015. We will continue our GHG reduction efforts covering all manufacturing plants, Namyang Technology Research Center The Namyang R&D centers, and headquarters, with a particular focus Technology Research Center conducts various on manufacturing plants which account for 85% of total experiments and research activities crucial to automobile emissions. production ranging from initial car design to road testing. In 2015, the Center reduced its GHG emissions Asan Plant The Asan Plant has been involved in a variety by adopting more energy-efficient facilities and of energy conserving activities, including adopting highequipment as well as operating systems: 2 million kW efficient facilities, optimizing processing facilities and or 1,328 tons of GHG emission was saved through an maximizing energy efficiencies. Specifically, the plant installation of LED lights and a system that automatically recycles the exhaust gas produced during the auto body controls lights during lunch and dinner time; electricity paint process, saving KRW 300 million annually in energy and water supply systems were upgraded; new or cost; and installed 16,220 LED lightings throughout the renewed buildings, which numbered 10 as of 2015, were production facilities, cutting electric bills by KRW 100 installed with high-efficient insulation materials and million annually. Timers have been placed throughout to equipped with motors and other testing machinery with prevent inadvertent energy consumption while the plant high efficiency; and a new solar power system (500kWis idle. In 2016, the Asan Plant plans to adopt highly level) was placed, producing 660,000kW and cutting efficient air compressors to improve energy efficiency electric bills by KRW 77 million in 2015. The Center has and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. its own energy control system monitoring its energy Ulsan Plant The Ulsan Plant has adopted highly efficient uses in real time, and uses resultant data to find more equipment, optimized the processing facilities and ways to reduce GHG emissions. new energy sources, as part of its effort to cut GHG Business Trips and Commuting Hyundai encourages emissions. In 2015, it invested KRW 1.4 billion in air its executives and employees to restrain from going on compressors to replace the old ones and KRW 2.2 billion overseas business trips as much as possible. The year in 65,000 energy-efficient lightings. The heating facility 2015 saw a 2.6% reduction in overseas business trips of the materials plant, which consumes a lot of LNG, was compared with 2014, which translates into a sizeable replaced with a more gas-efficient system. In order to reduction in GHG emissions. Moreover, 80% of the cars used for business trips in 2015 were eco-friendly hybrid * The 2015 greenhouse gas data are of pre-verification, and subject to change following verification. Updated data will be released cars. Four Tucson FCEVs, the next-generation green in next year’s report. As for the plant in China, the ton of coal car, were purchased to be used by employees for their equivalent (TCE) value was employed in the calculation of the GHG business trips in Korea. 569 commuter buses (22,377 conversion value for the use of electric power in accordance with seats in total) are in operation, easing employees’ the Chinese government policy. burden of commuting to/from work and helping reduce GHG emissions. Sustainability Performance 083 Optimizing Logistics Hyundai has an optimized logistics Participating in the Carbon Market network covering raw materials, parts and finished products. As road transportation accounts for most Following a global-wide adoption of the Paris Agreeof the logistics, reducing pollutants generated by road ment and global warming preventive measures, carbon deliveries is critical to cut the overall GHG emissions; trade schemes are expected to appear in various the company therefore has 13 vehicle processing shapes in the international community. In response centers in Korea, to minimize transportation distances to such an expectation, Hyundai will keep an eye on as well as GHG emitted in the process. Meanwhile, we international carbon trade policies, examine how to are expanding the use of railroads for car delivery, utilize the carbon market, and devise a GHG reduction which emits less GHG. In 2015, we adopted two railroad strategy in consideration of environmental and financial delivery routes connecting Asan and Incheon to the variables. Since all European nations, some parts of Busan New Port. China and Korea have already adopted an emissions trade system of their own, we will continue to manage our GHG reduction targets and performances, share relevant technologies, and carry out other GHG-related activities, all to respond to the system in a coherent manner. Response to Climate Change Risks and Opportunities Category Status and Response Strict regulations on Regulations on fuel efficiency and emissions across the Enhance fuel efficiency technology for all models and fuel efficiency globally world, including Korea, the U.S., Europe, China and India develop eco-friendly cars Tax benefits and penalties through CO2-based vehicle taxes Enhance fuel efficiency technology for all models and Taxes on fuel and energy in 17 European countries develop eco-friendly cars Regulatory risks Reinforced regulations on Regulations on new refrigerants to be implemented in Develop refrigerant technology refrigerants, tires and fuel Europe and the U.S. Greenhouse gas emissions regulations in most domestic Ensure the reliability of greenhouse gas emissions Emissions reporting system and overseas worksites across the globe Regulatory Increase in sale of eco-friendly cars due to reinforced Enhance competitiveness in fuel efficiency through Regulation on product efficiency opportunities greenhouse gas regulation consistent R&D efforts in comparison with competitors Tropical low pressures Risk of tornadoes during summer in the U.S. Changing rain patterns Risk of flood, snowstorms, drought and yellow dust in Korea and China and drought Risk of snowstorms in the Czech Republic Physical risks Abnormal temperature Risk of hot temperatures during summer in Korea, Turkey and the Czech Republic Risk of tsunami in India Other climate risks Possibility of disruption in parts supply from vendors and in imports (maritime logistics) due to abnormal climate change Physical Opportunity for sales increases due to climate changes in countries where competitors are located opportunities Increase in consumers’ demand for eco-friendly cars as Managerial Change in consumer behavior that a result of eco-friendly car support policy in the U.S. and Increase in sale of eco-friendly cars opportunities prefers eco-friendly products Europe Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 084 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Minimizing Environmental Impact Suppliers Employees Society Classification 2015 Performance Mid-to Long-term Direction • Installed a dual filter in paint booth exhaust ducts • Apply reverse osmosis (R/O) method to pure water • Installed extra air pollution prevention facility (materials plant) manufacturing facility at the auto paint shop Pollutant control • Replace harmful chemicals (MEK, acetic acid ethyl, water-soluble paint) Hyundai constantly seeks better ways to reduce various efficient treatment was made possible because of the RTO pollutants its manufacturing plants emit. To prevent improvement at its paint plants which produce pollutants chemical-related accidents, the company works to more than any other car manufacturing facilities. We replace harmful chemical substances with safe materials also installed a filter chamber at the farthest end of paint and convert hazardous processes into harmless ones. booth exhaust ducts, thereby doubling the amount of Hyundai also strives to reduce wastewater discharges and pollutants treated. Moreover, we added an air pollution volatile organic compounds (VOCs) by installing additional prevention facility to set a parallel processing system regenerative thermal oxidizers (RTO) and eliminating the for two air pollution prevention facilities at the molding sand plant, thus improving the treatment efficiency primer process in painting the Porter at the auto paint more than two times higher than before. As a result, air shop of its Ulsan Plant. pollutant emissions at the Asan Plant decreased by 8 tons compared with 2014. We will continue to reduce pollutant Pollutant Control emissions through thorough management of the entire process from the management of emission sources to the Hyundai has stricter corporate standards on air and water collection of pollutants. pollutants produced in its manufacturing processes than are required by law. The company runs a system that Minimizing Water Pollutants monitors the amount of pollutants discharged, and makes Lack of water resources is a growing global concern. preemptive efforts to stop pollutants being discharged in Our Ulsan Plant, as a leading auto plant of Korea’s car the first place. In 2015, we implemented various systematic manufacturing industry, has in place water resources pollutant control measures, including an expanded management policies and reduction goals and is executing monitoring of the amount of pollutants we discharge an appropriate strategy. Although the plant produces as during the production process and the standardization much as 5.13 million tons of wastewater per year due of facility inspection procedures. Besides, all Hyundai to its size, we are doing our best to implement process employees take part in various preventive activities such improvements aimed at minimizing water pollutant as chemical and environmental accident drills. discharges and manage the water quality of nearby streams as a way to preempt serious management risks. Minimizing Air Pollutions Particularly, we are aiming for zero discharge of oil by Air pollutants produced in the vehicle manufacturing mapping drain pipes as well as installing surveillance process at our Ulsan Plant include dust and VOCs. VOCs cameras and oil sensors along the streams. We also have are mainly found in paints and thinner used by auto paint a mid-to long-term strategy involving installation of plants. Lately, we have been focusing on reducing the use floodgates and/or air pockets. of VOCs due to their harmful effects on people’s health. The wastewater which the Ulsan Plant generates comes The rate of solvent recovery has increased since we mostly from its paint plant and goes through chemical installed waste thinner recovery pipes at the paint plants or biological treatments before being sent to the BangNo.1 and 41 in the Ulsan Plant. Subsequently, 6,358 tons eo-jin water quality improvement center. Afterwards, of VOCs were emitted in 2015, 5% down from 6,692 tons the wastewater goes through another water purifying in 2014. By replacing old dust collectors with new ones process and then is discharged into the Taehwa River and reducing the replacement cycle from 24 months to nearby. As the primary step, before sending the 18 months, we also cut dust by 14% in 2015 (153 tons) wastewater to the water quality control center, we pass it compared with 2014 (178 tons). through the wastewater disposal system at each plant. In The Asan Plant succeeded in reducing its pollutant addition, we set a control standard (30%) higher than the emissions by more efficiently treating the contaminants legal standard and operate three automatic monitoring that are generated from the oven air-out process. The systems, called TeleMetering System (TMS). In 2015, we Sustainability Performance 085 generated 177 tons of wastewater, 7.3% less than 190 Designated Green Company tons in 2014. We are aiming to reduce the amount of The Ministry of Environment’s Green Company system wastewater we generate by about 3% every year. Though is to identify and support businesses contributing to wastewater is expected to increase in volume with the improve the environment by reducing pollutants, saving planned increase of car production, we will do our best to resources and energy, producing eco-friendly products, reduce wastewater as well as of water pollutants for the or practicing green management. Hyundai’s Ulsan goal of realizing an eco-friendly auto plant. plant has been designated by the system as a ‘Green The Asan Plant operates a zero liquid discharge Company’ since 1988. wastewater treatment facility that treats wastewater not only from its production facilities but also from the residential areas nearby. It adopted a facility to reuse Handling of Hazardous Materials treated wastewater from electro-coating in 2008 and Management of Hazardous Chemical Materials a facility to recycle wastewater from car wash in 2009, which enables the plant fully recycle all the wastewater it As accidents and environmental disasters related to generates and produce all of its industrial water without chemical materials are on the rise of late, so is the public external supplies. Moreover, the plant has in place an oilawareness of risks associated with the use of hazardous water separation facility which primarily treats cutting oil chemical materials. Hyundai meticulously maintains an discharged by the engine processing plant to prevent the expansive database of the weight of every component direct inflow of wastewater of high contamination. it produces and of the information of every chemical materials it uses; and uses the database in dealing with Minimizing Waste Materials various environment regulations. In 2004, the company joined International Material Data System (IMDS), to To actively participate in the nation-wide project of assess if its processes meet regulations on parts from the recovering resources from wastes, we have expanded beginning of vehicle development, and to preemptively the list of recyclable items and improved the recycling handle hazardous materials. In 2007, Hyundai developed rate by further segmenting the classification of items the e-Chemical Management System (e-CMS), and to be recycled. In 2015, the Ulsan Plant increased the has used the data from IMDS to create a database of recycling rate by 1%p year-on-year, pushing the total chemical materials information on all parts used in all of recycling rate to 90.6%. The plant also reduced its its vehicles manufactured since 2005. waste paint discharge by about 8.5% through continued efforts to decrease waste paint sludge moisture content, Since 2014, the Ulsan Plant has been replacing high whereas it increased the rate of waste oil recycled hazardous chemical materials with low hazardous to over 30%, compared with 2014, by improving the materials, to prevent hazardous chemical leak-related water separation process. More importantly, we have casualties. In 2015 the plant replaced 20% caustic soda, improved the recovery rate of waste solvents to about a PH regulator used at the wastewater treatment facility, 30% through recovery equipment upgrades, thereby with 20% sodium aluminate. It also reduced the use of cutting production costs and preventing air pollution. We high hazardous chemical materials by 2,700 tons per will continue to focus on separate collection of waste annum by changing the ion exchange method, using 35% materials while actively adopting various technology to hydrochloric acid and 20% caustic soda, to RO method expand new recycling technology and reduce waste paint for its two pure water manufacturing facilities. sludge moisture content, and sharing best practices with In 2016, the plant plans to further reduce its use of high everyone at the plant. hazardous chemical materials by 2,200 tons. In order to The Asan Plant succeeded in reducing its overall waste achieve this goal, it will extensively apply the RO system, discharge by 7 tons in 2015, by mainly decreasing its use which, once completed, will reduce its use of 50% sulfuric of cleansing oil through the use of destacker wringer acid and 35% hydrochloric acid and 20% caustic soda, rolls in the forming press of steel sheets, the first step of used at three pure water manufacturing facilities; and car manufacturing. Also, by improving the cutting fluids will decrease the density of nitric acid, used for removing treatment process to a level where recycled fluids can be phosphate coating sludge, from 60% to 9%. Going recycled or are of commercial value, the plant was able to forward, Hyundai will stay at the forefront of developing increase the recycling rate of wastes and reduce material safer and more eco-friendly chemical products by expenses. The amount of wastes the plant generated in keeping a close cooperative relationship with chemical 2015 totaled 47,370 tons, 4.3% less than in 2014, while the product suppliers. recycling rate reached 96.9%, up 1.9%. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 086 Global Highlight The Hyundai California Proving Ground in harmony with state-of-the-art technology and Mother Nature USA For Hyundai, corporate responsibility means maintaining business, social, and ecological aspects in balance. That is why we are relentlessly striving to minimize the environmental impacts for which we feel responsible, while focusing on obtaining product responsibility and capability to maximize customer satisfaction. The Hyundai California Proving Ground is a good example of how we strive to pursue growth in harmony with the environment. Construction of a Proving Ground Operating a Proving Ground in an Eco-friendly Manner in Harmony with Nature In January 2015, Hyundai completed the Hyundai operates the Proving Ground with a construction of a proving ground in the focus on protecting the habitats of indigenous Mojave Desert in California. The 17 km 2 animals and plants, and the ecological system. Hyundai California Proving Ground, located Illustrative of our environmental concern is a in California City, 100 miles northeast of Los measure we took to protect desert tortoises Angeles, plays an important role in evaluating living within the Proving Ground at the cost the performance of Hyundai products and of about KRW 5 billion. We purchased an technologies developed by the company. area with environmental characteristics identical to those of the Proving Ground, and Various animals and plants are living in the enlisted the help of a professional biologist in Mojave Desert where the Proving Ground is safely moving 27 desert tortoises. Since the located. The area is home to such rare species relocation of the tortoises, we have conducted as desert tortoises, bobcats, desert kangaroo the ecological study twice per five years and rabbits, desert ravens, round-tailed ground will continue the study for the next five years. squirrels, Mojave rattlesnakes, Mojave lizards and eagles, all of which are designated as We are looking after animals and plants of the endangered species. Also found are Joshua ground designated as endangered species, and trees which grow only in California deserts. conduct management and protection activities. In 2015, we collected data on the habitat of In building a proving ground in this area, desert ravens and the populations of roundHyundai sought for ways to minimize its tailed ground squirrels, and reported them to environmental impacts across all process the state of California. In addition, we have from design to construction. We selected conducted habitat research on endangered a construction method to abide by the plants, such as Barstow wooly sunflowers, The Hyundai California Proving Ground delivers stringent environmental laws of the state of growing within the Proving Ground for four the value of eco-friendliness and co-existence California, while considering various aspects to the local community months, and confirmed no changes in the including the quality of air and water, natural number of the endangered plants, thus proving resources, geology, management of hazardous the eco-friendliness of the California Proving substances, land property usage, public service Ground, once again. and traffic. Our priority was to preserve the natural habitats of indigenous animals and Hyundai employees also participate together plants. During the construction, we studied with local residents in ‘Adopt-a-Highway’, a the natural ecology of areas on which roads program aimed at keeping nearby highways and structures would be built and took every free of trash. Moving forward, we will conpossible step not to harm areas designated for tribute to the local community by providing the protection of endangered species. As a junk vehicles to nearby fire stations for their result of these efforts, we were able to obtain fire control practices and by allowing police all necessary building permits sooner than had stations to use the Proving Ground as a anticipated and completed an eco-friendly place for driving practices and other training proving ground. exercises. Sustainability Performance 087 03 Suppliers 2015 Performance Hosted 1,285 seminars Hosted 5 job fairs Helped suppliers to for suppliers to improve for suppliers, with enhance their their product quality, participation from competitiveness through job competency and 364 companies R&D technology supports quality-driven mind set; and quality improvement 211,277 people participated Facts & Figures Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 088 Paid by cash for Introduced and operated goods delivered to the win-win payment system mid-sized companies (sales under KRW 300 * A payment system through with tier 1 suppliers of a conglomerate pay by billion); expanded joint credit of the conglomerate for goods purchasing with suppliers Growth in unison purchased to tier 2 and 3 suppliers, to KRW 76.4 billion so that they can cash out without the risk of being bounced Management Approach Hyundai knows the importance of collaboration and co-prosperity, which is why we strive to improve trade practices and support our suppliers so that they are fully self-reliant and competitive. The automotive industry is a major assembly business, and Hyundai suppliers provide the company with 95% of parts used in building Hyundai vehicles. The company believes that the competitiveness of its suppliers is the basis for its true competitiveness. Therefore, the company provides its suppliers with education, system and human resource supports for their quality improvement, technology development and environmental protection endeavors. Hyundai has a number of teams dedicated to helping its suppliers, including Supplier Cooperation Team, R&D Technical Support Group, and Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion. Employing these and other organizations, Hyundai seeks mutual growth in three strategies: cultivating global competitiveness; reinforcing the basis for sustainable growth; and establishing a joint growth system. Sustainability Sustainability Performance Performance 089089 03 Suppliers 2015 Performance Hosted 1,285 seminars Hosted 5 job fairs Helped suppliers for suppliers to improve for suppliers, with to enhance their their product quality, participation from competitiveness job competency and 364 companies through R&D quality-driven mind technology set; 211,277 people supports and quality participated improvement Together for co-prosperity Plan for 2016 3 Strategies • Enhance competitiveness in complete vehicles • Cultivating global competitiveness: Fostering through quality seminars and their efficient operation quality competitiveness, supporting productivity • Host 5 supplier job fairs (including small giants) enhancement, developing R&D capability • Pay by cash for goods delivered to mid-sized • Reinforcing the basis for sustainable growth: companies (sales under KRW 500 billion) Sustainable management foundation, expanding global sales channels, infrastructure for growth • Expand the win-win payment system • Establishing a joint growth system: Culture of joint • Create more synergy by helping suppliers improve growth, expanding supports for tier 2 and 3 suppliers, their competitiveness strengthening collaborative network Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 088 Paid by cash for goods delivered Introduced and operated to mid-sized companies (sales the win-win payment system under KRW 300 billion); expanded joint purchasing with suppliers to * A payment system through which tier 1 suppliers of a conglomerate KRW 76.4 billion pay by credit of the conglomerate for goods purchased to tier 2 and 3 suppliers, so that they can cash out without the risk of being bounced Sustainability Sustainability Performance Performance 089089 03 O u r Va l u e Key Sustainability Data Suppliers Indicators Unit 2013 2014 2015 Quality and Technology Company 103 97 97 Korea Automotive Parts Volunteer Group Industry Promotion Supplier Support Company 43 43 46 91 New recruitment of suppliers Group Person 17,215 17,510 18,600 Cultivating Global Competitiveness Number of suppliers participated in Company 301 293 298 joint growth and fair trade agreements Fostering Quality Competitiveness 91 Number of suppliers participated in Developing R&D Capability 92 Company 26 26 32 Energy-Saving Technology Exchange Meeting Indicators As of 2015 year-end 93 Average of partnership with tier 1 suppliers 28 years KRW 271 billion Reinforcing the Basis for Sales average of tier 1 suppliers per company Increased by 3.7 times (over 2001) Sustainable Growth Number of suppliers whose sales exceed KRW 100 billion Increased by 2.5 times (over 2001) Sustainable Management Foundation 93 Number of suppliers jointly advanced into overseas About 600 companies (Accumulated) Expanding Global Sales Channels 93 Infrastructure for Growth 94 Stakeholder Interview 95 Why did you participate in We have been attending the Energy-Saving Technology Establishing a Joint Growth System the 2015 Meeting, and what Exchange Meeting since 2012, so that we can learn about the theme did you present? technological achievements and successes of other companies Strengthening the Collaborative Network 95 specializing in energy-saving. Our themes for the 2015 Meeting were energy-saving through rationalization or optimization of Expanding Supports for Tier 2 and 3 Suppliers 95 over-sepc or surplus energy, and increasing the usage of high Culture of Joint Growth 95 efficiency, low energy parts. This has enabled Duckyang to cut Environmental Safety System for Suppliers 95 annual costs by about KRW 50 million. What other collaborative All our staff, from the CEO to personnel at each department, 97 programs does Duckyang participate in? are always looking at how we can achieve success through win-win collaborations, and we also aim to learn about recent trends and gain technical support at the relevant seminars. Global Highlight In the second half of 2015, we began a joint overseas Korea 97 expansion in partnership with Hyundai, and, having established a subsidiary in Beijing, we are now supplying crash pads and other products to the Hyundai plant in Beijing. This has enabled us to achieve continued strong sales growth, and, by also developing auto parts for EVs, we now have a sales goal of KRW 1 trillion by 2017. Please tell us some ideas I’d like to express my gratitude to Hyundai for offering us you would like to share with these joint win-win collaboration programs, including the Hyundai. Energy-Saving Technology Exchange Meeting, which has helped us to exchange ideas and build networks with other Hyundai suppliers. In addition, it means a lot to us that Hyundai transfers advanced technologies to suppliers, helping us to share information and cut costs. Interviewee Ju Young Jang General Manager, Maintenance Team, Duckyang Ind. Co., Ltd. A supplier participated in the Energy-Saving Technology Exchange Meeting 95-96 Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 090 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Cultivating Global Competitiveness Suppliers Employees Society Classification 2015 Performance 2016 Plan • Offered quality seminars and trainings to improve quality of auto parts: • Strengthen quality seminars and continue the efficient 505 times (130,652 persons) operation of them • Offered trainings to improve and support work skills: • Expand the operation of the Foundation of Korea 460 times (33,374 persons) Automotive Parts Industry Promotion (including tier 1 and 2 suppliers) Fostering quality • Offered trainings to enhance quality-driven mind set and ethics: competitiveness 320 times (47,251 persons) Quality and Technology Volunteer Group, at 98 suppliers Supplier Support Group, at 48 suppliers • Ran the Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion (including tier 1 and 2 suppliers) Quality and Technology Volunteer Group, at 97 suppliers Supplier Support Group, at 46 suppliers • Provided R&D support • Continue to support R&D technology Developing 1,085 joint R&D projects 1,100 joint R&D projects R&D capability 120 exhibitions for new technologies (70 companies) 120 exhibitions for new technologies (70 companies) 27 projects for IP/R&D strategic support Fostering Quality Competitiveness Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion Hyundai Motor Group created the Foundation of Korea Seminar to Boost the Competitiveness Automotive Parts Industry Promotion in 2002, as a nonof Suppliers profit organization. Hyundai, Kia and Hyundai Mobis Hyundai provides seminars to executives and employees made joint investments to create the Foundation, and of its suppliers to share its strategic directions and to have operated it. Staff of the Quality and Technology enhance their business competencies. The seminars Volunteer Group and the Supplier Support Group of the are categorized in terms of positions, departments and Foundation spend three to 12 months a year working programs. The company also provides seminars for on the business site of Hyundai suppliers to provide managers and staff with a focus on R&D and technolguidance and support. This program is provided not only ogy enhancement. to tier 1 suppliers but to tier 2 and 3 suppliers, which are relatively small in size, as well. Suppliers Seminar System CEOs Executives Managers Staff Top management formulating a Executives in charge of Managers in charge of teams Staff seeking to improve corporate vision and taking the departments and with duty and executing the company’s their performances through Participants lead in boosting the company’s and goals to enhance the policies and vision individual competitiveness competitiveness company’s competitiveness • Enhance quality-driven • Responsible for a relevant • Improve mid-level • Improve competitiveness mind set department manager’s role for business practices Courses • Share global management • Enhance leadership to lead • Develop business expertise • Promote quality-driven information changes • Improve problem solving skills mind set • Share vision of mutual growth • Follow the same work • Give motivation for better direction as that of Hyundai performance Quality management Training to boost competitiveness of Security and ethics trainings for seminar for CEO Seminar for executives and managers overseas suppliers Seminar for future CEO New technology seminar for Quality trainings for tier 2 suppliers by Main tier 2 suppliers tier 2 suppliers business category Training Programs Seminar for executives Job academy for suppliers Quality │ Purchase & Development │ Production │ Sales R&D │ Quality │ Purchase │ Production technology Quality training (throughout the year) │ Training for stabilizing parts supply │ Events for suppliers Sustainability Performance 091 Supporting Productivity Enhancement improvement, tailored technological support, and other technology support that they might need. The Group With the support of the parent company, tier 1 suppliers also hosts various meetings with suppliers concerning and industry experts, Hyundai helps tier 2 body part R&D, to improve communications and reflect suppliers’ suppliers to improve their technology, work environment requirements. In addition, the Group runs the Value and production processes through voluntary innovation Engineering system, which aims to reduce costs without programs. We also encourage our tier 1 and 2 suppliers compromising quality. to optimize their production systems and to enhance quality and productivity by providing consultation on Guest Engineers how to adopt smart plant systems and by offering From the beginning of the development of a new car, financial support for their facilities. In addition, we Hyundai works with guest engineers to reduce the operate on-site programs for tier 2 and 3 suppliers, development period and minimize the risk of design to provide them with guidance and support for body failure. In 2015, the average number of guest engineers part inspections, quality management of manufacturing working with Hyundai per month was some 400 people processes, and quality assurance management, so that from around 40 companies. This also helps our tier 1 and we can proactively manage product quality and make 2 suppliers build technological expertise. sure suppliers are always thinking about quality. Protecting the Patents and Technologies of Suppliers Developing R&D Capability To protect the patents and technologies of our suppliers, R&D Technology Support Group Hyundai applies for co-ownership alongside the suppliers of the intellectual property (IP) on technology which The R&D Technology Support Group shares the Hyundai and those suppliers have developed together. company’s technology development know-how with We also protect suppliers’ valuable trade secrets and key suppliers, thus helping them with R&D for quality technologies through technology escrow agreements. Programs to Cultivate Global Competitiveness Developing Competitiveness in Quality • Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion • 5 Star Evaluation System • Quality Academy • Technology Academy • Quality trainings by work type • Activities to improve durability • R&D Technology Support • Industry innovation initiatives Group for suppliers • Developing the smart plant • Guest engineers • Innovation education at • Seminars and exhibitions Developing Supporting manufacturing business sites for new technology R&D Capability Productivity • Staffed to provide • R&D Tech Day Enhancement technological guidance • Benchmarking advanced • Staffed to provide technology management consulting • R&D Motor Show • Protecting patents and technologies Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 092 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Reinforcing the Basis for Suppliers Employees Sustainable Growth Society Classification 2015 Performance 2016 Plan Sustainable • Paid by cash for goods delivered to mid-sized companies • Pay by cash for goods delivered to mid-sized companies management (sales under KRW 300 billion) (sales under KRW 500 billion) foundation • Expanded joint purchasing with suppliers to KRW 76.4 billion • Expand joint purchasing with suppliers to KRW 77 billion Expanding global • Supported the global expansion of about 600 suppliers • Expand the global expansion with suppliers and focus on sales channels R&D efforts to create synergy • Hosted 5 job fairs for suppliers; 364 companies participated • Expand job fairs to include small giants in local areas Infrastructure for • Promoted the venture ecosystem through the Gwangju Center • Promote the venture ecosystem and increase supports growth for Creative Economy & Innovation; helped 10 companies start up for commercialization of technology their businesses Sustainable Management Foundation Hyundai employs various means aimed at supporting its and expense reduction. In short, the outcome of the suppliers’ efforts to achieve business stability. We pay joint expansion of Hyundai and its suppliers serves as small and medium suppliers by cash for goods delivered, a stepping stone for the suppliers to further develop and help them to cut cost through joint purchasing; themselves as global-scale suppliers. we also help small and medium suppliers with liquidity problem by providing loans to operate their business, Supporting Joint Overseas Expansions improve quality and productivity, and invest in facilities. In addition, we provide family network loans to tier 1 suppliers so as to help them improve the payment We provide our suppliers interested condition for goods delivered by tier 2 suppliers. in expanding their operations Consulting overseas with information on industry service regulations, business procedures and Expanding Global Sales Channels other relevant matters. Most of the current suppliers of our overseas manuWe support our suppliers to build better facturing plants are Korean firms that entered the relationships with local governments by Local license guiding them through the procedures international market together with Hyundai. We proacsupport required for local plant construction and tively support the growth of some 600 suppliers working production line installations, in addition to with Hyundai’s eight overseas plants, in order to help help with tax negotiations. them become small but strong global corporations. Hyundai supports our tier 1 and 2 suppliers’ efforts to We support the operation of cooperation establish local plants in the international market. This councils of our suppliers in overseas Cooperation enables the suppliers to secure a stable flow of orders markets, with the purpose of building council and guarantees us a reliable supply of high-quality collaborative network and sharing materials, thus contributing to mutual growth for both. information. We attain positive achievements in quality competitiveness and substantial increases in sales by expanding together with our suppliers into overseas markets. In particular, many of our suppliers, which originally entered the market as Hyundai suppliers, are steadily expanding their overseas operations as they have gained recognition for their product quality from other automakers. Such positive results also are a great boon to synergies in joint operations including job creation Sustainability Performance 093 Infrastructure for Growth Support Outstanding Talent Recruitment for Support Program to Reinforce the Basis for Sustainable Growth Suppliers In 2012, Hyundai hosted the nation’s first cooperative Sustainable job fair for its suppliers struggling to attract top talent. In management 2015, we launched job fairs by region together with 364 foundation suppliers. The job fairs received positive responses for having contributed to the suppliers’ recruitment of talent based on the brand recognition of Hyundai. We continue to promote our suppliers’ recruitment and PR efforts by maintaining a website dedicated to employment of our suppliers. Human Resources Development Consortium Since 2004, Hyundai has held professional technology training for its suppliers through a human resources development consortium jointly operated by Hyundai, the Ministry of Employment and Labor, and Hyundai suppliers. Infrastructure Expanding for growth global sales channels Sustainable management Expanding global sales Infrastructure foundation channels for growth • Cash payment for goods •Joint overseas •Human resources delivered expansions development consortium • Adjustment of raw material •Supports to expand •Seminars for future leaders prices exports of suppliers •Support outstanding talent • Financing program •Supports to expand recruitment for suppliers exports of tier 2 and • Earlier payment for the •Green Partnership program 3 suppliers to overseas goods delivered on national between a conglomerate plants holidays and SMEs • Joint purchasing •Run the Venture Plaza •Support the Gwangju Center for Creative Economy & Innovation •Employee trainings for suppliers Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 094 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Establishing a Joint Growth System Suppliers Employees Society Classification 2015 Performance 2016 Plan Strengthening the •  Operate a system to check raw material prices, to ensure joint growth • Continue to operate a system to check raw material collaborative network between tier 1 and 2 suppliers prices • Ran the Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion • Plan to operate the Foundation of Korea Automotive – Quality and Technology Volunteer Group, at 91 suppliers Parts Industry Promotion Expanding supports for tier 2 and – Supplier Support Group, at 24 suppliers – Quality and Technology Volunteer Group, at 80 suppliers 3 suppliers – Supplier Support Group, at 20 suppliers • Introduced the win-win payment system • Expand the win-win payment system • Held the Energy-Saving Technology Exchange Meeting for suppliers • Share knowledge on reducing greenhouse gas emissions (32 companies participated) and energy usage, and widen the sharing of relevant Environmental technology safety system for • Provided education programs in the area of environment, safety and suppliers health (51 companies participated) • Continue to provide education programs on the environment, health and safety for suppliers to meet their needs Strengthening the Collaborative subcontract, financial support, reinforcement of support for tier 2 and 3 suppliers, consultation of price adjustment Network on raw materials, and others. Also, we operate the Transparent Purchase Center on Hyundai’s website, Hyundai shares its procurement and quality policies with through which we share our code of conduct and its suppliers. To help establish a rational and fair trade guidelines with our suppliers and receive suggestions culture between our tier 1 suppliers and tier 2 and 3 from them. Prohibition of child or forced labor is clearly suppliers, we operate a cooperation council for tier 1 spelled out in the practical principles we have set for suppliers. In addition to sharing company policies and employees, including those of our suppliers, to follow. announcements, the council serves as a communication Furthermore, we publish and reward the best cases of channel through which to receive suggestions and joint growth made by tier 1 and 2 suppliers in an effort to complaints from tier 2 and 3 suppliers. promote the joint growth culture. In 2015, two companies were honored for their exemplary contributions. Expanding Supports for Tier 2 and 3 Suppliers Environmental Safety System for Hyundai operates a free training program that sends Suppliers out to small and medium-sized corporations teams of professionals and consultants who share their expertise Environment, Safety and Health Management in auto-related technology and know-how, thereby To grow and prosper together with our suppliers, our helping the corporations improve their productivity, Ulsan plant conducts an education support program quality technology and global competitiveness. aimed at training tier 1 suppliers in the Youngnam region Furthermore, as a means of supporting our suppliers in the areas of the environment, safety and health. in account payment, we offer low interest loans based In 2015 which marked the 9th year of the program, on Hyundai’s no-interest deposits and special funds of we identified people who wanted to participate in the financial institutions. As of this reporting, the size of the program among managers of 160 companies, of which fund stood at KRW 40 billion. 57 people from 51 companies voluntarily participated in the program. The program provided information on the Toxic Chemicals Control Act and major case Culture of Joint Growth studies on how to respond it, as well as on plant safety Hyundai signs a ‘Joint Growth Agreements’ with its management and chemicals management. There were suppliers every year and carries out various support also education programs with the theme of present state programs. Included are four action agendas for and future prospect in the area of the environment, Sustainability Performance 095 and case studies of improvements. Hyundai plans to Energy-Saving Technology Exchange Meeting Participants develop training programs for its suppliers interested in improving their abilities to make appropriate 2012 2013 2014 2015 countermeasures in the areas of the environment, Number 20 companies 26 companies 26 companies 32 companies safety and health. of participants (53 persons) (66 persons) (75 persons) (90 persons) Management System Certifications Sharing successes in energy efficiency At the 2015 We recommend our suppliers to acquire the OHSAS Meeting, five suppliers were chosen to share how (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) they had saved energy, which in turn inspired other 18001 certification in order to prevent or manage companies to join in the effort and respond better risks related to production operations and establish to climate change. The creative ideas shared by the a voluntary safety and health management system. five suppliers include switching to energy-efficient Most of suppliers completed with the acquirement. We equipment and lights, developing a highly energyalso encouraged suppliers to acquire ISO (International efficient construction technology, and using a highly Organization for Standardization) 22301 certification, efficient transformation technique that uses a in order to respond to accidents and disasters in a sysunique coiling. The ideas were well received by other tematic manner, and also encouraged them to nominate participants. a disaster management officer. Major suppliers in Korea are currently assessing how to acquire this certification, Sharing eco-friendly technology Hyundai introduced and we expect more suppliers to become certified. successes in reducing energy usage in construction, an industry which is known to be a major source of Energy-Saving Technology Exchange Meeting greenhouse gas emissions, along with industry and Hyundai has hosted the Energy-Saving Technology transportation. We introduced a reinforced insulation Exchange Meeting since 2012 in order to help suppliers technology based on the use of highly efficient building efficiently manage their sources of energy, achieve materials, and a core technology for high-performance sustainable growth, and become self-reliant. Reductions heat insulating materials, which will help to reduce in energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions in inefficiencies caused by deterioration in buildings. We particular cannot be achieved by one company alone, also encouraged suppliers to use environmentallyso Hyundai is committed to working itself and in friendly construction technology, all in an effort to help partnership with suppliers to improve together. The 2015 them enhance environmental management. Meeting saw participation from 32 suppliers, and the sharing of successes and information on technologies Win-win Growth System for Suppliers for energy saving. Hyundai will continue to cooperate with small and medium suppliers to ensure joint growth, and will take proactive measures to assist them in building energy management systems. Strengthening collaborative Expanding supports for Building a culture of network tier 2 and 3 suppliers joint growth Assisting in the analysis and evaluation of energy usage At the 2015 Meeting, Hyundai shared details on how • Operate a cooperation council • Foster quality technology for • Support the operation of joint suppliers can evaluate their energy usage, and helped for tier 1 suppliers tier 2 and 3 suppliers growth agreements for tier 1 and 2 suppliers them improve energy efficiency by encouraging them to • Operate a portal site for joint • Support to fund tier 2 and growth 3 suppliers •Operate the Transparent proactively set goals for energy-saving processes, and Purchase Center • Share information on supply • Improve payment conditions for to put those processes into practice company-wide. price negotiation tier 2 and 3 suppliers •Support ethical management of suppliers • Operate a win-win payment Understanding carbon emissions trading Hyundai held a •Award joint growth system session to help suppliers understand and respond to the •Support socially responsible • Expand directed steel sourcing management carbon emissions trading system introduced in Korea in system to tier 2 and 3 suppliers •Run an English camp for the January 2015, the first such system in Asia. In addition, • Support joint overseas children of suppliers’ employees we hosted a Q&A session at which participants shared expansions for tier 2 and 3 suppliers •Hold cultural events for the the difficulties they faced regarding carbon emissions, families of suppliers’ employees • Operate joint growth support and worked with them to find solutions. system for tier 1 and 2 suppliers Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 096 Global Highlight Hyundai Venture Plaza nurturing creative ideas and technologies for the future Korea Hyundai is establishing an infrastructure for sustainable growth, in order to find ways to grow in partnership with our suppliers of today and tomorrow. The Venture Plaza is an example of our commitment to joint growth with suppliers, helping venture companies inside and outside the parent company to nurture their businesses. This will lead us to turn innovative ideas into strategic technologies. Helping In-house Ventures the ‘Hyundai Virtual Guide’, an app that acts Bring Creative Ideas to Life as an augmented reality owner’s manual. This will complement or replace the traditional Since its launch in April 2000, the Venture Plaza owner’s manual, allowing customers to use their has played a pivotal role in nurturing ventures smartphones or tablet computers to access within the company, and in promoting a corporate information about their vehicles more easily. culture of creative R&D. In 2000, there were seven Launched in 2016 in North America, the Hyundai in-house start-up teams, but by end-2015, that Virtual Guide will be available in markets across number had risen to around 30. Of particular note, the world. Hyundai collaborated with four startsome of creative ideas, such as lane departure ups in 2015 alone as part of the Technology warning system, dual-mass flywheel and the Incubation Program, and will select an additional Active Hood System, have been commercialized six firms at least for 2016. and used in Hyundai automobiles. In order to use the company’s expertise to In 2015, Hyundai extended the scope of Venture support venture firms, Hyundai assisted the Plaza to include R&D for creating shared value Gwangju Center for Creative Economy & (CSV), where our employees can use their R&D Innovation (GCCEI) in its mission to foster venture expertise. Two CSV ventures were selected and firms, and also participated in the Tech Incubator The GCCEI helps Korea’s auto industry to are being commercialized, and the company will Program for Start-ups (TIPS) operated by the evolve and innovate select more CSV projects in 2016. Small and Medium Business Administration. We provided mentoring to 10 venture firms selected by the GCCEI, and gave help from our technology Helping Start-ups to Become research center to automobile-related startDrivers of New Growth ups. In addition, we gave venture companies Hyundai has been increasing investment in financing worth KRW 2.5 billion, using two creative start-ups in order to find new core strategic techeconomy funds to which we contributed. Hyundai nologies at the early stages of their development. also helped with the success of Maxst and the Initially, the Venture Plaza focused on investing Hyundai Virtual Guide by publicizing them at in start-ups with strategic technologies in video, the LA Auto Show, the Detroit Auto Show and sound and software for vehicles, and in the the Consumer Electronics Show 2016, as well as environment. By 2015, it had expanded to support through YouTube, an official launch by Hyundai the development of a wide range of products Motor America, and other support. Hyundai will for automobiles, and to help society by using the continue to provide promising venture firms with company’s expertise to support venture firms. opportunities to participate in our Technology Incubation Program. In order to support the development of products for automobiles, we expanded the ‘Technology Hyundai was nominated as a partner for TIPS in Incubation Program’, our distinctive venture March 2015, and has enabled five start-ups to platform for supporting start-ups with original receive financial support for their R&D. We will technology in areas other than automobiles. continue to use this program to foster startMaxst, an augmented reality specialist, is one ups in the auto industry, and to promote an company that has benefitted from this program entrepreneurial venture ecosystem. and worked together with Hyundai to develop Sustainability Performance 097 04 Employees 2015 Performance Developed and provided Discussed and Designated every employee education addressed 14 issues, Wednesday as programs to change for such as increasing ‘SMART day’, to the better (including a cultural events for bring changes to the special training to put employees, through way work is done customers first) the Labor-Management Council Facts & Figures Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 098 Operated a year-round Undertook safety interview system and assessments at expanded the internship 8 business sites in program to attract the 7 countries; shared best talent 75 best practices, and made 196 safety improvements Outstanding innovations Management Approach Hyundai works with hundreds of thousands of employees around the world. The company declared the ‘Code of Ethics’ by which it pledges the respect for individual human rights of all employees. Also, by including ‘People’ in our five core values, we have pronounced our commitment to human rights protection. In addition, we comply with international regulations on human right protection as well as all labor-related laws and regulations of individual countries where we operate our business. Relying on the belief that our future competitiveness rests on a creative human resource development, we foster global talent in a culture of promoting respect for diversity and making opportunity and fair rewards available to more employees. In order to assist our employees in maximizing their potentials, we create a safe work environment and provide continued supports so that they can sustain a happier life. Sustainability Performance 099 04 Employees 2015 Performance Developed and provided Discussed and Designated every employee education addressed 14 issues, Wednesday as programs to change for such as increasing ‘SMART day’, to the better (including a cultural events for bring changes to the special training to put employees, through way work is done customers first) the Central LaborManagement Council Driven by creative innovators Plan for 2016 Mid-to Long-term Direction • Recruit those who respect human dignity and • Foster leaders who lead changes at the workplace uphold work ethics and create future values • Operate a global leadership development program • Build a corporate culture where human rights and for locally recruited new executives and candidates cultural diversity are respected and employees’ • Build a safe workplace by aiming for zero fatal safety is ensured accident and lowering the overall accident rate • Enhance the soundness and competitiveness of the below 0.1% company through a solid partnership between labor • Expand a job rotation program between and management business parts and in-house contests for career • Encourage voluntary work engagement through development and competitiveness improvement constant change management for leaders and workof employees life balance Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 098 Operated a year-round Undertook safety assessments interview system and at 8 business sites expanded the internship in 7 countries; shared program to attract the 75 best practices, and made best talent 196 safety improvements Sustainability Performance 099 04 O u r Va l u e Key Sustainability Data Employees Indicators Unit 2013 2014 2015 Number of employees Person 104,937 109,748 112,072 Percentage of overseas workforce % 39.9 40.8 41.5 Number of female executives Person 8 10 23 101 Employee accident rate % 0.48 0.39 0.35 Respecting Human Rights and Percentage of employees with % 2.6 2.7 2.8 disabilities (Korea) Diversity Training hours per employee (Korea) Hour 55 62 63 Employee Diversity 101 * All figures as of Dec. 31 of their respective year Human Rights Protection/ Employee Distress Counseling 101 Labor-Management Relations 102 Stakeholder Interview 104 Please compare the image you The image I had of Hyundai before joining I would describe had of Hyundai before you as “fast growing”, “successful”, “aggressive”, “low budget Recruiting and Fostering vehicle manufacturer”, “doubtful quality”, “low level of joined the company with the Outstanding Talent image you have now. technology and performance” ― perhaps the inevitable result for a latecomer which has grown in such a short period of Recruiting Outstanding Talents 104 time. However, after working for Hyundai for about a year, Fostering Outstanding Talent 104 I have seen that product quality is much better than I had thought. In particular, when it comes to technology and performance, I understand how we place a very high priority 107 on long-term durability, not just functional performance, which is benefitting customers over the long term. Creating Great Workplaces Were there any cultural My family and I enjoyed a perfect landing in Korea. Early WorkSMART 107 difficulties when you joined meetings and talks with executives made us feel very welcome Performance Evaluation and Reward System 108 Hyundai? If so, how did you in Korea, and at the Hyundai Motor Group as well. We were respond to them? treated with great respect and warm-hearted openness, and Safe Work Environment 108 everyone at the Namyang Technology Research Center and Employee Benefits & Welfare 110 the Headquarter has been so friendly and helpful from the Retirement Pension 110 very beginning. In addition, ongoing support from the Global Talent Team has been helpful. We received our first cultural training before I even joined the company, and now a follow111 up program has been started to integrate on a higher level. Global Highlight What improvements might If the company can provide the same level of support and Hyundai consider in order integration that I have had, we will be competitive in attracting Brazil 111 to recruit outstanding global top tier talent. I think, in the end, it is a matter of confidence talent? ― during my own hiring process, I had talks with Group executives which gave me great confidence about joining Hyundai. I therefore think that, the more that highestlevel executives are involved in the hiring process, the more confidence we can generate for outstanding global talent when recruiting them to join Hyundai. Interviewee Albert Biermann Executive Vice President, Hyundai Motor Group Joined Hyundai in 2015 as a Head of the Vehicle Performance Development and High Performance Vehicle Development Division 104-105 Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 100 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Respecting Human Rights and Diversity Suppliers Employees Society Classification 2015 Performance Mid-to Long-term Direction • Provided an education on the prevention of sexual harassment • Build a corporate culture where is no sexual harassment Human rights in a play format to raise awareness and all employees can develop their potential, regardless protection/Employee of gender distress counseling • Developed the Employee Assistance Program in consideration of individual characteristics of employees and types of distress • Implemented the two-shift system with eight and eight hours • Enhance the corporate image by establishing a sound during the week through enhanced productivity organizational culture • Agreed on exchanging goods between plants for flexible response • Build a beachhead to enhance manufacturing Labor-management to market competitiveness relations • Ran the Labor-Management Council to ensure competitive wage • Promote the establishment of virtuous cycle of HR performance • Enhance the corporate image through joint labor-management CSR activities • Respond to labor-related laws and policies Employee Diversity our commitment to greater equality, and acknowledging the importance of embracing diversity to improve Recruitment at Overseas Worksites competitiveness. As of the end of 2015, the total number of Hyundai employees is 112,072, grew by 2,324 over the previous year. We have 65,614 employees in Korea, which Human Rights Protection/ accounts for 58.6% of the total workforce of Hyundai. Employee Distress Counseling The remaining 46,458 work at overseas business sites, Preventing Sexual Harassment mostly locally recruited employees. The number of local employees has increased 3.7% from last year due In 2015, we ran tailored sexual harassment prevention to increases in overseas production, establishment of education programs, to raise awareness of sexual two new plants in China, and the acquisition of a mold harassment and to prevent it from ever happening. company. Following interviews with female staff in 2014, the company offered collective training to share Upper Management at Overseas Worksites countermeasures against sexual harassment, and there was another collective training for executives The number of executives at our overseas subsidiaries and team managers on the vital role that leaders have consists of 90 overseas-stationed employees and 175 in rooting out sexual harassment. In addition, all staff local employees, which brings locally hired executives to were required to attend sexual harassment prevention 66% of total — the number of locally hired executives education in a play format to raise their awareness, and grew 8% or 13 persons. By increasing the number of to show the company’s zero tolerance on this issue. local employees in the upper management, we create an environment in which decisions are promptly made and gain a better understanding of local markets and cultures. Recruiting More Women in the Workforce As of the end of 2015, the number of female employees is 7,635, with 3,166 working in Korea, and 4,469 overseas. Numbers were up strongly in 2015, particularly in Korea and North America. More importantly than raw numbers, there was also a significant increase in the number of female executives — there were 10 female executives at the end of 2014, but this figure more than doubled to 23 by the end of 2015. This is the result of Sustainability Performance 101 Employee Distress Counseling Overseas Labor-Management Relations We operate a counseling center at each business site Hyundai complies with all overseas labor-related laws to help employees suffering from distress. They include and regulations, and guarantees and respects the legal ‘Talk-Talk Center’ at the headquarters, ‘Mind+’ at the right to take collective actions and to exercise freedom Namyang Technology Research Center, and ‘Happy of association and collective bargaining. BHMC and Rest Area’ at the Ulsan/Asan/Jeonju plants, all staffed CHMC in China have public assembly organizations, and by professionals experienced in handling diverse HMI in India and HMMC in the Czech Republic each cases of employee distress, including work stress and have their own labor unions to represent the voices of family problems. In consideration of the individual’s employees. Workers at HMB, our Brazilian subsidiary, characteristics and types of distress, a variety of joined the local labor union in the early stage of its counseling programs, such as one-on-one counseling existence, and the company maintains strong laborfor employees and their family, group counseling, management relationships. Although HMMA in the U.S., lectures, psychiatric tests and analyses, are offered. In HMMR in Russia, and HAOS in Turkey have no labor 2015, in particular, the Employee Assistance Program unions, they address staff requests through round-table has become more systematic. We also operate ‘One meetings, union sub-committee activities and other Click HR’, an on-line counselling service, for employees regular activities. who can’t visit the centers in person. All counseling In 2015, we created labor management guidebooks, details are kept strictly confidential. to build better labor-management relationships at our overseas businesses, and have distributed 2,100 copies. Also in June, we invited local staff in charge of labor Labor-Management Relations management at all our overseas subsidiaries to join the Labor-Management Communications 2nd Employee Relations (ER) Seminar. The 5th Global ER Conference took place in September, helping to improve Hyundai guarantees employee rights to organize labor communications between headquarters and subsidiaries. union activities, to take collective actions and to exercise In addition, a monthly video conference between headcollective bargaining. In November 2015, there was the quarters, subsidiaries and the Group affiliates enables 6th election to form a new executive branch for the us to share major issues and the direction of our ER ‘Hyundai Chapter of the Korean Metal Workers’ Union’. strategy. As of 2015, 46,844 or 71.4% of Hyundai employees were members of the labor union. The labor and management work together to build sound corporate culture based on labor-management relations, and improve manufacturing competitiveness through which we can achieve the continued growth of the company and employment stability at the same time. The Labor-Management Council addressed 14 issues in 2015, including increasing cultural events for staff. Labor and management also agreed on improving work conditions and other mid-to long-term policy 2015 signing ceremony for collective bargaining improvements, including the two-shift system and the “special agreement on future development strategy”. There were also regular briefing sessions to build a consensus between labor and management on how to tackle the difficult business environment, and to discuss response measures. Roundtable meeting of HMB Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 102 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Strategic Framework for Global Labor Management Vision & Value Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond Customers Challenge Collaboration People Globality Mission A company respected by internal customers Labor management Targeting the majority strategy Preemptive prevention of employees based on Company-wide integrated official organizations management Key tasks Standardization of global labor management Labor Supporting Grievance Harmonization Welfare benefit Communication management the Group and counselling events management education suppliers Best Practices of Labor Management Overseas Subsidiary Accolades Organizer Note Awarded the ‘Employer of the Year’ in the category for under 5,000 employees Ministry of Labour For three and Social Affairs HMMC •Employment, education, retirement rate, reward, years in of the Czech working environment, career development, productivity, a row Republic CSR activities, etc. Certified as a ‘Decent Work’ The State of HMB •Selected based on trust management index of a company, São Paulo corporate culture, and surveys from employees Received the ‘MNC in India of the Year Award’ All India HMI Management •Selected best companies in 9 categories Association Awarded the ‘Şahabbettin Bilgisu Environmental Awards’ KOcaeli SANayi Odasi / Kocaeli HAOS •Recognized in the eco-friendly management, human Chamber of resources and labor management Industry Sustainability Performance 103 Recruiting and Fostering Outstanding Talent Classification 2015 Performance Mid-to Long-term Direction • Operated a year-round interview system for the strategic • Expand the early recruiting through internship programs applicants (outstanding interviewees being exempted from having and ‘The H’ Recruiting to make formal job applications) outstanding talent • Promote a year-round interview system (more divisions • Expanded internship and introduced an internship program for and positions) applicants on research scholarships • Established education system and developed programs for general • Foster leaders who lead changes at the workplace and staff at manufacturing division: leadership course for site managers create future values (Production team leaders/Appointed managers) • Foster business partners to support performance: Fostering • Developed and ran 7 job competency programs providing human resources development (HRD) solutions outstanding talent for HR/labor management issues • Developed and provided employee education programs to promote change (including a special training to put customers first) • Improve HRD competitiveness for strategic support: building HRD governance and enhancing capability Recruiting Outstanding Talent Fostering Outstanding Talent Expanding Channels for Recruitment Human Resources Development Program Hyundai focuses on recruiting outstanding talent with Leadership Program Hyundai defines a leader as high potential through various channels, including early someone who shares the company’s vision and goals recruiting, an open recruitment system and ‘The H’ with members, thus aligning staff, company and vision. program. In 2015, we initiated a year-round interview Our leadership program is a continued, long-term system to improve two-way communications with process which equips the right people with the right job applicants, with outstanding interviewees being skills, relationships and knowledge to successfully exempted from having to make formal job applications. perform their current roles and to prepare for future In addition, we introduced an internship program for roles as leaders. The company provides both leadership applicants on research scholarships, and expanded the courses for each job position and also preemptive duration of our general internship programs from five courses which help candidates be fully prepared ahead to seven weeks, which strengthened our early recruiting of their promotions. of outstanding talent. The company has also eliminated the dress code for first interviews, to help interviewees feel free to express themselves. Hyundai HRD System CorporateSpecified by Leadership Selected Job wide division Executive Executive leadership GLP 1) Tech Integrated automobile Overseas-stationed Management of Management issues Team leader Team leader leadership Production Appointed Service Leadership for the appointed employee Sales GPP 2) Job competency JCP 4) R&D organizational change Tube technologies Regional General job specialist academy competency Candidates for Non-appointed LCP 3) promotion Newly hired Entry course Entry course (with/without job experiences) by division Core Value 1) 2) 3) 4) GLP: Global Leader Program GPP: Global Professional Program LCP: Leadership Competency Program JCP: Job Competency Program Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 104 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Leaders of Hyundai Motor Group Group vision Together for a better future Realize the dream of mankind by creating a new future through Key point by position ingenious thinking and continuously challenging new frontiers Division Head and higher •Providing business strategy and direction of the organization by forecasting the future management environment Definition of A person who shares the company’s vision and goals with members, •Building an organizational culture based on leader thus aligning staff, company and vision core values Group Head Model for •Establishing and executing plans in line Business Core Values People with the upper level strategy; building and customer improving the process and system of the leadership responsible department capacity General job skills People Leadership •Creating work environment based on core Capacity that all members Influence over others values; and helping team members develop of the organization required at the organization level their capacity Customers Challenge Collaboration to have in order to create business performance Team Leader Self Leadership People Globality •Achieving results by working together with Special job skills for Capacity required as a leader team members each part at the individual level •Communicating and coaching based on core values; and promoting a team with passion HRD at Overseas Business Sites Hyundai is well aware •Global Professional Program Hyundai runs a special of that localization is essential for successful global program to foster outstanding talent at its overseas management, and the successful localization is based on subsidiaries, to establish a pool of outstanding recruiting and fostering next-generation leaders at its candidates for executives. The program consists of overseas business sites. With this belief, we have been three phases over three years, and helps participants to focusing on fostering locally-hired leaders who can develop a company-wide business perspective through respond quickly to the changing business environment, education on business theory and practice. In 2016, considering characteristics of each market, and replace some 20 candidates will go on this program, to learn to the role of overseas-stationed employees from Korea. be the driving force of our future global business. •Global Executive Induction Course We hold education courses for locally-hired new executives to enable Phases of Fostering Candidates for them to experience the work, organization and culture Locally-hired Executives of Hyundai. The executives visit our headquarters in Korea to explore opportunities and the driving forces Phase 1 Understanding the strategic business for continued growth, and to discuss how to apply direction and challenges of Hyundai Motor them at their offices. There are also special lectures Group, and learning the entire businessby the management and non-Korean executives who wide perspective have been scouted overseas. All of these help local Phase 2 Developing both the leadership required executives understand the company’s direction, and to perform as an executive and the also boost communications between headquarters personalized leadership and overseas businesses, as well as building networks Phase 3 Internalizing the core value and business among participants. style of the Group and building the network with the headquarters, by working in Korea and carrying out projects assigned to overseas subsidiaries Sustainability Performance 105 •Job Competency Program for the Locally-hired Career Development System Hyundai has been running the on-line job competency Voluntary Job Rotation System The voluntary job rotation program to improve general job skills of the locallysystem, implemented at the headquarters, is designed hired since 2014. As of the end of 2015, there were to reinforce the cooperation among departments 96 educational programs, and 1,053 people have and foster cross-functional talent with greater job participated in these programs in 2015. satisfaction. It also offers employees an opportunity to reach their career goals in a self-guided way. Since Education Program Participants its launch in 2010, the number of applicants for the by Subsidiary (Unit: Person) program has consistently increased; in 2015, about Overseas Subsidiary 2014 2015 500 employees transferred to different departments HATCI 392 392 through this system, expanding their areas of expertise and improving job competency. This system also serves HMMA – 300 as a pivotal role in facilitating communication among HMIE 220 220 departments and fostering talent with a wide range of HME 71 71 expertise, which in turn contributes to improving the HMMC 1 43 overall performance of the company. HMB 26 26 Job Rotation Program for Outstanding Talent Hyundai HMN 1 1 established a job rotation program for outstanding Total 711 1,053 talent in 2010 and has since expanded the scope of the program to include overseas subsidiaries. In the past six years, 199 outstanding employees have Professional Course Hyundai seeks to enhance diverse participated in the program, and the participants were job competencies and to create organizational synergies assigned to various posts at home and abroad for five by generating cooperation among different divisions to eight weeks and given opportunities to improve their through the professional course. This course comprises job competencies as well as to cooperate with their an academic track for developing specialists by sector fellow workers in other business sites. The company (marketing, finance, planning, HR, etc.), a general has been establishing a global management system by job skill program to build basic competencies for all continuously expanding the program, thus contributes employees, and an integrated automobile technology to improving its expertise and performance. training to promote collaboration between automobile technology and each business part. On-site Competitiveness Improvement Program Hyundai runs improvement programs for managers and staff in manufacturing, sales and customer service, comprising on-site training in leadership, job skills and improving the on-site corporate culture. In addition, there are tailored programs for each unit, to promote a creative and innovative organizational culture and better internal communications. Programs to Promote Change Hyundai runs programs that help staff respond rapidly and work in unison to business change, management strategy and key issues at work. In 2015, and particularly after the breakout of MERS in Korea, we implemented training aimed at putting customers first, to make sure that customers see our total commitment to public safety and customer service. In 2016, Hyundai is offering training on “ideal partnerships”, to encourage staff to implement and maintain fair and responsible business relationships with our suppliers. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 106 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Creating Great Workplaces Suppliers Employees Society Classification 2015 Performance Mid-to Long-term Direction • Designated every Wednesday as ‘SMART day’, to improve productivity • Promote consistent change of leaders (education and ensure work-life balance by bringing changes to the way work is programs for newly appointed team leaders, creating done a leaders column, etc.) WorkSMART • Ran WorkSMART programs customized for certain divisions: • Build work environment to improve work productivity implemented specific tasks to bring changes at each division, (standing report, SMART meeting system, etc.) considering job characteristics • Encourage voluntary work engagement through worklife balance (SMART day 2.0, SMART Vacation, etc.) • Participation in the multi-faceted evaluation increased as a result of • Improve leadership competencies by verifying and better explanations of the purpose of the evaluation, and encouraging strengthening the coaching of appointed personnel Performance staff participation (participation rate in 2014: 77.7%; 2015: 79.5%) evaluation and • Strengthen feedback/coaching programs to improve the reward system • Delivered detailed feedback to the evaluation subjects, provided abilities of leaders undergoing multi-faceted evaluations, practical tips for improvement through the individual coaching offered and help with additional improvements where necessary, by HR Division e.g. any leaders with lower evaluation results • Korea: developed the Global Environment Safety and • Vision: Safe Together for Happier Tomorrow Hazard (g-ESH) system * Slogan: Safety first for the better future • U.S.: Encouraged 29 tier 1 suppliers to acquire the accreditation • Goals: aiming for zero fatal accident and lowering the Safe work of OHSAS 18001 overall accident rate below 0.1% environment • China: acquired the accreditation of the national 1st degree Safe • Core tasks to achieve the vision Production Standardization review ① Establish safety roles ② Act in a systematic manner • Russia: achieved the “zero accident” target in 2015, for the first time ③ Strengthen core competencies ④ Build a culture of safety among automakers in Russia • Increase employee satisfaction by improving quality of benefits & • Expand employee welfare system for work-life balance Employee benefits & welfare system welfare • Expand healthcare programs to improve employee health • Diversified means to support employee leisure time activities WorkSMART WorkSMART activities through use of such a diagnostic tool, we will continue to respond to market changes in Hyundai launched WorkSMART in 2012 to encourage the optimal manner. voluntary work engagement of its employees, and According to the 2015 survey, which had a participation has since implemented WorkSMART activities, thus rate of 61.5% (14,090 persons participated), the helps them do their jobs in a creative manner which composite WorkSMART index was 64.3 points, an will in turn lead us to achieve sustainable growth. increase of 3.3 points over the previous year, with The WorkSMART is aiming at creating an active and improvements coming in all areas. In particular, autonomous organizational culture where members the efficiency and effectiveness of meetings were can fully concentrate on their work through work-life greatly enhanced — meeting efficiency was improved balance. In 2015, we undertook various campaigns and through such activities as sending meeting materials in activities through which staff experienced practical advance so that people can be well informed and avoid change. unnecessary printing; and effectiveness of meetings was also improved by streamlining meeting processes. WorkSMART Index and 2015 Results Since 2013, Hyundai has developed and operated SMART day the WorkSMART Index (WSI). WSI is based on the Starting at its headquarters in January 2015, Hyundai WorkSMART system and comprises 70 indices to designated every Wednesday as ‘SMART day’, a day to assess the awareness level of work methodology by bring changes to the way work is done, thus promotes organization. This evaluates an organization’s overall practical change and improves work efficiency. Every activity status and analyzes organizational strengths and SMART day, company cafeteria stops serving dinner, weakness for further improvement. By monitoring its Sustainability Performance 107 the hours for company commuter buses are shortened, Performance Evaluation and and office computers are turned off after 18:30. We also operate “work focus time” and eliminate any Reward System unnecessary meetings or tea times. In addition, to Performance Reward System expedite the decision-making process, we induce shortening of the approval time and promote reports Hyundai practices no gender bias in the payment of and feedbacks through emails. These activities help basic salaries and maintains transparency in its persteer employees toward concentrating more on their formance reward system. We also operate transparent work, finishing it earlier and putting saved hours to a evaluation and performance-based reward systems to more productive use, such as self-improvement, thereby ensure fair evaluations and rational compensations. We bringing about positive change. motivate employees to improve their individual competencies by applying performance evaluation results to Division-specific WorkSMART the salaries of employees above the manager level. The ‘Promotion Point’ system is focused not on seniority but Since June 2015, in addition to the company-wide on discovering talent with exceptional performance. WorkSMART program, we have implemented customized programs for the Marketing Division, the Asan Plant Multifaceted Evaluation System and the Jeonju Plant. These programs each reflect the particular division’s characteristics, and are designed Through the “multifaceted evaluation system”, team to improve on conventional ways of working and offer members evaluate the leadership of employees above practical changes for the better. Therefore, at the the team manager level, so that they are motivated Marketing Division, staff are encouraged to report using to continue to improve and become better leaders. Microsoft Word, with context and stories, rather than Detailed feedback has been given to everyone evaluated Powerpoint. At the Asan Plant, daily work reports from since 2013, and the HR Division has offered individual each individual were replaced by group-level reports coaching to improve their leadership capabilities. containing only key messages; and at the Jeonju Plant, the operation of “work focus time” has been extended. Safe Work Environment Health and Safety Principles and Organization WorkSMART Framework Under the vision, ‘Safe Together for Happier Tomorrow’, Driving force to bring changes Hyundai has adopted a safety-first management policy, “reaching the production of the highest possible quality •Build a corporate culture based on communication and trust by placing safety at the top”. In order to strengthen •Mind-set to accept and settle down the WorkSMART system our competitiveness in safety at the company level, Employee •Equipped with expertise and competitiveness to maximize Safety Health & Environment Center oversees overall Culture & Mind | work efficiency Knowledge & Competitiveness safety management, and each division has a team dedicated to the health and safety of its employees. Medical Care Center carries out employee healthImproving conventional way of working involving tasks, and teams of hygiene experts conduct occupational diseases-preventive measures. In addition, •Eliminate inefficiency in 5 ways of working including Industrial Occupational Safety and Health Committee, Work meetings and documentation comprising an equal number of members from labor and Meeting | Documentation | •Introduce new an “enabler” at each of 5 ways of working, Report and Approval | to improve work efficiency management, deliberates on and decides major policies Work Order | Collaboration and issues related to work safety and employee health. The committee continues to adopt measures that are practical and effective in preventing industrial accidents Support system to improve work efficiency and to strengthen relevant policies. • Behavior corrections at the system level for work efficiency • Improving efficiency by reducing paperwork, face-to-face Infra jobs and distance moved • Promoting seamless changes in individual behavior through System | ICT | Space the change of working environment Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 108 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Managing Health and Safety Major Safety Management Activities in 2015 All of our business sites in Korea have established and Overseas Subsidiary Key Activities operated the Health and Safety Management Systems •Reacquired OHSAS 18001 and undertook post-evaluation (KOSHA 18001, OHSAS 18001). The Jeonju Plant achieved the joint-accreditation of KOSHA/OHSAS •Built and ran the response process to MERS All 18001 in December 2002, the Ulsan Plant received •Undertook comprehensive safety check and made improvements in areas of safety, firefighting, health and environment the certification in 2010, and the Asan Plant and R&D Division acquired the joint-accreditation of KOSHA/ •Encouraged 29 tier 1 suppliers to acquire the accreditation of OHSAS 18001 in 2012. OHSAS 18001 HMMA Each business site undertakes a health and safety •Strengthened health improvement programs for employees evaluation every year, and is obliged to be re-certified •Provided employees with a training on how to use fire extinguishers every three years, which helps the company to improve •Acquired the accreditation of the national 1st degree Safe Production its health and safety management. In addition, we have Standardization review expanded the scope of our construction monitoring and BHMC •Pursued safe design, construction and manufacturing at new plant integrated control standards, in order to improve the construction sites in Cangzhou and Chongqing i_SEH system, the facility construction management system and the safety monitoring management system. •Held safety competitions to commemorate the National Safety Day and the National Fire Service Week We have also developed a Global Environment Safety HMI •Undertook fire drills at all regional headquarters and suppliers and Hazard (g-ESH) system, linked to the company’s purchasing systems, to manage construction safety. •18 fire drills and monthly safety campaigns •Operated a 24/7 safety patrol team •Offered maintenance personnel with quarterly special intensive trainings HMMC •Conducted the preventive maintenance inspection on firefighting facility and equipment • Improved the ventilation system in preparation for heatwaves in summer •Had daily safety meetings during the shutdown construction period HMMR •Revised emergency response manual on dangerous machines • Installed a safety board at each department Global Environment Safety and Hazard (g-ESH) system •Conducted 3 earthquake drills and reviewed the earthquake resistance level of buildings HAOS • Conducted fire drills and safety check at areas vulnerable to fire and Safety Management at Overseas Business Sites other accidents In 2015, the company headquarters undertook safety •Newly acquired OHSAS 18001 assessments at eight business sites in seven countries HMB •Conducted safety check and fire drills (Quarterly) as a way to strengthen the safety management and •Conducted fire drills in collaboration with fire station (Quarterly) prevent fatal accidents. We checked the safety level of construction work on holidays and new construction sites, and shared 75 best practices with all our business sites worldwide, in order to improve the overall level of safety management. 196 safety improvements were also made, thus contributing to reduce the risk of safetyrelated accidents. To increase safety awareness, the company offers safety education, undertakes safety campaigns and special safety checks, holds regular fire drills, and makes OHSAS 18001 part of our cooperate culture. Thanks Achieve “zero accident” at HMMR Safety training at the new plant to these continuous efforts, our accident rate has construction site in China decreased by 78% over the past five years, and HMMR, our Russian subsidiary, achieved the “zero accident” Sustainability Performance 109 target in 2015, the first time this has been achieved by Support for Stable Life an automaker in Russia. We will make safety our main To support employees and their families without priority in order to make Hyundai a safe workplace for houses of their own, we operate company housing and all of our staff and suppliers, and to become a global dormitory systems at our business sites. We provide leader in workplace safety. long-term, low-interest loans to employees who do not own a house. We also operate company bus services Culture of Health and Safety serving many areas surrounding the business sites of To increase awareness of health and safety, Hyundai Hyundai; and legal counseling support centers to help conducts risk evaluations of our work processes, employees lead stable lives. based on which we respond proactively to complex changes in work methodology and the development of Support for Leisure Activities new technology. We have implemented safety training Hyundai runs a “refresh vacation” program, to help for all employees and reinforced relevant systems. In employees recharge their bodies and minds, and particular, an integrated disaster prevention system that has partnered with nationwide top-rated condos generates alarms in case of actual fires and suppresses and hotels to help employees enjoy their vacations fires immediately. We also established the ‘Health and leisure activities at more affordable prices. The and Safety Shelter’ at each business site to provide company also operates the “leisure point” which can emergency response training and to conduct basic be redeemed at various activities including traveling, health check-ups. In addition, we operate the ‘Happy watching performance and self-development. We also Rest Area’ to support the stability of employees’ mental support employee families’ leisure activities through and emotional states and conduct safety protection such programs as lectures for married couples and activities for keeping children of employees safe from English camps for children of employees. Overseas auto accidents. travel opportunities are made available to long-term employees and their spouses. In addition, we assist diverse club activities and provide gym clothes to Employee Benefits & Welfare employees, to help those with common interests lead invigorating organizational lifestyle. Caring for Family Members Hyundai operates culture or sports centers at all business sites to promote healthy lifestyles among Retirement Pension employees and their families. Furthermore, the company provides financial supports to its employees and their To help staff fund and plan for their lives after families for medical expenses, provides collective retirement, Hyundai has put into place a retirement accident insurance, and subsidizes cancer screening pension system. Pension contributions are invested expenses. outside the company as a way of protecting retirement pensions, and the company also provides education for In addition, Hyundai has launched the ‘HEW Portal’, pension subscribers about retirement planning, including an integrated site detailing employee benefits, so that all necessary information on personal pension products. employees properly understand and access all their welfare benefits. Through this portal, staff can access to such welfare services as self-development, children’s education and on-line lectures. Also, welfare points are provided to employees to help them enjoy more prosperous holidays. Furthermore, the company offers scholarship programs for children of its employees to reduce their financial burden. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 110 Global Highlight Hyundai Motor Brazil sets new standards for a “decent work” Brazil Hyundai considers workforce as one of our key competitive advantages. Firmly believing employee satisfaction has a direct bearing on business growth, Hyundai has long been working hard to build all of our global business sites into a safe and pleasant workplace; and such commitment has led to many encouraging results, including the nomination of our Brazil subsidiary as a ‘Decent Work’. New Benchmark for established strategies that center on vitalizing Labor-Management Relations in Brazil employee communications, improving employee satisfaction, building a sound partnership with In January 2016, the state of São Paulo, Brazil, a labor union, contributing to the development awarded Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB) the ‘Decent of local communities through CSR activity, and Work’ certificate in recognition of the company’s adopting thorough localization and management by efforts of building sound labor-management law. Based on these strategies, we have been able relations based on mutual trust. The coveted to build a stable labor-management relationship. recognition is all the more meaningful in light of In 2015, a particularly challenging year owing to the fact that HMB was established as recently as the nation’s shrinking economy, HMB maintained in 2012. its operations on a three-shift basis. Which was In 2003, the government of Brazil signed a a sharp contrast to the overall condition of the memorandum of understanding (MOU) with nation’s auto industry which suffered a 25.6% the International Labour Organization (ILO) decrease in sales compared with 2014 as well as on protection of workers’ rights, and in 2006 large-scale job losses in the forms of layoff and launched its ‘Decent Work’ policy. To implement early retirement among most of its car makers. the federal policy, the state of São Paulo visited HMB was able to improve upon the labor‘Decent Work’ certificate celebration 645 cities, holding policy explanation sessions and management trust it had built over the year by by the Labor Minister of the State of São Paulo conducting preliminary examinations. The Decent making sincere efforts at stabilizing the local job Work certificate is awarded to companies with environment and thereby winning over the hearts “free, fair, safe and humane” work conditions by and minds of its employees. ILO definitions. In 2015, São Paulo became the Joint CSR activity by labor and management is an first of the 27 states of Brazil to certify Decent important component of HMB’s corporate culture Work companies totaling six, adding three more, which has contributed greatly to stabilizing its including HMB in recognition of its advanced and labor-management relations. Since 2014 HMB has sound labor-management relations, in 2016. HMB, been actively engaged in various CSR activities in particular, is the only automobile company to together with its labor union. One leading program be certified as a Decent Work in Brazil, thereby involves a mobile dental clinic — over the past establishing itself as an exemplary workplace. two years, HMB has treated 16,077 students from 61 schools and seven organizations in Piracicaba, Innovate Labor-Management Relations in the state of São Paulo. Such activity not only instills a positive image of HMB in the hearts A solid and exemplary labor-management of local community members, but also boosts relationship starts with mutual understanding. its employees’ self-esteem and love of their Hyundai began its study of local communities workplace two years before entering the Brazilian market, learning of Brazil’s unique labor environment and We will continue to spare no efforts toward characteristics of human resources management. enhancing employee satisfaction so that labor To devise viable labor management strategies, and management work together in unison toward we twice conducted research on Brazilian labormaking HMB competitive and achieving common management relations, with the assistance goals. of external industry experts. We thus have Sustainability Performance 111 05 Society 2015 Performance Opened the ‘Cha-CarAbout 7,000 children Cha-Car Playground’, participated in the Traffic a new concept of kids Safety Class with Robocar Poli; race track even for traffic safety animation series sight-impaired children, was broadcasted through equipped with future 18 channels in 8 languages, technologies and its YouTube view counts exceeded 300 million Facts & Figures Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 112 Opened the third Signed a 10-year partnership ‘Hyundai-KOICA Dream with the Los Angeles Center’ in Cambodia to County Museum of Art for contribute to solving ‘The Hyundai Project’ and educational imbalance sponsored the National and creating jobs in Museum of Modern and developing nations Contemporary Art of Korea and the Tate Modern in the UK 지속가능한 사회, Moving the world together 더 나은 미래를 향한 진정한 파트너 Management Approach “Moving the world together” is Hyundai’s slogan for its social contributions to show how the company pursues social responsibilities and creates positive changes in society, in partnership with its community neighbors. In 2016, Hyundai has set its mid-to long-term CSR vision as a ‘Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow’, and reorganized its social contributions from existing ‘4 Moves’ to ‘6 Moves’. The ‘6 Moves’ are convenience in mobility, traffic safety, environmental conservation, social contributions, self-reliance, and contributing to society through our business. A ‘Move’ refers to how we can support “movement” towards change and innovation, and create a better society. Hyundai’s CSR will take the lead in creating a sustainable future, in partnership with our stakeholders and in pursuit of fulfilling our social responsibilities. Sustainability Performance 113 05 Society 2015 Performance Opened the ‘Cha-CarAbout 7,000 children Cha-Car Playground’, participated in the Traffic a new concept of kids Safety Class with Robocar Poli; race track even for traffic safety animation series sight-impaired children, was broadcasted through 18 equipped with future channels in eight languages, technologies and its YouTube view counts exceeded 300 million As a trustworthy partner Plan for 2016 Mid-to Long-term Direction • Reorganize mid-to long-term strategy system • Achieve the mid-to long-term vision for for socially responsible management (vision socially responsible management* announcement, expansion of core CSR activities) • Go beyond mere donations or volunteer activities; • Run the ‘Health Care Project for Taxi Drivers’: instead pursue social contribution activities which Energizing Station, Energizing Bus can create shared values • Initiate the ‘Traffic Accident Zero for Children’ • Advance the activities for the ‘6 Moves’ campaign • Develop deep-rooted partnerships with the • Expand the ‘H-Social Creator’, a program to solve art community through mutual respect and social issues in partnership with college students understanding • Host a conference on global social contributions • Maintain the mid-to long-term partnership with the three major art museums * Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 112 Opened the third Signed a 10-year partnership ‘Hyundai-KOICA Dream with the Los Angeles Center’ in Cambodia to County Museum of Art for contribute to solving ‘The Hyundai Project at LACMA’ educational imbalance and sponsored the National and creating jobs in Museum of Modern and developing nations Contemporary Art of Korea and the Tate Modern in the UK Sustainability Performance 113 05 O u r Va l u e Key Sustainability Data* Society Indicators Unit 2013 2014 2015 Expenditures in social KRW million 75,000 65,200 70,449 contributions Voluntary performance of Person 33,262 23,480 24,499 115 employees Hour 216,434 132,887 166,912 Number of vehicles 2 11 13 Key CSR Activities donated Support for ‘H-together’ projects Number of Easy Move 115 organizations 44 37 27 Safe Move 117 supported Green Move 118 * Based on performance in Korea Happy Move 118 Dream Move 119 Stakeholder Interview Next Move 120 121 Please explain the Hyundai ix1 Hyundai Motor Slovakia (MHSK) contacted our hospital and World Premiere. explained the purpose of the ‘Hyundai ix1 World Premiere’ in detail. The Hyundai ix1 is a hospital-grade trolley, to Overseas CSR Activities help hospitals carry babies and child patients safely and comfortably. 125 What makes the Hyundai ix1 The Hyundai ix1 is ergonomically designed to provide a safe seat for infants and to offer convenience for nurses. Its different, and are nurses and Supporting the Arts and Culture parents happy with it? design is similar to a normal trolley, but the height and angle of incline are easy to adjust, and cleaning and sterilizing are National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art 125 also simple. Anyone who sees the Hyundai ix1 will understand the purpose of this project. Hospitals, nurses, infants and Tate Modern 126 parents are all very satisfied. Los Angeles County Museum of Art 126 What makes the Hyundai ix1 The Hyundai ix1 World Premiere stands out from other social 127 World Premiere different from other social contributions? contribution activities in Slovakia because it understands the practical needs of the local community, and uses the specific expertise of the company. It has also been supported by Global Highlight excellent PR activities. Europe 127 Please let us know what you I am not familiar with all HMSK’s social contribution activities, expect from Hyundai as but I hope they will continue with the Hyundai ix1 World a member of local community Premiere. There are many maternity hospitals in Slovakia in Slovakia. which need this kind of support, and our region in particular, because of its high birthrate, would really benefit from ongoing support through the Hyundai ix1. Interviewee Ing. Martin Neštický, MBA Fakultná nemocnica Trnava Hospital, Slovakia Beneficiary organization of the ‘Hyundai ix1 World Premiere’ 122 Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 114 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Key CSR Activities Suppliers Employees Society Classification 2015 Performance Mid-to Long-term Direction • Supported ‘H-together’ projects (completed in 2015) • Improve convenience in mobility of those in need Easy Move • Opened the ‘Cha-Car-Cha-Car Playground’ •Traffic safety campaigns with Robocar Poli • Enhance traffic safety and safety in society Safe Move • Kids Hyundai (Children Safety the Best, Best Safety Exhibition, Wing of Angels) • Continued the second phase of the Hyundai Green Zone China • Conserve the environment and respond to climate Green Move in Zhenglan Qi district change • Supported road-kill prevention • Operated the ‘H-self Sharing Planner’ • Promote voluntary participation of employees and Happy Move customers • Accumulated number of participants in the Happy Move Global Youth Volunteer Corps exceeded 7,510 • Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers (supporting children who lose • Create jobs for self-reliance and develop human Dream Move parents in car accidents) resources • Initiated the ‘H-Social Creator’ • Opened the third ‘Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center’ • Contribute to society through our business expertise Next Move • Supported the production of a bobsleigh Easy Move H-together Mobility Welfare Project Cha-Car-Cha-Car Playground The ‘Moving the World Together’ project, launched To commemorate the 30th anniversary of the Sonata in 2005, is one of the most representative outreach in 2015, Hyundai created the ‘Cha-Car-Cha-Car campaigns of Hyundai that provides cars for the Playground’. This new playground has been built on handicapped, the elderly, children, the youth, and other a 2,000 square meters terrain within the Seoul Grand people in need to help live happier and healthier lives. Park, and consists of the Mini Sonata Track, the Giant We support organizations that are facing difficulties Sonata, and the Animal Story Trail. Equipped with our with budgets or shortage of personnel, and assist them autonomous driving technology, this playground is a in developing new programs that meet the needs of special place where children, including sight-impaired people in the community. children, can enjoy the pleasure of driving. In 2015, the 10th year of the project, it was renamed the ‘H-together’ mobility welfare project, to reflect our determination to provide dream and hope to a greater number of those in need. In 2015, we provided 13 Hyundai vehicles — eight Accents, four Porters, and one Tucson ix — to social welfare organizations around Korea, including the Yongin Center for Independent Living and Suncheon SOS Children’s Village. We also provided funds for mobility welfare programs at 14 social welfare organizations. Our vehicles are used in a wide array of social welfare programs, such as repair services for equipment to look after the disabled, visits to the elderly, meals on wheels, and visiting beauty-care services. Sustainability Performance 115 Mid-to Long-term Mid-to Long-term CSR Strategy CSR Vision Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow CSR Slogan Moving the World Together Key Areas Improve convenience in Traffic safety mobility of those in need & Safe society Environmental Social contributions conservation & Responses of employees or to climate change with customers Contributing to society Job creation for through our business self-reliance expertise Mini Sonata The Mini Sonata has been developed to allow children to drive by sound and touch. Our advanced autonomous driving technologies share the joy of driving with children — sensors in the vehicle autonomously send voice and tactile signals to the child driving the vehicle, and safety technologies, such as intelligent collision-avoidance assist and Autonomous Emergency Braking (AEB) systems, enable children to drive safely. Giant Sonata The Giant Sonata, a play structure shaped like the Sonata model, is designed to provide special and fun experiences to children. It is a new concept of playground, consisting of a slide, a miniature engine, and tire ladders. Supporting the Easy Move Inc. Hyundai launched the Easy Move Inc., a social enterprise in August 2010, and has been supporting its operation. The Easy Move Inc. is the first social enterprise in Korea to produce and sell vehicles for disabled persons and walking assistance equipment for the disabled and the elderly. The enterprise aims at greater product satisfaction by developing advanced technology, producing auto-parts, and by providing excellent after-service. Easy Move Inc. fulfills its social responsibility by contributing more than two-thirds of its operating profits for social purposes, and focusing on the hiring of underprivileged workers. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 116 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society Enhancing Mobility for People with Disabilities Safe Move Since 2006, Hyundai has helped the disabled become more self-reliant by upgrading facilities at institutes Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar Poli dedicated to their support. We support the installation Grade 1 and 2 students of facilities such as automatic doors, handrails, ramps, account for 50.2% of anti-slip rolls, height adjustable countertops and braille traffic fatalities involblocks, the construction of interior rubber block, and ving elementary school the repair of external walls and disabled bathrooms students walking on at welfare institutes. In 2015, the 10th anniversary roads. Hyundai realized of the project, we received a citation from the Korea the need to educate Federation of Organizations of the Disabled for our lower grade elementary school students and preschoolers efforts to improve the mobility of the disabled as well about traffic safety, and so we created ‘Traffic Safety as to eliminate inconvenience and danger that they may Stories with Robocar Poli’, an animation for road safety experience in everyday lives. education, in partnership with Roi Visual, a company Supporting the Hanbit Performing Arts specializing in creative animation. As of the end of 2015, the animation has been dubbed into eight languages, Company and has been aired on public broadcasting stations in Hyundai sponsored the Hanbit Performing Arts Korea, China, Russia, Israel and Taiwan, recording the Company, Korea’s only performing arts company highest viewer ratings for programs in its time slot. It is consisting of visually-impaired artists, in its participation also offered for free through YouTube and other on-line at the International Orchestra Festival for the Disabled, channels. In addition, we have been providing the ‘Traffic held in Saint Petersburg, Russia in July 2015, the first Safety Class with Robocar Poli’ since 2013 together festival of its kind. In addition to providing the funds with Roi Visual and Citizen’s Coalition for Safety to keep needed to attend the festival, Hyundai provided vehicles children safe on roads. Hyundai also offers education to ensure safe travels for the players. programs on traffic safety to 20,000 children per year at the ‘Robocar Poli Traffic Park’, so that children can learn about safety in a more fun way. Safety Quiz Campaign for Children in Korea Since 2009, Hyundai has run the annual ‘Safety Quiz Campaign for Children in Korea’, to address the importance of safety education and to enable children to learn about safety in an easy and fun way. The safety quiz consists of safety content under nine categories that children should be aware of, such as traffic safety, daily life safety and fire safety. Children answer 20 to 30 multiple choice questions, after which those with the highest scores are chosen. As an additional prize, winners in lower grades are provided with a scholarship, while those in higher grades are presented with an opportunity to receive overseas safety culture training. From the first one through the recently held seventh quiz, a cumulative number of around 138 thousand children participated, and some 3.12 million people visited the quiz contest website. As such, Hyundai is taking the lead in spreading a safety culture for children and preventing safety-related accidents. Sustainability Performance 117 Green Move Happy Move Hyundai Green Zone China Happy Move Global Youth Volunteer Corps In 2014, Hyundai Hyundai’s ‘Happy Move Global Youth Volunteer launched the second Corps’ to train young leaders and to contribute to the phase of ‘Hyundai international community was established in July 2008, Green Zone China’, and is now one of the largest public service groups in which is an ecological Korea. Every year, approximately 1,000 college students restoration project are selected and sent during school vacations to various carried out in China. locations around the world to provide services, such as Our plan is to create 40 million square meters of grassland cultural projects, environmental help or traffic safety populated by local native flora in Zhenglan Qi for five advice, as requested by the host country. Hyundai has years until 2018, thus preventing serious environmental now sent 7,510 young people out to about 20 countries. problems caused by yellow sand, which affects Due to the aftermath of Middle East Respiratory northern China and Korea. Local residents are hired Syndrome (MERS), the operation of the volunteer which contributes to the economic self-reliance of the corps was temporarily suspended in summer of 2015. local community. Also, the Happy Move Global Youth From January through February in 2016, however, the Volunteer Corps, volunteer groups of college students in 16th volunteer corps was sent to China for road safety China, and employees of Hyundai and Beijing Hyundai education for children Motor Company as well as their family members visit the and junior engineering Hyundai Green Zone to participate in volunteer activities classes; India to help for desertification prevention. preserve the World Heritage site in Delhi; Support for Korea Road-kill Prevention and Vietnam to build Association educational facilities. To p r e v e n t r o a d Employee Volunteering kills, and the fastr i s i n g nu m b e rs o f Employee Volunteer Groups There are a total 134 accidents that are employee volunteer groups across Hyundai’s business caused by road-kills, sites. They have established ties with 168 social welfare Hyundai supports facilities across the nation, and conduct volunteer work the Korea Roadkill on a regular basis. Around 9,000 employees participated Prevention Association (KRPA), an environmental group in volunteer activities in 2015. Volunteer activities that addresses issues around wild animal deaths on the on the Group level were also carried out on national roads. Hyundai staff and Korean citizens serve as KRPA holidays and at the end of the year to share moments members. Its major activities include investigating roadof happiness with the marginalized at our sisterhood kills, working with the Korea Road Traffic Authority organizations. In addition, as part of our efforts to to educate drivers on the seriousness of road-kills contribute to urban-rural coexistence and to resolve the and driving techniques to prevent them, rescuing wild labor shortage issue in rural communities, Hyundai has animals, feeding winter migrants, putting up bird-houses, established ties with 70 rural villages located near our and other animal protection activities. In particular, the business sites, and help them by lending a hand during KRPA focuses on improving road conditions, setting up the busy farming seasons in spring and autumn. signs, and developing road-kill prevention policies so H-self Sharing Planner Hyundai introduced the ‘H-Self that ecological paths are created in the right areas. It Sharing Planner’ in 2016 to enable staff to plan their also undertakes PR activities to raise awareness of the volunteer activities. The planner builds on the previous importance of the protection of wild animals and the ‘H-Volunteer Designer’, which mostly focused on prevention of road-kills. sharing skills, and was revised to satisfy demands for volunteer activities that go beyond visiting specific partner organizations over a defined period, and enabled staff to engage more in volunteer activities. 177 creative volunteering activities were planned by Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 118 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society staff in 2015, including making pottery with children H-Jump School at community child centers, educating children about Hyundai launched the ‘H-Jump School’ together with music, providing framed pictures for the elderly in rural Seoul Scholarship Foundation and a social enterprise communities, and sharing cultural experiences at a Jump to address the educational gap issue. Teachers are prison. The company provided consulting and funding chosen among college students who want to bring about for these activities. positive change to society, and they help teenagers H-Family Volunteer Hyundai offers family volunteering in marginalized areas with tutoring and mentoring for opportunities, so that our staff can share the joys of eight hours a week for a year. College students who volunteering with their family. Activities have included participate in this volunteer program are provided setting up a flower wall on a roadside to ensure the with a scholarship as well as an opportunity to receive safety of visitors to Jaram Library, which is the only mentoring from mentors in varied areas of society for cultural space for children and teenagers in remote a year. We also help them develop into warm-hearted Neungnae-ri, Ganghwa Island. We also set up a library talent with knowledge in humanities by providing them there, as well as reading benches and bench swings, so with such talent-fostering programs as talk concerts, that children can read in a better environment. We held lectures and art performances. a musical performance for children in a performance hall that we decorated ourselves. In addition, we painted H-Social Creator a mural at the Yangjae Welfare Center, provided food Hyundai introduced a new program called the ‘H-Social to people in need in Seoul, cleaned up the environment Creator’ in 2015, to try to solve various social issues. near the Yangjae Stream, gave eco-friendly soaps to This program involves college students coming up those in need, and helped senior citizens living alone in with CSV ideas. The first H-Social Creator group Seoul stay warm through the bitter Korean winter. We consisted of 20 college students who shared ideas on also hold the H-Family Camp program during school resolving issues such as aging society, the environment, holidays in May and November, with participation from urbanization, low growth and traffic safety. There were staff, children, and global college student volunteers. discussions on potential approaches, such as developing smartphone content to address pollution from cars, creating more affordable and pleasant venues for Dream Move college students working for low pay, and developing support programs for lonely elderly people. Gift Car Campaign The Gift Car campaign is a program through which we provide automobiles to the I have long been interested in CSV, and this was a unemployed to help great opportunity to find the answers I was looking them overcome ecofor. I am proud to have been a member of the first nomic hardship ― this group, and I will do my best to be engaged more in supports people who have an entrepreneurial spirit and society as an ‘H-Social Creator’. acumen, but lack basic support. In addition to providing Participant in the H-Social Creator, after the Workshop compact cars, 1-ton trucks, vans and other vehicles as required, we give financial support for car registration, self-reliance funding, entrepreneurship and management consulting, to help to stabilize the finances of low income Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers families ‘Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers’ is a program for Car-sharing is becoming more and more popular children who have lost their parents in car accidents. worldwide, which has inspired Hyundai to apply carWe listen to what they want to have or to do, and then sharing to its Gift Car campaign. As well as simply we make it happen, to help them find happiness again. It donating cars to help those who need automobiles is different from other programs that provide temporary to start their own businesses, the company will also support; instead, we aim to help the children emotionally implement Gift Car sharing, so that more people can by satisfying their wishes. Since 2005, when the project enjoy the benefits, memories and joys of sharing with us. was launched, to 2015, some 1,400 children have Sustainability Performance 119 enjoyed small but precious experiences of happiness increase over the 13 students in the previous academic through the Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers. In year. This is the result of successful PR in support 2013, we also began to offer one-on-one mentoring to of the program, including broadcasts on a local radio support the children’s future dreams, and 160 mentors station and the airing of a documentary. Construction of and mentees benefited from this program in 2015. the second Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center in Cambodia, was completed in February 2015. The first course was a relatively short, three month course, 19 people out of 30 Next Move applicants completed it. The course was improved to one year, and there are 29 enrolled students, as of February Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center 2016. There is also a two year course, which currently The ‘Hyundai-KOICA has 27 enrolled students. Dream Center’ is a global social contribuDeveloping a Bobsleigh for the Korean tion project based on National Team private-government Hyundai developed the first bobsleigh in Korea to cooperation to conbe used by the Korean national team. The national tribute to solving bobsleigh team had never had a decent bobsleigh, and social issues, such as educational imbalance and job used to have to borrow a bobsleigh from other countries creation in developing nations. Hyundai has been coor buy a used one. Nevertheless, the team had achieved operating with Korea International Cooperation Agency great results at many international competitions, and (KOICA), Plan Korea, and other related organizations to Hyundai has been producing a bobsleigh, in order to establish Hyundai-KOICA Dream Centers, starting with support the national team and to contribute to the Ghana in January 2013, then Indonesia in January 2014, development of winter sports in Korea. and Cambodia in February 2015. Hyundai has used its expertise in vehicle development Construction of the fourth Hyundai-KOICA Dream to produce a customized bobsleigh for the Korean Center in Vietnam was completed in February 2016. national team. The development process is not oneThe center is located inside Hanoi Industrial Vocational way, however — bobsleigh is often compared to F1 on College, and consists of a technical school for ice, and so the company plans to use engineering design automotive maintenance and a construction safety techniques learned in producing the bobsleigh for future school that together cover an area totaling 9,900 square vehicle development. With support from Hyundai, the meters. The fourth Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center is national team is optimistic of a strong showing at the the first overseas CSV activity that Hyundai Motor Winter Olympics. Company has undertaken in cooperation with Hyundai Hyundai’s production of a bobsleigh demonstrates Engineering & Construction. It is intended to foster the company’s high levels of technological capability experts in automobile maintenance and construction as and automotive manufacturing competencies. In well, and to help them find jobs. The industrial accident addition, it is an initiative that enhances the prestige rate in Vietnam is more than ten times the rate in Korea, of Hyundai, one of the top global carmakers. The and so the construction safety training course that is company’s developments in this field will not end with included in the construction education curriculum will the production of a bobsleigh, but will be connected truly protect lives in Vietnam, in addition to creating to the development of technology that can produce jobs. future-oriented, high-performance cars. Hyundai will The first Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center, in Ghana, has continue to pursue CSV activities which open boundless produced 36 graduates from its founding to the end of possibilities for technological advancement. the 2014-2015 academic calendar. As of January 2016, six students have successfully found a job. Students achieved a 79.5% success rate in passing exams to receive certificates in eight subjects, including engine technology, vehicle technology, and integrated science. Of particular note, all students successfully won certification in a technical subject that is directly related to automotive maintenance. The number of new students for the 2015-2016 academic calendar is 84, a substantial Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 120 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Overseas CSR Activities Suppliers Employees Society Social Contributions by Overseas Subsidiaries of Hyundai HME HAC Skills for the Future / Hyundai Hockey Nation / Brilliant Young Entrepreneur HMCIS Hyundai Hockey Helpers – Supporting a youth hockey team – Providing skills training to young – Traffic safety campaign for children in collaboration / Providing hockey classes to people / Supporting college with the Traffic Safety Administration in Russia children from low-income families students’ start-ups HMMR – Volunteer activities by employees CIS & Eastern Europe Russia Europe BHMC Canada Regional Headquarter Czech Republic – Preventing desertification of Inner Mongolia – Kazakhstan: Road safety China Turkey campaign U.S. Spain – Ukraine: Supporting children HMA suffering from war Hyundai Hope on Wheels HAOS – Supporting research and treatment Environment and Social India of childhood cancer Responsibility Project Asia & Pacific – Supporting the construction and operation of Regional Headquarter the Hyundai-KOICA Dream Center HMMA – Donating science labs and equipment HMI – Volunteer work for traffic safety and driving Better Montgomery – Planting trees in Izmit education – Supporting improvement projects Model Village program – Supporting education and health for education, culture and health in – Improving living condition in 8 villages Montgomery Brazil HMMC near the Hyundai Australia plant in Chennai – Eco Day / Good Neighbor Dream Village project HMB – Providing fluorescent reflective band for road safety – Supporting flood relief Hope Soccer Ball campaign efforts in Chennai – Fund-raising and donation for HMCA – Donating 100,000 soccer balls to local communities Hyundai Help for Kids under-privileged children in liaison – Supporting a social welfare foundation with the 2014 FIFA World Cup HMES Brazil™ for children in partnership with dealers Desert of the Children Free dental clinic on wheels Goals for Grassroots – Children’s travel program to travel to desert in Morocco – Supporting kids soccer teams Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Eco Day The Czech government is committed to environmental Czech protection policies which preserve many forests and wild animals. However, there are still many road-kills, In order to respond to increased interest in the which not only cause suffering to wild animals, but environment and safety across Europe, Hyundai Motor also cause real problems for traffic safety. HMMC has Manufacturing Czech (HMMC) has increased its focus therefore planted some 2,000 trees in partnership with on social contributions. In particular, HMMC is using a civic group in the Czech Republic, not just offering its business expertise to develop CSR activities which financial support, but actually going out and planting address local issues, rather than just offering financial the trees. This has both reduced road-kill, and has also donations or charity events. This will enable the shown Hyundai’s commitment to working together with company to lead in improving the everyday lives of the local residents to resolve local environmental issues. local community. Sustainability Performance 121 Good Neighbor Hyundai Motor Company To help with local community issues, HMMC offers financial support for projects chosen after discussions Australia with residents. This support has been provided in local government areas near our Czech plant, including Hyundai Help for Kids Nošovice, Dobratice and Nižní Lhoty. The financial In 2014, Hyundai Motor Company Australia (HMCA) support provided amounts to an annual CZK 650,000 joined hands with Hyundai’s Australian dealer network (around KRW 32.5 million), and in 2015 alone, 37 local to launch the ‘Hyundai Help for Kids’ program, providing projects were supported. sponsorship and vehicles to children in need. HMCA and the 168 dealers donate funds for every car sold, with Fluorescent Reflective Band for Road Safety HMCA and the dealers each contributing half. In the two As part of its efforts to contribute to road safety, years since the program was launched, funds totaling HMMC focuses on the safety of pedestrians — AUD 3 million have been raised, with sponsorships especially children. A pedestrian walking at night under provided to 23 child welfare foundations. HMCA also low light conditions might become a victim of traffic provided a new Tucson for an eBay charity auction to accidents. To prevent such accidents, HMMC has been support HeartKids Australia, which helps improve the providing fluorescent reflective bands to pedestrians, health and quality of life of children suffering from heart especially children. In 2015, it purchased around 3,000 disease. All proceeds went to HeartKids Australia to bands and donated them to local schools. support its Sweetheart Day campaign, which raised AUD 270 thousand raised for the campaign. Vehicle Donation for Education Support for Medical Research Since its establishment, HMMC has been interested in promoting education in the Czech Republic, and as an The Engineering & Prototyping Implants for Children automobile company, it has continued to donate vehicles (EPIC) lab at The Children’s Hospital at Westmead is to be used for educational purposes. It is donating conducting research on designing 3D implant models by vehicles for practical training to technical high schools using 3D printers. As a major sponsor of the lab, HMCA in nearby areas, including Ostrava, thus supports has been providing R&D funds. effective educational activities. From 2008 through 2014, 87 vehicles and 14 transmissions were donated for the Goals for Grassroots educational purpose, and in 2015 eight vehicles and one HMCA has been sponsoring around 250 kids soccer transmission were offered. Donations were made also teams with more than AUD 580 thousand since 2007, in to fire stations to increase firefighters’ understanding order to contribute to the development of the sports of car structures, which in turn allows effective rescue in the Australia, and also to support the dream of kids, activities in the event of a car accident. youth, and their local community. Environmental Fund HMMC is also committed to protecting the environment. Hyundai Motor Slovakia It established the Hyundai Foundation in 2007, and since M a ny h o s p i ta l s i n then, it has made donations worth around CZK 26 million Slovakia are suffer(around KRW 1.3 billion), and in 2015 it donated around ing the impact of CZK 1 million (around KRW 50 million). In addition to decreasing governmaking donations, HMMC works with civic groups to ment funding and review projects that request funding, to make best use shortage of equipof the funds. HMMC has supported about 100 projects ment, so they use since the establishment of the Foundation, including 11 modified shopping carts to carry newborns. As a solution in 2015. to this matter, Hyundai Motor Slovakia (HMSK) has developed the ‘Hyundai ix1’, a hospital-grade trolley for newborns, and is providing them free of charge to local hospitals. A certified medical equipment company is in charge of the production and supply of the Hyundai ix1, to ensure that it is in compliance with medical and Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 122 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Suppliers Employees Society legal regulations. Hypoallergenic materials are used, and Dream Village Project its ergonomic design enables newborns to lie down in In addition to helping Chennai recover from flooding, great comfort. It has a brake system and easy height and HMI has been helping a village in the area to achieve incline adjustment for the increased convenience and greater independence, thus becoming a “dream village” safety of the nurses using it. HMSK donated five trolleys through its CSR activities. HMI provides technical to the largest maternity ward in Slovakia in May 2014, training, supports small start-ups, and improves living and the company has donated 29 Hyundai ix1 trolleys conditions in the village by purifying drinking water and to seven hospitals by the end of 2015. HMSK plans to building public restrooms. These activities have been continue to implement this project. triggering positive changes in the village, which in turn contribute significantly to building a foundation for the self-reliance economy. Hyundai Assan Otomotiv Sanayi CSR Activities to Support Flood Relief Efforts in Chennai Donating Science Labs Item Details Hyundai Assan OtoProvided emergency food to residents impacted by floodwaters motiv Sanayi (HAOS) Emergency relief •Supported the disaster camp in Tanbaram (1,000 sets, 2 times) items focuses on establish•Items: Milk, bread, biscuits, bananas, etc. ing an environment that promotes chilProvided daily necessities to residents near our plant in Chennai affected by floodwaters dren’s healthy growth Daily necessities •Offered daily necessities to 5 villages (2,000 sets) and pleasant learning •Items: Kitchen utensils, clothes, towels, drinking water, etc. experiences. Launched in 2014, the ‘Environment and Social Responsibility Project’ is its leading social Cleared roads in the affected areas and ran a medical camp contribution activity for the local community. Three Disaster relief and •Cleaned roads in 10 villages and helped with cleanup operation elementary schools with outdated scientific education healthcare •Supported temporary medical centers (3 days) facilities are chosen, after which an up-to-date science lab and equipment needed for diverse experiments are Helped with communicable disease control and prevention donated. in affected areas Communicable • Disease control at all facilities (including cafeteria and restrooms) disease control and inside and outside the factory Planting Trees prevention •Provided diarrhea medicines to residents in affected areas, and In collaboration with Turkey’s Ministry of Environment undertook mosquito control activities and Urbanization, HAOS has been contributing to the •All staff (including trainees) were vaccinated against typhoid development of grassland in Izmit, where its business site is located, thus fulfills its role as an eco-friendly Provided additional emergency items such as blankets to all staff Bedding supplies (including contractors) company. First launched in 2008, this tree planting project •Supported living outside their residence due to flood damage is conducted every two years. In 2015, HAOS donated 2,000 trees and its employees participated in plating trees. Disaster relief •Donated KRW 380 million to Tamil Nadu state government for donations disaster relief Hyundai Motor India Current Status of Dream Village Hyundai Motor India (HMI) visits local communities affected by natural disasters, and supports them as a responsible corporate citizen. In 2015, HMI provided damage relief and flood victim support in Chennai, which was hit by torrential downpours and flooding. 408 persons 372 restrooms 2 ponds 4,800 trees The company undertook a full range of local community Providing Constructing Improving drinking Planting trees support activities, both in the immediate aftermath technical trainings public restrooms water quality through through the Green and for long-term support. This also served to further to create jobs to enhance health water purification Village project strengthen ties with the community. and sanitation project * As of December 31, 2015 Sustainability Performance 123 CIS & Eastern Europe Regional Hyundai Motor Espana, S.L. Headquarter Desert of the Children Kazakhstan: Road Safety Campaign Hyundai Motor Espana, S.L. (HMES) conducted the ‘Desert of the Children’ project from March to April Hyundai is conducting the ‘Abay bol–Drive·Think·Care’ in 2015, through which participants traveled across campaign to establish a culture of traffic safety in the desert in Morocco to identify the needs of local Kazakhstan, where the road traffic death rate is communities. During the trip, around 20 volunteers, an average three times higher than that of other including three medical personnel, provided eyesight tests OECD countries. This campaign features distinctive to around 700 residents in Morocco and offered glasses traffic safety trainings, customized for each target if needed, and school supplies and other donated items group — it offers basic car maintenance training and were delivered to children in the region. HMES provided countermeasures to emergency situation for adults 17 Hyundai SUVs, including the Santa Fe, Grand Santa Fe, while providing theatrical play about traffic safety and and ix35, for safe and enjoyable trip. experience-based traffic safety training to children. Ukraine: Supporting Children Suffering Hyundai Motor Brazil from War CIS & Eastern Europe Regional Headquarter promotes Free Dental Clinic on Wheels the ‘Hyundai for Children’ a CSR campaign for the Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB) operates a mobile dental children victimized by Ukraine crisis. In 2015, there clinic as part of its social contribution activities in were four events related to this campaign — two partnership with affiliates, suppliers, and Piracicaba ‘Summer Healing Camps’ for children of bereaved City’s metal labor union. The clinic visits public schools families from the war in eastern Ukraine; and two and other organizations in Piracicaba, in the state talent-developing activities and cultural performances of São Paulo, to provide people in need with basic for orphans. Especially for the children who have lost dental care, including scaling, cavity treatment, and their family due to Eastern Ukraine crisis, the campaign orthodontics. Also, toothbrushes and toothpastes are offers individual counseling, healing programs, outdoor provided. Children who require surgery can be provided activities, games in groups, foreign language trainings, with financial support to cover expenses. 20 to 25 and other hobby activities to restore emotional and people can be treated per day, and more than 16,000 psychological stability. people have been benefited from this program since its launch in 2014. Key CSR Activities of CIS & Eastern Europe Regional Headquarter Abay bol–Drive·Think·Care Campaign Hyundai for Children Campaign Hyundai Motor France in Kazakhstan in Ukraine Hyundai Motor France (HMF) sponsors gymnasts every Participants 1,500 persons 100 persons year, and also supports second-generation Koreans who Period August-October (3 months) July-October (4 times) seek to learn the Korean language for the development Trainings on traffic safety, Summer Healing Camp for children of the Korean community in France. It plans to customized for each target group who are victimized by Eastern implement a program in 2016 that involves selecting •Adults: How to respond to Ukraine Crisis employees and providing transportation expenses for emergency situations and basic •Games, foreign language trainings, volunteer activities in slum areas during their vacation. Features car maintenance and hobby developments HMF also plans to provide funds for cancer patients. It •Children: Theatrical play about •Talent-developing activities will engage in various activities to establish a positive traffic safety and experienceand cultural performances brand image in Europe based on the spirit of respecting based traffic safety trainings for orphans humanity. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 124 Our System O u r Va l u e Product Responsibility Eco-friendliness Supporting the Arts and Culture Suppliers Employees Society 2015 Performance 2016 Plan National Museum • MMCA Hyundai Motor Series 2015: • MMCA Hyundai Motor Series 2016: of Modern and Ahn Kyuchul — Invisible Land of Love KimSooja — Archive of Mind Contemporary Art Tate Modern • Hyundai Commission 2015: Abraham Cruzvillegas • Hyundai Commission 2016: Philippe Parreno • The Hyundai Project at LACMA: art + technology • The Hyundai Project at LACMA: art + technology (ongoing) Los Angeles County – ‘Rain Room’ by Random International – Supporting the art + technology Lab (ongoing) Museum of Art – ‘The Sympathetic Imagination’ Diana Thater – Acquisition of James Turrell’s <Perceptual Cell> – Supporting the art + technology Lab – Supporting ‘LACMA Collator’ An automobile is based on an understanding of Following the first exhibition from this project, ‘LEE technology, design and human beings, and then having BUL’, that successfully came to an end in March 2015, them collaborate to bring various genres together. That the second exhibition, ‘MMCA Hyundai Motor Series is why the production of an outstanding automobile 2015: Ahn Kyuchul — Invisible Land of Love’, was held could be compared to the creation of a work of at the MMCA Seoul Gallery from September 15th, 2015 art. Hyundai goes beyond just sponsoring the arts, to May 22nd, 2016. Kyuchul Ahn is a conceptual artist and develops deep-rooted partnerships with the art whose works reflect on life and art, and he has been community through mutual respect and understanding. closing the gap between sculpture and installation since the mid-1980s. He is known for his large installation Hyundai has therefore developed mid-to long-term works that make best use of architectural space. This partnerships with three major art galleries: the National exhibition showcased eight works that reflect “the Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art (MMCA) beauty of ordinary objects concealed behind the senses, of Korea in 2013, the Tate Modern of the U.K. in 2014, and the beauty of invisible thoughts”. and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA) of the U.S. in 2015. In addition, we have been producing MMCA Hyundai Motor Series adheres to Hyundai’s the “brilliant 30”, video clips that show the production philosophy of placing great emphasis on Korean history processes of prominent artists and their interviews since and culture. Reinterpreting traditional values to achieve 2014 to promote them. Furthermore, since May 2015 we creative innovation is something that Hyundai always have partnered with a global media group, Bloomberg, strives to do, which is why we will support the potential to produce a TV program called the ‘Brilliant Ideas’, to of Korean contemporary art for the next decade. expand the market for global artists’ unique ideas. National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art The ‘MMCA Hyundai Motor Series’ is a special mid-to long-term project planned by the MMCA and Hyundai, with a goal to broaden the horizon of the Korean arts. Hyundai saw that Korean artists had difficulty in acquiring platforms for global exhibitions, despite MMCA Hyundai Motor Series 2015: their great abilities; we therefore aim to support Ahn Kyuchul — Invisible Land of Love Photo: EUIROCK LEE the expansion of Korean art by sponsoring Korean Source: National Museum of Modern and contemporary artists, so that they can share their vision Contemporary Art and art. Sustainability Performance 125 Tate Modern Through this partnership, Hyundai sponsors ‘art + technology’ projects, and will also hold innovative Tate Modern is a world renowned art gallery, built on exhibitions of artists who make use of scientific the site of the old power station in London, attracting technology. In November 1st, 2015, the world-renowned more than five million visitors every year. In January artist group Random International installed ‘Rain Room’, 2014, Tate Modern and Hyundai have established an 11an experimental spatial artwork that features rain year partnership, based on which Hyundai will present falls inside an exhibition hall. This was followed by a exhibitions with Tate Modern until April 2025 through retrospective exhibition on the 25-year art career of the ‘Hyundai Commission’, a unique series of exhibitions Diana Thater, a media artist from LA, which made the to be displayed at the Turbine Hall located at the center mid-to long-term partnership official. Hyundai will of the ground floor of Tate Modern. Through the discover new possibilities through ‘art + technology’, exhibitions, we will share new experiences presented by based on the theme of “innovation of technology 10 world famous artists for 10 years from 2015. and art”. We will also use the partnership to promote research on Korean art history. 2015 saw the first exhibition of the Hyundai Commission, featuring the works of Abraham Cruzvillegas, a leading conceptual artist who uses objects in the surroundings to create new meaning. His work for this exhibition, ‘Empty Lot’, made use of soil collected from parks across London, as well as objects found near Tate Modern. ‘Empty Lot’ raises questions about city, nature, possibility, change, and hope. By collaborating with Tate Modern, Hyundai aims to go beyond mere sponsorship, to develop projects that convey the values of our time and then share them with more people, in more ways. Hyundai Commission 2015 Abraham Cruzvillegas: Los Angeles County Museum Empty Lot ©Abraham Cruzvillegas Photo: Andrew Dunkley ©TATE 2015 of Art In 2015, Hyundai signed an agreement with LACMA, one of three long-term partnerships the company has formed with major art galleries. The agreement envisions a decade-long partnership, from 2015 through 2024, ‘The Hyundai Project at LACMA’. LACMA is a leader in embracing the diverse cultures of the Pacific Rim, and stresses the importance of integrated perspectives on history and the future while pursuing horizontal communication. Hyundai respects LACMA’s philosophy of innovation based on cultural diversity, and Installation Photograph, Diana Thater: its challenging spirit in converging art and technology. The Sympathetic Imagination, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, November 22, 2015-February 21, 2016, ©Diana Thater, photo ©Fredrik Nilsen Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 126 Global Highlight Skills for the Future helping young Europeans unlock their full potential Europe As a global corporate citizen, Hyundai thinks thoroughly and acts properly in partnership with local communities, where our business sites are located, in order to address their social issues. With growing youth unemployment across Europe, Hyundai focuses on providing practical technology training to young Europeans, in our efforts to resolve this problem and help them realize their full potential. Europe 2020 — a Growth Strategy for Hyundai provides a systematic curriculum that the Future of Europe consists of on-line education, visiting teaching, and course on technical skills and entrepreneurship. Many European countries have been struggling The on-line education is preceded by an on-line with prolonged recession and severe youth quiz as a prerequisite for checking each student’s unemployment. In order to overcome economic basic knowledge about the auto industry. This is and financial uncertainties and achieve continued followed by visiting teaching by volunteers from growth, the European Union has established Hyundai who visit schools, offer special classes ‘Europe 2020’, the Union’s strategy for putting on automobiles, and provide academic and career Europe’s economy back on the path to growth. counseling. Lastly, the course on technical skills Europe 2020 has three mutually reinforcing and entrepreneurship is a virtual management priorities — smart growth based on innovation practice — students establish virtual miniand education; sustainable growth that is ecocompanies which offer products and services friendly and efficient in using resources; and related to automobiles, and in managing their inclusive growth, to increase employment by companies, the students learn leadership, practical creating more and better jobs. job skills and other abilities required in the real As a company with extensive business operations working environment. Europe Hyundai Awards — bringing young in Europe, and also as a member of the local Hyundai also hosts the annual ‘Europe Hyundai European entrepreneurs together community, Hyundai Motor Europe (HME) is Awards’, where mini-companies compete on percommitted to the aspirations of Europe 2020, formance, product, innovation and sustainability. especially employment and education among the Companies can enter these awards after winning headline targets. HME therefore operates a pantheir national contests, and then jurors, consisting European CSR project, ‘Skills for the Future’. of executives and staff from Hyundai, review the Launched in 2012, Skills for the Future is now products and interview the members of companies being implemented in many European countries. to select winners. There have been three competitions, and the winner of the 3rd Europe Hyundai Awards also participated in the 2016 Asian-Pacific 독일, 영국, 이태리, Fostering Young스페인, Talent to 프랑스, Lead Future 폴란드, 체코, 네덜란드, 슬로바키아, 노르웨이, JA Company of the Year Competition. Growth of Europe Since its launch in 2012, 10,811 students from 286 Hyundai is running this program in collaboration schools in 15 European countries have participated with a European NGO, Junior Achievement Young in Skills for the Future, enabling everyone involved Enterprise (JA-YE), Europe’s largest provider — Hyundai, the students, JA-YE Europe and local of education programmes, to offer customized communities — to grow together. The program will technology training and start-up education to be extended in 2016, with the goal of attracting students at vocational schools, helping them to 6,050 participants from 117 schools in 15 European find long-term employment. HME is in charge countries. In this way, we can continue to bring of overall planning, financing, and the provision about positive changes in local communities. of technology and expert personnel, while JAYE plans the education courses in detail, runs the courses, produces the educational materials, and trains teachers and volunteers. Sustainability Performance 127 Facts & Figures Classification Index Unit 2013 2014 2015 Note Number of training sessions in Korea Case 37 41 45 Number of participants increased due to the Compliance Number of participants in Korea Person 3,200 2,900 57,100 launch of new on-line educational programs management on ethical management in 2015 education Number of training sessions overseas Case 10 14 2 Number of participants overseas Person 637 765 1,940 Total number of security staff (Internal) Person 359 359 359 Scope: Personnel responsible for patrol Total number of security staff (Outsourced) Person 614 614 614 and building security Security practices No. of security personnel trained in the Person 926 926 926 organization’s human rights policies Korea % 41.6 41.2 38.9 Market share Overseas % 5.1 5.1 4.9 Global % 5.7 5.8 5.6 Korea Vehicle 1,850,727 1,876,428 1,858,395 U.S. Vehicle 399,500 398,851 384,519 China Vehicle 1,040,018 1,120,000 1,052,000 India Vehicle 633,006 610,650 645,012 Czech Republic Vehicle 303,460 307,450 342,200 Global production Turkey Vehicle 102,020 203,157 226,500 Russia Vehicle 229,400 237,000 229,500 Brazil Vehicle 167,346 179,480 175,002 China (Commercial) Vehicle 44,800 22,520 30,552 Consignment (Commercial) Vehicle 4,635 Total Vehicle 4,770,277 4,955,536 4,948,315 Our System Korea Vehicle 640,865 685,191 714,121 Global sales Overseas Vehicle 4,091,668 4,278,344 4,250,710 Total Vehicle 4,732,533 4,963,535 4,964,831 Sales (Consolidated) KRW billion 87,308 89,256 91,959 Operating profit (Consolidated) KRW billion 8,315 7,550 6,358 Net profit (Consolidated) KRW billion 8,993 7,649 6,509 Includes minority interest Operating profit + depreciation of tangible EBITDA (Consolidated) KRW billion 10,867 10,100 9,152 assets + depreciation of real estate held for Statements of investment + depreciation of intangible assets income Sales (Separate) KRW billion 41,691 43,046 44,440 Operating profit (Separate) KRW billion 3,721 3,735 4,267 Net profit (Separate) KRW billion 5,182 4,914 5,435 Operating profit + depreciation of tangible EBITDA (Separate) KRW billion 5,341 5,349 6,047 assets + depreciation of real estate held for investment + depreciation of intangible assets Total assets (Consolidated) KRW billion 133,421 147,225 165,368 Total liabilities (Consolidated) KRW billion 76,838 84,604 98,487 Statements of Shareholders’ equity (Consolidated) KRW billion 56,583 62,621 66,881 financial position Total assets (Separate) KRW billion 57,714 61,343 66,978 Total liabilities (Separate) KRW billion 15,762 15,681 17,281 Shareholders’ equity (Separate) KRW billion 41,952 45,662 49,697 Operating profit margin (Consolidated) % 9.5 8.5 6.9 Net profit margin (Consolidated) % 10.3 8.6 7.1 Profitability ratio Operating profit margin (Separate) % 8.9 8.7 9.6 Net profit margin (Separate) % 12.4 11.4 12.2 Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 128 Classification Index Unit 2013 2014 2015 Note HMMA KRW billion 7,385 7,437 7,510 BHMC KRW billion 19,433 19,756 19,203 HMI KRW billion 4,737 4,637 5,404 Sales by overseas Based on sales performance before HAOS KRW billion 1,816 2,744 3,186 subsidiary adjustment for consolidation HMMC KRW billion 5,450 5,398 5,794 HMMR KRW billion 2,751 2,384 1,930 HMB KRW billion 2,384 2,263 1,710 Dividends (Shareholders and investors) KRW billion 534 817 1,080 Interest expenses (Shareholders and investors) KRW billion 341 300 259 Distribution of Salaries (Employees) KRW billion 8,308 8,538 8,846 economic value Our System Raw materials costs (Suppliers) KRW billion 47,354 49,677 52,095 by stakeholder (Consolidated) Income tax (Government) KRW billion 2,703 2,302 1,950 Donation (Local community) KRW billion 75 71 66 Total KRW billion 59,315 61,705 64,297 Dividends (Shareholders and investors) KRW billion 534 817 1,080 Interest expenses (Shareholders and investors) KRW billion 121 123 111 Distribution of Salaries (Employees) KRW billion 5,994 6,211 6,259 economic value Raw materials costs (Suppliers) KRW billion 25,844 26,311 26,740 by stakeholder (Separate) Income tax (Government) KRW billion 1,142 1,194 1,245 Donation (Local community) KRW billion 57 50 51 Total KRW billion 33,692 34,706 35,484 Score a vehicle 3 years after its purchase 141 169 188 Product durability index [Ranking] Point based on the durability quality [14th] [16th] [15th] (points per 100 vehicles) Quality index Score a vehicle 90 days after its purchase 106 94 95 New vehicle quality index [Ranking] Point based on the number of complaints [5th] [1st] [2nd] (points per 100 vehicles) Marketing communications-related (Korea) Case 0 0 0 Incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications such as Marketing communications-related (Overseas) Case 0 0 0 Non-compliance advertising, sales promotion, and sponsorship with regulations Incidents of non-compliance with customer and voluntary Customer information-related Case 0 0 0 information-related laws and regulations and codes administrative action Product information provided to customers Product information-related Case 0 0 0 to inform vehicle performance and function, such as fuel efficiency Product Responsibility Customer satisfaction index (composite index) % 81.1 80.3 78.3 Conducted by Hyundai Motor Company No. of customers participated in the survey Person 2,800 3,100 4,000 1st place at 1st place at Conducted by Korea Productivity Center External evaluation ― 5 segments; 5 segments; 1st place at Ranking (compact, semi-medium, medium, National Customer Satisfaction Index 2nd place at 2nd place at all segments semi-large, large, RV) 1 segment 1 segment Conducted by Korean Standards Customer External evaluation ― 1st place at 1st place at 1st place at Ranking Association (semi-medium, medium, SUV, satisfaction survey Korean Standard-Quality Excellence Index all segments all segments all segments after service) External evaluation ― 1st place at 1st place at 1st place at Conducted by Korea Management Ranking Korean Customer Satisfaction Index all segments all segments all segments Association Consulting (passenger car, RV) External evaluation ― 1st place at 1st place at 1st place at Conducted by Korea Management Ranking Korean Service Quality Index all segments all segments all segments Association Consulting (sales, maintenance) External evaluation ― 1st place at 1st place at 1st place at Conducted by Korea Management Ranking Korean Net Promoter Score all segments all segments all segments Association Consulting (sales, maintenance) Sustainability Performance 129 Classification Index Unit 2013 2014 2015 Note 80.4 82.0 81.8 Hyundai Customer Satisfaction Index ― Korea Score Service centers and bluehands (2nd) (1st) (1st) Satisfaction level of customer service Scoring system has been changed due to Product 835 841 882 Hyundai Global Satisfaction Index ― Overseas Score changes in survey structure and questions Responsibility (22 countries) (25 countries) (26 countries) in 2015 No. of customers experienced the 10 thousand Before Service 430 434 475 Before Service persons LNG Mwh 1,704,754 1,683,424 1,569,306 Electricity Mwh 3,428,001 3,595,979 3,619,249 Energy Diesel, Kerosene, Gasoline Mwh 98,784 111,087 82,307 consumption Liquefied fuel Mwh 3,835 1,796 105 Gaseous fuel Mwh 2,172 2,914 457 Total Mwh 5,237,546 5,395,200 5,271,424 Mwh/ Energy intensity Energy consumed in producing one vehicle 1.10 1.09 1.07 Vehicle Scope 1 tCO2e 842,635 835,240 816,952 Greenhouse gas Scope 2 tCO2e 1,598,715 1,745,981 1,753,243 emissions Total tCO2e 2,441,350 2,581,221 2,570,195 Greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas emissions per vehicle tCO2e/ 0.512 0.521 0.519 emission intensity production Vehicle Scope 1 tCO2e -29,904 -7,395 -18,288 Year-on-year increase/decrease Scope 2 tCO2e 64,725 147,266 7,262 of GHG emissions Total tCO2e 34,821 139,871 -11,026 International certification on Cumulative number Vehicle 9 11 12 eco-friendliness of models certified as eco-friendly GHG emission certifications Vehicle 12 14 15 Carbon labeling certification vehicles Low-carbon product certifications Vehicle 1 2 4 Carbon labeling certification Steel (amounts used) Ton 746,627 801,851 1,234,078 2015 figures include data collected from the business sites in Korea whereas the scope of data aggregation for the year EcoSteel (scrap) Ton 271,593 270,178 499,860 2013 and 2014 was limited to overseas friendliness Raw materials business sites; 2013 and 2014 figures have Aluminum (amounts used) Ton 4,781 30,170 120,785 been recalculated due to the corrections and additions made by overseas Aluminum (scrap) Ton 6,444 7,094 34,314 subsidiaries Total Ton 646,698 709,602 767,512 Regular waste (by type) Ton 597,451 662,977 721,794 Figures for the year 2013 and 2014 have been recalculated due to the corrections Weight of waste Specified waste (by type) Ton 49,247 46,625 45,718 and additions made by overseas Korea (by region) Ton 410,546 388,310 434,812 subsidiaries Overseas (by region) Ton 236,152 321,292 332,700 Total Ton 646,047 739,417 664,834 Weight of waste Landfill Ton 32,673 119,437 26,189 Figures for the year 2014 have been by disposal Incineration Ton 51,113 48,636 34,439 recalculated due to the additions made method Recycling Ton 558,747 564,571 597,769 by overseas subsidiaries Others Ton 3,514 6,773 6,436 Water consumed Ton 21,473,275 20,845,135 20,748,116 Korea Ton 13,995,443 13,277,468 13,068,067 Overseas Ton 7,477,832 7,567,667 7,680,049 Water recycled Ton 1,822,450 2,146,680 1,853,482 Figures for the year 2013 and 2014 have Consumption been recalculated due to the corrections Korea Ton 581,001 601,128 605,716 of water and additions made by business sites in Overseas Ton 1,241,449 1,545,552 1,247,766 Korea and overseas subsidiaries Recycling ratio % 8.5 10.3 8.9 Korea % 4.2 4.5 4.6 Overseas % 16.6 20.4 16.2 Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 130 Classification Index Unit 2013 2014 2015 Note Total Ton 1,269 1,221 1,117 CO (by type) Ton 272 345 334 SOx (by type) Ton 77 40 37 Figures for the year 2013 and 2014 have Air pollutants NOx (by type) Ton 413 399 411 been recalculated due to the corrections made by business sites in Korea PM (by type) Ton 507 437 335 Korea (by region) Ton 372 330 292 Overseas (by region) Ton 897 891 825 Consumption of Figures for the year 2013 and 2014 have refrigerant Total Ton 1,762 1,121 930 been recalculated due to the changes in (HFC, R135a, etc.) data aggregation standards Total kg 628,390 707,579 611,474 COD (by type) kg 196,423 225,977 183,653 BOD (by type) kg 52,082 58,330 23,919 SS (by type) kg 28,801 44,732 28,722 EcoWater pollutants n-H (by type) kg 341 417 507 friendliness Others (by type) kg 350,743 378,123 374,673 Korea (by region) kg 37,461 47,835 34,932 Overseas (by region) kg 590,929 659,744 576,542 Total (by region) Ton 10,211 10,631 11,772 VOC emissions Korea Ton 8,199 8,429 8,130 Overseas Ton 2,012 2,202 3,642 Total (by region) Ton 12,971 13,610 13,479 Consumption of Figures for the year 2013 and 2014 have hazardous chemical Korea Ton 1,611 1,679 1,237 been recalculated due to the corrections substances and additions made by overseas subsidiaries Overseas Ton 11,360 11,931 12,242 Non-compliance Penalty and fine for non-compliance with Based on the data collected from the with regulations and KRW 480,000 61,388,000 480,000 environmental regulations business sites in Korea voluntary codes Costs and investments Figures for the year 2013 and 2014 have for environmental Total KRW billion 123.6 133.5 115.6 been recalculated due to the corrections protection made by business sites in Korea Support for Quality and Technology Volunteer Group Company 103 97 97 Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Supplier Support Group Company 43 43 46 Industry Promotion Some 200 persons through job fairs, Some Joint recruitment Recruitment Person 17,215 17,510 18,600 4,000 persons through a website dedicated with suppliers to employment of suppliers Suppliers in joint growth and fair Number of suppliers in the agreements Company 301 293 298 trade agreements Cumulative number of suppliers in Including tier 1, 2, 3 suppliers Company About 600 About 600 About 600 Suppliers joint expansion partnership Non-compliance Legal sanction against the violation of Unfair competition such as collusion; with regulations and Case 0 0 0 fair trade and monopoly-related violations voluntary codes Energy-Saving Companies participated Company 26 26 32 Technology Participants (total number of people involved Exchange Meeting Person 66 75 90 in the Meeting) Data has been disclosed since 2015 Supply chain (Some 300 tier 1 suppliers; some 5, 000 Number of supplies in Korea Company 8,800 management tier 2 and 3 suppliers; and some 3,000 raw material suppliers and others) Sustainability Performance 131 Classification Index Unit 2013 2014 2015 Note Korea Person 63,099 64,956 65,614 Number of Overseas Person 41,838 44,792 46,458 employees Portion of employees working overseas % 39.9 40.8 41.5 Total Person 104,937 109,748 112,072 Korea Person 63,099 64,956 65,614 North America Person 6,873 6,558 7,881 Europe Person 6,031 6,693 6,277 Workforce China Person 15,631 17,173 17,951 by region India Person 8,893 8,984 9,343 Others Person 4,410 5,384 5,006 Total Person 104,937 109,748 112,072 Management Person 176 183 265 Research committee Person 12 12 16 Research Person 8,742 9,161 9,701 Office work Person 11,453 11,668 12,078 Workforce by Technology, production, maintenance Person 32,990 33,337 34,529 duty in Korea Sales Person 6,237 6,199 6,166 Includes such special-duty employees as Others Person 3,489 4,396 2,859 flight attendants, nurses, and helicopter pilots Total Person 63,099 64,956 65,614 No. of people with labor union membership Person 45,576 46,217 46,844 Labor union membership Based on the data collected from the Labor union membership percentage % 72.2 71.2 71.4 business sites in Korea All figures as of Dec. 31 of their Employees respective year; number of the newly New recruitment Global Person 11,831 6,453 6,681 recruited in their respective year; 2013 figure includes the newly recruited by BHMC and HMB Figures in this report are different from those in previous reports as per change Number of employee turnover Person 73 85 69 in calculation parameters to include only Employee turnover persons who switched to other companies in Korea Employee turnover rate % 0.12 0.13 0.11 Number of employees on parental leave (Male) Person 18 19 34 Number of employees on parental leave (Female) Person 96 150 176 Parental leave Retention rate after parental leave (Male) % 94 95 94 Retention rate after parental leave (Female) % 97 97 97 Number of female employees (Korea) Person 2,692 3,046 3,166 Number of female executives (Korea) Person 1 3 3 Female employment rate (Korea) % 4.3 4.7 4.8 Number of female employees (North America) Person 927 960 1,291 Number of female executives (North America) Person 4 4 9 Female Female employment rate (North America) % 13.5 14.6 16.4 employees Number of female employees (Europe) Person 1,082 1,058 965 Number of female executives (Europe) Person 3 3 2 Female employment rate (Europe) % 17.9 15.8 15.4 Number of female employees (China) Person 1,918 2,044 1,777 Number of female executives (China) Person 0 0 9 Female employment rate (China) % 12.3 11.9 9.9 Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 132 Classification Index Unit 2013 2014 2015 Note Number of female employees (India) Person 84 140 144 Number of female executives (India) Person 0 0 0 Female employment rate (India) % 0.9 1.6 1.5 Number of female employees (Others) Person 402 470 292 Female Number of female executives (Others) Person employees Female employment rate (Others) % 9.1 8.7 5.8 Total number of female employees Person 7,105 7,718 7,635 Total number of female executives Person 8 10 23 Total female employment rate % 6.8 7.0 6.8 Based on the data collected from the Employees with Number of employees with disabilities Person 1,650 1,766 1,864 business sites in Korea disabilities Percentage of employees with disabilities % 2.61 2.72 2.84 Outstanding talent Korea Person 19 19 7 work rotation program participants Overseas Person 30 16 10 Training expenses per employee KWR 10,000 74 67 68 Employees Training hours Based on the data collected from the Employee training Training hours per employee 55 62 63 per employee business sites in Korea Total training expenses KRW billion 46.9 43.6 45.0 Employee Score out of 5 Score 3.4 3.5 Survey was not conducted in 2015 satisfaction No. of employees involved in occupational Occupational Person 367 345 339 accidents accidents (Korea) Accident rate % 0.58 0.53 0.52 No. of employees involved in occupational Occupational Person 137 82 55 accidents accidents (Overseas) Accident rate % 0.33 0.18 0.12 No. of employees involved in occupational Person 504 427 394 accidents Occupational Accident rate = (Number of employees accidents (Total) Accident rate % 0.48 0.39 0.35 involved in occupational accidents/Total number of employees) x 100 Social welfare KRW million 33,602 24,058 26,109 Medical and healthcare KRW million 14 102 806 Education KRW million 13,953 15,236 15,431 Culture & Sports KRW million 14,970 9,722 21,341 Social contributions Environmental protection KRW million 1,531 1,285 921 Emergency relief KRW million 883 4,662 368 International exchange KRW million 3,780 2,713 2,633 Othres KRW million 6,267 7,422 2,840 Total KRW million 75,000 65,200 70,449 Society Voluntary Number of volunteer activities Case 2,982 2,691 2,546 performance of Number of participants Person 33,262 23,480 24,499 employees Number of hours participated Hour 216,434 132,887 166,912 Support for Disabled Number of 17 9 4 ‘H-together’ Seniors organizations 15 8 4 projects by sector Children & Youth supported 12 9 6 Support for Number of vehicles donated Vehicle 2 11 13 ‘H-together’ projects by support type Number of organizations supported Organization 44 37 27 Sustainability Performance 133 135 GRI Index 138 Independent Assurance Statement 142 Sustainability Report Publication History Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 134 GRI Index G4 Core General Standard Disclosures GRI G4 No.1 Description Page Reference Assurance G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization 4-5 ⦁ Strategy and analysis G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 5, 22-27, 43, 84 ⦁ G4-3 Name of the organization 6 ⦁ G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 6 ⦁ G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 3 ⦁ G4-6 Countries with significant operations 7 ⦁ G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 52-54 ⦁ G4-8 Markets served 7 ⦁ Organizational G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 6, 7, 59 ⦁ profile G4-10 The total workforce by employment type, gender, employment contract and region 132 ⦁ G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 132 ⦁ G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 131 ⦁ G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, or ownership or its supply chain 7 ⦁ G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary approach or principle 22-27, 43 ⦁ G4-15 External initiatives that the organization endorses 142 ⦁ G4-16 Memberships of associations such as industry associations 142 ⦁ G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 128 ⦁ G4-18 Process for defining report content 58 ⦁ G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 59 ⦁ Identified material aspects G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 58 ⦁ and boundaries G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 58 ⦁ G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 56, 130-131 ⦁ G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 7 ⦁ G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 51 ⦁ G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 51 ⦁ Stakeholder engagement G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement by type and by stakeholder group 51 ⦁ Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 51 ⦁ responded to them G4-28 Reporting period 3 ⦁ G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 3 ⦁ G4-30 Reporting cycle 3 ⦁ Report profile G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 3 ⦁ G4-32 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 135-137 ⦁ G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 138-140 ⦁ G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 52-54 ⦁ Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, G4-37 environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to 52-53, 71-72 ⦁ the highest governance body G4-38 The composition of the highest governance body and its committees 54 ⦁ G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 54 ⦁ Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the G4-40 54 ⦁ criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members Governance G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 54 ⦁ Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of G4-43 54 ⦁ economic, environmental and social topics Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management G4-45 of performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally 52-53, 71-72 ⦁ agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, G4-47 52, 58 ⦁ and opportunities The nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and G4-50 52-53, 71-72 ⦁ the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Appendices 135 GRI G4 No.1 Description Page Reference Assurance G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 48 ⦁ The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to G4-57 48 ⦁ organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines Ethics and integrity Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, G4-58 and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing 48 ⦁ mechanisms or hotlines Specific Standard Disclosure GRI G4 No.1 Description Page Reference Assurance a. The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach 60-61, 74-75, Disclosure on G4-DMA b. The results of the evaluation of the management approach 88-89, 98-99, ⦁ Management Approach c. Any related adjustments to the management approach 112-113 Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 55-57 ⦁ Economic G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s definedbenefit plan obligations 110 ⦁ Market presence G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 101 ⦁ G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 120 ⦁ Indirect economic impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 112-127 ⦁ Environmental G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 130 ⦁ Materials G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 130 ⦁ G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 130 ⦁ G4-EN5 Energy intensity 130 ⦁ Energy G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 130 ⦁ G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 22-27, 74, 78 ⦁ G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 130 ⦁ Water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 130 ⦁ Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity G4-EN11 N/A ⦁ value outside protected areas Biodiversity Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high G4-EN12 87 ⦁ biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 118 ⦁ G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 130 ⦁ G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 130 ⦁ G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 130 ⦁ Emissions G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 82-84 ⦁ G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 131 ⦁ G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 131 ⦁ G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 131 ⦁ Effluents and waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 130 ⦁ G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 131 ⦁ Products and services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 22-27, 77-81 ⦁ Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Compliance G4-EN29 131 ⦁ environmental laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the Transport G4-EN30 84 ⦁ organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 131 ⦁ Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 136 GRI G4 No.1 Description Page Reference Assurance Social Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 132 ⦁ Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by Employment G4-LA2 107-110 ⦁ significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 132 ⦁ Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees G4-LA5 132 ⦁ that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Occupational Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of health and safety G4-LA6 133 ⦁ workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 107-110 ⦁ G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 100 ⦁ Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and G4-LA10 104-108 ⦁ Training and education assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by G4-LA11 108 ⦁ employee category Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age G4-LA12 132-133 ⦁ equal opportunity group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Labor practices grievance G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 102 ⦁ mechanisms Human Rights Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of Investment G4-HR2 101-102, 128 ⦁ human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Freedom of association and Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 102-103 ⦁ collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to Child labor G4-HR5 95-96 ⦁ contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Forced or Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and G4-HR6 95-96 ⦁ compulsory labor measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are Security practices G4-HR7 128 ⦁ relevant to operations Human rights Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through G4-HR12 102 ⦁ grievance mechanisms formal grievance mechanisms Society Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development Local communities G4-SO1 112-127 ⦁ programs Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 49-50 ⦁ Anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 131 ⦁ Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws Compliance G4-SO8 131 ⦁ and regulations Product Responsibility Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for G4-PR1 67 ⦁ Customer health improvement and safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and G4-PR2 129 ⦁ safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information G4-PR3 72 ⦁ and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Product and service labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and G4-PR4 72, 129 ⦁ service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 71-72, 129 ⦁ G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 129 ⦁ Marketing communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing G4-PR7 129 ⦁ communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 129 ⦁ Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning Compliance G4-PR9 129 ⦁ the provision and use of products and services Appendices 137 Independent Assurance Statement The Business Institute for Sustainable Development (BISD), led by Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, was requested by Hyundai Motor Company (HMC) to serve as an independent ‘third-party assurance institute’ for the ‘2016 Hyundai Motor Company Sustainability Report’ (hereinafter ‘Report’), and submits the assurance statement as follows. Purpose The purpose of this assurance report is to identify any major errors or biases in the Report, to conduct independent assurance procedures to determine whether the sustainable management issues of Hyundai Motor Company were appropriately reported, and to present an assurance opinion. Responsibilities and Independence This report contains matters on Hyundai Motor Company’s sustainable management efforts, achievements and future plans in 2016. All responsibility regarding the drafting of the Report lies with Hyundai Motor Company. In conducting assurance procedures on the Report and providing assurance opinions to the board of directors, BISD has no management-related interests in profits with Hyundai Motor Company, aside from carrying out third-party assurance, in order to maintain independence and autonomy. Assurance Standards and Restrictions BISD performed the assurance evaluation in consideration of the three accountability principles (inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness) of AA1000AS (2008) and the principles for defining report content and report quality of the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines. Physical inspections were conducted at the HMC Headquarters located in Seoul, Ulsan Plant, Namyang Technology Research Center, and Korea Central Advanced Research and Engineering Institute located in Uiwang. The scope of the assurance evaluation was limited to only those performances stated in the Report and excludes data from previous years and data reported online. Furthermore, Green-house gas data that has already been verified from another third-party organization was not subjected to the assurance evaluation. Major Assurance Procedures For the assurance process, Hyundai Motor Company’s employees were engaged in interviews. Results from the interviews and other relevant documents provided by Hyundai Motor Company were examined. Major assurance procedures undertaken are as follows: ■ Review of application of company’s internal sustainability report standards ■ Review of the Report contents and the information collection process ■ Review of the materiality test process, core issues and company policies ■ Performance of physical inspections and interviews with employees. Opinions BISD performed the assurance evaluation in accordance with the procedures identified above, and the Report was modified by Hyundai Motor Company if and when deemed necessary. Based on the assurance evaluation, BISD is not aware of any significant errors in the Report and confirmed that the Report was written in accordance with GRI G4 guidelines (core option). Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 138 The opinions of BISD produced as a result of its assurance evaluation and in consideration of the AA1000APS accountability standards are explained below. ● Inclusivity: Does Hyundai Motor Company adhere to the principle of stakeholder engagement in order to ensure a responsible and strategic response in advancing sustainability management? Hyundai Motor Company gathered major concerns and opinions from core stakeholders, including its customers/dealers, employees, suppliers, shareholders/investors, local communities and government through stakeholder communication channels. BISD is not aware of any significant stakeholder groups that were omitted from the process of gathering sustainability management issues through Hyundai Motor Company’s stakeholder communication channels. ● Materiality: Does Hyundai Motor Company include material issues that affect stakeholders in the entire spectrum of sustainability management in the Report? – Hyundai Motor Company identified major issues through the materiality test and compiled opinions through a survey from each stakeholder group in the process of the materiality test process. – BISD is not aware of any significant issues that were omitted from the process. ● Responsiveness: Does Hyundai Motor Company respond appropriately to stakeholder issues? – Hyundai Motor Company has acknowledged the impact of its business decisions on stakeholders and responded properly with coherent actions. The Report presents related performances during the reporting period. – BISD is not aware of any violations of the principle of responsiveness in Hyundai Motor Company’s response to major sustainability management issues or performances that are described in the Report from the perspective of materiality. Recommendations BISD makes the following recommendations within a scope that does not affect the assurance results: ■ Hyundai Motor Company has been communicating with stakeholders truthfully regarding social and environmental sustainability since it published its first sustainability report in Korea in 2003. Especially in 2015, Hyundai Motor Company has put effort into improving corporate transparency, reflecting stakeholders’ opinions by establishing the Corporate Governance and Communication Committee. Henceforth, BISD suggests that the Committee operate effectively and continue strengthening stakeholder communication. ■ The efforts of Hyundai Motor Company in creating economic value while solving social problems have stood out. As awareness of social values becomes more prevalent in corporate culture, Hyundai Motor Company has demonstrated concern about shared value in the planning of products and services and R&D phase. BISD hopes that CSV performances, which can provide new inspiration to society, become widely known not only through sustainability reports but also various tools such as websites or SNS. ■  Hyundai Motor Company conducts various activities regarding sustainability and reports outcomes and further plans. BISD recommends reporting the major issues drawn from the materiality analysis and improved results or newly started activities during the reporting period rather than every accomplishment. May, 2016 President Chun, Subong Appendices 139 Terms of Engagement This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Hyundai Motor. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by Hyundai Motor to assure its GHG Inventory Report for the calendar year 2015 (hereafter referred to as “the Report”) and the GHG data summarised in Table 1 below. The Report has been prepared in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions in Korea. The Report relates to direct GHG emissions and energy indirect GHG emissions. Management Responsibility The management of Hyundai Motor is responsible for preparing the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over all the data and information disclosed. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the Report in accordance with our contract with Hyundai Motor. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of Hyundai Motor. LRQA’s Approach Our verification has been conducted in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea: Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas assertions to reasonable level of assurance. In order to form our conclusions we have: ■ Visited sites and reviewed processes to control the data and records regarding GHG emissions and energy uses ■ Interviewed the relevant persons responsible for managing and maintaining raw and consolidated data ■ Verified the historical data and information back to source for the calendar year 2015. Level of Assurance & Materiality The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance and at a 2.5% level of materiality. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 140 LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach, except for the effect of the matter described in the following qualification, we believe that the GHG and energy data presented in the Report are materially correct: ■ The GHG emissions from LNG and electricity consumed by the companies which are subject to GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea and are occupying Hyundai Motor’s own buildings have not been excluded from Hyundai Motor’s organizational boundary, but we are confident that they are below the materiality level. Dated: 31st March 2016 SANG-KEUN YOO On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. 17th Floor, Singsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 07327, Korea LRQA Reference: SEO 6012382 Table1. GHG emissions reported in the Report Scope (as defined within GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea) Year 2015 Direct GHG Emissions 489,237 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions 1,044,049 Total GHG Emissions 1,533,286 Data is presented in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. This document is subject to the provision below: This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the ‘Lloyd’s Register Group’. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. Because of the inherent limitations in any internal control it is possible that fraud, error, or non-compliance with laws and regulations may occur and not be detected. Further, the verification was not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they relate to the requirements set out above as the verification has not been performed continuously throughout the period and the verification carried out on the relevant internal controls were on a test basis. Any projection of the evaluation of control to future periods is subject to the risk that the processes may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with them may deteriorate. The Korean version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. Appendices 141 Sustainability Report Publication History 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2003/2004 2003 UN Global Compact Index Hyundai joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 and has since complied with the principles and publishes its compliances through sustainability reports. Principles Page Reference Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of 099 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human Rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 099 abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and 102 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory 095 Labour Standards labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 095 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 101 and occupation. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 075 challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment 075 responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 075 friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-Corruption 049 including extortion and bribery. Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report 142 Cha-Car-Cha-Car Playground ― the only and very special kids race track To commemorate the 30th anniversary of the Sonata in 2015, Hyundai created the ‘Cha-Car-Cha-Car Playground’, a new concept of kids race track, and donated it to the Seoul Grand Park. At this special playground, even sight-impaired children can drive the ‘Mini Sonata’, equipped with our autonomous driving technology, by sound and by touch. This playground is a special place where children can enjoy the pleasure of driving, including offering sight-impaired children new experiences and excitement. Hyundai will continue to focus on developing new technology that will enable more people to enjoy greater freedom in mobility, and to dream of a better future. Thanks to (In alphabetical order) Ah Rom Kim Ing. Martin Neštický Myung Geol Lee Albert Biermann Jae Ho Chung Myung Roh Lee Beom Soo Kim Jae Kyeong Ahn Nam Soo Han Beong Hak Min Jae Min Shin Pil Joon Lee Bok Ju Jo Jang Ho Kook Pyeong Hwa Chung Byeong Gi Ahn Jee Hoon Yeom Sam Yong Kim Byeong Sik Choi Jeong Hwan Kim Sang Beom Kim Byung Jin Yoon Jeong Hwan Park Sang Cheol Nam Chang Hee Kang Jeong Taek Kim Sang Ik Lee Chang Ho Yoo Jeong Won Lee Sang Mi Han Chang Ku Han Jeong Wook Huh Sang Soon Park Cheol Shin Jeong Yeon Kim Sang-Hyun Park Chong Ah Kwon Ji Hye Chung Seok Hwan Kim Choong Ik Lee Ji Hye Lim Seokyoon Han Da Young Lee Ji Yeon Chun Seon Cheol Choi Dae Han Wie Jin Gu Joo Seong Do Kim Dae Hwan Jeong Jin Oh Park Seung Han Lee Dae Seong Kim Jin Woo Kim Seung Hoon Lee Deok Hoon Kim Jin Young Park Seung Hwan Nam Dong Cheol Jang Jo Young Chung Seung Min Ryu Dong Ha Lee Jong Gon Bae Seung Woo Lee Dong Ho Kwak Jong Min Kwon Song I Han Dong Hyeok Son Jong Taek Chung Soo Nam Pak Dong Jin Hyun Jong Wook Hwang Soon Jae Kwon Dong Seok Kim Joo Hyung Ryu Soon Kim Dong Wan Kim Joo Young Chung Soon Sang Hong Doo Il Park Joon Sik Koo Su Yong Jo Doo Nam Moon Ju Dong Kang Sung Jin Kim Eun Hee Choi Ju Young Jang Sung Won Koh Eun Jin Seok Jun Ho Kim A Sung Yoon Chung Eun Joo Koo Jun Ho Kim B Sung Yup Chung Fernando Coelho Jun Hwan Ahn Tae Eun Park Gwang Cheon Lee Kelly Chung Tae Hoon Kim A Gwang Su Kim Keyong Chan Park Tae Hoon Kim B Ho Yeol Ryu Ki Bum Song Won Jun Choi Hong Jeung Lee Ki Hun Lee Won Seok Choi Hong Mo Koo Kwang Jin Hong Yeon Man Chung Hong Seok Choi Kyeong Rok Hwang Yong Hee Han Hwi Bong Seo Kyoung Cheol Oh Yong Ho Lee Hye Ok Yoon Kyung Jin Min Yong Soo Lee Hyun Ho Seong Kyung Mi Kim Yong Tae Song Hyun Jae Yoo Kyung Min Doh Yoo Sun Koo Hyun Jun Kim A Kyung Nam Kang Yoon Bok Hwang Hyun Jun Kim B Marina Savinova Yoon Seop Koh Hyung Man Han Mi Jin Na Young Doo Choi Hyunseop Lim Mi Na Kim Young Soo Yoon In Ho Noh Min Seong Yoo Yun Jeong Lee In Kyo Chung Min Young Park Yung Eun Choi Publication Date June 14, 2016 Publisher Hyundai Motor Company Production CSV Strategy Team, Business Strategy Planning Division Design Talantone Creative Group 12, Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 06797, Korea Tel +82-2-3464-2025 A portion of the paper used in printing the Hyundai Motor Company 2016 Sustainability Report Email hmcsr@hyundai.com is certified as an environmental-friendly product by the Forest Stewardship Council®. In addition, Website www.hyundai.com the soy-based ink used in the printing minimizes its impacts on the environment. The Road to Sustainability 2016 Sustainability Report
