THE DIRECTION IS CLEAR Konecranes Annual Report 2015 ” THE INDUSTRIAL INTERNET REPRESENTS THE FUTURE OF THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED BY KONECRANES AS WELL AS THAT OF ITS CUSTOMERS. AS ITS ADVANCES RESHAPE THE WORLD’S INDUSTRIES, OUR COMPANY WILL BE POISED TO TAKE FULL ADVANTAGE OF THESE DEVELOPMENTS. CONTENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 2 Konecranes in a snapshot 61 Report of the Board of Directors 4 2015 highlights 71 Consolidated statement of income – IFRS 6 CEO's letter 72 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS 8 Chairman's letter 74 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS 10 Company cornerstones 75 Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS 12 Business environment 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14 Business Area Service 113 Konecranes Group 2011–2015 17 Business Area Equipment 114 Calculation of key figures 20 Regional overview 115 Company list 22 Research & Development 118 Parent company statement of income – FAS 25 Product overview 119 Parent company cash flow – FAS 28 Corporate responsibility 120 Parent company balance sheet – FAS 36 GRI content index 122 Notes to the parent company’s financial statements This publication is for general informational purposes only. Konecranes reserves the right at any time, without notice, to alter 38 Corporate Governance 125 Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting or discontinue the products and/or specifications referenced 46 Risk management, internal control, 126 Auditor’s report herein. This publication creates no warranty on the part of and internal auditing 127 Shares and shareholders Konecranes, express or implied, including but not limited to any 54 Board of Directors 132 Investor information implied warranty or merchantability or fitness for a particular 56 Group Executive Board 133 Contact details purpose. 58 Senior Management © 2016 Konecranes. All rights reserved. ‘Konecranes’, ‘Lifting Businesses’, , ‘SMARTON’, ‘TRUCONNECT’, ‘Agilon’, ‘BOXHUNTER’, ‘CXT’, ‘UNO’ and ‘UNITON’ are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Konecranes. KONECRANES IN A SNAPSHOT ” Sales by Business EBIT by Business Personnel by Business “The combination of industry and data analytics helps in seeing the different pieces of the Area, 2015 Area, 2015* Area, 2015 production as a unity. The industrial internet enables actors to react earlier and manage processes in an integrated way: the only limit is the imagination.” 44% 75% 55% Matti Kemppainen, Director, Research and Innovation at Konecranes 25% BUSINESS AREAS the nuclear sector, industries handling heavy loads, 45% 56% container handling, intermodal terminals, shipyards, Service and bulk material terminals. Products are marketed With around 600 service locations in nearly 50 counthrough a multi-brand portfolio that includes Equipment 1,240.3 MEUR Equipment 33.8 MEUR Equipment 5,328 tries, Konecranes offers, through a global service Konecranes and the group’s power brands: STAHL Service 992.3 MEUR Service 102.9 MEUR Service 6,503 network, specialized maintenance and modernizaCraneSystems, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, R&M, tion services for all types and makes of industrial Morris Crane Systems, and SANMA Hoists & Cranes. * Excluding restructuring costs cranes, hoists, machine tools, and port equipment. Products Products Our product range comprises industrial cranes and The extensive Konecranes service offering includes workstation lifting systems, including components inspections, preventive maintenance programs, such as wire rope hoists and electric chain hoists. repairs and improvements, on-call service, spare In addition, we offer nuclear cranes, container and parts, modernizations, and a variety of consultation bulk handling equipment, shipyard cranes, and lift services. TRUCONNECT Remote Service connects data, trucks. The product offering features a number of advanced technologies, such as automation and A market leader One of the Industrylargest leading machines and people to help businesses identify smart features, including sway control, load posiin industrial cranes and components, maintenance and performance issues before they tioning, and shock load prevention. Konecranes as well as crane service affect safety, productivity or revenue. TRUCONNECT can include access to operating data, abnormal Agilon is a patented materials management solution for managing, storing, picking, and replenishing suppliers of port cranes and lift trucks technology and global modular product usage alerts, and remote technical support. components that offers improved efficiency in mateplatforms rial handling. Market position Konecranes is the market leader in crane service, Market position with the world’s most extensive crane service Konecranes is one of the world’s largest suppliers of network. industrial cranes, and a world leader in explosionprotected crane technology. It is also a global leader Service contract base in electrical overhead traveling cranes for process EUR 2,126 11,900 14 million More than 450,000 units are covered by industries and shipyard gantry cranes, and a strong employees in 2015 countries with production Konecranes service agreements. The majority of this global supplier of cranes and lift trucks for container facilities equipment has been manufactured by other compahandling and heavy unitized cargo and bulk material of net sales in 2015 nies; Konecranes can provide expert maintenance unloading. for any brand of equipment from any manufacturer. Annual production Equipment We produce thousands of industrial cranes annually, Business Area Equipment offers components, tens of thousands of wire rope hoists and trolleys cranes, and material handling solutions for a wide and electric chain hoists, as well as hundreds of Sales and service locations in Head office in Listed on range of customers, including process industries, heavy-duty cranes and heavy-duty lift trucks. 48 countries Finland Nasdaq Helsinki 2 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 KONECRANES IN A SNAPSHOT KONECRANES IN A SNAPSHOT Konecranes Annual Report 2015 3 2015 HIGHLIGHTS 5.8% increase in order book 5.7% increase in net sales 5.5% operating margin excluding Sales/orders, MEUR EBIT, MEUR/ EBIT margin, % Order book, MEUR 1,036.5 2,171.5 2,126.2 138.3* 2,099.6 2,011.4 compared to 2014. in 2015. non-recurring items in 2015. 1,896.4 1,970.1 991.8 979.5 119.1* 942.7 1,965.5 117.2* 115.5* 117.7* 1,920.8 1,896.1 1,903.5 893.5 6.2 6.4 5.5 5.9 5.5 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Sales grew, profitability remained Progress made within the at previous year’s level strategic focus areas, merger Sales EBIT, MEUR • In 2015, order intake growth within Business agreement with Terex Order intake EBIT margin, % Area Service was mainly attributable to favorable • Konecranes continued intensive work on the * Excluding non-recurring items currency changes; at comparable currencies, three key strategic initiatives – Industrial Internet, orders received remained at the previous year’s Segment-based Offering and oneKONECRANES – level. Within Business Area Equipment the market in 2015. Earnings & dividend Return on equity, % Return on capital environment remained difficult in the new equip• At the end of 2015, the equipment base with per share, EUR employed, % ment business, particularly within process industechnical capability for Konecranes’ remote monitries and, geographically, in most of the emerging toring services exceeded 10,000 units. In 2015, 18.4 1.47 18.8 markets. The Group order intake increase of 3.3 Konecranes hosted two IndustryHack Hackathon 1.05 1.28 16.7 17.1 17.0 1.05 0.53 14.6 percent was driven by favorable currency changes. events for programmers to develop and build new 1.11 0.85 1.00 1.05* 11.6 1.05 • Konecranes’ order book as of the end of the year applications and services. 10.9 10.4 stood 5.8 percent higher than in 2014. • The availability of new standard segment prod6.8 • Net sales increased by 5.7 percent compared to ucts launched in 2014 – BOXHUNTER RTG crane, 2014 due to favorable currency changes. CXT UNO overhead crane, Morris S5 Series wire • Operating margin, excluding non-recurring items, rope hoist and UNITON open winch crane – was remained close to the previous year’s level at 5.5 expanded in new capacities and they were percent of sales. launched in new markets. 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 • In 2015, oneKONECRANES reached important Earnings per share, basic Continued improvement in milestones in terms of system implementation. Dividend per share Service, Equipment volumes The roll outs of a new ERP for manufacturing remained under pressure logistics and transaction handling continued * The Board’s proposal to the AGM • Net sales in Business Area Service grew by around the globe, covering more than 50 percent 10.9 percent in 2015. Sales grew in all regions. of ­Konecranes’ business by the end of the Year-end net working Year-end net debt, Year-end market Contract base growth continued and was up 7.5 year. The new ERP for Service was rolled out in capital, MEUR MEUR/Gearing, % capitalization*, MEUR percent year-on-year at the end of 2015. OperNorth America, Australia and Central Europe, ating margin before restructuring costs was 10.4 reaching approximately 40 percent coverage of 1,463.8 1,495.4 1,380.2 219.8 320.0 1,345.0 317.4 percent of sales. Profitability improved due to the ­Konecranes’ service business at the end of 2015. 203.2 295.5 289.4 50.5 181.8 187.3 263.7 sales growth and higher gross margin. • On August 11, 2015, Konecranes and Terex 44.6 39.3 42.1 149.5 • Net sales in Business Area Equipment were 1.5 Corporation announced that their respective 831.7 33.3 percent higher than in 2014. The increase in net Boards of Directors had unanimously approved sales was entirely attributable to favorable currency a definitive agreement to combine their busichanges. Sales of port cranes and lift trucks nesses in a merger of equals. Upon closing of the increased whereas sales of industrial cranes and merger, Terex shareholders will own approximately components decreased. Operating margin before 60 percent and Konecranes shareholders will restructuring costs was 2.7 percent of sales. Profitown approximately 40 percent of the combined 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 ability was burdened by lower sales at comparable company. currency rates and unfavorable sales mix. Net debt * Excluding treasury shares Gearing 4 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 2015 HIGHLIGHTS 2015 HIGHLIGHTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 5 CEO’S LETTER MAPPING THE FUTURE Dear shareholders, of both the huge potential Konecranes offers as Having occupied the CEO chair for some months, an organization, and the value of the expertise it it’s clear that I entered the Konecranes story at an houses. Working hands-on with our people in the extremely interesting moment. One aspect of this months since then has only confirmed this impresis the ongoing merger with Terex Corporation, of sion. But this relatively short period of time has not course, with all the discussions and decisions it has been without its challenges, already requiring some brought forth. The merger is covered in more detail difficult decisions to be made about the way we will in the Chairman’s letter on page 8. But the bigger proceed as a company. picture is even more diverse, fascinating and, in I remain confident our main strength is to be many ways, rather exciting. found in the experts we employ. Witnessing their In general, 2015 was another challenging year joint efforts for the success of our businesses is a for Konecranes. But despite struggling economies continuing inspiration, and I aim to make even better worldwide and a slow, cautious climate of investuse of this resource to fuel growth. As chief execument, we did fairly well. tive, I want to invest in people, invest in R&D, and Business Area Service continued to grow its invest in sustaining Konecranes as the true techcontract base and improve profitability during 2015. nology leader. Its operating margin, excluding restructuring costs, Development like that is no easy task, however. rose to 10.4 percent (2014: 10.0 percent). Here Our overheads have been too high and impeded we were able to generate modest sales growth at our ability to grow profitability. In February 2016, we comparable currencies despite the fact that many of announced an organizational revision with the strong our industrial customers experienced headwinds in intention of reducing costs. This included a move their businesses. from five to three regions, and the complete centraliService’s order book and contract base value zation of our administrative functions. were up 8.7 percent and 7.5 percent from last year, These changes are intended to bring more direct which bodes well for continued improvements in business commandership into our ways of working, 2016. By finding new ways to serve customers and and some may welcome this as an overdue develemploying a fully productized entire service offering, opment. The savings program also necessitated we can continue to facilitate delivery in all markets evaluation of the distribution model in certain counwith high quality and consistency. tries we operate and the closure of two production In Business Area Equipment, we saw good develfacilities. opment in our ports and lift trucks business, which Difficult as these decisions are, both to make targets container handling and had an uplift in profitaand to enact, I believe they are crucial to achieve bility. Less positive results were, however, in evidence the growth our company was built for. Change is in in our industrial crane and components business, an the air for Konecranes, just as it inevitably lies in the area which has been slow in its investments. Recogfuture of the industries we serve. These actions – nizing the lower than targeted profitability in Business challenging but wholly necessary – are among the Area Equipment – its operating margin, excluding first steps we will take towards capturing that change restructuring costs, fell to 2.7 percent (2014: 3.8 and taking fully advantage of it. percent) – we began a restructuring program in I would like to thank all our stakeholders, December 2014, targeting a 30-million euro cost both within the company and elsewhere, for their reduction by the end of the first quarter of 2016. sustained enthusiasm as this journey continues. All this said, the Equipment order book was up Your hard work, support, and faith in our potential 5.3 percent on a year-on-year basis at year-end, will be rewarded as the developments I have outlined incorporating a solid outlook for container-handling bear fruit. equipment deliveries in 2016. When I took on the position of President and Panu Routila CEO in November 2015, I was already fully aware President and CEO 6 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CEO’S LETTER CEO’S LETTER Konecranes Annual Report 2015 7 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER REMAINING STRONG DESPITE ADVERSE CONDITIONS Dear fellow shareholders, During the spring of 2015 we saw a new opporthe company to pursue other challenges outside the 2015 passes into history as yet another year with tunity to take a giant step towards a consolidation. company. Mr Lundmark had been elected to head turbulent markets, minimal if any growth, and, more Talks with Terex led to a plan for a total merger Fortum, Finland’s national energy giant, as their new than anything, a future full of clouds and uncertainty. between our two companies. Both companies’ CEO. My sincere thanks go to an excellent CEO for For many years now, I have used my page in this Boards unanimously voted for the combination, and his 11 years with our company. report to lament over the state of world affairs, but the merger was publicized on August 11, 2015. In finding a new CEO the Board did not have to I have always tried to identify strings of hope for the Our Board based its decision on the need for travel far, only to the next building from our Helsinki better. I am sad to say that 2015, once again, proved consolidation within our business, on the fact that office. Mr Panu Routila is an experienced CEO, me wrong. the merger conditions clearly give credit for our equipped with all those capabilities needed to take I have, however, also highlighted the good work earnings quality, on a very realistic perception of our company into its next phase of development. For that has been done internally, to develop our service reachable synergies (in 2011 we were permitted to Mr Routila’s CV, please turn to page 56. activities (the largest single part of our business perform a limited due-diligence review on the target), I have worked together with Mr Routila in another portfolio), our new products and our venture into but first and foremost, on the very accretive proscapacity, and I am eagerly looking forward to working new areas of the Internet-of-Things, that will certainly pects for our shareholders. with Mr Routila again. play an important role in our business in the future. The need for consolidation is based on several 2015 has included a huge amount of work for Already today we see clear signs of the potential for factors. First, as a consequence of low or no market our Board. Challenging times call for intensive Board our future-related endeavors. growth, but an ongoing productivity increase, the involvement in the conduct of the company. The I have also boasted of our in-built agility – our industry suffers from overcapacity. Second, low-cost merger with Terex meant delicate deliberations and capacity to adjust our business models in accordance country competition puts pressure on pricing. For a minute business and legal considerations. All this put with changing market conditions. During 2015, we modern Western manufacturer, the main cost-cuta heavy burden on our Board members’ shoulders. partly failed to identify the seriousness of the difficulting activity is related to automation and rationalizaContinued monitoring of the merger process has ties ahead, and we were too slow in our reactions. tion. For that, again, scale is needed. not eased that burden. The process of selecting a Nevertheless, during the year we managed to The most important driver for consolidation is the new CEO – the most important task of a Board – defend our positions well. Our total sales stayed need for constant, cutting-edge R&D. As we have naturally also required the utmost diligence. intact in shrinking markets, our earnings level did seen, modern technology offers enormous potential Because of the merger, Ms Nina Kopola, Board not deteriorate, our balance sheet and our dividend for better, safer, faster, energy-saving, more producmember since 2011, decided to resign from her capacity remained intact. For a company like ours, tive and more affordable products. We simply need Board position. The resignation was a consequence geared for growth, this is not enough. However, enough size to be able to foot the bill for top R&D. of a potential situation of conflict of interests. Some against the backdrop of a hostile business environThe integration planning work between Terex and of Terex’s business interests compete with some of ment, we have fared well. ourselves has begun well. We have a formidable task Ms Kopola’s other interests. The year was full of dramatic changes. The Board ahead of us, including competition clearance in ten On December 31, 2015, Mr Matti Kavetvuo, our of Directors have fully understood the need for jurisdictions, listing Konecranes shares in the NYSE, long-serving Board member, resigned. In his letter to further consolidation in our business. Our equipetc. Today, the synergies announced have been the Board, Mr Kavetvuo cited his age for not feeling ment business, basically lifting gear for factories confirmed well, and we are heading for a midyear capable of taking on all the new challenges the Following an old tradition, I wish to thank all our and ports, must be seen as a mature business, in 2016 closing. merger process will bring. loyal employees for producing a good result under contrast to our service business, which is a growth On January 25, 2016 Terex told the market We sincerely miss the skills and experience of onerous conditions. Your leadership has been busy business. about an unsolicited, conditional and non-binding both Mr Kavetvuo and Ms Kopola. During their outside the company, but the show has gone on in a During my years at the helm of the company, we approach by the company Zoomlion from China, to Board tenure, both have given great contributions to magnificent way. have been actively pursuing acquisitions. During buy Terex for a price of USD 30 per share. The Terex our successful work. We shareholders must be so I also wish to direct my sincere thanks to all our later years, that activity has been at a lower level. In Board must of course, in order to honor their fidugrateful for having been represented on the Board by Board members. Your support, wisdom and guidance our opinion, there has been a discrepancy between ciary duty, seriously investigate the matter. We for these two outstanding persons. has been pivotal all through this year. asset price expectations and our perception of realour part feel certain that our merger represents a During 2015, the Board of Konecranes had 22 And finally, I want to thank all loyal shareholders, istic future prospects. very compelling proposition for the shareholders of minuted Board meetings. On top of official meetings, and welcome all new shareholders to the best In 2011 we made an attempt to acquire one of both companies. The Terex Board has also confirmed Board members participated in numerous discuscompany in the world in this business. the biggest players in our business, the German their commitment to our merger. sions and briefings, ploughed through a number of company Demag, which includes Gottwald. The On April 2, 2015, our Board was told that Mr documents, and supported their Chairman and CEO Stig Gustavson company was later acquired by Terex of the US. Pekka Lundmark, our CEO since 2005, will leave through this important year. Chairman of the Board 8 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Konecranes Annual Report 2015 9 COMPANY CORNERSTONES THE CORPORATE PLATFORM TELLS OUR STORY MEGATRENDS People and society KEY Generation Y behaves differently. They are IT savvy, and may seek a different STRATEGIC work/life balance, challenge leaders of companies and countries, and INITIATIVES expect ethical behavior, including good governance and workplace safety. World demographics Industrial Internet Urbanization, new megacities, reverse brain We make machines intelligent drain with talent returning to emerging and aware of their condition, countries. The age pyramid favors emerging and network them to create countries over Western countries. Emerging real-time visibility for enhanced markets will represent a major part of the safety and productivity. This world’s growth. unique service that we offer our customers differentiates us from our competitors and warrants a price premium. Digitalization Advances in data analytics, automation, Segment-based sensors, wireless networking, and Offering nanotechnology are enabling intelligent We meet our customers’ needs “self-aware” machines. MISSION VISION VALUES across the world through a segment-based offering of products and services. Not just We know in real time Trust in people Resource scarcity lifting things, how millions of lifting We want to be known oneKONECRANES The need to save energy, find new sources but entire devices and machine for our great people. We streamline our way of working of energy, control emissions, and develop businesses. tools perform. We and modernize our information clean energy. Environmental awareness is use this knowledge systems to boost productivity also growing in emerging markets; waste of around the clock to Total service and lower our cost level. any kind is increasingly unacceptable. make our customers’ commitment operations safer and We want to be known more productive. for always keeping our p ­ romises. Sustained profitability We want to be known as a ­financially sound company. 10 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 COMPANY CORNERSTONES COMPANY CORNERSTONES Konecranes Annual Report 2015 11 ” BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT MARKET SITUATION IMPROVED MODERATELY “It comes down to thinking about all possible applications in which technology can be used. The industrial internet enables us to rethink existing processes. According to my IN EUROPE WHILE THE ACTIVITY LEVEL experience, the amount of possibilities and benefits brought on by those applications often exceed all expectations.” WAS MIXED IN NORTH AMERICA; Juha Pankakoski, CDO of Konecranes EMERGING MARKETS REMAINED WEAK World manufacturing Demand for lifting industry activity equipment and services In 2015, emerging economies struggled, Compared to the previous year, the demand for while industrial production in the euro area cranes and hoists was stable among industrial saw a slight upturn. At the same time, the US customers in Europe, whereas the demand weakeconomic data was still generally positive, ened in the Americas, Middle East, and Asia. The but some signs of weaker momentum could demand for heavy-duty cranes continued to suffer be observed in the business conditions. from the low investment activity within the process American factory output, measured by the industries. Demand for lift trucks was strong across Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), was in the expanthe globe, with the exception of Middle East and sive territory for the first ten months of 2015, but Africa. the rate of growth softened during the year and the The growth of global container traffic stalled output was contracting at the end of the year. On during 2015 and was basically unchanged from average, the US manufacturing capacity utilization 2014. Declining port handling volumes were rate was above the previous year’s level in 2015. reported predominantly in some Asian ports, Baltic However, the capacity utilization rate levelled off Sea, as well as in the east coast of Latin America. during 2015. The key challenges affecting markets Container volumes from Asia to the US East and Gulf during the year were the appreciation of USD against Coasts increased. Also, the Europe to Middle East EUR, which reduced the competitiveness of export and to South Asia trade grew. Despite the lack of industries, and the decline in oil price, the impact of growth in global container throughput, the demand which was mixed across industries. for yard cranes was robust. According to the PMI surveys in the Eurozone, The demand growth for lifting equipment services manufacturing production growth accelerated in was driven by Asia-Pacific, whereas the demand was 2015, but the overall rate of expansion remained stable in EMEA and the Americas. moderate. Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, and Raw material prices, including steel and copper, Italy were the leading lights, whereas the French continued to be under downward pressure in 2015 manufacturing sector contracted for the most part of and were clearly down on year-on-year basis. The the year. Outside the Eurozone, PMI surveys signaled EUR/USD exchange rate stabilized in the second healthy expansion of manufacturing sector output quarter of 2015 at a level that was clearly below the Konecranes’ global market positions in Sweden and the UK. Similar to the US, the EU previous year’s corresponding period. capacity utilization was slightly up on a year-on-year basis, but it stabilized during 2015. Based on the 2015 Purchasing Managers’ A market leader Indexes, manufacturing activity worsened further in the BRIC countries, with the exception of India. PMIs in Brazil, China, and Russia pointed to a contraction of manufacturing output, while the signs of modest growth could be observed in India. in industrial cranes and components, as well as crane service Overall, the activity in the world’s manufacturing #2 #3–5 sector, according to the aggregated JPMorgan Global Manufacturing PMI, continued to increase in 2015, but the rate of growth weakened from 2014 and it was only slightly above stagnation at the end of the period. in lift trucks. in port cranes. 12 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Konecranes Annual Report 2015 13 ” BUSINESS AREA SERVICE FOCUSING ON CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE “There are always two sides to operating an industrial machine: the abilities of the machine and the operator’s ability to use the machine. By keeping track of the operator’s AND UNDERLYING OPERATIONS performance, sensor technology and usage data can teach the operator to perform better.” Matti Lehto, Director, Product and Engineering Process at Konecranes Business Area Service works to improve the safety and productivity of our customers’ operations with specialized maintenance services and spare parts for all varieties and brands of industrial cranes, hoists, machine tools and port equipment. We maintain installations of every scale, from the smallest piece of equipment to entire operations. In 2015, Business Area Service continued to grow its The global perspective contract base, the foundation of the business. ProfThe US market was stable for service during 2015, itability continued to develop well, driven by gross though perhaps not as buoyant as was expected at margin development, cost containment and sales the beginning of the year. The strong dollar and challeverage. Year-end sales growth was 10.9 percent. lenging situation in oil and gas have created some While there is definite room for improvement overall, uncertainty in the industrial sector. This was also there were positive indications of growth in our core evident, and to a greater extent, in Canada, particuoffering. larly in its commodity-focused western provinces. The benefits of our service business transformaMexico has been a strong market, with much tion process, based on our Lifecycle Care approach investment in the automotive industry. In South to maintenance, are becoming apparent in terms of America, despite low commodity prices, Chile and profitability and operational excellence in countries Peru also performed well. In Brazil, our modest where implementation was completed. Preparaservice business continued to develop during the tions for additional implementations are proceeding year. according to plan. In Europe, we enjoyed moderate growth in the UK, This transformation entails a focus on customers Finland, Spain, France and Denmark. In Germany, who are looking for Konecranes to manage their we are focused on the implementation of the new 7.5% 10.4% 10.9% assets, with increased efforts to develop our relabusiness model in preparation to capture the large tionships beyond transactional business to the existing market potential for service. There remain benefit of both parties. challenges in certain Eastern European states Despite challenges in our customers’ business and in Russia, but the major economies in Europe increase in Service operating profit excluding increase in net sales environment, there is still strong demand for service. have performed well and, by all appearances, there contract base value restructuring costs in 2015. This may, of course, shift across industries and remain good opportunities for maintenance service. compared to 2014. in 2015. regions, but with a diversified customer base and a The Middle East and Africa represent challenging strong value proposition emphasizing their constant environments in the current geopolitical setting. That needs for safety and productivity, our offering said, in Saudi Arabia, for example, we have benecontinues to resonate well despite adverse market fitted from a large installed base which has develconditions. oped over a number of years, laying the groundwork Key figures Proportion of Group total, % 2015 2014 Change, % Orders received, MEUR 40.2 809.5 750.8 7.8 Order book, MEUR 16.9 165.8 152.6 8.7 Net sales, MEUR 46.9 992.3 895.1 10.9 Operating profit (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 75.8 102.9 89.1 15.5 Operating margin (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, % 10.4% 10.0% Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 74.6 98.9 86.9 13.8 Operating margin (EBIT), % 10.0% 9.7% Personnel at the end of the period 54.5 6,503 6,285 3.5 14 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 BUSINESS AREA SERVICE BUSINESS AREA SERVICE Konecranes Annual Report 2015 15 BUSINESS AREA EQUIPMENT REDUCING COSTS IN A TURBULENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Business Area Equipment provides cranes, components, and lifting equipment solutions to the process industries and those handling heavy loads, ports, intermodal terminals, shipyards, the nuclear sector, and bulk material terminals. Along with Konecranes-branded products, the equipment portfolio also includes the following power brands: STAHL CraneSystems, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, R&M, Morris Crane Systems and Sanma Hoists & Cranes. for a healthy service business. South Africa, while a Today, we are using the Industrial Internet to 2015 was a challenging year for Business Area we have made further cost reductions through the difficult market, nevertheless represents opportunideliver Lifecycle Care in Real Time. The interest in Equipment. Whilst we saw good development in rightsizing of units to accommodate lower volumes. ties for maintenance services. TRUCONNECT and real-time service is evidenced by our ports and lift trucks businesses, who target Looking forward, we ended 2015 with a stronger In China, we continued to find increased awarethe growing number of remote monitoring conneccontainer handling and had an uplift in profitability, order book, particularly in terms of orders for the ports ness and openness to outsourcing, as well as tions, which surpassed 10,000 in 2015. Further less positive results were in evidence in our indusand container-handling industries. These should have advances in safety regulation. Customers are interconfirmation can be seen in the steadily increasing trial business, an area which saw slow customer a welcome impact on our bottom line and herald reviested in our systematic approach to maintenance number of customers who see value in the insights investments during 2015. This impacted us more talized business performance in the year to come. and our value proposition of improving safety and and optimization that can be gleaned through our adversely in terms of component sales, which are China was particularly troubling, with the market productivity. These trends create vital opportunities, customer portal, yourKONECRANES.com. sold under our power brands, considering the weak contracting more than anticipated, which had the helping us to maintain a successful service business New ways of serving customers include demand in most markets globally. single largest impact on our profitability during the in this large market. STORE.Konecranes.com, our eCommerce platform Progress in accordance with the new operating year, prompting us to subsequently consolidate our In India, we are seeing signs of a partial recovery currently piloting in Finland and the US, with plans model we announced at the beginning of the year production of cranes and components from Shanghai and increased customer interest as a result. Singafor online sales of spare parts and other products – has been strong, and our core areas of customer to our facility in Jiangsu Province, rationalize our frontpore has been strong, while elsewhere in APAC – in complementing our service branches – to roll out in focus, operational excellence and simplicity remain lines, and take further steps to refocus our business Australia and several commodity-based South Asian many other countries during 2016 and beyond. relevant. Recognizing the investment challenges our – including the launch of several standard products. economies – there have been challenges. Despite The entire global service network of Konecranes customers were facing, we began a restructuring Despite these pro-active measures, we have been these, Konecranes has been able to grow its presis excited at the opportunities to provide a unique program in December 2014 to cushion the blow, unable to fully mitigate the effects of this fundamental ence in the right industries in South-East Asia and and differentiated experience for our customers. targeting a EUR 30 million cost reduction by the end shift in demand during the past year. This is likely to Japan. Regardless of the macro picture, there remain Mobile-enabled technicians, cranes equipped of the first quarter of 2016. The following measures be an indication of ongoing conditions in the Chinese strong opportunities for maintenance services here with TRUCONNECT remote monitoring, and our were initiated in order to reach the targeted cost market, with commentators in the region speaking of a also. A recent market entry for Konecranes is the customer portal all enable usage, maintenance and savings: “new normal”. Philippines. After an initial period of gradual develasset details to be viewed, analyzed and shared • Restructuring non-performing units opment, it is now proceeding well and establishing quickly. The connected customer is in a unique posi• Optimization of supply chain Strong variation across the itself more fully. tion to optimize their operations and maintenance • Simplification of the operational model equipment markets activities by leveraging these synergies. Bearing in mind the discrepancies between results Lifecycle Care in Real Time The Industrial Internet is becoming a key enabler These projects have progressed according to plan, in distinct customer segments as outlined above, Our systematic approach to maintenance, which of our Service offering, the foundation of which is thanks to a significant number of projects executed our markets have been quite varied across the we call Lifecycle Care, is well established in key our people, with their expertise and deep knowhow across all our businesses, encompassing both our globe. Looking to North America, in Canada we have markets. In recent years, however, its tools and of lifting equipment and process and desire to build supply chain and front-line operations. In addition, seen weak sentiments in industrial investments but processes have been evolving, as has productizalong-term customer relationships. tion of the entire offering to facilitate delivery in all markets with high quality and consistency. Key figures Proportion of Group total, % 2015 2014 Change, % Orders received, MEUR 62.5 1,257.6 1,262.5 -0.4 Order book, MEUR 88.9 870.7 826.9 5.3 Net sales, MEUR 58.6 1,240.3 1,221.7 1.5 Operating profit (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 24.9 33.8 46.7 -27.7 Operating margin (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, % 2.7% 3.8% Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 14.1 18.8 45.6 -58.9 Operating margin (EBIT), % 1.5% 3.7% Personnel at the end of the period 44.7 5,328 5,639 -5.5 16 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 BUSINESS AREA SERVICE BUSINESS AREA EQUIPMENT Konecranes Annual Report 2015 17 ” “Adding industrial internet capabilities to aged devices not only helps to increase the availability of the equipment, but also provides exact data of the usage needed in the future investment planning. It’s all about packaging technologies into solutions that can be used without a degree in engineering.” Petri Asikainen, Director of Product Development at Konecranes consistent demand in lift trucks, ports and container region’s newly developed markets such as Vietnam, handling. In the USA, our existing port customer relamore positive signals could be seen in the form of tionships have been steady, with orders being realwilling investments and strong customer interest in ized for additional STSs and RTGs as well as several our product offering. modernizations to existing equipment. These also serve as evidence that customers At our core appreciate our offering’s unique benefits whether in Konecranes’ Segment-based Offering takes account terms of safety, productivity, sustainability or automaof customer needs by grouping our products and tion. Despite these highlights, decision making on the services into “advanced” and “standard” categories. part of our industrial customers has been prolonged This allows us to present a selection of products at and even confirmed orders in the region are showing a price points appropriate for our diverse customers tendency for delieries to be delayed and postponed. in every region. The source of the unique know-how To look at South America, Brazil was a difficult that allows us to serve these needs is something we market for us due to the weak local currency and the have come to identify as the Core of Lifting. This is general tendency for market conditions to favor local the ever-growing collective knowledge we share as competitors to the exclusion of internationals. Markets a company, founded on skill derived from more than like Peru and Colombia performed more consistently, 80 years of experience. It is at the heart of how we though the mining situation in Chile showed dampdesign, manufacture and service world-class lifting ened demand. equipment. In Europe, the UK and France were quite steady, But not only do we design purpose-built compowithout major developments in either direction. nents, we also design the interaction between them. Finland was an unexpectedly good market in 2015, This results in optimization and a synergy of benefits with customers investing in modernizations and crane greater than any product made of generic comporeplacements to update an aging industrial base. nents. The Industrial Internet, the global platform The automotive industry in Central Europe was also upon which this interaction largely takes place, offers relatively consistent for us, with a weaker euro helping both meaningful advantages for customers in our German exporters and encouraging investment. In advanced segment and a pathway for migration of Spain and Portugal, we saw something of a recovery standard equipment in the future. in sales, though not quite yet on the level of pre-crisis Our investments here, and our strong faith in this results. Demand was, however, weak in certain movement’s capacity to transform the crane equipEastern European states. ment business, positions the Konecranes equipment There were less significant process investments business in a market-leading role, and will provide our in Saudi Arabia in 2015 than expected, but outside customers with innovative alternatives to their estabthe oil sector, this market held up well. Positive signs lished operating methods. could also be seen in the Indian market, where we 1.5% 2.7% 5.3% realized improved order development thanks to the launch of our eTon heavy duty crane and our Segmentbased Offering, and were able to reduce costs with the increase in net sales operating profit excluding higher order book closure of one production facility. in 2015 restructuring costs compared to 2014 Interest in our products is shaping up well in Indoin 2015 nesia, where the country’s ports and paper industries are important venues for us. Elsewhere in APAC, such as Singapore, the Philippines, and some of the 18 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 BUSINESS AREA EQUIPMENT BUSINESS AREA EQUIPMENT Konecranes Annual Report 2015 19 REGIONAL OVERVIEW GLOBAL TRENDS HAVE LOCAL EFFECTS Konecranes aims to develop the fullest possible understanding of markets around the world and the diverse and changing needs of the industries we serve. To support these efforts, the company’s operations are divided into three geographical regions: Americas (AME), Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Konecranes is a market leader in industrial crane service we enjoyed significant success with those ports servicing Largest markets: United States, Canada, Mexico, Chile, and equipment in North America, Mexico and Chile. The the gulf and east coast of the United States. Our Latin Peru, Brazil 25% remainder of our businesses in Latin America are developing as the market and political climate in those counAmerican deliveries are dependent on sporadic demand in that region. Operations: Manufacturing: 2,968 employees, 134 locations Seven plants manufacturing industrial and process cranes, including nuclear Personnel 2,968 7 Production tries in which we operate permit. The region as a whole has been influenced by global sites AME The most significant markets for us here are primary trends impacting upon demand for commodities, primary cranes, hoists, parts, and related components Americas metals, energy, intermodal and rail, pulp and paper, metals, building and paper products and the associated Key brands: Konecranes, R&M, STAHL Cranepetrochemical, mining, automotive, waste to energy and effects on transportation and general manufacturing Systems, Crane Pro Parts and P&H® (through Morris Material Handling) general manufacturing. during the past year. Notwithstanding this, overall 39% 134 Our port equipment and service businesses in this demand for the balance of our products and services Sales region are well recognized and respected, and in 2015 remains fairly constant. 823.7 Sales & service Konecranes has a strong position in Europe and the segment is a strong one for us here and we welcome Largest markets: Germany, United Kingdom, France, Middle East, with a solid footprint throughout the major more use of the industrial internet with customer partnerFinland, Sweden, Russia, Poland, 53% countries, and enjoys a strong reputation amongst existing and potential customers. Africa is a growth ships creating value for both parties. In Africa investments are growing, particularly in terms Operations: Austria, Turkey, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates 6,237 employees, 347 locations Personnel 6,237 10 Production EMEA market for us and our expansion here has seen excellent of infrastructure. In the Middle East, low oil prices have Manufacturing: Ten plants manufacturing cranes and sites Europe, progress. had an impact upon the investment climate, particularly hoists, lift trucks, and steel structures Middle Our largest markets in Europe are general manufacin oil-related businesses. for larger cranes East and turing, energy, waste-to-energy, automotive and steel. Konecranes sees this business region’s outlook for the Key brands: Konecranes, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF Krantechnik, and Verlinde 45% Africa Elsewhere in this business region they include logistics, near future as positive. The diverse customer base can 347 ports and terminals, energy, steel and chemicals. be exploited further in this heterogeneous region, and Sales In Europe we see an increasing focus on safety-related the current product portfolio – together with some key 960.5 and productivity-enhancing products. The advanced product launches in 2016 – supports this view. Sales & service Konecranes continues to be the technology leader in Overall demand for lifting equipment in China was Largest markets: China, India, Indonesia, Australia, Asia-Pacific and is among the market leaders in industrial weak during 2015, as economic growth slowed. On the Singapore, Thailand 23% 2,682 employees, 119 locations 5 other hand, under the Chinese government’s development Operations: cranes, lift trucks and crane service solutions. We are of sustainability awareness, we are taking advantage Personnel also continually growing our presence in the port soluManufacturing: Five plants, including joint ventures, 2,682 tions sector. of a range of new opportunities, in the waste-to-energy manufacturing hoists, industrial Production General manufacturing remains the largest market industry for example. We also still see healthy demand for cranes, lift trucks, and port cranes sites Key brands: Konecranes, STAHL CraneSystems, segment in this region, with other segments such as pulp services. SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, Morris APAC and paper, automotive, power, metal, and steel industry In India, the investment environment is a positive one. Crane Systems, and SANMA Hoists & Cranes Asia-Pacific following close behind. Waste-to-energy is also forming a Here we have a steady position and look forward to the 16% 119 larger share recently, particularly in China. 2015 showed country’s expected economic growth as a good enabler a decline in the steel and metal industries, and slowing for our customer industries. Sales 342.0 growth in general manufacturing, automotive segments, Elsewhere, our largest markets continue to be Sales & service and the paper industry, but with a steadily growing trend Australia, Indonesia, Singapore and Thailand, although in renewable energies such as wind power and waste-togrowth opportunities are continuing to develop in markets energy. such as the Philippines, Vietnam and Bangladesh. • Main production sites • Sales and service locations 20 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 REGIONAL OVERVIEW REGIONAL OVERVIEW Konecranes Annual Report 2015 21 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT CONSTANT INNOVATION STRENGTHENS OUR COMPETITIVENESS The area of product development is an important data, maintenance data and asset details are linked, one to Konecranes. We are dedicated to making giving a transparent view of events and activities innovative use of technology in order to create effiover any selected time interval. Aggregated data can cient products and services that improve customers’ be viewed, analyzed and shared quickly, for a single productivity while prioritizing safety and the environasset or an entire fleet. Insights can be drawn by EUR 28.7 MILLION ment. In 2015, R&D expenditure amounted to EUR observing anomalies, patterns and trends, helping 28.7 million (28.9), or the equivalent of 1.3 percent users make informed maintenance decisions. Addiof net sales (1.4). tionally, customers can access inspection and service Traditionally, much of Konecranes’ growth has reports, service schedules, maintenance histories, devoted to R&D in 2015. been organic. Technological advancements have asset lists, service spend and agreement details. allowed us to bring in smart service tools and to Customers can also use yourKONECRANES to initiate gain an advantage in several product areas, from service requests. The portal gives customers a port cranes and industrial cranes to lift trucks and complete view of their assets and relationship with electric chain hoists. During 2015, we developed Konecranes, online at their convenience. camera applications for our products and looked at yourKONECRANES’ global rollout started in 2015 new materials and configurations for certain core in countries such as the UK, Canada and Australia. lifting devices. We also maintained our tradition of joint research with leading universities; in 2015, we Harmonized automation started longer-term research cooperation with the architecture for lifting equipment Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Germany. In March, Konecranes won the Automation Award Our efforts to generate new product concepts and 2015, granted by the Finnish Society of Automation, technologies to enhance our offerings are constantly a recognition given for the development of new, ongoing. As well as concentrating on providing the harmonized automation architecture for lifting equiphighest lifecycle value, Konecranes R&D is focused ment. on four key priorities: With software that has been developed from 1. Safety a service point of view, this architecture can be 2. Environmental issues applied to a wide range of lifting equipment and 3. Productivity serves a variety of customer needs. Thanks to the 4. Industrial design, with a strong focus on mainstandardized architecture, the automation, remote tainability, ergonomics and user experience service and user interface solutions are scalable, and suitable for everything from small industrial In 2015, we paid particular attention to exploring cranes to heavy, demanding process cranes. new opportunities in the role of digitalization and automation within the context of the Industrial Cost-efficient path to Internet. automated container yard operations with ARTG User-friendly portal for Built around our market-leading 16-wheel rubber our digital services tired gantry (RTG) and its unique ability to tolerate We have made interaction with our systems attracrough yard surfaces, the Konecranes Automated tive and simple. Customers can connect to the RTG system (ARTG) is available for greenfield and data provided by our TRUCONNECT Remote Service brownfield RTG-based container terminals. The offering, request help from our technicians, and system includes a complete package of truck guidreview the service and operational history of their ance infrastructure and a remote operating station cranes via the yourKONECRANES.com web portal. with a specially developed graphical user interface. yourKONECRANES was designed from its earliest With the full-scale introduction of ARTG operation, stages with customers’ wishes firmly in mind. Usage owners and operators of our RTG-based container 22 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Konecranes Annual Report 2015 23 PRODUCT OVERVIEW COMPREHENSIVE AND VERSATILE SOLUTIONS terminals now have a secure and cost-efficient Stagemaker’s SR range of electric chain hoists growth path to fully automated operation. In 2016, boasts an entirely new ergonomic design and is the Service Konecranes provides specialized maintenance services and spare parts for all types for instance, we are set to deliver our ARTGs to only alternative on the market fitted with doubleand makes of industrial cranes, hoists, machine tools and port equipment – from a customers in Indonesia. lifting brakes, retractable handgrips and protecsingle piece of equipment to entire operations. Our objective is to improve the safety and productivity of our customers’ operations. tive rubber pads. The motors in the series allow Next-generation consistent speeds, either fully loaded or unloaded. Safety is everything. At Konecranes there is no job so important and no service so warehousing system No matter what the hoists are lifting – or not lifting urgent that we cannot take the time to perform our work safely and correctly. Retrofits Konecranes introduced the next-generation version – they will travel at the same speed up and down the such as replacement hoists and LED lighting can enhance user ergonomics and energy of the Agilon material handling solution at the chains. efficiency. Kunnossapito Forum 2015 exhibition in Tampere, The Stagemaker SR01, the smallest and lightest Our approach to crane maintenance is based on Lifecycle Care, a comprehensive and Finland, in March. Agilon – which won a Red Dot hoist in the market, with a lifting capacity of 250 kg, systematic approach to maintenance, supported by world-class tools and processes. Award for product design in 2014 – is now available features a chain container, handles and chain guide A commitment to excellent, proactive, and real-time service is a strategic priority. with new configuration modules, enabling the easy that are especially designed for show business. The We are fluent in all crane brands, not just our own. implementation of new layouts in a comprehensive SR01’s robust frame can fit inside a flight case and in-house logistics solution. The transaction capacity a 12” truss, and is able to withstand transportation is further improved by the addition of robot capacity, conditions during concert tours. CLX and Reliable and versatile, the CLX and SLX hoists have a lifting capacity of up to 5 tons and are ideal for any workstation. They offer many safety-enhancing features and a wide enabling specific parts to be selected and brought SLX electric range of options and speeds. In addition, the SLX uses the latest technology for inverterdirectly to the access points. Boosting growth chain hoists driven motors. Agilon consists of a net portal, user access In 2015 we established our in-house Konecranes’ points, a shelving system, and robots that travel Business Factory to test and develop big ideas and within the shelving. To date, it has mainly been new business concepts that may not necessarily available in Finland, but we have begun its gradual fit into our current daily operations. Led by a busiexpansion into other countries, such as the United ness manager with profit and loss responsibility, Workstation Developed to suit demanding applications with loads up to 2,000 kg, our workstation Kingdom. The Agilon solution is truly trouble free for the viability of each individual case is proven in a cranes cranes serve customers in many industries, such as general manufacturing and the its user: it is leased with a monthly fee, including the real customer environment, carefully selected for automotive sector. The robust XM steel workstation crane is easy to install, modify, and extend, and the extremely light yet durable XA aluminum workstation crane has easy system and a comprehensive full service contract optimum consideration for the cases. With this, we customization options. that covers software, remote on-line support, mainaim to further accelerate the time-to-market of our tenance and spare parts. new innovations. ATB The ATB AirBalancer uses a floating load unit, harnessing air pressure as the power Electric chain hoists for the AirBalancers source. It is ideal for fast pick-and-place operations and accurate load positioning. It has entertainment industry been designed to enhance the natural lifting motion of the operator, thereby improving ergonomics. Another important product launch in 2015 was the Stagemaker SR01. The Stagemaker is a product of Konecranes’ power brands, Verlinde and R&M, and is designed for the entertainment industry. Jib cranes Konecranes jib cranes are highly adaptable and can be used in various processes. With a standard lifting capacity of 2,000 kg, they can be applied to both existing and new constructions. There are several different ways to fix the jib to a wall or floor, ensuring an optimal solution for your facility. 24 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT PRODUCT OVERVIEW Konecranes Annual Report 2015 25 Engineered Konecranes produces a wide range of pre-engineered and tailored cranes for almost any Straddle carriers Straddle carriers are multi-purpose machines used in small to medium-sized container industrial lifting need. Combining the latest in lifting technology with over 80 years of terminals. They typically have a lifting capacity of 50 tons and can stack containers one cranes crane-building knowledge and experience, our cranes are designed to be reliable, safe over three high. The BOXRUNNER straddle carrier keeps containers flowing between and eco-efficient. Our standard industrial cranes can lift up to 500 tons, and a tailored quayside STSs and yard container stacks, enabling fast ship turnaround times. The crane even more. Our recent innovations include several features and details designed BOXRUNNER can also load and unload trucks, as it stacks two containers high. We offer to assist operators, to minimize load damages and lower running costs. Our graphical excellent service support to keep these machines running eco-efficiently throughout user interface makes our cranes easy to work with, either from the factory floor or from their lifespan. Remote Operating Stations. TRUCONNECT Remote Service offers real-time monitoring of the crane, allowing better planning, preventive maintenance and technical support. Yard cranes Our yard cranes for container terminals include RTGs, RMGs, automated RMGs (ARMGs), and automated RTGs (ARTGs). These cranes usually have a lifting capacity of Industrial cranes The Konecranes CLX chain hoist cranes and CXT wire rope hoist cranes are ideal for around 50 tons and can stack one over six containers high and seven container rows lifting up to 80 tons in most industrial settings. Both cranes can be bought as standard wide plus truck lane at container ports and intermodal terminals. Our RTGs can be packages or tailored to your specific needs. Simple to use, with a self-adjusting diesel-powered, in which case we offer Diesel Fuel Saver technology to increase their magnetic brake and maintenance-free gearbox, the CLX crane is especially suited for eco-efficiency. We also offer cable reel and busbar systems for fully electric operation, lighter loads up to 5 tons. The CXT crane can be equipped with several high-tech Smart increasing eco-efficiency and decreasing emissions. Our yard cranes are available with Features, including Sway Control, Target Positioning, and Protected Areas, making the TRUCONNECT, a remote service that gives information on how the cranes are being load control easier and safer for operators. You can also have the CXT crane specially used in real-time, allowing customers to optimize the timing of maintenance and reduce adapted for various hazardous environments. TRUCONNECT Remote Monitoring crane downtime. provides real-time visibility to crane usage and operating data, helping with decisions about maintenance investments and productivity. Ship-to-shore Used for loading and unloading containers from ships, Konecranes STS cranes have a lifting capacity of up to 65 tons and an outreach of up to 70 meters. In 2015, we deliv(STS) cranes ered two STS cranes to the Port of Oslo in Norway that are equipped with advanced Forklift trucks With lifting capacities ranging from 10 to 65 tons, our forklift trucks are used in various noise reduction technology. They are probably the most silent and eco-efficient STS applications and heavy-duty work in the steel, pulp and paper, and oil and gas induscranes in the world. They also have a special paint scheme that visually blends them in tries, and at ports. with their environment. Automated Konecranes offers Automated Rail Mounted Gantry (ARMG) and Automated Rubber Tired Gantry (ARTG) crane systems. Introduced in 2013, the Konecranes ARTG system stacking crane Container Our container lift trucks handle empty (8–10 tons) and laden (33–45 tons) containers at systems offers RTG-based container terminals a growth path towards fully automated operation. ports and intermodal terminals. It includes ARTG cranes, Remote Operating Stations (ROSs), automation software, and lift trucks all the required yard infrastructure, including intelligent gates for road trucks. Nuclear cranes Konecranes Nuclear Equipment and Services provides nuclear cranes and specialized lifting equipment for our customers throughout the global nuclear industry. The nuclear quality control system meets the strict regulatory requirements of our global customers and their individual specification requirements, such as NRC 10CFR50 Appendix B, ASME NQA-1, and KTA 1401. Reach stackers With lifting capacities ranging from 10 to 80 tons, our reach stackers are used in container handling, intermodal, and industrial applications. Our lift trucks have the ergonomic and spacious OPTIMA cabin, which provides increased Brands The Group’s brand strategy is centered upon the corporate Konecranes master brand, safety and visibility for the driver. Equipped with the latest engines, these lift trucks are both which is complemented by a portfolio of freestanding power brands. Konecraneseco-efficient and more powerful. With TRUCONNECT remote monitoring one will not only be branded products are sold directly to end-users, while power-branded products are able to track the efficiency of the lift truck fleet but also plan the maintenance. sold to distributors and independent crane builders. Konecranes’ power brands include R&M, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, Morris Crane Systems and Sanma Hoists & Cranes. Goliath gantry Used for heavy-duty assembly lifts, our Goliath gantry cranes can be found at shipyards, offshore facilities, and other heavy industrial sites. Loads weighing thousands of tons can cranes be moved hundreds of meters horizontally and over a hundred meters vertically and positioned to assembly tolerances of just a few millimeters. 26 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 PRODUCT OVERVIEW PRODUCT OVERVIEW Konecranes Annual Report 2015 27 ” CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTING TO RESPONSIBLE “Remote connections can be used to contact cranes in every corner of the world for initial analysis without having to send maintenance personnel to the location. Smart features like BUSINESS PRACTICES sway control and extended speed range result in saved working time. The risk of accidents can be minimized.” Marko Piela, Industry Specialist, Automotive at Konecranes 2015 was a remarkable year from a corporate responsibility perspective for the world and for Konecranes. There were positive highlights and progress in many areas at Konecranes, but there were setbacks too. In this Corporate Responsibility section we summarize our corporate responsibility progress at Konecranes. Our approach to CR sub-contractors, and business partners; society, In 2015 we organized our first ever formal, public local communities, and authorities; students, universtakeholder dialogue on corporate responsibility, sities, and research institutes; media; and nonaiming to better understand expectations of our governmental organizations. corporate responsibility work. This was organized Konecranes holds positions on the boards of in the form of an online brainstorming, where ideas the European Materials Handling Federation (FEM), were brought forward and further developed by the Port Equipment Manufacturers Association the participants. We reached a good participation (PEMA), the East Office of Finnish Industries Ltd, the level, see the table below. The public round of Federation of Finnish Technology Industries, and the stakeholder dialogue – which included customers, Finnish Metals and Engineering Competence Cluster suppliers, investors and our own personnel – was (FIMECC). In addition, Konecranes participates in the conducted in March. In addition, Konecranes senior European Committee for Standardization (CEN). management continued the work, reviewing the We have worked systematically on corporate results of the public round and prioritizing these responsibility now for several years. The timeline on from a long-term business success perspective page 30 summarizes highlights from the journey this in April and May. A summary of the results is far. As it was time to critically review our approach, we presented in image below. renewed our corporate responsibility roadmap and Our key stakeholders, as defined already in 2014, focus areas during the second half of the year. We are customers, employees and shareholders. In did this through internal cross-functional discussions 11,934 addition to the key stakeholders listed above, we and workshops. We based our discussions and decihave identified other relevant stakeholder groups, sions on stakeholders’ expectations of us, our own which are increasingly important for Konecranes and strategy, and megatrends we see in the world, as well with whom we intend to engage in more systematic as, for example, the UN Sustainable Development dialogue in the future. These include our suppliers, Goals that were agreed in September. Number of personnel, average 11,887 Corporate Responsibility topics materiality Stakeholder dialogue participation based on stakeholder dialogue process by stakeholder group Which of the following stakeholder groups do you primarily represent? Amount Customer 78 1 1 Business integrity Employee 502 Very 2 Safety Number of personnel at the end of the year high Shareholder, investor or analyst 15 3 People Supplier or sub-contractor 53 4 Smarter offering INTEGRITY 5 Supply chain sustainability Neighbor or local community 3 Importance for stakeholders 6 C orporate responsibility Student, university or research institute 7 Gender structure 3 management Media 0 High 16% 5 7 Environmental issues 2 Non-governmental organization 2 NOTE: scale on importance Other 31 from medium to very high – as Total 691 4 none of the themes involved on KONECRANES this round were considered not PEOPLE CORPORATE SAFETY 6 important RESPONSIBILITY 7 Female Medium Medium Importance for business development High Very high ENVIRONMENT 84% Male 28 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Konecranes Annual Report 2015 29 ” “The key difference that the industrial internet makes, is that it brings machinery alive. It enables the machinery to sense its own condition, understand the usage situation and support the user to carry out the operation more safely and productively.” Juha Pankakoski, CDO of Konecranes Konecranes Corporate Responsibility achievements industry. We use Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) had too many serious injuries and even work-reAccident frequency -50% from Accident frequency year 2015 on global level. G4 as a framework for our reporting. lated deaths in 2015. -46% in 5 years. Renewal of Code of Energy intensity -10%, Corporate responsibility reporting at Konecranes We lost four colleagues during 2015, which is four Port machinery, Purchase of like RTGs, steering Conduct. renewable electricity emission intensity -20%. covers our major supply chain units and operations, too many. Two were traffic accidents on the way to technology changed Konecranes became Workers leads to -22% Gender and international using data that has been gathered through internal work or home, which are not calculated as recordto electrical and UN Global Compact representative invited emissions on global diversity of group hydraulic phased out. signatory. to CR Steering Group. level. management improved. information systems, and supplemented with able occupational deaths in all countries, but for us information sourced separately. Some of the data they are tragic losses of colleagues. There was also Late 1990s 2010 2012 2014 2020 included has been scaled up to provide an overall one direct occupational accident in connection to 1990s 2020 view of our performance, which may result in inacservice work at customer premises, leading to imme2009 2011 2013 2015 curacies in some figures. diate death. In addition, one represented a serious Establishment of CR First environmental First fair labor First official We do not seek full verification of the corporate occupational accident suffered before 2015, which Steering Group. product declaration evaluations by stakeholder dialogue created. third party in own process. responsibility component and its indicators. Some due to sudden complications lead to death. Environmentally operations. of the indicators are verified by an external party, Because of these deaths and the fact that we conscious product CR roadmap update. design concept and we express this and our indicators’ connection haven’t been able to change the trend in serious inbuilt into product development process. to our strategy, CR roadmap, UN SDGs and GRI in accidents to the extent we would like, we have the index below. planned a serious injury and fatality prevention program (SIF) with lifesaving rules and updated At Konecranes, corporate responsibility is intearea-based specific functions. For example, people Safety minimum safety requirements. Implementing lifegrated into business processes and operations on focus area matters are a regular topic in the Human In previous years we have focused on establishing saving rules and updated safety minimum requiremultiple fronts. There is a Corporate Responsibility Resources Management Team, while safety and systematic safety management and a preventive ments will continue over the following years. In Director at Group headquarters leading the topic and environment focus areas are discussed in the Safety approach with leading indicators such as tracking addition to this, more focus has been given to safety coordinating the work. The Corporate Responsibility and Environmental Management Team. During safety training hours, safety observations, and leadership. A training concept, aiming to reach all Director reports to the Group Executive Board. The 2015, safety and environmental management within near-miss reporting. In one sense, when purely managers, was launched in the Americas region and Corporate Responsibility Steering Group is a discusKonecranes Group was strengthened by appointing looking at indicators like the number of accidents is being rolled out globally. sion forum where the Company’s strategic approach a Safety and Environmental Director in each region. and accident frequency, this is working well and we On the more positive side, there is continuous to corporate responsibility is discussed more widely. These regional HSE Directors, together with headare making good progress. Our LTA1 has decreased development of our safety personnel competences The CR Steering Group had three meetings during quarters’ safety and environmental professionals, year on year steadily. Despite this, we cannot be and during 2015 five safety professionals received 2015. form the Safety and Environmental Management satisfied with our safety performance in 2015. We external safety professional certifications and recogDuring the roadmap renewal process we decided Team that was initiated during 2015. to change from the five focus areas established Summary of renewed Corporate Responsibility roadmap with objectives earlier to four focus areas. The feedback we had Communicating on progress Focus area Objective 2020 Business link UN Global Compact UN SDGs heard suggested that “Fair play” and “Smarter We continue to report on our corporate responsiSafety • Zero accident, interim goal LTA < 3 vision, strategic initiatives, offering” from our earlier Corporate Responsibility bility progress combined with financial and annual • Significant reduction in serious injuries and no fatalities megatrends, “people and society” communications were not easily understandable and reporting. We have re-evaluated our decision not to • Subcontractor safety tracking and management improved connected with the topics we wished to progress publish a separate corporate responsibility report • ISO 45001 certifications with them. Hence, we now drive customer-offeringand decided to continue on a combined reporting Environment • Energy consumption intensity -10% MWh/sales* and emisvision, megatrends “resource 7, 8, 9 sion intensity -20% CO2e-t/sales* scarcity”, strategic initiatives related responsibility matters as before, but commupath, as we see that these matters need to be • Absolute annual energy reduction of 23,000 MWh* and nicate about them under safety and environmental integrated on all levels, and corporate responsiannual emission reduction of 14,000 CO2e-t* headings. We also considered that integrity as a bility as a standalone business or unit does not • ISO14001:2015 coverage 100% in manufacturing by mid focus area is more current and better describes a deliver what we wish to achieve with it. We report 2017 responsible style of doing business, driving responsion our progress in connection to our financial-year People • Gender diversity of group management: megatrends “people 3, 4, 5, 6 male 75%/female 25% and society” and “world bility in the supplier network, fighting corruption, mitireporting, which is the calendar year. Our reporting demographics”, strategic • International diversity of group management: gating any activity that could be considered breaking is fact based and aims to provide interested Finnish 50%/ Other 50% initiatives 1KC, values competition laws, etc. parties with information on our progress, material Integrity • Continue to have code of conduct training coverage 100% vision, megatrends 1, 2, 10 As we have integrated corporate responsibility indicators and some additional indicators which • 80% of suppliers by spend and 100% of “people and society”, values into everyday business and aim to do so further, are deemed interesting to a wider audience, even new suppliers monitored for sustainability the actual work is often more visible in the focusnot necessarily considered material in our type of * Baseline year to compare to 2013. Targets concerning scope 1 and scope 2 consumption and emissions. 30 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Konecranes Annual Report 2015 31 nition, three in the Americas region and two in the from first-time managers to corporate executives. In Training days per employee Workforce by region Age structure, % Europe region. We also began a global rollout of a addition to supporting continuous development of by employee groups web-based safety and environmental management our people, we are piloting a new, more comprehentool to improve and standardize our safety and envisive learning management system in one region. A 44,415* 40,164* 40 049* 23% ronmental management processes such as incident learning management system alone naturally does 3.8 3.0 2.6 3.6 investigation or near-miss reporting. not guarantee high quality development, but it does 3.7 3.7 3.4 4.0 3.4 help in managing trainings and making development 19 5 19 5 19 5 18 5 18 5 People paths more visible to people. 25% 52% 25 24 25 26 26 The success of Konecranes is driven by the wellThe Konecranes Employee Share Savings Plan, being, competence and motivation of our people. In launched in 2012, continued for its fourth savings 25 30 31 31 32 2015, we brought our ‘Lifting people’ strategy, which period in 2015. The plan enables participants to was created in 2014, to life. We continued to work save up to five percent of their gross salary every 26 22 20 20 19 according to our employment lifecycle processes, month to invest in Konecranes shares. At the end 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 of which, for example, performance-based manageof the agreed saving period, if participants still hold ment and annual development discussions (TPP shares, they receive one share for every two initially Staff AME 2,968 <30 30–39 discussion), measuring employee satisfaction and purchased. The participation rate in 2015 was about Operatives EMEA 6,237 40–49 50–59 competence development. 14 percent, which is considered satisfactory. Average APAC 2,682 >60 Our employee satisfaction survey (ESS) was During 2015 we followed up on and discussed conducted in March. The response rate was 83.2 further the learnings from the third-party fair * Total number of training days percent (2013: 85.1 percent). This is a bit lower than labor conditions assessments we arranged during in previous surveys, but still clearly higher than the 2013–2015. In addition, we commenced rollout norm, which is around 75 percent for companies of of the ‘Respect in the Workplace’ policy, which is a Environment water in our manufacturing. However, we did water our size. As a summary, in many of the areas, the response to some of the findings from evaluations On the environmental side, we have continued with risk assessment of our factory locations during results are quite similar to 2013 results. From 2015 expressing that we had not been explicit enough in steady progress. In 2015, we began a project to 2015. This was to better understand potential results, we were able to see that our employees truly tackling equal opportunities and anti-harassment have a certified environmental management system issues the societies in which we operate may face in feel that the recent development of Konecranes with our Code of Conduct, which naturally includes according to the new ISO14001:2015 standard for the future and to truly understand the flooding and has been in the right direction and our future seems these topics. all our factories within 2 years. In addition, there drought risks of our locations. No further actions are bright. On the other hand, many of our employees Regarding fair labor conditions, we have tracked have been discussions across the organization on planned to be taken based on this risk assessment, have recently thought of looking for work with another labor union coverage of our operations. We cannot how to improve energy efficiency in our operations but we aim to regularly conduct similar evaluations employer and the stress levels have increased even track this with a detailed percentage of personnel due and thus contribute to climate change mitigation. of the situation in the future. more. There is a clear correlation that employees to some privacy restrictions, but we can express that We continued reporting on our progress in When thinking about our environmental footprint who have had their TPP discussion during the last 12 we have recognized organized employee representaexternal corporate responsibility surveys, such as and recognizing that the biggest impacts come from months are more satisfied than the employees who tion in 21 countries out of the 48 in which we operate, CDP (formerly named Carbon Disclosure Project). raw material and components manufacturing and have not had their TPP discussion. The TPP discussion i.e. 43 percent of countries in which we operate This was also the first time that we asked for external in the product use phase, it is natural that we keep completion rate was 75 percent for 2015 (2014: 80 have formal employee representation. Coverage of verification for our scope 1 and scope 2 emissions the topic on the agenda in product development. We percent; 2013: 76 percent; 2012: 67 percent). employee representation in these countries varies concerning 2014 emissions reported to CDP in June looked at our operations from a circular economy The ‘Lifting people’ strategy is also visible in our a great deal from a few individual persons to the 2015. Our work seems to result in recognition also, perspective and examined what environmental renewed leadership-training portfolio, which offers majority of personnel being represented. In connection as our CDP result improved to 98C from 76D. efficiencies the industrial internet can provide. We leadership training to various levels of management, to organized employee representation, the ­Konecranes Water-related issues have not been considered see ourselves as well positioned on this as our new European Workers Council meeting in May discussed highly material for us, as there is no production business models are closer to the center circles of Lost Time Accident Frequency corporate responsibility, occupational safety and the ‘Respect in the Workplace’ policy roll out. ESS Results summary Business Area LTA1, 2015 LTA1, 2014 LTA1, 2013 LTA1, 2012 One key achievement of 2015 was our discussion 2015 2013 2012 Konecranes total 5.9 6.3 8.6 9.5 of diversity and inclusion issues as drivers for longResponse rate 83.2% 85.1% 86.4% Equipment 5.0 5.9 7.3 9.9 term business success. This led us to set diversity Number of responses 9,997 10,281 10,383 Service 7.4 7.3 10.6 10.3 targets for our senior management for gender and PeoplePower rating (C-AAA) AA AA AA LTA1=number of work-related accidents causing at least one day of lost time/work hours performed over the reference period * 1,000,000 hours international diversity. PeoplePower index 70.6 70.5 72.3 32 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Konecranes Annual Report 2015 33 54% of Konecranes employees are 74 nationalities employed at For questions about this corporate responsibility report or its contents, contact: corporate-responsibility@ operatives Konecranes konecranes.com Konecranes operations from a circular economy perspective Parts supply/ Recycle: parts manufacturer • Design for disassembly • Materials recyclable the model on page 34, i.e. more desirable from the continue in 2016. Our supplier network is, from Components made in-house environmental perspective. Industrial internet soluan environmental perspective, one of our signifitions are in a key role in rental and leasing business cant impacts. We have continued the professional models and in preventive maintenance. management of our supplier network as before. In Product manufacturer Refurbish/remanufacture: addition, we began piloting deeper corporate responProducts designed and made in-house • Rebuilt parts & reverse engineering • Remanufactured lift trucks Integrity sibility audits by a third party. The first in-depth From the business ethics side, 2015 was a mixed third-party corporate responsibility audits took place year for Konecranes. We have improved our awarein China at the end of the year and the pilot will ness of the topic, educated our personnel and continue in India during 2016. We will report on the Service provider Reuse/redistribute: Global service network • Rental and leasing followed up on these topics on multiple fronts. For findings and potential resultant actions when it is • Second hand lift trucks example, Group-wide extensive competition law and timely to do so. anti-competitive behavior training for all manageIn addition, concerning our supplier network, ment level personnel took place. We also conducted we finalized the project of enhancing suppliers’ Share a wide anti-corruption risk assessment survey within safety, environmental and quality management. • Rental crane the organization. We have discussed the results This project originates from 2011. We did not quite Customer • Agilon material of this anti-corruption risk assessment in multiple reach our original target, but we nevertheless handling – Maintain/prolong: leasing model regional, business unit and function management consider this project a success, as a learning journey • Lifecycle care • Parts, modernizations, team meetings to have a common understanding of for ourselves and hopefully for our participating Collection retrofits the situation and engage people in further activities. suppliers also. What we managed to achieve is a 51 The first activities to further mitigate risks on this percent improvement in quality management system Energy recovery & front have partly begun and others are under plancoverage, a 63 percent improvement in safety avoid/minimize landfill ning. management system coverage and a 56 percent In 2015, one of Konecranes’ foreign subsidiaries improvement in environmental management system became the victim of a fraud. The perpetrators coverage of our top suppliers by spend. had, through identity theft and other fraudulent actions, managed to induce the subsidiary to make Environmental data 2015 unwarranted payments in a total amount of up to Energy consumption and emissions 2015 2014 2013 EUR 17 million. Konecranes has reported the crime Total emissions/sales1) tCO2e/MEUR 29 33 33 to the authorities in the relevant countries and is Top suppliers HSEQ Total energy consumption/sales MWh/MEUR 107 121 113 working closely with the authorities to recover its final status Fuel consumption, MWh 151,800 169,600 161,400 Scope 1, losses and to bring the perpetrators of the fraud to Natural gas and LPG consumption, MWh 16,700 18,100 18,800 energy consumption and direct emissions justice. There have been multiple immediate correcDirect emissions, tCO2e 42,500 46,900 45,200 Electricity consumption, MWh 42,100 40,300 41,600 tive actions on our side to prevent similar criminal 38% 70% 77% Scope 2, District heat consumption, MWh 16,500 15,500 16,000 activities happening. For example, a press release energy consumption and indirect emissions Location-based method 19,300 20,200 20,800 on the case was issued to warn other companies of Indirect emissions, tCO2e2) 20% 38% 44% Market-based method 18,300 19,000 23,800 this type of criminal activity, training took place and Scope 3, other indirect emissions Business travel, tCO2e 8,300 9,600 9,000 awareness was raised of our financial organization 9% 20% 25% Waste (tons) and of relatively new types of fraud generally. In Metal scrap3) 8,200 9,500 8,500 addition, Konecranes strengthened its internal secuCardboard, paper, and wood3) 2,900 4,200 1,600 Hazardous and electronic and electrical waste4) 800 600 550 rity practices, policies, controls and governance to ISO OHSAS ISO Mixed waste5) 2,100 1,200 2,700 mitigate the risk of similar frauds. We are introducing 9001, 18001, 14001, fraud prevention e-learning as a mandatory element quality safety environment Water consumption (m3) 139,600 138,800 160,100 for relevant functions. Rollout of this e-learning will Figures represent our manufacturing locations, except fuel consumption, which includes also service vehicle fleet. Total emissions include scope 1 and scope 2 (market-based 1) 2013 method). Year 2013 and 2014 figures are revised accordingly. 2) Scope 2 indirect emission are calculated according to the new GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance dual reporting requirement: location-based and market-based method. Year 2013 and 2014 figures are revised accordingly. Konecranes Finland Oy acquired RES-GO guarantees of origin 2014 for electricity (Renewable Energy Sources Guarantee of Origin) which are subject to EECS (European Energy Certificate System) in 2014 and 2015. These guarantees of origin 2015 covered 20,000 MWh electricity consumption per year. Production method was hydro power. 3) Waste streams go for recycling. 4) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration and other adequate treatments depending on location. 5) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration, composting and landfill depending on location. 34 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Konecranes Annual Report 2015 35 GRI CONTENT INDEX Link to Link to UN Global UN Global Compact 10 Link to External Compact 10 Link to External Page Comments principles UN SDGs assurance* Page Comments principles UN SDGs assurance* GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 34 7, 8 6 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-1 CEO's statement 6-7 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 34 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 34 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x G4-3 Name of the organization 3 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 34 7, 8, 9 7, 12, 13 x G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 2, 25–27 9 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 34 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters 3 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 34 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x G4-6 Number of countries and location of operations 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 3 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 34 7, 8 12 G4-8 Markets served 20–21 MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 2–5 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 22, 33 9 6, 7, 12, G4-10 Breakdown of workforce 3, 21, 29, 13 33 CATEGORY: SOCIAL G4-11 Employees covered by bargaining agreements 32 3 SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-12 Organization's supply chain 35 MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-13 Significant changes 63 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 31–32 main elements 1 3, 8 x G4-14 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is addressed 33–35 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender reported G4-15 External initiatives 28, 31 MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-16 Memberships in associations 28 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee 33 main elements 5, 8 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES category reported G4-17 Entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements 115–117 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 32 8 G4-18 Process for defining report content and aspect boundaries 30–31 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-19 Material aspects 28 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 32 8 development reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 28 SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 28 MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restaments of information provided in earlier 34 reports G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 32 partly covered 1, 2, 6 5, 8 G4-23 Significant changes 30 MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of 35 1, 2, 3 12. 16 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and G4-24 List of stakeholder groups 28 measures taken to support these rights G4-25 Identification of stakeholders 28 MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 28 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child 35 1, 2, 5 8, 12 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement 28 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor REPORT PROFILE MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-28 Reporting period 30 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of 35 1, 2, 4 8, 12 G4-29 Date of most recent report 30 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor G4-30 Reporting cycle 30 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding report 36 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 35 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 8, 12 G4-32 GRI content index 36–37 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply 35 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 30 chain and actions taken 5, 6 GOVERNANCE SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY G4-34 Governance structure 38 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations asessed for risks related to 35 10 16 G4-56 Organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 10–11 corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 35 10 16 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 35 10 16 CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 35 16 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 71–113 monopoly practices and their outcomes CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions no known G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 33 partly covered 7, 8 for non-compliance with laws and regulations cases MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 34 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 34 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and 33 3 safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-EN5 Energy intensity 34 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary no known 3 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 34 7, 8 7, 12, 13 x codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services cases G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 34 7, 8, 9 7, 12, 13 x during their life cycle, by type of outcomes MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer no known privacy and losses of customer data cases *External assurance statement by Ecobio Oy is availabe on www.konecranes.com 36 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX Konecranes Annual Report 2015 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konecranes Plc (Konecranes, the Company) is with all the recommendations of the Code with no and right of supervision and control over the Compamanage and supervise the Company’s administration a Finnish public limited liability company, which exceptions. Konecranes has issued a Corporate ny’s business. and operations as set forth in the Companies Act, the complies with the Finnish Companies and Securities Governance Statement based on Recommendation An Annual General Meeting (AGM) must be held Articles of Association, and other applicable Finnish Market Acts, the rules of Nasdaq Helsinki, and other 54 of the Code and a Remuneration Statement within six months after the end of a financial year. laws and regulations. The Company aims to comply regulations concerning public companies, as well based on Recommendation 47. See Konecranes Plc’s Annual General Meeting 2015 was with all applicable rules and regulations affecting the as Konecranes’ Articles of Association, in its deciwww.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate held on March 26, 2015. An Extraordinary General Company or its affiliates (Group Companies) outside sion-making and administration. Governance for details. Meeting (EGM) must be held if shareholders with at Finland, provided that such compliance does not Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate least 10 percent of shares so demand in writing to constitute a violation of Finnish law. Governance Code 2010 that came into force on General Meeting consider a specific issue. The Board has a general obligation to pursue October 1, 2010 and was approved by the board of The General Meeting of Shareholders is the CompaThe Board of Directors (Board) shall convene an the best interests of the Company and all its sharethe Securities Market Association. The Code can ny’s highest decision-making body, through which AGM or EGM by publishing a notice on the Compaholders, and is accountable to the Company’s sharebe found at www.cgfinland.fi. Konecranes complies shareholders exercise their decision-making power ny’s website or in one or more national newspapers holders. Board members shall act in good faith and or by sending a written notice to shareholders by with due care, exercising their business judgment on mail no more than three (3) months and no less than an informed basis in what they believe to be the best three (3) weeks before a meeting. The notice shall interests of the Company and its shareholder commuinclude the proposed agenda. nity as a whole. The Company shall disclose on its website the The Board shall decide on the business strategy of Corporate Governance structure of the Konecranes Group in 2015 date by which shareholders shall notify the Board of the Company, the appointment and dismissal of the Directors of any issue that they wish included in the President and CEO, the deputy to the President and CEO, Konecranes Group agenda. and other senior management, Group structure, acquiThe Company will publish the decisions made at sitions and divestments, financial matters, and investKonecranes Plc General Meetings as stock exchange releases and ments. It shall also continuously review and monitor the Articles of Association on the Company’s website without delay after meetoperations and performance of Group Companies, risk General Meeting Auditor ings. The minutes of the General Meeting, including management, and the Company’s compliance with appli(Shareholders) Code of Conduct those appendices of the minutes that are part of cable laws, as well as any other issues determined by decisions made by the meeting, will be posted on the the Board. The Board shall keep itself informed of issues Group’s internal rules, regulations and Group Company’s website within two weeks of a General and business activities of major strategic importance to Board of Directors Policies Meeting. the Company on an ongoing basis. Laws, Audit Committee More information on General Meetings can The Board shall appoint a secretary to be present Internal rules and be found on the Company’s website at at all Board meetings. Audit regulations Nomination and www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Compensation Committee Governance > General Meeting. Election and term of office The AGM elects the Company’s Board of Directors Board of Directors for a term of one (1) year. According to the Articles of Association, the Board shall have a minimum of five President and CEO Group Administration Charter of the Board of Directors (5) and a maximum of eight (8) members. The Board and Support The Company’s Board of Directors has approved a elects a Chairman from among its members. There is Group Executive Board Functions written charter governing its work. This supplements no provision in the Articles of Association to appoint Senior Management the provisions of the Finnish Companies Act and the Board members according to a specific order. Company’s Articles of Association. Information in the Biographical details of the Board of Directors are charter is intended to enable shareholders to evalpresented on pages 54-55 and can also be found at uate the operation of the Board. The charter can be www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate GovernBA Equipment BA Service consulted on the Company’s website at ance > Board of Directors. www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate In addition to the Board and its secretary, the Governance > Board of Directors. Company’s President and CEO and CFO shall attend Component Board meetings. The agenda of Board meetings Business units and Business units and regions manufacturing and regions Responsibilities and background material will be delivered to Board strategic sourcing The Board is responsible for the administration and members prior to meetings. The Board shall meet as proper organization of the Company’s operations. often as necessary to properly discharge its responThe Board is vested with powers and duties to sibilities. There shall be approximately eight regular 38 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konecranes Annual Report 2015 39 meetings a year; the Board may convene whenever The attendance at Nomination and Compensation Board meetings 2015 necessary in addition to these meetings. Committee meetings in 2015 is shown in the table of Nomination and Compensation Board meetings Audit Committee meetings Committee meetings The attendance of Board members at meetings in Board meetings on page 41. Member Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage 2015 is shown in the table on Board meetings 2015 Gustavson Stig, Chairman of the Board 20/22 91% 1/4 25% on page 41. Remuneration paid to the Board of Directors Adde Svante, Board member 21/22 95% 6/6 100% The remuneration paid to Board members is Johansson Ole, Vice Chairman 19/20 95% 5/5 100% Board committees resolved by the Annual General Meeting. More inforJärvinen Tapani, Board member 2/2 100% 1/1 100% The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee and mation on the Board’s remuneration can be found Kavetvuo Matti, Board member 21/22 95% 4/4 100% Kopola Nina, Board member 14/16 88% 2/2 100% 1/1 100% the Nomination and Compensation Committee. Both on page 41 under Remuneration of the Board of Langenskiöld Bertel, Board member 21/22 95% 4/4 100% committees were first formed in 2004. Directors. Persson Malin, Board member 21/22 95% 5/6 83% Silvennoinen Mikael, Board member 2/2 100% 1/1 100% Audit Committee President and CEO Vitzthum Christoph, Board member 19/20 95% 3/3 100% The Board shall appoint the members and the Konecranes’ President and CEO holds the position The average attendance at Board meetings was 94.1 percent. Chairman of the Audit Committee from among its of Managing Director under the Companies Act. The members. The Audit Committee shall have at least Board decides on the appointment and dismissal of three (3) non-executive Board members that are the President and CEO. The President and CEO may Group management person’s position in the organization. Typically, these independent of and not affiliated with the Company. be a member of the Board of Directors, but may not Konecranes has a two-tier operative management variable components are based on the financial At least one member must be independent of major act as its Chairman. The current President and CEO, structure consisting of the Group Executive Board results of the Group and/or the unit in question as shareholders. Mr Panu Routila, is not a member of the Board of (GXB) and Senior Management (SM). well as personal achievements. These remuneration The tasks and responsibilities of the Committee Directors. The GXB assists the President and CEO, but schemes are drawn up in writing and numerical evalare defined in its Charter, which is based on a Board Konecranes announced the appointment of Panu has no official statutory position based on legisuation is used whenever possible. resolution. The Charter of the Audit Committee can Routila as President and CEO on July 29, 2015. Mr lation or the Articles of Association. In practice, All remuneration schemes are designed to meet be consulted on the Company’s website at Routila started in his position on November 1, 2015. however, it plays a significant role in the Company’s both global and local needs, and may differ between www. konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Konecranes’ former President and CEO Pekka Lundmanagement system, strategy preparation, and locations as a result. Governance > Board Committees. mark left the company on September 5, 2015. CFO decision-making. The biographical details of GXB Under its Charter, the Audit Committee shall meet Teo Ottola was appointed Deputy CEO on July 29, members can be found on pages 56-57. Decision-making process at least four (4) times a year. The Chairman shall 2015. The SM focuses on a systematic review of the The AGM adopts resolutions and decides the remupresent a report on each Audit Committee meeting CFO Teo Ottola will continue as the Deputy CEO. progress of strategy implementation. The biographneration of the Board of Directors and the Board’s to the Board. The Deputy CEO uses the powers of the CEO if the ical details of SM members can be found on pages Committees annually. The Nomination and CompenThe attendance at Audit Committee Meetings in CEO position is not filled or in situations when the 58-60. sation Committee reviews the President and CEO’s 2015 is shown in the table of Board meetings on CEO is incapacitated to fulfil his duties. The GXB normally convenes on a monthly basis. performance. Based on this review and other relepage 41. The SM convenes twice a year. In addition, Groupvant facts, the Board determines the total remuneraResponsibilities level results are reviewed monthly under the chairtion package of the President and CEO. Nomination and Compensation Committee Under the Companies Act, the President and CEO is manship of the President and CEO. Business Areas The Nomination and Compensation Committee The Board shall appoint the members and the responsible for the day-to-day management of the and Regions have their own management teams that also evaluates and prepares for the Board’s decision Chairman of the Nomination and Compensation Company in accordance with instructions and orders convene on a regular basis. on the remuneration packages of GXB members who Committee from among its members. The Nominagiven by the Board. The President and CEO may only report directly to the President and CEO. The remution and Compensation Committee shall have 3–4 undertake actions which, considering the scope and Remuneration neration packages for SM members who are not part non-executive Board members, the majority of whom nature of the Company’s operations, are unusual or of GXB are decided on by the President and CEO. shall be independent of the Company. extensive with the authorization of the Board. The Principles applied to remuneration schemes All Konecranes remuneration issues are decided The Committee’s tasks and responsibilities are President and CEO shall ensure that the Company’s All Konecranes remuneration schemes are designed by the “one above” principle, i.e. a manager’s supedefined in its Charter, which is based on a Board resoaccounting practices comply with the law and that to promote high performance and emphasize focus rior must always confirm the remuneration of an lution. The Charter of the Nomination and Compensaits financial affairs have been arranged in a reliable and commitment to business targets. Remuneration employee. tion Committee can be consulted on the Company’s manner. The President and CEO is also responsible schemes promote competitiveness and the long-term website at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corpofor preparing matters presented to the Board and for financial success of the Company and contribute to Remuneration of the Board of Directors rate Governance > Board Committees. the Company’s strategic planning, finance, financial the favorable development of shareholder value. The remuneration of the Board members is resolved The Nomination and Compensation Committee planning, reporting, and risk management. The objective is for all Konecranes employees to by the AGM. Fees payable to the Board members as shall meet at least once (1) a year. The Chairman Information on the President and CEO’s remunerhave a variable component based on their perforconfirmed by the latest AGM are shown in the table shall present a report on each Nomination and ation can be found on page 42 under Remuneration mance as a part of their overall remuneration. The on page 42. Compensation Committee meeting to the Board. of the President and CEO. size of this variable component varies according to a 40 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konecranes Annual Report 2015 41 Fees payable to the Board of Directors for the discretionary period 2015–2017 is 48,000 Total compensation paid to the Board of Directors in 2015 Annual fee 2015 EUR shares (gross). Annual fee Committee Chairman of the Board 105,000.00 The pension scheme for the President and CEO cash Shares Shares meetings Total EUR EUR # EUR EUR Vice Chairman 67,000.00 sets his retirement age at 63, and the defined contriGustavson Stig, Chairman of the Board 52,500.85 52,499.15 1,805 105,000.00 Board member 42,000.00 bution at 30.5 percent of his annual salary, excluding Adde Svante, Board member 42,000.00 0 18,000.00 60,000.00 Fee per Board Committee meeting 1,500.00 performance-based compensation (annual or longJohansson Ole, Vice Chairman 33,522.70 33,477.30 1,151 7,500.00 74,500.00 Chairman of the Audit Committee per 3,000.00 AC meeting term incentives). Järvinen Tapani, Board member 1,500.00 1,500.00 Board members are also reimbursed for their travel expenses. Kavetvuo Matti, Board member 21,000.34 20,999.66 722 3,000.00 45,000.00 Kopola Nina, Board member 21,000.34 20,999.66 722 3,000.00 45,000.00 Remuneration of the President and Langenskiöld Bertel, Board member 21,000.34 20,999.66 722 3,000.00 45,000.00 50 percent of annual remuneration is paid in CEO until September 5, 2015 Persson Malin, Board member 21,000.34 20,999.66 722 7,500.00 49,500.00 Konecranes shares purchased on the market on The compensation package included base salary, Silvennoinen Mikael, Board member 1,500.00 1,500.00 behalf of Board members. Remuneration may also fringe benefits, a pension scheme, performanceVitzthum Christoph, Board member 21,000.34 20,999.66 722 3,000.00 45,000.00 be paid by transferring treasury shares based on related annual variable pay and a long-term perforTotal 236,025.25 190,974.75 6,566 45,000.00 472,000.00 the authorization given to the Board of Directors by mance-related share plan. The temporary relocation the General Meeting. In the event that payment in to Singapore of the President and CEO ended in June Compensation paid to the President and CEO shares cannot be carried out due to reasons related 2014. As of June 14, 2014, the monthly salary of the Salary, variable pay, and other benefits to either the Company or a Board member, annual President and CEO was EUR 40,000.00 excluding From November 1, 2015 Until September 5, 2015 2014 remuneration shall be paid entirely in cash. benefits (car, housing, and mobile phone). 1. Salary and benefits 73,760 EUR 427,596 EUR 517,607 EUR The President and CEO’s annual variable pay 2. Benefits abroad 78,464 EUR Remuneration of the President and CEO was based on Group profitability and growth and 3. Annual variable pay 216,000 EUR 200,000 EUR 4. Variable pay related to time abroad 270,000 EUR The Nomination and Compensation Committee was at maximum 60 percent of the President and 5. Option rights owned (# of options 31 Dec.) 45,000 reviews the President and CEO’s performance. CEO’s annual base salary. Additionally, the Board of 6. Share rights allocated (PSP) 96,000 0 115,200 Based on this review and other relevant facts, the Directors could, but was not required to, set certain 7. Shares owned (# of shares 31 Dec.) 0 218,479 216,497 Board determines the total compensation package strategic targets that could trigger an additional 8. Retirement age 63 years 63 years 63 years paid to the President and CEO. incentive, which could be a maximum of 50 percent 9. Target pension level Defined contribution plan Defined contribution plan Defined contribution plan of the President and CEO’s annual base salary. 10. Period of notice 6 months 6 months 6 months Remuneration of the President and CEO The pension scheme for the President and CEO 11. Severance payment (in addition to notice period 18 months salary and 18 months salary and 18 months salary and compensation) fringe benefits fringe benefits fringe benefits from November 1, 2015 onwards set his retirement age at 63 and the defined contriThere were no loans issued by the Company to the CEO as of the end of December 2015. The compensation package includes a base salary, bution at 18.6 percent of his annual salary, excluding fringe benefits, a pension scheme, performance-reperformance-based compensation (annual or longRemuneration to the Management lated annual variable pay and a long-term, perforterm incentives). Group Executive Board, excluding the President and CEO mance-related share plan. The monthly salary of The annual salary and benefits paid to the Pres2015 2014 the President and CEO is EUR 35,000.00 excluding ident and CEO in 2015 and 2014 are shown in the 1. Salary and benefits 1,587,656.95 EUR 1,393,059.11 EUR benefits (car, mobile phone). table on page 43. 2. Annual variable pay 237,015.66 EUR 204,128.38 EUR The President and CEO’s annual variable pay is 3. Option rights owned (# of options 31 Dec.) 15,000 84,000 4. Share rights allocated (PSP) 324,000 249,600 based on the financial performance of the company Remuneration of Group Management 5. Shares owned (# of shares 31 Dec.) 144,517 128,156 and is, at maximum, 60 percent of the President and (Group Executive Board) CEO’s annual base salary. Additionally, the Board of The Nomination and Compensation Committee evalDirectors can, but is not required to, set certain strauates and prepares for the Board’s decision on the based on the Group’s five key performance areas: scheme, which can be withdrawn from at the age tegic targets that can trigger an additonal incentive, remuneration packages of GXB members who report safety, customer, people, growth, and profitability. of 60. However, the retirement age is set according which can be a maximum of 50 percent of the Presdirectly to the President and CEO. Remuneration packAnnual variable pay is related to the individual’s to the Finnish Employees Pensions Act (TyEL). The ident and CEO’s annual base salary. For the period ages for SM members who are not part of GXB are performance and to Group performance and/or the Finnish GXB members have life and disability insurSeptember 2015–December 2016, 50 percent of confirmed by the President and CEO. Compensation performance of the unit that he/she belongs to. ances. Non-Finnish members of the GXB participate the maximum bonus is guaranteed pro rata to the packages normally include basic salary, fringe beneNumerical performance criteria are used rather than in a defined contribution pension plan and have local time of employment. fits (typically company car and mobile phone), contripersonal assessments, whenever possible. insurance cover. The President and CEO is entitled to participate bution-based pension schemes, performance-related The annual variable pay percentage is based on There were no loans issued by the Company to in the Company’s long-term incentive program. annual variable pay, and a long-term performance-rethe individual’s responsibilities and is at maximum the GXB members as of the end of December 2015. According to the initial allocation, the maximum lated share plan. 50 percent of the individual’s annual base salary. reward for the discretionary period 2014–2016 is Incentive schemes are always based on written The Finnish members of the GXB participate in a 48,000 shares (gross), and the maximum reward contracts. Incentive criteria may vary, but are usually defined contribution-based group pension insurance 42 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konecranes Annual Report 2015 43 Performance Share Plan 2012 The members of the GXB, including the President Employee Share Savings Plan allowed during the entire day on which results are At the beginning of 2012, Konecranes launched and CEO, have an obligation to continue owning at Konecranes launched an Employee Share Savings announced. The Company maintains Project-Spea long-term incentive plan for key employees and least 50 percent of the shares they earn annually Plan on July 1, 2012 for all employees except those cific Insider Registers for all insider projects. People discontinued the use of stock option plans. through the PSP until they own Company shares with in countries where the plan could not be offered for listed in these registers are prohibited from trading The purpose of the Performance Share Plan (PSP) a value equal to their annual salary including benelegal or administrative reasons. New plan periods in Konecranes shares until termination of the project is to motivate key personnel to contribute to the fits. began on July 1, 2013, July 1, 2014 and July 1, concerned. long-term success of the Company and to create 2015. Participants saved a monthly sum of up to 5 The General Counsel maintains Konecranes’ shareholder value and a joint sense of common Performance Share Plan 2015 percent of their gross salary, which was used to buy register of insider holdings and is responsible for ownership among managers. As of the beginning of 2015, Konecranes launched a Konecranes shares from the market on behalf of the monitoring compliance with insider guidelines and The Board decides annually the allocation of new long-term incentive plan for key employees. The participants. If participants are still in possession declaration requirements. The Company maintains shares to key personnel under a proposal made by aim is to combine the objectives of the shareholders of these shares after an approximate three-year its public insider register in Euroclear Finland Ltd.’s the President and CEO. In allocating shares to the and the key employees in order to increase the value holding period they will receive one matching share SIRE system. President and CEO, the Board acts independently. of the Company, to commit the key employees to the for every two initially purchased. Company, and to offer them a competitive reward The plan also covers top management. ParticipaAudit Discretionary period 2012–2014 plan based on shareholding in the Company. The tion is voluntary for all concerned. The main function of statutory auditing is to verify In the 2012 Plan, earning during the one-year discreBoard of Directors shall determine the amount of the that Konecranes’ financial statements represent a tionary period that began in 2012 was based on the maximum reward for each key employee belonging Insider administration true and fair view of the Group’s performance and Konecranes Group’s EBIT margin, and during the to the target group for the discretionary period. The Board has approved a set of Insider Rules for financial position for the financial year, which is the three-year discretionary period that began in 2012, Konecranes based on the Finnish Securities Markets calendar year. The auditor reports to the Board’s earning was based on the Total Shareholder Return Discretionary period 2015–2017 Act, standards issued by the Financial Supervision Audit Committee on a regular basis and is obliged to of Konecranes Plc’s share. In March 2015, the Board The 2015 Plan has one criterion: cumulative EPS Authority, and the Nasdaq Helsinki Guidelines for audit the validity of the Company’s accounting and of Directors of Konecranes Plc decided on a directed 2015–2017 excluding restructuring costs. Earned Insiders. closing accounts for the financial year and to give the share issue related to the reward payment of the shares will be paid out in the first quarter of 2018. In Konecranes’ Public Insider Register includes the General Meeting an auditor’s report. Konecranes’ 2012 Plan. In the share issue, 55,007 Konecranes the 2015–2017 plan, if maximum performance level members of the Board of Directors, the President auditors are elected by the AGM and will hold office Plc shares held by the Company were conveyed is achieved, the President and CEO will be eligible for and CEO, the secretary to the Board, the auditor, and until further notice. The same auditor with principal without consideration to the key employees partici48,000 shares and the other members of the GXB a the members of SM, as well as other persons holding responsibility may not serve for more than seven pating in the plan. total of 120,000 shares (gross). a comparable position in the Group, as decided by financial years. The members of the GXB, including the President the Company. In addition Konecranes’ companyErnst & Young Oy, Authorized Public AccountDiscretionary period 2013–2015 and CEO, have an obligation to continue owning at specific permanent insiders include persons defined ants, has been the Company’s external auditor The 2013 plan has one criterion: cumulative EPS least 50 percent of the shares they earn annually by the Company, who regularly possess inside inforsince 2006. Ms Kristina Sandin served as Principal 2013–2015. Earned shares will be paid out by the through the PSP until they own Company shares with mation due to their position in the Company. Auditor in 2015. Ernst & Young Oy and its affiliated end of April 2016. In the 2013–2015 plan, if the a value equal to their annual salary including benePersons registered in the Public Insider Register audit companies received EUR 4,467,000 in fees for maximum performance level is achieved, the Presifits. and the Permanent Insider Register are not allowed auditing Konecranes Group companies in 2015 and dent and CEO will be eligible for 48,000 shares and to trade in Konecranes securities during a period fees of EUR 1,518,000 for non-audit services. The the other members of the GXB a total of 120,000 Stock Option Plans commencing on the first day after the end of each audit fee in 2015 was extraordinarily high due to the shares (gross). In the past, the Company had stock option plans for calendar quarter and ending upon the publication fact that the US listing and SEC requirements require The members of the GXB, including the President its key employees, including top and middle manageof the Company’s corresponding interim report or an audit based on US audit standards (PCAOB audit) and CEO, have an obligation to continue owning at ment, and employees in certain expert positions. All financial statements bulletin. Trading is also not for the years 2012–2014 and 2015. least 50 percent of the shares they earn annually these plans were adopted by the relevant General through the PSP until they own Company shares with Meetings. The Board has decided to discontinue the a value equal to their annual salary including benefits. use of these plans until further notice. The subscription period for Stock Options 2009C will end on April Discretionary period 2014–2016 30, 2016. As of the end of 2015, Konecranes Plc’s Summary of Employee Share Savings Plan Expected The 2014 plan has one criterion: cumulative EPS stock options 2009 entitled the holders to subscribe Amount of Timing of matching shares 2014–2016. Earned shares will be paid out by to a total of 638,500 shares. participants Amount of matching share to be delivered Plan period Savings period (Dec 31) shares acquired delivery (by Dec 31) the end of April 2017. In the 2014–2016 plan, if The terms and conditions of Konecranes stock 2012–2013 July 1, 2012–June 30, 2013 1,259 75,790 Feb 2016 37,895 maximum performance level is achieved, the Presioption plans can be consulted on the Company’s 2013–2014 July 1, 2013–June 30, 2014 1,519 95,557 Feb 2017 47,779 dent and CEO will be eligible for 48,000 shares and website at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Share 2014–2015 July 1, 2014–June 30, 2015 1,455 87,653 Feb 2018 43,827 the other members of the GXB a total of 120,000 information > Stock option plans. 2015–2016 July 1, 2015–June 30, 2016 1,495 25,162* Feb 2019 12,581 shares (gross). *by the end of Q3 2015 44 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konecranes Annual Report 2015 45 RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING Konecranes’ Board of Directors has defined and while demand for port equipment follows trends in of our customers. It is Konecranes practice to review behaves over time. We use this knowledge in our adopted a set of risk management principles based global transportation and, over the shorter term, customers carefully before entering into a formal technical development work. Digitalization provides on widely accepted international good management port investment cycles. The lift truck cycle follows business relationship with them and to require credit new ways to engage customers by providing differenpractices. The Audit Committee evaluates and other product segments. Demand for maintenance reports from new customers. The credit risks of our tiated offering. All this reduces technical risks, and reports on the adequacy and appropriateness of services is driven by customers’ capacity utilization customers are mitigated with advance payments, improves safety and reliability. Additionally, this also internal controls and risk management to the Board. rates. In addition to risks related to sales volumes, letters of credit, payment guarantees, and credit enables us to create a unique offering compared to adverse changes in demand can also result in overinsurance where applicable. By using these tools and competitors. Risk management principles capacity and affect market prices, as can the actions carefully monitoring customer payments, we have Besides focusing on the Industrial Internet and Risk is anything that will clearly affect Konecranes’ of competitors. been able to successfully limit our credit risks. related digitalization, we continued the development ability to achieve its business objectives and execute Konecranes’ aim is to increase the proportion During 2015, Konecranes continued the focused of core technologies needed in our lifting offering. its strategies. Risk management is part of of service revenue in its total revenue stream and receivables collection process and the use of credit Much attention has been paid to the development Konecranes’ control system and is designed to thereby reduce its exposure to economic cycles. In insurance products on selected projects and busiof specific tools for the service business, ensuring ensure that any risks related to the company’s general, the demand for service is less volatile than nesses. A lot of emphasis was put on ensuring sancfurther improvement of service work productivity and business operations are identified and managed that for equipment. tions compliance during 2015. adding value for customers. adequately and appropriately to safeguard the contiAs part of its strategy, Konecranes strives to We continued active management of our intellecnuity of Konecranes’ business at all times. maintain a reasonably wide geographical market Technology risks tual property rights, with the aim of protecting our The Group’s risk management principles provide presence to balance out economic trends in Konecranes recognizes that there are various designs, innovations, trademarks and domains, and a basic framework for risk management across different market areas, while paying attention to threats and opportunities related to the developto secure our freedom to operate. Special emphasis Konecranes, and each Group company or operating relevant distribution costs. Konecranes also aims ment of new products and services in its business. continued to be placed on reacting to possible IPR unit is responsible for its own risk management. This to limit the risks resulting from changes in demand Active management of intellectual property rights is violations, which we consistently monitor. We are approach guarantees the best possible knowledge of in different customer segments and demand essential in the global marketplace. committed to proactively protect our rights in this local conditions, experience, and relevance. for certain products by maintaining a diverse Konecranes continuously monitors general area. The Group’s risk management principles define customer base and offering a wide range of prodmarket trends, technological developments, competrisk management as a continuous and systematic ucts and services. By active product development, itors’ actions, customer behavior, and developments Conducting business in emerging activity aimed at protecting employees from personal ­Konecranes also strives to differentiate itself from in various industry segments in order to identify and developing markets injury, safeguarding the assets of all Group compaits competitors and reduce the competitive pressigns of potential changes that could impact us. Konecranes sells in many developing countries and nies and the Group as a whole, and ensuring stable sures that it experiences. We have developed internal processes to secure has its own personnel, manufacturing and supplier and profitable financial performance. By minimizing In 2015, Konecranes adjusted its local operations systematic follow-up of key technologies. Similarly, networks in these areas. Sudden changes in the losses due to realized risks, and optimizing the cost to meet the market conditions and did not expand we have refined process driven approaches, from political environment, economic, or regulatory frameof risk management, Konecranes can safeguard its into new countries. Supply operations re-routed innovations to needed technological research, all the work of these areas can have an adverse effect on overall long-term competitiveness. part of the key supply routes to better match the way to product development projects. The processes the business of Konecranes. By having our own presprevailing lower demand from emerging markets contain checkpoints to ensure management of ence in some of these countries, Konecranes gains Significant risks for Konecranes and long-term exchange rate changes. Also, political commercial viability and technical risks. We actively direct information on changes affecting the local Konecranes has assessed its strategic, operational, instability in certain areas caused changes of supply seek opportunities to work with external research business environment. Additionally, Konecranes financial, and hazard risks. The list of risks below arrangements. institutes, universities and specialized companies conducts careful evaluations of the political, social, and the risk management methods described here The rollout of new IT-systems continued, and with specific know-how, experience and skills. All of and economic environments in specific countries to are intended to be indicative only and should not be we expect these systems to further improve our these reduce technical risks, provide awareness of ensure that it is aware of developments there. considered exhaustive. capabilities in risk management as they provide and secure access to technological development in The risks related to emerging and developing improved transparency to the local operations. The our field of business. markets are balanced by Konecranes’ strong global Market risks new products launched in the previous year, based To improve safety and reliability of our products presence and stable service operations in developed Demand for Konecranes’ products and services is on our Segment-based Offering initiative, made their further, we utilize our testing centers. We carry out countries in Europe and North America. affected by the development of the local and global first entry to the market. These basic and standard extensive life-time testing of our new and existing Despite the economic slowdown of emerging economy, regional and country-specific political products, combined with our advanced offering, will products, creating new knowledge to reduce techcountries, they still represent a significant longissues and stability, as well as the business cycles further reduce the risk by widening the customer nical risks. Testing centers are also an integral part term market opportunity, of which Konecranes of Konecranes’ customer industries. Currency flucbase. of our in-house research. plans to benefit. Current focus is on organic growth. tuations may cause changes of competitiveness In 2015, we continued our efforts on the IndusGlobalization has made emerging markets more of our products in a specific market and affect Customer credit risks trial Internet. Analysis of collected data to create sensitive to global business cycles, but their imporour customers’ businesses. Capital expenditure Challenges with customer payments could adversely and enhance predictive service models will further tance as a growth opportunity remains. In 2015 on industrial cranes varies with the development affect Konecranes’ financial situation. To limit this improve safety and reliability. Collected technical we adjusted our operations in emerging markets to of industrial production and production capacity, risk, we apply a conservative credit policy in respect data extends our knowledge of how lifting equipment the decreased market demand of new equipment. 46 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING Konecranes Annual Report 2015 47 However, the growing and developing service busitions have been adjusted to market demand. Risk system has been further developed as part of this content but the experience gained during previous ness created new opportunities in these markets. management is an essential element of production continuous improvement. Supplier quality has been years has helped to reduce the associated risks. At We constantly monitor international sanction strategy. The safety and security of key facilities developed in the same way. the end of 2015, all global IT and process programs development to ensure our compliancy. High attencontinued to improve during 2015. have entered their final implementation stages. tion is paid to Konecranes’ Code of Conduct, in its Supplier risks Konecranes IT operated as a business support training and in securing its place as an essential part Material management and Konecranes recognizes that price and continuity function in 2015, with a presence in roughly 20 of ordinary business processes. procurement risks risks are associated with some of its key suppliers, countries. Material management and procurement operations as they could be difficult to replace. In the event of Personnel require a proactive approach and development to major production problems, this could undermine Contract and product liability risks Konecranes’ ability to operate is dependent on the avoid risks related to issues such as pricing, quality, our delivery capability. Quality risks and defects Konecranes can be subject to various legal actions, availability, expertise, and competence of profescapacity, availability, inventory values and additionassociated with subcontracted components are claims, and other proceedings in various countries, sional personnel. ally supplier Code of Conduct and other expectaquality risks for Konecranes. typical for a company in its industry and consistent During 2015, Konecranes increased its investtions as expressed in Konecranes’ Global Supplier To reduce subcontracting risks, Konecranes with a global business that encompasses a wide ments in personnel. The key focus of our investManual. Inefficiencies and deficiencies in these constantly seeks competitive alternative suppliers range of products and services. These may involve ment was upon the industry-leading technical skills areas could affect the performance and reputation while improving cooperation with existing suppliers. contractual disputes, warranty claims, product of service technicians, leadership development, of Konecranes adversely. Konecranes manages its When available, alternative suppliers enhance price liability (including design defects, manufacturing and customer-centric and effective sales and purchases and the logistics of materials and compocompetition, increase production capacity, and defects, failure to post appropriate warnings, and sales management skills. In these focus areas, nents, of substantial importance for its operations, reduce risks of single supplier dependency. asbestos legacy), employment, auto liability, and Konecranes invested in training efforts to ensure on a centralized basis. Contracts with key suppliers To reduce exchange rate risks, a global supply other matters involving claims related to general customer satisfaction. are designed to optimize these purchases globally. arrangement strives to find a geographical balance liability. These risks are managed by continuously In addition to training, Konecranes increased During 2015, Konecranes continued to develop that naturally adapts to long-term exchange rate monitoring operations, improving product safety, investments in safety programs, started implethe quality and scope of supplier cooperation and changes, potentially affecting the competitiveness of training customers, and making use of detailed sales mentation of a global safety management system, its audit process. We also continued to improve our operations. terms. Konecranes also issues written policies in continued employee-engagement programs, such demand-supply monitoring, balancing, forecasting During 2015, Konecranes continued and some cases to ensure compliance with legislation, as our Employee Share Savings plan, and invested and supplier communications to improve our ability enhanced the cooperation with critical suppliers to regulations, and our own principles across the in employee wellbeing. To limit any potential employto respond to customer needs rapidly. During 2015, generate mutual benefits. We also continued to drive Konecranes Group. Particular emphasis is placed on ment risks, we conducted fair labor audits and Konecranes performed a substantial amount of efforts of business continuity management developtraining to ensure that employees are aware of and further developed employee conditions in several supplier assessments, striving to ensure that ment with selected suppliers. comply with the applicable legislation, regulations, markets. supplier cooperation meets expectations. We also and principles relating to their work. Konecranes’ initiated third-party social assessments of our IT risks Legal Department retains outside experts to assist Acquisitions supplier network. Konecranes IT is responsible for all IT services, here when necessary. Unsuccessful acquisitions or a failure to successapplications, and assets used by Group companies. fully integrate an acquired company could result in Quality risks Konecranes’ operations depend on the availability, Illegal activities reduced profitability or hamper the implementation High-quality products, business procedures, reliability, quality, confidentiality, and integrity of Konecranes aims to comply with all applicable laws of corporate strategy. Konecranes reduces the risks processes, and services play a key role in miniinformation. Any and all information security risks and regulations, but breaches of the Company’s associated with acquisitions by carrying out thormizing Konecranes’ business risks. Most companies and incidents may affect business performance policies resulting in illegal activities can threaten ough due diligence analyses, using external advisors in the Group and all major Group operations use adversely. the Company. Konecranes considers the potential when needed. certified quality procedures. Our multisite quality Konecranes uses reliable IT solutions and risks involved to be limited, however, although it certificate covers several main production units employs efficient information security managerecognizes that even small-scale illegal activity Production risks and has supported our actions to harmonize quality ment to avoid data loss and prevent the confidencould damage its reputation and affect its financial Konecranes’ strategy is to maintain in-house producprocesses throughout the corporation. In addition, tiality, availability, or integrity of data from being condition and results adversely. Internal procedures, tion of key components that have high added value existing quality certificates were updated and new compromised. User care and support is exercised supervision, audits, and practical tools are used and/or provide core competitive advantages. There ones received in 2015. Determined certification with internal and outsourced IT services to ensure to reduce Konecranes’ exposure to these types of are specific risks involved with different aspects of work is continuing in line with Konecranes’ principles the high availability, resiliency, and continuity of risks. production, such as production capacity managein this area. During 2015, Konecranes continued services, and rapid recovery in the event of any Illegal and fraudulent criminal activities targeting ment, operational efficiency, continuity, and quality. developing both its local and global quality improvetemporary loss of key services. Konecranes cause risks that may have substantial Efforts have continued to further develop producment processes. Our Lean Six Sigma methodology During 2015, Konecranes continued impleimpact on our financial results. We have identified a tion operations. Continuous replacement investfor quality development progressed well and it plays menting global IT applications and business process notable increase of such criminal attempts in 2015. ments and enhanced maintenance of production a key role in improving operational excellence. A harmonization work. Implementations of this type During 2015, Konecranes continued its efforts equipment have continued while production operaproduct line based factory and site acceptance test always include risks in terms of schedule, costs and to ensure good governance and management 48 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING Konecranes Annual Report 2015 49 p ­ ractices. Konecranes Code of Conduct training for Units hedge their risks internally with Group Control environment Main features of internal control related to financial reporting all new employees has been established as part of Treasury. The majority of the Group’s financial risks the standard process and continues. Konecranes are channeled through Konecranes Finance Corpohas also strengthened internal security practices, ration, where they can be evaluated and controlled Board of Directors Review of financial performance policies, controls and governance during 2015, efficiently. while improving the awareness of and adherence Almost all funding, cash management, and Audit Committee Overview of financial reporting process to these with communication and targeted training foreign exchange transactions with banks and other programs. external counterparties are carried out centrally by Konecranes Finance Corporation in accordance with Damage risks the Group’s Treasury Policy. Only in a few special CEO and Group management Business supervision and monitoring External Audit Damage risks include business interruption risks, cases, where local central bank regulations prohibit Feedback occupational health and safety-related risks, envithe use of Group services for hedging and funding, ronmental risks, fire and other disasters, natural is this done directly between an operating company Management teams in Business Areas and Regions Business supervision and monitoring Internal Audit Feedback events, and premises security risks. Konecranes and a bank under the supervision of Group Treasury. identifies and assesses these risks continuously Konecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury as part of its business processes. To mitigate system that enables transactions to be processed in Reporting units Business Controlling these risks, we have adopted a number of occureal time and provides in-depth records of activities pational health and safety guidelines, rescue and performance. Standard reporting is done on a planning, and premises security instructions. weekly basis and covers Group-level commercial and Konecranes financial reporting manual (Controller’s Manual) Konecranes has also sought to prepare for the financial cash flows, foreign currency transaction materialization of these risks through various exposure, debt positions, derivatives portfolios, and insurance programs and by continuously improving counterparty credit exposure for financial transacFunction Control activities its preparedness to deal with various potential tions. In addition, all Group companies participate in crisis situations. monthly managerial and statutory reporting. During 2015, we began a two-year project See Note 33 to the Financial Statements and the improving our capacity to react quicker to trends Board of Directors’ Report for a detailed overview of from near miss and incident reporting, as well as financial risk management. safety observations and audit data. Additionally, this Administratively, Internal Audit reports to Management of financial risks is described in development allows us to track completion of correcInsurance the Group CFO; and Internal Audit activities are Note 33 of Konecranes’ Financial Statements 2015. tive actions. Konecranes is also a sponsor for the The Group reviews its insurance policies as part of reported to the Board’s Audit Committee on a development of the ISO 45001 Safety Management its overall risk management on a continuous basis. regular basis. Control environment System. Insurance policies are used to cover all risks that are Business Area Service manages as a straightforward economically feasible or otherwise reasonable to Internal control and risk line organization according to the regional structure. Financial risks insure. management related to However, certain small operations within Business Konecranes manages most of its financial risks on a financial reporting Area Service are managed globally as they have centralized basis through its Group Treasury. Group Internal Auditing Internal control related to financial reporting close ties to the respective operations within BusiTreasury operates through Konecranes Finance Konecranes’ Internal Audit function is an indeis designed to provide reasonable assurance ness Area Equipment. Corporation, which acts as a financial vehicle for pendent, objective assurance and consulting unit, concerning the reliability of financial reporting and Business Area Equipment operates as a matrix the Group at Corporate Headquarters. Konecranes which assists the organization in achieving its the preparation of financial statements for external organization where business units form one dimenFinance Corporation is not a profit center that objectives. The unit evaluates the efficiency of risk purposes in accordance with generally accepted sion and regions the other. The global business units strives to maximize its profits, but rather its role is management, control, and governance processes accounting principles, applicable laws and regulahave end-to-end result accountability. to help the Group’s operating companies reduce the and investigates all reports of suspected incidents. tions, and other requirements covering listed compaIn 2015, the internal regional structure included financial risks associated with global business operThe latter can be made in person or through a confinies. Risk management is considered an integral the following regions: Europe (EUR), India Middle ations, such as market, credit, and liquidity risks. dential e-mail reporting channel. part of running Konecranes’ business. Konecranes’ East and Africa (IMEA), Americas (AME), North-East The most significant market risk relates to foreign Internal Audit operates according to an audit plan corporate risk management principles provide a Asia (NEA) and South-East Asia-Pacific (SEAP). currency transaction risk. approved by the Board’s Audit Committee. The unit’s basic framework for risk management, while each Financial targets are set and planning/follow-up The responsibility for identifying, evaluating, and working methods are based on the professional Group company or operating unit is responsible activities are executed along both dimensions of controlling the financial risks arising from the Group’s standards laid down by the Institute of Internal Audifor its own risk management. This principle is also the matrix organization in accordance with the global business operations is divided between busitors (IIA) and focus on process-oriented engagement followed in risk management related to financial overall business targets of the Konecranes Group. ness units and Konecranes Finance Corporation. rather than solely entity-based auditing. reporting. The operations of the Service business are t­ ypically 50 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING Konecranes Annual Report 2015 51 ­ onitored based on profit-responsible service m performance review meetings. These meetings are controls and governance during 2015 to mitigate The CRM and People systems have reached the branches (314 in 2015), which are further consoliconducted by business units/business areas, on the risk for illegal and criminal activities targeting targeted global coverage. Their features and funcdated to country and region levels. The Equipment country and regional as well as Group level, and Konecranes. tionalities are being developed further to maximize business is mainly monitored via business units (4 in cover a review of the sales funnel, competitive situathe business benefits. 2015), which are divided into business lines. tion, market sentiment, order intake and order book, Communication Konecranes continued the implementation and Corporate governance and business managemonthly financial performance, quarterly and rolling The Controller’s Manual, together with reporting development of the Financial Shared Service Center ment at Konecranes are based on the Company’s 12-month forecasts, as well as safety, people, and instructions and policies, are stored in the (FSSC) concept to offer mainly transaction handling values of trust in people, total service commitment, customer topics. Group management follows up Konecranes intranet for access by personnel. services, financial master data maintenance, and and sustained profitability. The control environment separately the most important development activiThe Group, Business Areas, and regions also some financial accounting services from regional is the foundation for all the other components ties; e.g., major IT development activities are moniarrange meetings to share information on financenters to individual Konecranes companies. of internal control and for promoting employees’ tored by the Business Infrastructure Board and R&D cial processes and practices. Information for the The internal control environment will be improved awareness of key issues. It supports the execution projects by the Product Board. These Management Group’s stakeholders is regularly communicated via using common, unified processes and a common of strategy and regulatory compliance. The Board of Boards typically convene on a quarterly basis. the Konecranes Group’s website. To ensure that the system platform. Monitoring the effectiveness of Directors and Group Management are responsible information provided is comprehensive and accuinternal controls will become more transparent for defining the Konecranes Group’s control environMonitoring rate, the Group has established a set of external following the implementation of the SAP ERP system. ment through corporate policies, instructions, and The Group conducts an annual self-assessment communications guidelines. These define how, by Financial Shared Service Centers will create a unified financial reporting frameworks. These include the through its Managing Directors and controllers whom, and when information should be issued; framework for transactional processing and provide Konecranes Code of Conduct and the Konecranes to monitor the effectiveness of selected financial and are designed to ensure that Konecranes an enhanced segregation of duties. Controller’s Manual, which constitutes the main tool internal controls. The Group also has an Internal meets all its information obligations and to further for accounting and financial reporting principles in Audit function, which is responsible for monitoring strengthen internal controls related to financial respect of providing information, guidelines, and and evaluating the effectiveness of Konecranes’ risk reporting. instructions. The interpretation and application of management and internal control system. Internal accounting standards is the responsibility of the Audit plans its work in cooperation with the Audit During 2015 Global Finance function. Guidelines and instructions Committee, which approves an annual internal Konecranes continued its IT system project (ERP, for reporting are updated when necessary and are audit plan. The Audit Committee receives direct CRM and People systems for both the Service and reviewed at least once a year. reports from external auditors and discusses and Equipment Business Areas) to further develop and follows up their viewpoints. External auditors are implement harmonized processes, increase operControl activities also represented at Audit Committee meetings. The ational visibility and improve decision-making, and Konecranes Group’s management has operational Group’s financial performance is reviewed at every reduce the overall number of various IT systems. responsibility for internal controls. Financial control Board meeting, and the Board of Directors and the The SAP ERP system will be used for transaction activities are integrated into the business processes Audit Committee review all external financial reports handling and logistics within both Business Areas. of the Konecranes Group and management’s busibefore they are made public. The Siebel ERP system will be used to manage the ness supervision and monitoring procedures. The The Group has a confidential e-mail reporting field service operations as well as to store the data Group has identified and documented the signifchannel (Whistleblower channel) through which related to the assets under maintenance contracts. icant internal controls that relate to its financial matters related to suspected misconduct can be The pilot unit of the SAP ERP system was processes either directly or indirectly through other reported. All notices of suspected incidents are launched at the end of September 2011. Several processes. The total number of identified financial investigated by Internal Audit and findings are new units in North America rolled out during 2013 internal controls is approximately 130. All legal reported to the Audit Committee. We received three and in 2014 key manufacturing units in Finland entities and business units have their own defined reports of suspected misconduct via the Whistleimplemented SAP in their operations. In 2015, SAP controller functions. Representatives from controller blower channel in 2015; these cases did not have a rollouts continued in Europe and Asia. By the end functions participate in planning and evaluating unit material impact on the Group’s financial results. of 2015, the SAP ERP had reached more than 50 performance, and ensure that monthly and quarterly During summer 2015, one of Konecranes’ foreign percent coverage of Konecranes’ business. financial reporting follows the Group’s policies and subsidiaries became the victim of a fraud. The Pilot Service units in Europe took the Siebel ERP instructions and that all financial reports are delivperpetrators managed through identity theft and system into use in 2012–2013. The implementaered on time in accordance with schedules set by other fraudulent actions to induce the subsidiary to tion continued in North America and Australia in the Group. Controller functions typically report with make unwarranted payments to a total amount of up 2014, and work continued in those areas in 2015. solid line to business management and with dotted to EUR 17.0 million. Konecranes has a crime insurThe Siebel ERP system was rolled out in additional line to Finance function. ance policy covering the entire group of companies European countries in 2015. By the end of 2015, the Management follow-up is carried out through with a coverage of EUR 10 million. Konecranes has Siebel ERP had reached approximately 40 percent monthly management reporting routines and strengthened internal security practices, policies, coverage of business within Business Area Service. 52 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING Konecranes Annual Report 2015 53 1 Stig Gustavson 3 Matti Kavetvuo Principal occupation: Board 7 Christoph Vitzthum BOARD OF DIRECTORS b. 1945 b. 1944 Professional b. 1969 Chairman of the Board since 2005 Board Member 2001–December Primary work experience: Board Member and Member of the Board Member since 1994 and 31, 2015, Chairman of the NominaHartwall Capital Oy Ab 2011–2015: Nomination and Compensation Member of the Nomination and tion and Compensation Committee Managing Director; Metso Paper Committee since March 26, 2015 Compensation Committee since 2009–2011 and Member 2012– and Fiber Technology 2009–2011: M.Sc. (Econ.) 2006 December 31, 2015. President; Metso Paper 2007– Principal occupation: President M.Sc. (Eng.), Dr.Tech. (hon.) Member of the Audit Committee 2008: President; Metso Paper, Fiber and CEO, Fazer Group Principal occupation: Board 2004–2008 Business Line 2006–2007: PresiPrimary work experience: Professional M.Sc. (Eng.), B.Sc. (Econ.) dent; Metso Minerals 2003–2006: Wärtsilä Corporation 2009–2013: Primary work experience: KCI Principal occupation: Board President; Fiskars Corporation President Services, Executive Vice Konecranes Plc 1994–2005: PresiProfessional 2001–2003: President and CEO; President; Wärtsilä Corporation dent and CEO; KONE Cranes division Primary work experience: Pohjola Tampella Power/Kvaerner Pulping, 2006–2009: President Power 1988–1994: President; KONE Group Plc 2000–2001: CEO; Valio Power Division 1994–2000: Plants, Executive Vice President; Corporation 1982–1988: Holder of Ltd 1992–1999: CEO; Orion CorpoPresident Wärtsilä Propulsion 2002–2006: various executive positions. Prior to ration 1985–1991: CEO; InstrumenCurrent key positions of trust: President; Wärtsilä Corporation 1982: Holder of various executive tarium Corp. 1979–1984: President Kährs Holding AB: Board Member 1999–2002: Vice President, positions in major Finnish Current key positions of trust: No Bertel Langenskiöld is independent Finance & Control, Marine Division; corporations key positions of trust. of the Company. He is deemed Wärtsilä Corporation 1997–1999: Current key positions of trust: Independent of the Company and its to be dependent of significant Business Controller, Power Plants Ahlström Capital Oy: Vice Chairman significant shareholders. shareholders of the Company Division; Metra Finance Oy 1995– of the Board; Oy Mercantile Ab: Shares: 12,383 based on his previous position as 1997: Dealer Board Member; IK Investment Partthe Managing Director of Hartwall Current key positions of trust: Capital Oy Ab. ners: Board Member in the following 4 Malin Persson Shares: 3,293 NCC AB: Board Member; Oras Invest Funds: IK 2004, IK 2007 and IK b. 1968 Oy: Board Member; East Office of VII Limited; Outokumpu Plc: Board Board Member since 2005 and Finnish Industries: Board Member; Member; Suomi Gas Distribution Member of the Audit Committee 6 Ole Johansson EVA (Elinkeinoelämän valtuuskunta): Oy: Chairman of the Board; Mutual since 2012 b. 1951 Delegation Member; Finnish Food Pension Insurance Company Varma: Member of the Nomination and Vice Chairman of the Board and and Drink Industries’ Federation: 1 Member of the Supervisory Board Compensation Committee 2005– Member of the Audit Committee Board Member; Finnish-Swedish 2 3 Stig Gustavson is deemed to be 2011 since March 26, 2015 Chamber of Commerce: Board 6 dependent of the Company based B.Sc. (Econ.) Member; Varma Mutual Pension 7 4 5 on the Board’s overall evaluation M.Sc. (Eng.) Insurance Company: Member of the Principal occupation: CEO and Principal occupation: Board relating to his former and current Owner, Accuracy AB Professional Supervisory Board positions in Konecranes combined Primary work experience: Primary work experience: Independent of the Company and its with his substantial voting rights in Chalmers University of Technology Wärtsilä Corporation 2000–2011: significant shareholders. the Company. He is independent of Foundation: President and CEO; President & CEO; Wärtsilä NSD Shares: 722 any significant shareholders. Volvo Group: Holder of various Oy 1998–2000: President & CEO; Shares: 8,235* executive positions including: Volvo Wärtsilä Corporation 1975–1998: Nina Kopola Technology Corporation: President Vice President, Wartsilä Diesel Inc. b. 1960 2 Svante Adde and CEO; AB Volvo: Vice President, and Wärtsilä Diesel Group: various Board Member 2011–August 11, b. 1956 Corporate Strategy and Business positions in Finland, USA, France 2015, Member of the Nomination Board Member since 2004 Development; Volvo Transport and Switzerland and Compensation Committee Member of the Audit Committee Corporation: Vice President, BusiCurrent key positions of trust: 2011–March 26, 2015, and since 2004 and Chairman of the ness & Logistics Development Aker Arctic Technology Inc.: Member of the Audit Committee Audit Committee since 2008 Current key positions of trust: Chairman of the Board; Hartwall March 27–August 11, 2015. B.Sc. (Econ. and Business Ahlström Capital Oy: Board Member; Capital Oy Ab: Chairman of the M.Sc. (Chemical Eng.), Lic. Sc. Administration) Becker Industrial Coatings AB: Board; Svenska Handelsbanken AB: (Tech.) Principal occupation: Senior Board Member; Getinge AB: Board Board Member Principal occupation: President Adviser, Lincoln International; Board Member; Hexatronic Scandinavia Ole Johansson is independent of and CEO, Suominen Corporation Professional AB: Board Member; Hexpol AB: the Company. He is deemed to be Primary work experience: Dynea Primary work experience: Pöyry Board Member; Kongsberg Autodependent of significant shareOy 2008–2011: Executive Vice Capital Limited, London 2007– motive Holding AB: Board Member; holders of the Company based on President, President Europe; Dynea 2013: Managing Director; Compass Magnora AB: Board Member; his current position as Chairman of Oy 2006–2008: Executive Vice Advisers, London 2005–2007: Mekonomen Group AB: Board the Board of Directors of Hartwall President, Global Market ApplicaManaging Director; Ahlstrom Member; Mobile Climate Control Capital Oy Ab. HTT KCR Holding tions; Dynea Oy 2005–2006: Group Corporation 2003–2005: Chief Group Holding AB: Board Member; Oy Ab holds more than 10 percent Vice President, Marketing; Dynea Oy Financial Officer; Lazard London Presscise AB: Board Member; of Konecranes Plc’s shares and 2000–2005: Various management and Stockholm 2000–2003: RO-Gruppen AB: Chairman of the votes. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab is a positions in Marketing, Controlling Managing Director; Lazard London Board subsidiary of Hartwall Capital Oy and Business Analysis 1989–2000: Director; Citibank Independent of the Company and its Ab. In addition, HTT KCR Holding Current key positions of trust: 1979–1989: Director significant shareholders. Oy Ab, K. Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, Metso Corporation: Board Member; Current key positions of trust: Shares: 7,552 Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab and Ronnas Finnish Textile and Fashion: Board Cambium Global Timberlands Invest AG will in practice co-operate Member; Ilmarinen Mutual Pension in matters concerning their ownerLtd: Board Member; Lantmännen 5 Bertel Langenskiöld ship in Konecranes Plc. Insurance Company: Member of the Agroenergi AB: Chairman of the b. 1950 Supervisory Board Board; Meetoo AB: Chairman of the Shares: 11,151 Independent of the Company and its Board Member since 2012 and Board; Rörvik Timber AB: Chairman Chairman of the Nomination and significant shareholders. of the Board Compensation Committee since Shares: 4,009 (Aug. 10, 2015) * On December 28, 2011 Konecranes Plc received information according to which the Chairman of the company’s Board of Directors, Mr Stig Gustavson had donated all of Independent of the Company and its 2012 the shares he at that time owned in Konecranes Plc to his near relatives retaining himself for life the voting rights and right to dividend attached to the donated shares. The donation encompassed in total 2,069,778 shares which corresponded to approximately 3.27 percent of all of the company’s shares and voting rights. significant shareholders. M.Sc. (Eng.) Shares: 7,682 54 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 55 GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD Panu Routila Teo Ottola Fabio Fiorino Ryan Flynn Timo Leskinen Juha Pankakoski Mikko Uhari b. 1964 b. 1968 b. 1967 b. 1971 b. 1970 b. 1967 b. 1957 President and CEO since Chief Financial Officer Executive Vice President, Head Executive Vice President, Head Senior Vice President, Human Chief Digital Officer Executive Vice President, November 1, 2015 Deputy CEO since July 2015 of Business Area Service and of Business Area Equipment Resources Member of the Group Executive Strategy and Technology Member of the Group Executive Member of the Group Executive Chief Customer Officer Member of the Group Executive Member of the Group Executive Board since 2015 Member of the Group Executive board since 2015 Board since 2007 Member of the Group Executive Board since 2014 Board since 2013 Member of the Senior Management Board since 1997 Employed since 2015 Employed since 2007 Board since 2012 Member of the Senior Management Employed 2013 Team 2013–2014 Employed 1997 M.Sc. (Econ.) M.Sc. (Econ.) Employed 1995 Team 2013 M.Sc. (Psy) Employed 2004 Lic. Sc. (Eng.) Primary work experience: Primary work experience: Elcoteq B. Eng. P.Eng. MBA Member of the Extended ManagePrimary work experience: M.Sc. (Eng.), eMBA Primary work experience: Ahlström Capital Oy 2008–2015: SE 2004–2007: CFO; Elcoteq Primary work experience: ment Team 2009–2013 Fiskars 2009–2013: VP, Human Primary work experience: ­Konecranes Plc 2012: EVP, Head President and CEO; Kuusakoski Network Oyj 1999–2004: Senior ­Konecranes Americas 2010–2011: Employed 2005–2013, 2014– Resources; Nokia Services 2008– ­Konecranes 2010–2014: Vice of Market Operations, 2010–2011: Group, Alteams Oy 2002–2008: Vice President (Business Control Vice President, Head of Service, MBA, BCom 2009: Director HR; ­President, Head of Business Unit EVP, Head of Business Area EquipCEO; Outokumpu Group, Drawn and Accounting); 1998–1999: Region Americas; Morris Material Primary work experience: BlueNokia Customer and Market Parts; 2008–2010: Director, Corpoment, KCI Konecranes/­Konecranes Copper products 1997–2002: Group Business Controller; Elcoteq Handling, Inc. 2006–2009: PresiScope Steel 2013–2014: Vice PresOperations 2006–2007: Director, rate Business Process Develop2005–2009: President, New Director; 1995–1997: Controller; Lohja Oy 1996–1998: Business dent; R&M Materials Handling, Inc. ident, Strategy and Business DevelHR; Nokia Ventures Organization ment; 2004–2008: Director, Supply Equipment Business Areas; KCI Partek Group 1986–1995: various Controller; Rautaruukki Oy 1992– 1999–2006 / Drivecon, Inc. 2002– opment, China; Konecranes Plc 2004–2006: Head of Operations; Operations; Tellabs 2003–2004: ­Konecranes 2004–2005: Presfinancial management positions in 1996: Financial Planner 2006: President; Konecranes 2009–2013: Senior Vice President, 2000–2004 HR Manager; MPS VP, Supply Chain Operations; ident, Special Cranes (Heavy Finland, France and Belgium Shares: 28,490 Americas 1998–1999: Vice PresiHead of Region APAC (Asia-Pacific), 1999–2000: HR Consultant 2002–2003: Regional Director, Lifting), 1997–2003: President, Current key positions of trust: Options to acquire: dent, Business Development, Latin China; Konecranes Plc., China Shares: 1,621 EMEA Operations; 2000–2002: Harbor and Shipyard Cranes; KONE Ahlstrom Corporation: Chairman of America; Konecranes Canada, Inc. 2005–2009: Director, Ports & Lift Options to acquire: Director, Operations; 1998–2000: Corporation 1982–1997: various the Board; Enics AG: Chairman of 1995–1998: Marketing Manager; trucks; NFS Industrial Machinery, Plant Manager; Philips Medical managerial positions at Wood the Board; Destia Group Plc: Vice AECL 1989–1994: Mechanical/ South Africa 2003–2005: General Systems 1997–1998: Operations Handling Division (Andritz as of Chairman of the Board Project Engineer Manager; Afinta Motor Corporation, Manager; FujitsuICL Computers 1996) in Finland, Sweden and in Shares: Shares: 7,792 South Africa 1996–2000: Director; 1993–1997: various management the USA, including: 1996–1997 Options to acquire: Options to acquire: 9,000 shares Standard Bank, South Africa 1990– positions in operations and busiGroup Vice President, Marketing, 1996: Business Manager ness development 1992–1996: Group Vice President, Shares: 3,904 Current key positions of trust: Project Business, 1990–1992: Options to acquire: Kaukomarkkinat Ltd: Board Director, Wood Handling Unit, Member Finland Shares: 398 Shares: 102,312 Options to acquire: 6,000 shares Options to acquire: 56 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD Konecranes Annual Report 2015 57 SENIOR MANAGEMENT Bernie D’Ambrosi Steve Gagnuss Ari Kiviniitty Mika Mahlberg Tomas Myntti Jukka Paasonen Sirpa Poitsalo Topi Tiitola b. 1967 b. 1964 b. 1957 b. 1963 b. 1963 b. 1963 b. 1963 b. 1969 Senior Vice President, Head of Senior Vice President, Head Senior Vice President, Product Vice President, Head of Business Senior Vice President, Head of Vice President, Head of Business Vice President, General Counsel Director, Business Analysis and Region Americas (since March 25, of Region SEAP (Australia, New Management and Development, Unit Port Cranes Region EUR (Europe) Unit Industrial Crane Products Member of Senior Management Support 2015) Zealand, Southeast Asia & Japan) Hoists & Components Member of Senior Management Member of Senior Management until March 31, 2015 since then Team since 2013 Member of Senior Management Member of Senior Management Member of Senior Management Member of Senior Management Team since 2013 Team since 2013 Business Development Director, Member of Extended Management Team since 2013 Team since 2015 Team since 2014 Team since 2013 Employed 1997 Member of Extended Management Customer Experience and Service Team 2009–2013 Employed 1995 B.A. (Bachelor of Arts), Political Employed 1986 Member of Extended Management M.Sc. (Eng.) Team 2011–2013 Offering Member of Executive Board 1999– M.Sc. (Econ) Science Major, Economics Minor, B.Sc. (International Business Team 2012–2013 Primary work experience: Employed 2008 Member of Senior Management 2009 Primary work experience: Youngstown State University, J.D. Management) Member of Executive Board 2005– KCI Konecranes/Konecranes M.Sc. (Eng.) Team 2013–March 31, 2015 Employed 1988 KCI Konecranes/Konecranes (Juris Doctor), University of Toledo Diploma in Business Management 2012 2006–2007: Director, VLC Cranes; Primary work experience: Employed 1988 LL.M. 2005–2013: Group Business College of Law Primary work experience: Employed 1983 KCI Konecranes 2000–2006: Konecranes 2011–2012: SVP, B.Sc. Primary work experience: Controller; KCI Konecranes 2000– Employed 2002 Konecranes 2010–2013: Area M.Sc. (Eng.) Director, STS Cranes; 1997–2000: Head of Region NEI (Nordic, Primary work experience: KCI Konecranes 1997–1998: 2005: Financial Director, Standard Primary work experience: Director, Southeast Asia; 2007– Primary work experience: Project Manager, Harbor and Eastern Europe and India); Konecranes 2011–2012: VP, Assistant General Counsel; KONE Lifting Equipment; 1995–2000: Konecranes 2012–2015: VP, 2010: General Manager, Industrial Konecranes 2005–2015: Senior Shipyard Cranes; Crown Cork & 2010–2011: VP, Head of IndusIndustrial Cranes, Standard Duty Corporation/KCI Konecranes, Several controller positions Region AME, Service; 2009–2012: Cranes and Components, SouthVice President, Head of Product Seal Company 1996–1997: World trial Cranes, Region NEI; 2009: Cranes; 2008–2011: Director, 1988–1997: Legal Counsel Shares: 1,783 VP, Industrial Crane Solutions, east Asia; KONE Corporation/ Management and Engineering; Class Manufacturing Manager; Director, Market Operations, Head Sales Support, Standard Lifting; Shares: 29,343 Options to acquire: 3,000 shares Region AME; 2002–2009: Senior Konecranes 1986–2010: Various KCI Konecranes 2004–2005: Partek Group 1990–1995: Various of Global Key Account Management KCI Konecranes/Konecranes Options to acquire: Legal Counsel, Region AME; Bertin production, sales, operations and VP, Standard Lifting Equipment; management positions in Business and Sales Development; 2008: 2006–2008: Director, Regional Steel Processing, Inc. 1993–2002: product management positions in 2002–2004: Managing Director, Area Precast Concrete in Finland Director, Business Development, Sales Support, Standard Lifting; Tapani Tilus VP, General Counsel Konecranes Australia Hoist factory; 1999–2001: R&D and Belgium Business Area New Equipment; KCI Konecranes 2004–2006: Tom Sothard b. 1974 Shares: 3,996 Shares: 4,907 Manager; 1996–1998: Technical Shares: 2,807 TietoEnator Oyj 2007–2008: Chief Area Manager, West Europe and b. 1957 Vice President, Head of Business Options to acquire: 9,000 shares Options to acquire: Director, Components, Singapore Options to acquire: 18,000 Marketing Officer, Business Area South America, Standard Lifting; Senior Advisor (since March 25, Unit Light Lifting until March 31, Shares: 5,877 shares Telecom and Media; Hantro Prod1997–2003: Sales Manager, Amer2015) 2015 since then Vice President, Options to acquire: 15,000 ucts Oy 2000–2007: SVP, Sales icas Component Center, SpringMember of Senior Management Agilon Business, Group Strategy shares and Marketing; Cadence Design field, USA; KONE Corporation/KCI ­Lars Fredin Miikka Kinnunen Team 2013–March 24, 2015 and Technology Systems 1996–2000: Global Konecranes 1990–1997: Various b. 1961 b. 1977 Member of Extended Management Member of Senior Management Account Director; Intel Corporapositions in sales and area support Vice President, Head of Business Director, Investor Relations Team 2009–2013 Team 2013–March 31, 2015 tion 1994–1996: Global Account as well as in product management; Unit Lift Trucks Member of Senior Management Aku Lehtinen Member of Executive Board 1995– Employed 1998 Manager; Cap Gemini 1989–1994: KONE Corporation 1988–1990: Member of Senior Management Team since 2013 b. 1969 2009 M.Sc. (Eng.) Various management positions; Special Applications Engineer, Hoist Team since 2013 Employed 2009 Senior Vice President, Head of Employed 1983 Primary work experience: Digital Equipment Corporation Factory, Finland Employed 2009 M.Sc. (Econ.) Region IMEA (India, Middle-East B.Sc. (Marketing) Konecranes 2010–2011: VP, 1984–1989: Various positions Shares: 573 B.Sc. (Small Business ManagePrimary work experience: & Africa) Primary work experience: Marketing and new service prodShares: 3,913 Options to acquire: ment) Carnegie Investment Bank AB Member of Senior Management Konecranes 2006–2015: SVP, ucts, Business Area Service; Options to acquire: 2,351 shares Primary work experience: 2001–2009: Financial Analyst Team since 2013 Head of Region Americas; KCI KCI Konecranes/Konecranes Bromma Conquip AB 2003–2009: Shares: 265 Member of Extended Management Konecranes 2001–2006: Presi2006–2009: Director, Parts, BusiVP, Sales & Marketing; Metget AB Options to acquire: Team since 2010–2013 dent, Global Maintenance Services; ness Area Service; KCI Konecranes 2000–2003: Business Consultant Employed 1994 1995–2002: Group VP, North 2003–2006: General manager, and Sales & Marketing Director M.Sc. (Eng.) America; KONE Corporation/KCI Crane Parts Center; 1998–2002: (RFID technology); Kalmar AC Primary work experience: Konecranes 1989–2001: PresiVarious positions as Financial 1998–2000: President; Kalmar Konecranes 2011–2012: SVP, dent, Maintenance Services, North Controller, and in system and Industries 1996–1998: Area Head of Region WEMEA (Western America; KONE Corporation 1984– process development & component Manager, East Asia Europe, Middle East and Africa); 1988: VP, Maintenance Services, sales Current key positions of trust: 2010–2011: SVP, Head of Region North America; Robbins and Myers Shares: 1,356 Byggning-Uddemann AB: Chairman NEI (Nordic, East Europe and 1980–1984: District Manager Options to acquire: 2,500 shares of the Board; Interforum InternaIndia); 2008–2010: Director, South Shares: 17,539 tional AB: Chairman of the Board; East Europe; KCI Konecranes/ Options to acquire: 15,000 Byggning-Ungern Trettioett AB: Konecranes 2006–2008: Director, shares Chairman of the Board RTG Cranes; KCI Konecranes Shares: 6,139 2004–2006: Sales Director, Yard Options to acquire: 10,000 shares Cranes; 1994–2004: Sales, project & product management positions in Asia, Middle East and Europe Shares: 1,483 Options to acquire: 5,000 shares 58 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 SENIOR MANAGEMENT SENIOR MANAGEMENT Konecranes Annual Report 2015 59 Report of the Board of Directors 2015 Marko Tulokas Mikael Wegmüller Ilkka Ylänen Market review The growth of global container traffic stalled during 2015 and b. 1972 b. 1966 b. 1960 Senior Vice President, Product Vice President, Marketing and Senior Vice President, Supply In 2015, emerging economies struggled, while industrial producwas basically unchanged from 2014. Declining port handling and Applications Management, Communications Operations tion in the euro area saw a slight upturn. At the same time, the volumes were reported predominantly in some Asian ports, the Industrial Equipment Member of Senior Management Member of Senior Management U.S. economic data was still generally positive, but some signs of Baltic Sea, as well as in the east coast of Latin America. Container Member of Senior Management Team since 2013 Team since 2013 weaker momentum could be observed in the business conditions. volumes from Asia to the US East and Gulf Coasts increased. Also, Team since 2013 Member of Extended Management Employed 1985 American factory output, measured by the Purchasing the Europe to Middle East and to South Asia trade grew. Despite Employed 2004 Team 2009–2013 M.Sc (Eng.) M.Sc. (Eng), MBA Member of Executive Board 2006– Primary work experience: Managers’ Index (PMI), was in the expansive territory for the first the lack of growth in global container throughput, the demand for Primary work experience: 2009 Konecranes 2013–2015: Chief ten months of 2015, but the rate of growth softened during the yard cranes was robust. Konecranes 2011–2015: VP, Head Employed 2006 Supply Chain Officer, Head of year and the output was contracting at the end of the year. On The demand growth for lifting equipment services was driven of Business Unit Industrial Crane M.Sc. (Econ.) Supply Chain Management; KCI average, the U.S. manufacturing capacity utilization rate was above by Asia-Pacific, whereas the demand was stable in EMEA and the Solutions; 2010–2011: Director, Primary work experience: Publicis Konecranes/Konecranes 2003– the previous year’s level in 2015. However, the capacity utilization Americas. Head of Business process manageHelsinki Oy 2003–2006: Chief 2013: Various positions in engiment; 2008–2010: Director, Operating Officer; SEK & GREY neering, production management rate levelled off during 2015. The key challenges affecting markets Raw material prices, including steel and copper, continued to Delivery Process; 2007–2008: Oy 2000–2003: Planning Group and business related IT systems; during the year were the appreciation of USD against EUR, which be under downward pressure in 2015 and were clearly down on Director, Strategy and Business Director; Publicis Törmä Oy 1997– KONE Corporation/KCI Konecranes reduced the competitiveness of export industries, and the decline a year-on-year basis. The EUR/USD exchange rate stabilized in Development, Process cranes; 2000: Planning Group Director; 1985–2003: Various positions in in oil price, the impact of which was mixed across industries. the second quarter of 2015 at a level that was clearly below the KCI Konecranes/Konecranes Finelor Oy (now L’Oreal Finland Oy) manufacturing and supply chain According to the PMI surveys in the Eurozone, manufacturing previous year’s corresponding period. 2004–2007: Leadership posi1993–1997: Sales and Marketing management tions in sourcing and supply chain Manager; Chips Abp 1991–1993: Shares: 3,131 production growth accelerated in 2015, but the overall rate of Note: Unless otherwise stated, the figures in brackets in the management in China and Finland; Product Group Manager Options to acquire: 7,500 shares expansion remained moderate. Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, sections below refer to the same period in the previous year. Asko Appliances, Uponor Plc: Shares: 4,847 and Italy were the leading lights, whereas the French manufac1998–2002: Several positions in Options to acquire: turing sector contracted for the most part of the year. Outside the Orders received supply chain management Marko Äkräs Eurozone, PMI surveys signaled a healthy expansion of manufacIn 2015, the orders received grew by 3.3 percent to EUR 1,965.5 Shares: 684 b. 1967 turing sector output in Sweden and the UK. Similar to the US, the million (1,903.5). Orders received increased by 7.8 percent in Options to acquire: Steven Xie Senior Vice President, Customer EU capacity utilization was slightly up on a year-on-year basis, but Service, but decreased by 0.4 percent in Equipment. Orders b. 1970 Experience and Service Offering Senior Vice President, Head of Member of Senior Management it stabilized during 2015. received rose in the Americas and APAC, but fell in EMEA. Kari Utriainen Region NEA (North East Asia), Team since 2013 Based on the 2015 Purchasing Managers’ Indexes, manufacb. 1958 Country Director China Member of Extended Management turing activity worsened further in the BRIC countries, with the Order book Vice President, Head of Business Member of Senior Management Team 2012–2013 exception of India. PMIs in Brazil, China, and Russia pointed to a The value of the order book at year-end 2015 totaled EUR 1,036.5 Unit Alfa Team since 2014 Employed 1992 contraction of manufacturing output, while the signs of modest million (979.5), which is 5.8 percent higher than at the end of Member of Senior Management Employed 2004 M.Sc. (Eng.) Team since 2013 MBA Primary work experience: growth could be observed in India. 2014. Service accounted for EUR 165.8 million (16 percent) and Employed 1981 Primary work experience: Konecranes 2011–2015: VP, Head Overall, the activity in the world’s manufacturing sector, according Equipment for EUR 870.7 million (84 percent) of the total end-DeSchool of Applied Science in EngiKonecranes 2013: VP, Country of Customer and Service Techto the aggregated JPMorgan Global Manufacturing PMI, continued to cember order book. neering Director China, Head of Industrial nology; 2009–2011: VP, Head of increase in 2015, but the rate of growth weakened from 2014 and it Primary work experience: Cranes Products APAC; 2012: Service, West-Europe, Middle East was only slightly above stagnation at the end of the period. Sales Konecranes 2010–2011: VP, Head Country Director China; 2010– and Africa (WEMEA); 2007–2009: of Components; 2008–2010: 2011: Head of Industrial Cranes Director, Head of Business Unit Compared to the previous year, the demand for cranes and Group sales in the full-year 2015 increased by 5.7 percent and Director, Branded Products, China; 2009: General Manager, Crane Service; KCI Konecranes/ hoists was stable among industrial customers in Europe, whereas totaled EUR 2,126.2 million (2,011.4). Sales in Service increased Standard lifting; KCI Konecranes/ Standard Lifting Equipment China; Konecranes 2004–2007: the demand weakened in the Americas, Middle East, and Asia. The by 10.9 percent and in Equipment by 1.5 percent. Konecranes 2002–2008: Director, KCI Konecranes/Konecranes Director, Crane Service Nordic; KCI demand for heavy-duty cranes continued to suffer from the low In 2015, the regional breakdown was as follows: EMEA 45 (47), Industrial Cranes & Components, 2004–2008: General Manager, ­Konecranes 2001–2004: General investment activity within the process industries. Demand for lift Americas 39 (36) and APAC 16 (17) percent. Standard Lifting; KONE CorporaStandard Duty Cranes China; LiebManager, Global Parts Center; tion/KCI Konecranes 1981–2002: herr 2002–2004: Sales Director, KONE Corporation/KCI Konecranes trucks was strong across the globe, with the exception of Middle Various positions as Material Earth Moving Equipment, Liebherr 1993–2001: Various positions in East and Africa. controller, Purchaser, Purchasing China; Speco, 1998–2000: Sales service and product management Manager, Project Manager, Factory Manager, China; Central Machinery Shares: 1,471 Manager, Operation Manager, Sales 1994–1998: Sales Manager, China Options to acquire: Manager and General Manager Shares: 314 Net sales by region, MEUR Shares: 3,771 Options to acquire: Change % at comparable Options to acquire: 1–12/2015 1–12/2014 Change percent currency rates EMEA 960.5 946.0 1.5 0.7 AME 823.7 727.5 13.2 -0.6 APEC 342.0 338.0 1.2 -6.6 Total 2,126.2 2,011.4 5.7 -1.1 60 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 SENIOR MANAGEMENT REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 61 Currency rate effect Net financial expenses in January–December totaled EUR 12.5 2010 and will be used for the general corporate purposes of the In August, Konecranes acquired 46 percent of its subsidiary In a year-on-year comparison, the currency rates had a posimillion (12.1). Net interest expenses accounted for EUR 9.6 million Group. None of the Group’s EUR 300 million committed back-up CJSC Zaporozhje Kran Holding in Ukraine and now owns 95 tive impact on the orders and sales in January–December. The (10.4) of this. financing facilities were in use at the end of the period. percent of the company. The purchase price totaled EUR 3.0 reported order intake increased by 3.3 percent, but decreased The January–December profit before taxes was EUR 55.4 In in April 2015, Konecranes paid dividends to its shareholders million, which reduced equity by the same amount. by 3.3 percent at comparable currency rates. Reported sales million (107.4). that amounted to EUR 61.5 million or EUR 1.05 per share. increased by 5.7 percent, but decreased by 1.1 percent at compaThe income taxes in January–December were EUR 24.6 million Personnel rable currency rates. (32.8). The Group’s effective tax rate was 44.4 percent (30.6). Capital expenditure In January–December, the Group employed an average of 11,934 In Service, the reported January–December order intake Deferred tax assets of EUR 4.7 million (0.0) related to the lossIn 2015, the capital expenditure, excluding acquisitions and joint people (11,920). On December 31, the headcount was 11,887 increased by 7.8 percent, but decreased by 1.0 percent at making Indian operations were written off. The Group’s effective arrangements, amounted to EUR 49.3 million (60.0). This amount (11,982). At year-end 2015, the number of personnel by Business comparable currencies. In Equipment, the orders decreased by tax rate was 30.3 percent in 2015, excluding the write-off of the consisted of investments in machinery, equipment, properties, and Area was as follows: Service 6,503 employees (6,285), Equipment 0.4 percent in reported terms and by 5.7 percent at comparable deferred tax assets and the effects of the fraudulent actions and information technology. Capital expenditure including acquisitions 5,328 employees (5,639), and Group staff 56 (58). The Group had currencies. Service sales grew by 10.9 percent in reported terms the transaction costs related to the merger with Terex that are and joint arrangements was EUR 49.3 million (60.0). 6,237 employees (6,240) working in EMEA, 2,968 (2,858) in the and by 2.1 percent at comparable currencies. In Equipment, the related to the differences in tax rates. In 2015, Konecranes continued its IT system project to further Americas, and 2,682 (2,884) in the APAC region. corresponding figures were +1.5 percent and -3.9 percent. The January–December net profit was EUR 30.8 million (74.6). develop and implement harmonized processes, increase operaPersonnel effect of the cost savings program of EUR 30 million In 2015, the basic earnings per share were EUR 0.53 (1.28), tional visibility, improve decision-making, and reduce the overall announced in 2014 was approximately 400 employees in January– Financial result and diluted earnings per share were EUR 0.53 (1.28). number of various IT systems. The new ERP for manufacturing, December. During the same period, the number of personnel The consolidated operating profit in full-year 2015 totaled EUR In 2015, the return on capital employed was 10.4 percent (17.0) logistics, and finance was rolled out in additional European operaincreased by approximately 110 employees due to harmonization of 63.0 million (115.8), decreasing in total by EUR 52.8 million. and return on equity 6.8 percent (16.7). tions and in Asia. The roll-out of the new ERP for service operations reporting. The operating profit includes restructuring costs of EUR 20.5 continued in North America, Australia, and Europe. In 2015, the Group’s personnel expenses totaled EUR 661.5 million (3.2) related to the cost savings program of EUR 30 million Balance sheet million (593.7). announced in 2014. In addition, the operating profit includes transThe year-end 2015 consolidated balance sheet amounted to EUR Acquisitions action costs of EUR 17.2 million (0.0) related to the Terex merger 1,484.9 million (1,477.4). Total equity at the end of the reporting In 2015, the capital expenditure on acquisitions and joint arrangeannounced in August 2015. In August, Konecranes announced period was EUR 456.0 million (449.2). Total equity attributable to ments was EUR 0.0 million (0.0). that one of its foreign subsidiaries has become a victim of fraud. equity holders of the parent company at year-end 2015 was EUR The operating profit includes the unwarranted payments due to the 455.9 million (449.2) or EUR 7.79 per share (7.75). identity theft and fraudulent actions to a total amount of up to EUR Net working capital at year-end 2015 totaled EUR 317.4 million Service -17.0 million. The consolidated operating margin fell to 3.0 percent (263.7). Compared to the previous year-end, net working capital 1–12/2015 1–12/2014 Change percent (5.8). The operating margin in Service rose to 10.0 percent (9.7), grew mainly due to higher inventories and lower advance payments Orders received, MEUR 809.5 750.8 7.8 whereas in Equipment it declined to 1.5 percent (3.7). received. Order book, MEUR 165.8 152.6 8.7 In 2015, Service’s operating margin excluding restructuring Contract base value, MEUR 210.6 196.0 7.5 costs improved due to the sales growth and higher gross margin. Cash flow and financing Net sales, MEUR 992.3 895.1 10.9 The Equipment operating margin, excluding restructuring costs, Net cash from the operating activities in full-year 2015 was EUR was affected by lower sales at comparable currency rates and 39.3 million (148.4), representing EUR 0.67 per diluted share EBITDA, MEUR 118.0 103.3 14.2 EBITDA, % 11.9% 11.5% an unfavorable sales mix. Moreover, the amortization related to (2.56). Cash flow from capital expenditures amounted to EUR -43.3 Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -17.9 -16.4 9.2 new IT systems increased from the previous year. In addition, a million (-42.0). Cash flow before financing activities was EUR -1.5 Impairments, MEUR -1.2 0.0 provision of EUR 3.3 million was booked relating to a receivable million (110.4). Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 98.9 86.9 13.8 from a Latin American customer in the fourth quarter of 2015. On Interest-bearing net debt was EUR 203.2 million (149.5) at the Operating profit (EBIT), % 10.0% 9.7% the other hand, Business Area Equipment reached cost savings of end of 2015. Solidity was 34.8 percent (35.2) and gearing was approximately EUR 10 million due to the restructuring actions. 44.6 percent (33.3). Restructuring costs, MEUR -4.0 -2.2 In 2015, the depreciation and impairments totaled EUR 54.0 The Group’s liquidity remained healthy. At the end of the year Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 102.9 89.1 15.5 million (43.1). This included write-offs of EUR 5.3 million (0.0) to 2015, cash and cash equivalents amounted to EUR 80.8 million Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 10.4% 10.0% intangible and tangible assets. In 2015, the amortization arising (97.9). from the purchase price allocations for acquisitions represented In June, Konecranes signed a EUR 200 million five-year Capital employed, MEUR 232.3 200.2 16.0 EUR 5.0 million (6.8) of the depreciation and impairments. revolving credit facility with two 12-month extension options with ROCE% 45.7% 44.8% In 2015, the share of the result of associated companies and its core relationship banks. The committed credit facility refiCapital expenditure, MEUR 22.9 20.5 11.8 joint ventures was EUR 4.8 million (3.7). nanced the existing EUR 200 million facility signed in December Personnel at the end of period 6,503 6,285 3.5 62 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 63 Business areas Equipment Business Area Equipment reached cost savings of approximately within 3 years from closing. The combined company expects to The orders in full-year 2015 totaled EUR 1,257.6 million (1,262.5), EUR 10 million due to the restructuring actions. incur approximately EUR 110 million in related one-time costs over Service showing a decrease of 0.4 percent. Orders grew in the Americas the first 24 months after closing to achieve the synergies. The orders in full-year 2015 totaled EUR 809.5 million (750.8) and Asia-Pacific, but declined in EMEA. Orders for industrial cranes Group overheads The joint intention of Konecranes and Terex is for Konecranes showing an increase of 7.8 percent. At comparable currencies, accounted for approximately 35 percent of the orders received and Unallocated Group overhead costs in 2015 were EUR 54.6 million Terex to execute a share buy-back program post-closing of up order intake decreased from the previous year. The order book were lower than a year ago. Components generated approximately (16.7), representing 2.6 percent of sales (0.8). These included to USD 1.5 billion, split between ca. USD 500 million as soon rose to EUR 165.8 million (152.6) at year-end representing an 25 percent of the new orders and were below last year’s level. transaction costs of EUR 17.2 million (0.0) related to the Terex as possible after closing and up to an additional USD 1.0 billion increase of 8.7 percent. Sales rose by 10.9 percent to EUR 992.3 The combined orders for port cranes and lift trucks amounted to merger and restructuring costs of EUR 1.4 million (0.0). executed within 24 months after closing. The dividend policy for million (895.1). Sales grew in all regions. Parts sales grew faster approximately 40 percent of the orders received and were higher On August 14, Konecranes announced that one of its foreign the combined company will be set by the Board after closing. than the field service sales. than a year ago. The order book increased by 5.3 percent from the subsidiaries has become a victim of fraud. As a result of identity However, given the enhanced growth profile of the combined busiThe operating profit, excluding restructuring costs of EUR 4.0 previous year to EUR 870.7 million (826.9). theft and other fraudulent actions, the perpetrators had managed ness, it is expected that the combined company will maintain the million (2.2), was EUR 102.9 million (89.1) and the operating Sales increased by 1.5 percent to EUR 1,240.3 million to induce the subsidiary making unwarranted payments to a total current annual dividend of EUR 1.05 share paid by Konecranes. margin was 10.4 percent (10.0). Operating profit was EUR 98.9 (1,221.7). At comparable currency rates, sales decreased from amount of up to EUR 17.0 million, which is included in unallocated The combined company’s intention is to strengthen the balance million (86.9) and 10.0 percent of sales (9.7). The operating the previous year. Operating profit before restructuring costs Group overhead costs. Konecranes has reported the crime to the sheet of the new entity over time. margin, excluding restructuring costs, improved due to the sales of EUR 15.0 million (1.0) was EUR 33.8 million (46.7), and the police authorities in the relevant countries and is working closely with Konecranes Terex will be incorporated in Finland, with headgrowth and higher gross margin. operating margin was 2.7 percent (3.8). Operating profit was EUR the authorities to recover its losses and to bring the fraud perpetraquarters in Hyvinkää, Finland and Westport, Connecticut, USA. The annual value of the contract base increased to EUR 210.6 18.8 million (45.6) and 1.5 percent of sales (3.7). The Equipment tors to justice. Konecranes has a crime insurance policy covering the Upon closing of the transaction, the combined company is planned million (196.0) at year-end 2015. The contract base increased by operating margin excluding restructuring costs was affected by entire group of companies with coverage of EUR 10 million. to have a Board of Directors comprising nine members, five Direc7.5 percent and by 2.9 at comparable exchange rates. At year-end lower sales at comparable currency rates and an unfavorable In 2015, unallocated Group overhead costs, excluding the tors among which will be nominated by Terex and four Directors 2015, the total number of items of equipment included in the sales mix. Moreover, the amortization related to new IT systems transaction and restructuring costs as well as the impact from the by Konecranes. Konecranes’ current Chairman of the Board maintenance contract base was 453,634 (444,482). increased from the previous year. In addition, a provision of EUR fraudulent actions, were EUR 18.9 million (16.7), representing 0.9 will become Konecranes Terex Chairman and the Terex CEO will The number of service technicians at year-end 2015 was 4,142 3.3 million was booked relating to a receivable from a Latin Amerpercent of sales (0.8). become Konecranes Terex CEO. Should Terex determine to appoint (4,025), which is 117 or 2.9 percent more than at the year-end ican customer in the fourth quarter of 2015. On the other hand, a new CEO before the completion of the transaction, the parties 2014. Merger with Terex Corporation have agreed to do this in close collaboration between the Boards On August 11, Konecranes and Terex Corporation (“Terex”) of Directors of Terex and Konecranes. announced that their respective Boards of Directors have unanThe transaction is subject to approval by both Terex and Equipment imously approved a definitive agreement to combine their busi­Konecranes shareholders, regulatory approvals, and other closing 1–12/2015 1–12/2014 Change percent nesses in a merger of equals. Under the agreement, Terex shareconditions. Closing of the transaction is expected to occur during Orders received, MEUR 1,257.6 1,262.5 -0.4 holders will receive 0.80 Konecranes shares for each existing the first half of 2016. Order book, MEUR 870.7 826.9 5.3 Terex share. Upon closing of the merger between Terex and On September 8, Terex announced that it has received the Net sales, MEUR 1,240.3 1,221.7 1.5 Konecranes (the “Merger”), based on current fully diluted shares requisite consents (the “Consents”) from the holders of its outstanding, Terex shareholders will own approximately 60 percent USD 850,000,000 6.00% Senior Notes due 2021 and USD EBITDA, MEUR 52.9 71.6 -26.2 and Konecranes shareholders will own approximately 40 percent 300,000,000 6.50% Senior Notes due 2020 (jointly the “Notes”) EBITDA, % 4.3% 5.9% of the combined company. to certain proposed amendments to the indentures governing Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -30.0 -26.0 15.5 The combined company, to be called Konecranes Terex Plc “Change of Control” and certain other terms and conditions of the Impairments, MEUR -4.1 0.0 ­(“Konecranes Terex”), is planned to be listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki Notes. The consent solicitation was conducted by Terex in connecOperating profit (EBIT), MEUR 18.8 45.6 -58.9 and the New York Stock Exchange. The Merger is expected to be accretion with the Merger. Operating profit (EBIT), % 1.5% 3.7% tive to both companies’ shareholders in the first full year after closing. Due to the receipt of the Consents, and subject to certain Restructuring costs, MEUR -15.0 -1.0 The combined company expects to achieve at least EUR 110 remaining conditions to the consent solicitation, the Merger Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 33.8 46.7 -27.7 million of annual pre-tax cost synergies from procurement savings, will not constitute a “Change of Control” under the indentures Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 2.7% 3.8% optimization of operations as well as selling, general, and admingoverning the Notes. If any Notes will remain outstanding following istrative efficiencies. In addition, Konecranes Terex anticipates the consummation of the Merger, Konecranes Terex intends to Capital employed, MEUR 356.7 353.5 0.9 to realize the post-tax income enhancement from financing, cash unconditionally guarantee Terex’s obligations under each indenture ROCE% 5.3% 12.5% management, and structure optimization of at least EUR 32 million and series of Notes within 30 calendar days following the consumCapital expenditure, MEUR 26.5 39.6 -33.0 annually. In total, these synergies are expected to result in EUR mation of the Merger. Konecranes will not issue such a guarantee Personnel at the end of period 5,328 5,639 -5.5 109 million of annual net income benefits to be fully implemented unless the Merger is consummated. 64 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 65 John L. Garrison, Jr. started as the President and CEO of Terex Finnish Companies Act. The amount of shares to be issued based Chairman. Mr. Ole Johansson was elected Vice Chairman of CFO Teo Ottola was appointed Deputy CEO. The Deputy CEO on November 2. Since the regulatory approvals are still pending, on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, which the Board. Mr. Svante Adde was elected Chairman of the Audit uses the powers of the CEO if the CEO position is not filled or to the Board of Directors of Konecranes has only noted the corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all of the shares in Committee, and Mr. Ole Johansson, Ms. Nina Kopola, and Ms. fulfil his duties when the CEO is incapacitated. appointment. the Company. The authorization can also be used for incentive Malin Persson as Committee members. Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld arrangements, however, not more than 700,000 shares in total was elected Chairman of the Nomination and Compensation Corporate Governance Statement Administration together with the authorization in the following paragraph. The Committee, and Mr. Stig Gustavson, Mr. Matti Kavetvuo, and Mr. Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code authorization is effective until the end of the next Annual General Christoph Vitzthum were elected as Committee members. 2010 approved by the Board of the Securities Market Association. Decisions of the Annual General Meeting Meeting, however, not longer than until September 25, 2016. With the exception of Mr. Stig Gustavson, the Board Members Konecranes has issued a Corporate Governance Statement based The Annual General Meeting of Konecranes Plc was held on March However, the authorization for incentive arrangements is valid until are deemed to be independent of the company under the Finnish on recommendation 54 of the Code, which can be reviewed on the 26, 2015. The meeting approved the Company’s annual accounts March 25, 2020. Corporate Governance Code. Mr. Gustavson is not deemed indeKonecranes corporate website at www.konecranes.com. for the fiscal year 2014 and discharged the members of the Board The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the pendent of the Company based on the Board’s overall evaluaof Directors and the Managing Director from liability. The AGM transfer of the Company’s own shares. The authorization is limited tion relating to his former and current positions in Konecranes Share capital and shares approved the Board’s proposal to pay a dividend of EUR 1.05 per to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approxcombined with his substantial voting rights in the Company. The Company’s registered share capital totaled EUR 30.1 million share from the distributable assets of the parent company. imately 9.5 percent of all the shares in the Company. The authoriWith the exception of Mr. Ole Johansson and Mr. Bertel Langenon December 31, 2015 and the number of shares including The AGM approved the proposal of the Nomination and zation can also be used for incentive arrangements, however, not skiöld, the Board Members are independent of significant sharetreasury shares was 63,272,342. Compensation Committee that the number of the members of the more than 700,000 shares in total together with the authorization holders of the Company. Mr. Ole Johansson is not deemed indeOn December 31, 2015, Konecranes Plc was in the possession Board of Directors shall be eight (8). The Board members elected in the previous paragraph. This authorization is effective until the pendent of significant shareholders of the Company based on his of 4,539,913 own shares, which corresponds to 7.2 percent of the at the AGM in 2015 were Mr. Svante Adde, Mr. Stig Gustavson, Mr. next Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, however, not longer current position as the Chairman of the Board of Hartwall Capital total number of shares having a market value of EUR 104.0 million Ole Johansson, Mr. Matti Kavetvuo, Ms. Nina Kopola, Mr. Bertel than until September 25, 2016. However, the authorization for Oy Ab. Mr. Langenskiöld is not deemed independent of signifion that date. Langenskiöld, Ms. Malin Persson, and Mr. Christoph Vitzthum. incentive arrangements is valid until March 25, 2020. cant shareholders of the Company based on his position as the All shares carry one vote per share and equal rights to diviThe AGM confirmed the annual compensation to the Board The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on a Managing Director of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab until August 31, 2015. dends. members as follows: directed share issue without payment needed for the implemenHTT KCR Holding Oy Ab holds more than 10 percent of Konecranes • Chairman of the Board: EUR 105,000 tation of the Share Savings Plan that the Annual General Meeting Plc’s shares and votes. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab is a subsidiary of Shares subscribed for under • Vice Chairman of the Board: EUR 67,000 2012 decided to launch. Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. In addition, HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab, K. stock option rights • Other Board Members: EUR 42,000 The Board of Directors is authorized to decide on the issue Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab and Ronnas Invest AG In January–December, 733,495 treasury shares were transferred of new shares or on the transfer of the own shares held by the will in practice cooperate in matters concerning their ownership in to the subscribers, pursuant to the Konecranes Plc’s stock options In addition, a compensation of EUR 1,500 per meeting will be Company to such participants of the Plan who, according to the Konecranes Plc. 2009B. paid for attending the Board Committee meetings. However, the terms and conditions of the Plan, are entitled to receive free At end-December 2015, Konecranes Plc’s stock options 2009C Chairman of the Audit Committee is entitled to a compensation of shares, as well as to decide on a share issue without payment also Changes in the Board of Directors entitled the holders to subscribe to a total of 638,500 shares. EUR 3,000 per attended Audit Committee meeting. Furthermore, to the Company itself. The number of new shares to be issued or On August 10, Nina Kopola announced her resignation from the The terms and conditions of the stock option programs are the AGM approved that 50 percent of the annual remuneration will own shares held by the Company to be transferred may amount in Board of Directors. Ms. Kopola resigned from the Board due to available on Konecranes’ website at www.konecranes.com. be paid in Konecranes shares. the aggregate to a total maximum of 500,000 shares, which correpossible conflicts of interest that could arise from her position The AGM confirmed that Ernst & Young Oy will continue as the sponds to 0.8 percent of all of the Company’s shares. The authorias the Board Member in Metso Corporation (“Metso”). Terex and Performance share plan Company’s external auditor. zation concerning the share issue is valid until March 25, 2020. Metso are competitors within materials processing. The Board of Directors resolved that the earning during the threeThe AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on one On December 31, Matti Kavetvuo announced his resignation year discretionary period beginning on January 1, 2015 will be repurchase of the Company’s own shares and/or on the acceptor several donations in a maximum aggregate amount of EUR from the Board of Directors. Mr. Kavetvuo announced that he has based on the Group´s cumulative EPS excluding restructuring ance of the Company’s own shares as a pledge. The amount of 250,000 to one or more Finnish Universities or research centers given up other positions of trust during recent years and that it costs. own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge based thus supporting education or research. The Board of Directors was now time to resign also from his last Board membership in a The target group of the Plan consists of approximately 180 on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares in total, is entitled to decide on practical matters relating to a donation, listed company. people. The rewards to be paid on the basis of the discretionary which corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all of the for example nomination of recipients and the detailed terms of period beginning on January 1, 2015 correspond to the value of an shares in the Company. The authorization is effective until the end a donation. The authorization shall be valid until December 31, Changes in the Group Management approximate maximum total of 700,000 Konecranes Plc’s shares. of the next Annual General Meeting, however, not longer than until 2015. In July, Konecranes announced that Panu Routila (b. 1964) has If the targets determined by the Board of Directors are achieved, September 25, 2016. been appointed President and CEO of Konecranes Plc. Panu the reward payout will be a half of the maximum reward. The The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the Board of Directors’ organizing meeting Routila started as the new President and CEO on November 1. He maximum reward payout requires that the targets would be clearly issuance of shares as well as on the issuance of special rights At its first meeting held after the Annual General Meeting, the succeeded Pekka Lundmark who left Konecranes on September 5 exceeded. entitling to shares referred to in Chapter 10, Section 1 of the Board of Directors elected Mr. Stig Gustavson to continue as to pursue his career outside the Company. 66 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 67 The Board of Directors decided on a directed share issue On December 31, 2015, the total market capitalization of During 2015, we developed camera applications for our standard for all our factories within two years. Our CDP (former related to the reward payment for the performance periods 2012 Konecranes Plc’s shares on the Nasdaq Helsinki was EUR 1,448.9 products and looked at new materials and configurations for Carbon Disclosure Project) result improved to 98C from 76D. and 2012–2014 of the Konecranes Performance Share Plan million including treasury shares. The market capitalization was certain core lifting devices. We also maintained our tradition of Group-wide extensive competition law training for all manage2012. In the share issue, 55,007 Konecranes Plc shares held EUR 1,345.0 million, excluding the treasury shares. joint research with the leading universities; in 2015, we started ment level personnel took place. In addition, we conducted a wide by the Company were conveyed without consideration to the key longer-term research cooperation with the Karlsruhe Institute of anti-corruption risk assessment survey within the organization. employees participating in the plan. The decision on the directed Flagging notifications ­Technology, Germany. We also introduced fraud prevention e-learning as a mandatory share issue was based on the authorization granted to the Board On February 5, 2015, Konecranes received a disclosure under In 2015, we paid particular attention to exploring new opportuelement for relevant functions at the end of the year. of Directors by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according to nities in the role of digitalization and automation within the context on March 27, 2014. which the holding of Harris Associates L.P. in Konecranes Plc has of the Industrial Internet. Customers can connect to the data Risks and uncertainties decreased below 5 percent. Harris Associates L.P. held 3,158,600 provided by our TRUCONNECT Remote Service offering, request Konecranes operates in the emerging countries that entail politEmployee share savings plan Konecranes Plc’s shares on February 4, 2015, which is 4.99 help from our technicians, and review the service and operational ical, economic, and regulatory uncertainties. Adverse changes Based on interest shown by the Group employees, the Board percent of the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. history of their cranes via the yourKONECRANES.com web portal. in the operating environment of these countries may result decided to launch a new Plan Period. The new Plan Period has On April 20, 2015, Konecranes received a disclosure under YourKONECRANES’ global rollout started in 2015 in countries such in currency losses, elevated delivery costs, or loss of assets. commenced on July 1, 2015 and will end on June 30, 2016. The Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according to as the UK, Canada, and Australia. ­Konecranes operates a crane factory in Zaporozhye, Ukraine. maximum savings amount per participant during one month is 5 which the holding of Harris Associates L.P. in Konecranes Plc In March, Konecranes won the Automation Award 2015 granted The value of the total assets related to the Zaporozhye factory percent of the gross salary and the minimum is EUR 10. has exceeded 5 percent. Harris Associates L.P. held 3,200,000 by the Finnish Society of Automation, a recognition given for the amounted to approximately EUR 8 million on December 31, 2015. Each participant will receive one free matching share for every ­Konecranes Plc’s shares on April 17, 2015, which is 5.06 percent development of new, harmonized automation architecture for The operations in emerging countries have had a negative two acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. lifting equipment. impact on the aging structure of accounts receivable and may to a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from On May 14, 2015, Konecranes received a disclosure under Konecranes introduced the next-generation version of the increase credit losses or the need for higher provisions for the plan period until the end of the designated holding period, Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according Agilon material handling solution in March. To date, it has mainly doubtful accounts. February 15, 2019, and if his or her employment has not ended to which the holding of Sanderson Asset Management LLP in been sold in Finland to date, but we have begun its gradual Konecranes has made several acquisitions and expanded before this date for reasons attributable to the employee. The ­Konecranes Plc has exceeded 5 percent. Sanderson Asset Manageexpansion into other countries, such as the UK. Another important organically into the new countries. A failure to integrate the total amount of all savings of the commencing plan period may ment LLP held 3,239,980 Konecranes Plc’s shares on May 13, product launch in 2015 was the Stagemaker SR01 electric chain acquired business or grow newly established operations may not exceed EUR 8.5 million. The terms and conditions of the Plan 2015, which is 5.12 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. hoist designed for the entertainment industry. result in an impairment of goodwill and other assets. Period 2015—2016 are unchanged from the previous Plan Periods. On September 18, 2015, Konecranes received a disclosure under One of the key strategic initiatives of Konecranes is Approximately 1,550 Konecranes’ employees signed up for Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according to which Corporate responsibility ­oneKONECRANES. This initiative involves a major capital expendthe Plan Period that commenced on July 1, 2015. The number of the holding of Harris Associates Investment Trust in K ­ onecranes Plc In 2015, we organized our first ever formal, public stakeholder iture for the information systems. Higher-than-expected develnew shares to be issued or own shares held by the Company to be has exceeded 5 percent. Harris Associates Investment Trust held dialogue on corporate responsibility, aiming to better understand opment or implementation costs or a failure to extract business transferred under the terms and conditions of the Plan may be a 3,177,500 Konecranes Plc’s shares on September 17, 2015, which is expectations of our corporate responsibility work. This was organbenefits from the new processes and systems may lead to an maximum total number of 500,000 shares, which corresponds to 5.02 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. ized in the form of an online brainstorming, where ideas were impairment of assets or decrease in profitability. 0.8 percent of all the Company’s shares. On November 6, 2015, Konecranes received a disclosure brought forward and further developed by the participants. Konecranes delivers projects, which involve the risks related to, for under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according During the renewal process of the corporate responsibility example, engineering, and project execution including ­Konecranes’ Market capitalization and trading volume to which the holding of Polaris Capital Management, LLC in roadmap we decided to change from the five focus areas estabsuppliers. A failure to plan or manage these projects may lead to highThe closing price for Konecranes Plc’s shares on the Nasdaq ­Konecranes Plc’s shares has exceeded 5 percent. Polaris Capital lished earlier to four focus areas. The new focus areas are safety, er-than-estimated costs or disputes with customers. Helsinki was EUR 22.90 on December 31, 2015. The volumeManagement, LLC held 3,169,748 Konecranes Plc’s shares on people, environment, and integrity. Challenges in financing, e.g., due to currency fluctuations, weighted average share price in January–December was EUR November 6, 2015, which is 5.01 percent of Konecranes Plc’s In 2015, we made good progress in terms of the number of may force customers to postpone projects or even to cancel the 27.73, the highest price being EUR 34.98 in August and the lowest shares. Polaris Capital Management, LLC held 2,277,440 voting accidents and accident frequency. Our LTA1 has decreased year existing orders. Konecranes intends to avoid incurring costs for EUR 20.98 in September. In January–December, the trading rights in Konecranes Plc on November 6, 2015, which is 3.60 on year steadily. However, there is room for improvement. major projects under construction in excess of advance payments. volume on the Nasdaq Helsinki totaled 57.0 million of Konecranes percent of voting rights in Konecranes Plc. Employee satisfaction survey was conducted in March. The However, it is possible that the cost-related commitments in some Plc’s shares, corresponding to a turnover of approximately EUR response rate remained above benchmarks at 83 percent projects temporarily exceed the amount of advance payments. 1,579.6 million. The average daily trading volume was 226,922 Research and development (2013: 85 percent). Employee satisfaction remained stable at The completion of the Merger is subject to a number of conditions, shares, representing an average daily turnover of EUR 6.3 million. In 2015, Konecranes’ research and product development expendia high level. The leadership training portfolio, which is offering including, among other things, the approval of the Merger proposal by In addition, approximately 84.1 million Konecranes’ shares ture totaled EUR 28.7 (28.9) million, representing 1.3 (1.4) percent leadership training to various levels of management, was Terex stockholders, the approval by Konecranes shareholders of all of were traded on other trading venues (e.g., multilateral trading facilof sales. R&D expenditure includes product development projects renewed. the proposals relating to the Merger and the obtainment of antitrust ities and bilateral OTC trades) in 2015, according to Fidessa. aimed at improving the quality and cost efficiency of both products In 2015, we began a project to have a certified environmental and other regulatory approvals in the United States, the European and services. management system according to the new ISO14001:2015 Union, China, and certain other jurisdictions, which make the comple68 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 69 Consolidated statement of income IFRS tion and timing of the completion of the merger uncertain. In addition, On January 27, Konecranes announced that Konecranes has made (1,000,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31 2015 Jan 1–Dec 31 2014 either Terex or Konecranes may terminate the business combination its Business Combination Agreement with Terex, dated August 10, Note: 3,5,6 Sales 2,126.2 2,011.4 agreement if the Merger has not been completed by August 10, 2016 2015 available on its website at www.konecranes.com/investors. (subject to certain extension rights). Other operating income 1.4 2.8 The Group’s other risks are presented in the Annual Report. Market Outlook 7 Materials, supplies and subcontracting -969.9 -938.0 Customers are cautious about investing as economic growth has 7.8 Personnel cost -661.5 -593.7 Litigation slowed down across the globe. Companies operating in emerging 9 Depreciation and impairments -54.0 -43.1 Various legal actions, claims, and other proceedings are pending and commodity markets are particularly under pressure to save 7 Other operating expenses -379.1 -323.4 against the Group in different countries. These actions, claims, costs. Business activity in the North American manufacturing and and other proceedings are typical for this industry and are process industries weakened toward the end of 2015 and the Operating profit 63.0 115.8 consistent with the global business offering that encompasses demand outlook is more uncertain than a year ago. The demand a wide range of products and services. These matters involve situation in Europe is stable. Even though the global container 16 Share of associates' and joint ventures' result 4.8 3.7 contractual disputes, warranty claims, product liability (including throughput has slowed down, our offer base for container handling 10 Financial income 7.8 2.4 design defects, manufacturing defects, failure to warn, and equipment has remained solid and the order book for 2016 deliv10 Financial expenses -20.3 -14.5 asbestos legacy), employment, auto liability, and other matters eries is good. Continued contract base growth bodes well for the involving general liability claims. future of the service business. Profit before taxes 55.4 107.4 Two lawsuits have been filed as class actions asserting claims relating to the Merger by purported stockholders of Terex. The Financial Guidance 11 Taxes -24.6 -32.8 two complaints name as defendants Terex and the members Based on the order book, the service contract base and the nearof its board of directors, Konecranes, Konecranes, Inc. and term demand outlook, sales in 2016 are expected to be higher PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 30.8 74.6 ­Konecranes Acquisition Company LLC. The complaints seek, than in 2015. We expect the 2016 operating profit, excluding among other relief, an order enjoining or rescinding the Merger non-recurring items, to improve from 2015. and an award of attorneys’ fees and costs on the grounds that Profit for the period attributable to: the Terex board of directors breached their fiduciary duty in Board of Directors’ proposal for Shareholders of the parent company 30.8 74.4 connection with entering into the business combination agreedisposal of distributable funds Non-controlling interest 0.0 0.2 ment and approving the Merger. The complaints further allege The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR 276,744,547.45, that Terex, Konecranes, Konecranes, Inc. and Konecranes of which the net income for the year is EUR 164,816,834.32. The 12 Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 0.53 1.28 ­Acquisition Company LLC aided and abetted the alleged breaches Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR 395,615,000. 12 Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 0.53 1.28 of fiduciary duties by the Terex board of directors. Konecranes According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable funds believes that the allegations in the suits are without merit, and of the Company are calculated based on the parent company’s will vigorously defend against them. non-restricted equity. For the purpose of determining the amount Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income While the final outcome of these proceedings cannot be of the dividend, the Board of Directors has assessed the liquidity (1,000,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 predicted with certainty, Konecranes’ opinion is, based on of the parent company and the economic circumstances subseProfit for the period 30.8 74.6 the information available to date and considering the grounds quent to the end of fiscal year. Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss presented for such claims, the available insurance coverage and Based on such assessments the Board of Directors proposes 34 Cash flow hedges -0.6 -14.0 the reserves made, that the outcome of such actions, claims, to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 1.05 be Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 16.3 19.9 and other proceedings, if unfavorable, would not have a material paid on each share and that the remaining non-restricted equity is 16 Share of associates’ other comprehensive income 3.8 0.0 adverse effect on the financial condition of the Group. retained in shareholders’ equity. 11.3 Income tax relating to items that can be reclassified into profit or loss 0.1 2.8 A pdf version of Konecranes’ full audited financial statements, Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss Events After The End Of The Reporting Period including the report of the Board of Directors, and corporate 28 Re-measurement gains (losses) on defined benefit plans 6.0 -16.7 On January 26, Konecranes announced that the Board of Directors governance statement will be available on the web on March 1, 11.3 Income tax relating to items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss -1.4 4.7 of Konecranes has been notified by Terex of the non-binding condi2016, and the printed version during week 11. Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 24.2 -3.3 tional proposal by Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and T­echTOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD 55.0 71.2 nology Co. to acquire Terex. The Board of Directors of ­Konecranes Helsinki, February 3, 2016 has confirmed that Konecranes will continue to pursue the merger Konecranes Plc Total comprehensive income attributable to: of equals with Terex as planned. Konecranes continues to believe Board of Directors Shareholders of the parent company 55.0 71.2 that the Merger represents a highly compelling opportunity for Non-controlling interest 0.0 0.1 both companies and their shareholders, and stands behind and The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. remains committed to the Merger. 70 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME IFRS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 71 Consolidated balance sheet IFRS (1,000,000 EUR) ASSETS Dec 31 2015 Dec 31 2014 (1,000,000 EUR) EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Dec 31 2015 Dec 31 2014 Note: Note: Non-current assets Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 13 Goodwill 107.6 104.8 Share capital 30.1 30.1 14 Intangible assets 108.7 101.2 Share premium 39.3 39.3 15 Property, plant and equipment 142.5 150.5 Paid in capital 66.5 52.2 Advance payments and construction in progress 24.0 30.0 34 Fair value reserves -9.1 -8.6 16 Investments accounted for using the equity method 50.2 43.1 Translation difference 20.1 3.7 Other non-current assets 1.0 1.0 Other reserve 29.9 27.8 17 Deferred tax assets 71.7 70.0 Retained earnings 248.4 230.3 Total non-current assets 505.7 500.4 Net profit for the period 30.8 74.4 23 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 455.9 449.2 16 Non-controlling interest 0.1 0.1 Current assets Total equity 456.0 449.2 18 Inventories 365.2 335.5 19 Accounts receivable 377.3 364.9 Liabilities 20 Other receivables 24.9 24.5 Income tax receivables 10.1 13.4 Non-current liabilities 6 Receivable arising from percentage of completion method 77.3 85.8 27,32 Interest-bearing liabilities 59.2 167.2 32 Other financial assets 7.5 6.1 28 Other long-term liabilities 92.3 95.4 21 Deferred assets 36.0 48.8 32 Other financial liabilities 0.0 2.0 22 Cash and cash equivalents 80.8 97.9 24 Provisions 17.8 17.5 Total current assets 979.2 977.0 17 Deferred tax liabilities 19.8 18.5 Total non-current liabilities 189.1 300.5 TOTAL ASSETS 1,484.9 1,477.4 Current liabilities 27,32 Interest-bearing liabilities 224.8 80.2 6 Advance payments received 176.4 202.7 Progress billings 0.4 1.5 Accounts payable 139.1 137.1 24 Provisions 35.1 27.7 25 Other short-term liabilities (non-interest-bearing) 31.9 26.0 32 Other financial liabilities 11.4 16.2 Income tax payables 12.8 18.9 Accrued costs related to delivered goods and services 111.8 102.5 25 Accruals 96.2 114.8 Total current liabilities 839.8 727.6 Total liabilities 1,028.9 1,028.1 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,484.9 1,477.4 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 72 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET IFRS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET IFRS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 73 Consolidated statement of changes in equity IFRS Consolidated cash flow statement IFRS Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company (1,000,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31 2015 Jan 1–Dec 31 2014 Share Trans­ NonNote: Share premium Paid in Cash flow lation Other Retained controlling Total (1,000,000 EUR) capital account capital hedges difference reserves earnings Total interest equity Cash flow from operating activities Balance at January 1, 2015 30.1 39.3 52.2 -8.6 3.7 27.8 304.7 449.2 0.1 449.2 Profit for the period 30.8 74.6 Adjustments to net profit for the period Options exercised 14.3 0.0 14.3 14.3 Taxes 24.6 32.8 Dividends paid to equity holders -61.5 -61.5 -61.5 Financial income and expenses 12.5 12.2 Equity-settled share based payments (note 29) 2.2 0.0 2.2 2.2 Share of associates' and joint ventures' result -4.8 -3.7 Donations -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 Dividends income -0.1 -0.1 Acquisitions -3.1 -3.1 -3.1 Depreciation and impairments 54.0 43.1 Profit for the period 30.8 30.8 30.8 Profits and losses on sale of fixed assets 1.2 -0.3 Other comprehensive income -0.5 16.3 8.4 24.2 0.0 24.2 Other adjustments -2.8 -1.7 Total comprehensive income 0.0 -0.5 16.3 0.0 39.2 55.0 0.0 55.0 Operating income before change in net working capital 115.5 157.0 Balance at December 31, 2015 30.1 39.3 66.5 -9.1 20.1 29.9 279.1 455.9 0.1 456.0 Change in interest-free current receivables 27.2 21.9 Balance at January 1, 2014 30.1 39.3 51.0 2.6 -16.3 26.5 304.9 438.1 6.4 444.5 Change in inventories -17.4 4.4 Options exercised 1.2 0.0 1.2 1.2 Change in interest-free current liabilities -37.4 0.6 Dividends paid to equity holders -60.8 -60.8 -60.8 Change in net working capital -27.6 26.9 Equity-settled share based payments (note 29) 1.3 0.0 1.3 1.3 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS BEFORE FINANCING ITEMS AND TAXES 87.9 183.8 Acquisitions -1.9 -1.9 -6.4 -8.3 Profit for the period 74.4 74.4 0.2 74.6 10 Interest received 5.8 3.1 Other comprehensive income -11.2 20.0 -12.0 -3.2 -0.1 -3.3 10 Interest paid -15.6 -13.4 Total comprehensive income 0.0 -11.2 20.0 0.0 62.4 71.2 0.1 71.2 10 Other financial income and expenses -12.5 5.0 Balance at December 31, 2014 30.1 39.3 52.2 -8.6 3.7 27.8 304.7 449.2 0.1 449.2 11 Income taxes paid -26.3 -30.1 Financing items and taxes -48.6 -35.4 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 39.3 148.4 Cash flow from investing activities 4 Acquisition of Group companies, net of cash -0.3 -0.3 4 Divestment of businesses, net of cash 0.1 1.2 Capital expenditures -43.3 -42.0 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and other 2.6 3.1 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES -40.8 -38.0 Cash flow before financing activities -1.5 110.4 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from options exercised and share issues and other 14.3 1.5 Proceeds from non-current borrowings 0.0 50.0 Repayments of non-current borrowings -2.1 -15.7 Proceeds from (+), payments of (-) current borrowings 38.8 -114.0 4 Acquired non controlling interest -5.9 -5.9 Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent company -61.5 -60.8 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -16.3 -144.9 Translation differences in cash 0.6 0.3 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -17.2 -34.3 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 97.9 132.2 22 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 80.8 97.9 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -17.2 -34.3 The effect of changes in exchange rates has been eliminated by converting the beginning balance at the rates current on the last day of the year. The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 74 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY IFRS CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT IFRS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 75 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. Corporate information • Rights arising from other contractual arrangements After application of the equity method, the Group determines value of the CGUs is determined using a derived weighted average Konecranes Plc (“Konecranes Group” or “the Group”) is a Finnish • The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights whether it is necessary to recognize an impairment loss on its investcost of capital as the rate to discount estimated future cash public limited company organized under the laws of Finland and ment in its associate or joint venture. At each reporting date, the Group flows. The discount rate used may not be indicative of actual rates domiciled with its principal place of business in Hyvinkää. The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment obtained in the markets in the future. See note 13. The company is listed on the NASDAQ Helsinki. if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to in the associate or joint venture is impaired. If there is such evidence, Konecranes is a world-leading manufacturer and servicer of one or more of the three elements of control. Consolidation of a the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference Recognition of deferred taxes cranes, lifting equipment and machine tools, serving a broad range subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidbetween the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon of customers, including manufacturing and process industries, shipiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. its carrying value, and then recognizes the loss as Share of profit of an the generation of future taxable income during the periods in yards, ports and terminals. Konecranes operates internationally, Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or associate and a joint venture in the statement of profit or loss. which those temporary differences become deductible or in which with its products being manufactured in North and South America, disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated finantax losses can be utilized. The tax effect of unused tax losses is Europe, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia and sold worldwide. Konecial statements from the date the Group gains control until the 2.2. Use of estimates and judgments recognized as a deferred tax asset when it becomes probable that cranes has two reportable segments, which it calls Business Areas: date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary. the tax losses will be utilized. In making assessments regarding Business Area Service and Business Area Equipment. Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive Estimates deferred tax assets, management considers the scheduled reversal income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax 2. Accounting principles Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the IFRS requires management to make estimates and judgments that planning strategies. The actual current tax exposure is estimated non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. When necessary, affect the valuation of reported assets and liabilities and other together with assessing temporary differences resulting from 2.1. Basis of preparation adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to information, such as contingent liabilities and recognition of income differing treatment of items, such as depreciation, provisions and The consolidated financial statements of Konecranes Plc have bring their accounting policies into line with the Group’s accounting and expenses in the statement of income. These assumptions, estiaccruals, for tax and accounting purposes. When recording the been prepared in accordance with International Financial policies. All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, mates and judgments are based on management’s historical expedeferred tax assets judgment have been based on the estimates of Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members rience, best knowledge about the events and other factors, such the taxable income in each subsidiary and country in which KoneThe consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation. as expectations on future events, which the Company assess to be cranes operates, and the period over which the deferred tax assets historical cost basis, except for items that are required by IFRS to A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a reasonable in the given circumstances. Although these estimates will be recoverable based on the estimated future taxable income be measured at fair value, principally certain financial instruments. loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. and judgments are based on the management’s best understanding and planned tax strategies to utilize these assets. The amount of The consolidated financial statements including notes thereto If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognizes of current events and circumstances, actual results may differ from deferred tax assets considered realizable could however be reduced are presented in millions of euros and all values are rounded to the the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling the estimates. Changes in estimates and assumptions are recogin subsequent years if estimates of future taxable income during nearest million (€000,000) except when otherwise indicated. interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain nized in the financial period the estimate or assumption is changed. their carry forward periods are reduced, or rulings by the tax authorDue to the rounding some totals might differ from the sum of or loss is recognized in profit or loss. Any investment retained is The most important items in the consolidated financial stateities are unfavourable. Estimates are therefore subject to change individual figures as calculations are done originally in thousands recognized at fair value. ments, which require management’s estimates and that involve due to both market related and tax authorities related uncertainof euros. complex and subjective judgments and the use of assumptions, ties, as well as Konecranes’ own future decision matters such as The financial statements were approved for issuance by the Investment in associates and joint ventures some of which may be for matters that are inherently uncertain restructuring. Konecranes is unable to accurately quantify the future Board of Directors on February 3, 2016 An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant and susceptible to change are impairment testing, recognition of adjustments to deferred income tax expense that may occur as a influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the deferred taxes, actuarial assumptions in defined benefit plans, result of these uncertainties. See note 17. Principles of consolidation financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not and percentage of completion revenue recognition in long term The consolidated financial statements comprise the consolicontrol or joint control over those policies. projects. Actuarial assumptions in defined benefit plans dated balance sheet of Konecranes Plc and its subsidiaries as at A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the The net pension liability and expense for defined benefit plans is December 31, 2015 and 2014 and the consolidated statements of parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to Impairment testing based on various actuarial assumptions such as the assumed income and cash flows for the periods ended December 31, 2015 the net assets of the joint venture. Joint control is the contractually The recoverable amount for goodwill has been determined based discount rate, expected development of salaries and pensions and and 2014. Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only on value in use of the relevant cash generating unit to which the mortality rates. Significant differences between assumptions and rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous goodwill is allocated. The recoverable amounts of all material actual experience, or significant changes in assumptions, may mateand has the ability to affect those returns through its power over consent of the parties sharing control. intangible assets and property, plant and equipment have also rially affect the pension obligations. The effects of actual results the investee. Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and The Group’s investments in its associates and joint ventures been based on their value in use. The impairment testing of gooddiffering from assumptions and the changing of assumptions are only if, the Group has: are accounted for using the equity method. Under this method, the will is based on numerous judgmental estimates of the present included in Remeasurement gains/loss on defined benefit plans in • Power over the investee (i.e., existing rights that give it the consolidated financial statements show the Group’s investment in value of the cash flows which effect the valuation of the cash other comprehensive income. Discount rates are determined annually current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee) and share of net assets of the associate or joint venture. Any premium generating units (CGU) pertaining to the goodwill. Cash flow forebased on changes in long-term, high quality corporate bond yields. • Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with over net assets paid to acquire an interest in an associate or joint casts are made based on CGU specific historical data, order book, Decreases in the discount rates results in an increase in the the investee venture is recognized as goodwill within the same line as the underthe current market situation and industry specific information of defined benefit obligation and in pension costs. Conversely, an • The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns lying investment. The statement of profit or loss reflects the Group’s the future growth possibilities. These assumptions are reviewed increase in the discount rate results in a decrease in the defined share of the results of operations of the associate or joint venture. Any annually as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planbenefit obligation and in pension costs. Increases and decreases Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights change in OCI of those investees is presented as part of the Group’s ning cycles and can be subject to significant adjustment as arising in mortality rates have an inverse impact on the defined benefit result in control. To support this presumption and when the OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recognized directly in from the development of the global economy, pressure from obligation and pension costs. Increases and decreases in salary Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an the equity of the associate or joint venture, the Group recognizes its competitor products as well as changes in raw material prices and pension growth rates have a direct correlating impact on the investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances share of any changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes and operating expenses. The value of the benefits and savings defined benefit obligation and pension costs. in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: in equity. Unrealized gains and losses resulting from transactions from the efficiency improvement programs already announced The assumed discount rate, which is based on rates observed • The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the between the Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated and included in certain cash flow estimates are also subjective at the end of the preceding financial year may not be indicative investee to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture. and based on management’s best estimate of the impact. The fair of actual rates realized. The actual development for salaries and 76 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 77 pensions may not reflect the estimated future development due to 2.3. Summary of significant at completion. When the final outcome of a project cannot be reliwhen they occur. Remeasurement recorded in other comprehenthe uncertainty of the global economy and various other factors. accounting policies ably determined, the costs arising from the project are expensed sive income is not recycled. Past service cost is recognized in the Konecranes uses generational mortality tables to estimate probin the same reporting period in which they occur, but the revenue statement of profit or loss in the period of plan amendment. Net-inable future mortality improvements. These tables assume that the Revenue recognition from the project is recorded only to the extent that the Group will terest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined trend of increasing life expectancy will continue, resulting in pension Revenue is recognized to the extent that it is probable that receive an amount corresponding to actual costs. An expected loss liability or asset. The Group presents service cost, past-service benefit payments to younger members being likely to be paid for the economic benefits will flow to the Company, that revenue on a contract is recognized immediately in statement of income. cost, gains and losses on curtailments and settlements and net longer time periods than older members’ pensions, given that can be reliably measured, and that collectability is reasonably Revenue in respect of variations to the contract scope and claims interest expense or income as Personnel cost – Pension costs: assumed retirement ages are those defined in the rules of each plan. assured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideris recognized when it is probable that it will be received and is Defined benefit plans in the statement of income (see Note 8). The funded status, which can increase or decrease based ation received or receivable. The creditworthiness of the buyer capable of being measured reliably. Independent actuaries calculate the defined benefit obligation on the performance of the financial markets or changes in our is assessed before engaging into a sale. However, if a risk of by applying the Projected Unit Credit Method. A liability for termiassumptions, does not represent a mandatory short-term cash non-payment arises after revenue recognition, a provision for Research and development costs nation benefit is recognized at the earlier of when the entity can no obligation. Instead, the funded status of a defined benefit pension non-collectability is established. The specific recognition criteria Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expendilonger withdraw the offer of the termination benefit and when the plan is the difference between the defined benefit obligation and described below must also be met before revenue for the sale of tures on an individual project are recognized as an intangible asset entity recognizes any related restructuring costs. the fair value of the plan assets. See note 28. goods is recognized: when the Group can demonstrate: a) The entity has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and • The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that Share based payments Percentage of completion revenue rewards of ownership of the goods; it will be available for use or sale. Employees (including senior executives) of the Group and its recognition in long term projects b) The entity retains neither continuing managerial involvement to • Its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset. subsidiaries receive remuneration in the form of share-based Konecranes applies the percentage of completion method (cost to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control • How the asset will generate future economic benefits. payments, whereby employees render services as consideration cost) for recognizing revenue from long term large crane projects in over the goods sold; • The availability of resources to complete the asset. for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions) or receive accordance with IAS11 Construction Contracts. The percentage of c) The amount of revenue can be measured reliably; • The ability to reliably measure the expenditure during development. settlement in cash (cash-settled transactions). completion is based on the cost-to-cost method. Under this method, d) It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the progress of contracts is measured by actual costs incurred in relatransaction will flow to the entity; and Amortization of capitalized development costs begins when develEquity-settled transactions tion to management’s best estimate of total estimated costs at e) The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction opment is complete and the asset is available for use. The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined by the fair completion, which are reviewed and updated routinely for contracts in can be measured reliably. value at the date when the grant is made using an appropriate progress. The cumulative effect of any change in estimate is recorded Earnings per share valuation model. in the period in which the change in estimate is determined. The transfer of risk takes place either when goods are shipped or Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing income from That cost is recognized, together with a corresponding increase The percentage-of-completion method of accounting involves made available to the buyer for shipment, depending on the terms continuing operations, income from discontinued operations in other reserves in equity, over the period in which the perforthe use of assumptions and projections, principally relating to future of the contract. and net income, all attributable to ordinary shareholders by the mance and/or service conditions are fulfilled in Personnel material, labor and project-related overhead costs. As a conseRevenue from services is recognized when the outcome of weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. cost – Other personnel expense in the statement of income. The quence, there is a risk that total contract costs will exceed those the transaction can be estimated reliably and by reference to the Diluted earnings per share are calculated by assuming conversion cumulative expense recognized for equity-settled transactions at originally estimated and the margin will decrease or the contract stage of completion based on services performed at the end of or exercise of all potentially dilutive share-based payment plans. each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to may become unprofitable. This risk increases as the duration of a the reporting period. The assessment of the stage of completion which the vesting period has expired and the Group’s best esticontract increases because there is a higher probability that the is dependent on the nature of the contract, but will generally be Dividend distribution mate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. circumstances upon the estimates were originally based will change, based on costs incurred to the extent these relate to services The company recognizes a liability to make dividend distributions The expense or credit recorded in the statement of income for a resulting in increased costs that may not be recoverable. Factors that performed up to the reporting date or by written customer to equity holders when the distribution is approved by the shareperiod represents the movement in cumulative expense recogcould cause costs to increase include: unanticipated technical probacknowledgement. holders. A corresponding amount is recognized directly in equity. nized as at the beginning and end of that period. lems with equipment supplied or developed by us which may require The outcome can be estimated reliably when all of the following No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately us to incur additional costs to remedy, changes in the cost of compocriteria are satisfied: Employee benefits vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which vesting is nents, materials or labor, project modifications creating unanticipated a) The amount of revenue can be measured reliably; Konecranes companies have various pension plans in accordance conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition. These are costs, suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform, and delays b) It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the with local conditions and practices. Pensions are generally managed treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or caused by unexpected conditions or events. By recognizing changes transaction will flow to the entity; for the Group companies by outside pension insurance companies non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other perforin estimates cumulatively, recorded revenue and costs to date reflect c) The stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the or by similar arrangements. These pension plans are classified mance and/or service conditions are satisfied. the current estimates at the stage of completion for each project. reporting period can be measured reliably; and either as defined contribution or defined benefit plans. Under When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the Additionally, losses on long-term contracts are recognized in the d) The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete defined contribution plans, expenses are recognized for the period minimum expense recognized is the expense had the terms not been period when they are identified and are based upon the anticipated the transaction can be measured reliably. the contribution relates to. The Group has no legal or constructive modified, if the original terms of the award are met. An additional excess of contract costs over the related contract revenues. obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold expense is recognized for any modification that increases the total fair Revenue from large crane construction contracts is recognized sufficient assets to pay employee benefits. The Konecranes Group value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise benefiJudgments according to the percentage of the completion (POC) method accounts for the Finnish system under the Employees’ Pensions Act cial to the employee as measured at the date of modification. There have been no changes to judgments throughout the years described in IAS11 as those contracts are specifically negotiated (TyEL) within the insurance system as a defined contribution plan. The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as addi2015 and 2014. for the construction of an asset or a combination of assets that Under defined benefit plans, a liability recognized in the balance tional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per are closely interrelated or interdependent in terms of their design, sheet equal to the net of the present value of the defined benefit share (see note 12). technology and function or their ultimate purpose or use. The obligation (calculated using the Projected Unit Credit Method) less stage of completion of a contract is determined by the proportion the fair value of the plan assets at the balance sheet date. ActuCash-settled transactions that the contract costs incurred for the work performed to date arial gains and losses are recognized in the consolidated stateThe cost of cash-settled transactions is measured initially at fair bear to the estimated total contract costs (cost-to-cost method) ment of other comprehensive income as remeasurement items value at the grant date using a binomial model. This fair value is 78 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 79 expensed over the period until the vesting date with recognition balances. Taxes are calculated using rates enacted or substanGroup’s cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the supplies are valued using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis or weighted of a corresponding liability. The liability is remeasured to fair value tively enacted at the balance sheet date. combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of average cost. The inventory stock obsolescence provision is based at each reporting date up to, and including the settlement date, Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are calculated the acquire are assigned to those units. If the carrying amount for on the best estimate of slow-moving and obsolete inventory at the with changes in fair value recognized in Personnel cost – Other on all temporary differences arising between the tax basis and the a CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss equal balance sheet date. The estimates are based on frequent review and personnel expenses in the statement of income (see Note 8). book value of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is not recognized to the difference is recognized. Konecranes uses a discounted evaluation of inventory ageing and composition. for non-deductible goodwill on initial recognition and temporary cash flow analyses to assess the fair value of goodwill. In assessing Foreign currency translation differences in investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their Account and other receivables The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in probably will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The main present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current Account and other receivables are initially recorded at cost. Provieuros, which is the Group’s functional and presentation currency. temporary differences arise from unused tax losses, depreciation market assessments of the time value of money and the risks sions are made for doubtful receivables on individual assessment of Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency differences, provisions, defined benefit pension plans, inter-comspecific to the asset. The Group bases its impairment calculation potential risks. The effect is recognized in the statement of income. and items included in the financial statements of each entity are pany inventory margin and derivative financial instruments. In on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared measured using that functional currency. connection with an acquisition, the Group records provisions for separately for each of the Group’s CGUs to which the individual Cash and cash equivalents deferred taxes on the difference between the fair values of the net assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast calculations cover Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call Transactions and balances assets acquired and their tax bases. A deferred tax asset is recoga period of five years. A previously recognized impairment loss on deposits with banks and other liquid investments with original Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional nized to the extent that it is probable that it can be utilized. goodwill is not reversed even if there is a significant improvement in maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are included in currency (foreign currencies) are recognized by the Group entities at circumstances having initially caused the impairment. current interest-bearing liabilities. their respective functional currency rates prevailing at the date of Business combinations the transaction. At the end of each reporting period, foreign currency Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition Property, plant and equipment Fair value measurement monetary items are retranslated at the functional currency spot method according to which the acquired company’s identifiable Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or exchange rate in effect at the reporting date. The resulting foreign assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value depreciation and any impairment losses. Depreciation is recorded paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market currency exchange differences are recorded in the statement of on the date of acquisition. The excess of the consideration transon a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic life of participants. The Group categorizes assets and liabilities measincome with the exception of differences that arise on monetary ferred for the business combination over the acquirer’s interest in the assets as follows: ured at fair value into one of three levels depending on the ability items that provide an effective hedge for a net investment in a the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent • Buildings 10–40 years to observe inputs employed in their measurement. Level 1 inputs foreign operation (such as intragroup loans where settlement is liabilities is recorded as goodwill. For each acquisition the non-con• Machinery and equipment 3–10 years are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilineither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future). These trolling interest in the acquiree, if any, can be recognized either at ties. Level 2 inputs are inputs that are observable, either directly are recognized in other comprehensive income until the disposal of fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of No depreciation is recorded for land. or indirectly, other than quoted prices included within level 1 for the net investment, at which time they are recognized in the income the acquiree’s net assets. If the purchase consideration is less than Expectations made for existing property, plant and equipment the asset or liability. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the statement. Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differthe fair value of the Group’s share of the net assets acquired, the that will provide future economic benefit are capitalized and asset or liability reflecting significant modifications to observable ences on those monetary items are also recorded in other compredifference is recognized directly through the profit and loss. Direct depreciated over the remaining useful life of the asset. related market data or Konecranes’ assumptions about pricing by hensive income. acquisition transaction costs are expensed as incurred. market participants. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical Impairment of assets subject to amortization and depreciation cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates Intangible assets The carrying values of intangible assets subject to amortization, Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting as of the date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary items measIntangible assets include service contracts, patents and trademarks property, plant and equipment and investments in associates and The Group’s global operations expose it to currency risk and to a ured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the as well as software licenses and implementation costs. Intangible joint ventures are reviewed for impairment whenever events and lesser extent interest rate risk. exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combinaan asset may not be recoverable. If such an indication exists, the forward contracts and interest rate swaps, to hedge its risks Foreign operations tion is their fair value at the date of acquisition. Intangible assets recoverable amount of the assets will be estimated. associated with foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into with definite useful life are amortized on the straight-line basis The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value commitments and forecasted transactions and interest rate risks. euros at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date and over expected useful lives, which may vary from 5 to 20 years with less selling costs and value in use which is the present value of the Derivative financial instruments are used for hedging purposes in their income statements are translated at average exchange rates service contracts and patents and trademarks and from 4 to 7 years cash flows expected from the asset’s use and eventual disposal. accordance with the Group’s hedging policy and not for speculative for the period. The exchange differences arising on the translation with software licenses. They are assessed for impairment whenever An impairment loss is recognized in the statement of income purposes. These instruments are initially recognized at fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. when the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying at the derivative contract date, and are re-measured to fair value foreign operation, the component of other comprehensive income Intangible assets with indefinite useful life are not amortized, amount. Impairment losses on these assets are reversed if their at subsequent reporting dates. Derivatives are presented as finanrelating to that particular foreign operation is recognized in the but they are tested annually for impairment in a manner equivrecoverable amounts subsequently increase. cial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities income statement. alent to that for testing goodwill. The assessment of indefinite when the fair value is negative. Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life Valuation of inventories For certain large crane projects, the Group applies hedge any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from Raw materials and supplies are valued at the acquisition cost accounting. The Group designates hedges of the foreign currency liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabiliindefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. or, if lower, at the net realizable value. Net realizable value is the risk of a firm commitments and highly probable forecasted transties of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less actions to a cash flow hedge. Changes in the fair value of derivaImpairment testing of goodwill estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary tive financial instruments that are designated as effective hedges Income tax Goodwill acquired in a business combination is tested for impairto make the sale. Semi-manufactured goods are valued at variable of future cash flows are recognized directly in other comprehensive Taxes shown in the consolidated statement of income include ment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances production costs including a share of production overheads based on income, while the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in income taxes to be paid on the basis of local tax legislations, indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For the normal capacity. Work in progress of uncompleted orders includes the income statement. See note 34. tax adjustments from previous years as well as the effect of purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business direct labor and material costs, as well as a proportion of overhead Amounts recognized as OCI are transferred to profit or loss the annual change in the deferred tax liability and deferred tax combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the costs related to production and installation. Raw materials and when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when 80 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 81 the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognized or Offsetting of financial instruments paid out, as well as obtained loans, are recognized under Cash apply this standard prospectively from January 1, 2016 on future when a forecast sale occurs. When the hedged item is the cost of Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net flows from financing activities. acquisitions of joint operations. a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts recogamount reported in the consolidated statement of financial posiSale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Assonized as OCI are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the tion if, and only if, there is a currently existing, legally enforceable, 2.4 Application of new and amended IFRS ciate or Joint Venture, Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 requires non-financial asset or liability. unconditional right of offset that applies to all counterparties of standards and IFRIC interpretations Konecranes to recognize gains and losses on such sales or contribuIf the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exerthe financial instruments in all situations, including both normal Konecranes has not adopted any new or revised IFRSs from tions only to the extent they relate to the interest in the Associate or cised without replacement or rollover (as part of the hedging strategy), operations and insolvency. January 1, 2015 that have had any impact on the current or Joint Venture that does not constitute a business and that is held by or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, or when the hedge no comparative periods. investors other than Konecranes. The gain or loss resulting from the longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or Provisions The relevant new or revised IFRSs that Konecranes has not yet sale or contribution to an Associate or a Joint Venture of assets that loss previously recognized in OCI remains separately in equity until the Provisions are recognized in the balance sheet when the Group has adopted are the following: constitute a business as defined in IFRS 3 is recognised in full. The forecast transaction occurs or the foreign currency firm commitment a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event IFRS 9 Financial Instruments introduces a single approach for the standard will be effective from January 1, 2016. Based on the Assois met. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the and it is considered probable that an outflow of resources embodying classification and measurement of financial assets according to their ciates and Joint Ventures in which it has investments at December net cumulative gain or loss recognized in the other comprehensive economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a relicash flow characteristics and the business model they are managed 31, 2015, Konecranes does not believe that the amendments will income is transferred to profit or loss for the period. able estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions in, and provides a new impairment model based on expected credit have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that may arise from restructuring plans, onerous contracts, guarantees losses. IFRS 9 also includes new regulations regarding the application do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized in the stateand warranties, among other events. Obligations arising from restrucof hedge accounting to better reflect an entity’s risk management 3. Segment information ment of income as they arise. turing plans are recognized when the detailed and formal restrucactivities especially with regard to managing non-financial risks. The For management purposes, the Group is organized into business The Group does not apply fair value hedging. turing plans have been established, the personnel concerned have new standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on units based on its products and services and has two reportable been informed and when there is a valid expectation that the plan will or after January 1, 2018, while early application is permitted. The segments: Financial liabilities be implemented. The warranty provision is based on the history of new hedging model may lead to more economic hedging strategies • Service business, which provides services on installation and Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value past warranty costs and claims on delivered products under warranty. meeting the requirement for hedge accounting. Furthermore, IFRS 9 maintenance of production cranes and lifttrucks. through profit or loss; derivatives designated as hedging instruAdditionally warranty provisions can be established on a case by case is estimated to increase the amount of disclosures for Konecranes. • Equipment business, which produces lifting equipments. ments in an effective hedge; or as financial liabilities measured at basis to take into consideration the potentially increased risks. Konecranes is in the process of identifying the first-time implementaamortized cost, as appropriate. Financial liabilities include trade When the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimtion effects of IFRS 9 in more detail. Cranes and Lifttrucks operating segments have been aggregated and other payables, finance debt and derivative financial instrubursed, for example, under an insurance contract, the reimburseIFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers recognizes to form the above Equipment business reportable operating ments. The Group determines the classification of its financial ment is recognized as a separate asset, but only when the reimrevenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to segment due to the similar economic characteristics with respect liabilities at initial recognition. The measurement of financial liabilibursement is virtually certain. a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which to the nature of the production process, product type and class of ties depends on their classification, as follows: the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods customers for their products. Leases or services. Revenue is recognized when, or as, the customer The above reportable segments are based on the Group’s Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Lease contracts, in which the Group assumes substantially all obtains control of the goods or services. IFRS 15 also includes management reporting and organizational structure. Konecranes Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases. guidance on the presentation of contract balances, that is, assets Group’s chief operating decision maker is the Group Executive Board. on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognized In finance leases, the assets are recognized in property, plant and and liabilities arising from contracts with customers, depending Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss and in the income statement. Derivatives, other than those designated equipment at the lower of fair value or the present value of the on the relationship between the entity’s performance and the is measured consistently with profit or loss in the consolidated as effective hedging instruments, are classified as held for trading minimum lease payments as determined at the inception of the customer’s payment. In addition, the new standard requires a financial statements. However, the performance of the investees and are included in this category. lease. The value capitalized is amortized on a straight-line basis set of quantitative and qualitative disclosures to enable users accounted for using the equity method is evaluated using proporover the shorter of the lease period or the useful economic life of the Group’s consolidated financial statements to understand tionate consolidation. Derivatives designated as hedging of the asset. The corresponding lease obligations are included in the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash The assets and liabilities of the reportable segments include instruments in an effective hedge interest-bearing liabilities. flows arising from contracts with customers. IFRS 15 supersedes only items directly connected with the business as well as the These derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value. Other lease contracts are classified as operating leases where the IAS 11, Construction Contracts and IAS 18, Revenue as well goodwill related to them. Also the Group Headquarters’ tax and The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation is lease payments of these leases are recognized as rental expenses in as related interpretations. The standard is effective for annual financial income and expenses are managed on the Group level described above in the accounting policy for derivative financial the statement of income on a straight line basis over the lease term. periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018; early application is and are not allocated to segments. instruments and hedging accounting. permitted. This standard may impact revenue recognition of long As its secondary segments Konecranes Group reports three Cash flow statement term projects as the criteria for recognizing the revenue over time geographical areas, which are the main market areas: EMEA Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost The cash flow statement has been prepared in accordance with (percentage of completion method) will change and be based on (Europe, Middle East and Africa), AME (Americas) and APAC All other financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value. For the indirect method. In the cash flow statement a distinction is the fact that at any time during the contract term, Konecranes (Asia-Pacific). Sales are reported by the customer location and interest-bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the made between cash flows from operating, investing and financing must be entitled to an amount that at least compensates the assets and capital expenditure by the location of the assets. proceeds received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing. activities. Currency differences on cash and cash equivalents Group for performance completed to date, even if the customer Intercorporate transfer prices between operating segments After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently are recognized separately in the cash flow statement. Revenue can terminate the contract for reasons other than our failure to are primarily based on the market prices, which are considered to measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. and expenses for income tax are recognized under Cash flows perform as promised. The disclosure requirement in IFRS 15 will reflect the arm’s length basis. Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, from operating activities. Interest costs and interest revenues be more extensive than in the present IFRS standards. Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and and any discount or premium on settlement. Gains and losses are recognized under Cash flows from operating activities. Cash Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations equipment and intangible assets. Inter-segment revenues are arising on the repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities flows as a result of the acquisition or disposal of financial interests Amendments to IFRS 11 clarifies that the acquisition accounting eliminated on consolidation. are recognized respectively in interest and other income and finance (subsidiaries and interests) are recognized under Cash flows from and disclosure requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations costs. This category of financial liabilities includes accounts payainvesting activities, taking into account the cash, cash equivalents must be applied to the acquisitions of an interest in a joint operbles and interest bearing liabilities. and repaid third party debts present in these interests. Dividends ation that constitutes a business. Konecranes will be required to 82 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 83 3.1. Operating segments Corporate Corporate functions and Unalfunctions and Unal2015 Service Equipment located items Eliminations Total 2014 Service Equipment located items Eliminations Total Sales Sales Sales to external customers 949.4 1,176.7 2,126.2 Sales to external customers 858.1 1,153.3 2,011.4 Inter-segment sales 42.9 63.6 -106.5 0.0 Inter-segment sales 36.9 68.5 -105.4 0.0 Total sales 992.3 1,240.3 -106.5 2,126.2 Total sales 895.1 1,221.7 -105.4 2,011.4 Income / Expense Income / Expense EBITDA 116.8 48.8 -54.6 0.8 111.8 EBITDA 103.3 71.6 -16.0 0.1 159.0 EBITDA,% 11.8% 3.9% 5.3% EBITDA,% 11.5% 5.9% 7.9% Depreciation and amortization (note 9) 17.9 30.1 0.8 48.7 Depreciation and amortization (note 9) 16.4 25.9 0.8 43.0 Impairment of assets (note 9) 1.2 4.1 5.3 Impairment of assets (note 9) 0.0 0.1 0.1 Operating profit excluding non recurring items 102.9 33.8 -19.7 0.8 117.7 Operating profit excluding non recurring items 89.1 46.7 -16.8 0.1 119.1 % of net sales 10.4% 2.7% 5.5% % of net sales 10.0% 3.8% 5.9% Operating profit including non recurring items 98.9 18.8 -55.4 0.8 63.0 Operating profit including non recurring items 86.9 45.6 -16.8 0.1 115.8 % of net sales 10.0% 1.5% 3.0% % of net sales 9.7% 3.7% 5.8% Share of associates and joint ventures result (note 16) 4.8 4.8 Share of associates and joint ventures result (note 16) 3.7 3.7 Financial income 7.8 7.8 Financial income 2.4 2.4 Financial expenses -20.3 -20.3 Financial expenses -14.5 -14.5 Profit before tax 55.4 Profit before tax 107.4 Segment assets 414.9 845.7 1,260.6 Segment assets 383.5 837.4 1,220.9 Investment accounted for using the equity method (note 16) 50.2 50.2 Investment accounted for using the equity method (note 16) 43.1 43.1 Cash and cash equivalents 80.8 80.8 Cash and cash equivalents 97.9 97.9 Deferred tax assets 71.7 71.7 Deferred tax assets 70.0 70.0 Income tax receivables 10.1 10.1 Income tax receivables 13.4 13.4 Other unallocated and corporate function level assets 11.4 11.4 Other unallocated and corporate function level assets 32.0 32.0 Total assets 414.9 845.7 224.3 1,484.9 Total assets 383.5 837.4 256.4 1,477.4 Segment liabilities 182.6 489.0 671.6 Segment liabilities 183.3 484.0 667.3 Interest-bearing liabilities 284.0 284.0 Interest-bearing liabilities 247.4 247.4 Deferred tax liabilities 19.8 19.8 Deferred tax liabilities 18.5 18.5 Income tax payables 12.8 12.8 Income tax payables 18.9 18.9 Other unallocated and corporate function level liabilities 40.8 40.8 Other unallocated and corporate function level liabilities 76.1 76.1 Total liabilities 182.6 489.0 357.3 1,028.9 Total liabilities 183.3 484.0 360.8 1,028.1 Other disclosures Other disclosures ROCE% 45.7% 5.1% 10.4% ROCE% 44.8% 12.5% 17.0% Capital expenditure 22.9 26.5 49.3 Capital expenditure 20.5 39.6 60.0 Personnel 6,503 5,328 56 11,887 Personnel 6,285 5,639 58 11,982 84 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 85 3.2. Geographical areas 7. Operating expenses 9. Depreciation, amortization 2015 EMEA* AME APAC Total 2015 2014 and impairments External sales* 960.5 823.7 342.0 2,126.2 Change in work in progress -37.0 9.1 Assets* 844.3 368.6 272.0 1,484.9 Production for own use -0.9 -1.1 9.1. Depreciation and amortization Capital expenditure 41.5 5.2 2.7 49.3 Material and supplies 792.7 747.0 2015 2014 Personnel 6,237 2,968 2,682 11,887 Subcontracting 215.1 183.1 Intangible assets 21.9 18.6 * External sales to Finland EUR 75.5 million. Non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets) in Finland: EUR 137.0 million and in other countries: EUR 297.1 million. Materials, supplies and subcontracting 969.9 938.0 Buildings 3.7 3.2 Machinery and equipment 23.2 21.3 Wages and salaries 527.1 472.7 Total 48.7 43.0 2014 EMEA* AME APAC Total Pension costs 52.8 44.7 External sales* 946.0 727.5 338.0 2,011.4 Other personnel expenses 81.6 76.4 9.2. Impairments Assets* 771.2 362.7 343.4 1,477.4 Personnel cost 661.5 593.7 Capital expenditure 52.8 2.5 4.7 60.0 2015 2014 Personnel 6,240 2,858 2,884 11,982 Property, plant and equipment 2.4 0.1 Other operating expenses 379.1 323.4 *External sales to Finland EUR 68.9 million. Non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets) in Finland: EUR 139.0 million and in other countries: EUR 291.4 million. Intangible assets 2.9 0,0 There are no single customers which have over 10% of the Group’s sales. Total operating expenses 2,010.5 1,855.2 Goodwill 0,0 0,0 Research and development costs recognized as an expense in Total 5.3 0.1 4. Acquisitions 6. Percentage of completion other operating expenses amount to EUR 28.7 million in the year method and advances received 2015 (EUR 28.9 million in 2014). The nature of the impairments is described in the disclosures of Acquisitions and divestments in 2015 goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (see In August 2015, Konecranes purchased an additional 46% of the 6.1 Percentage of completion method 8. Personnel expenses and notes 14 and 15). minority shareholding of its fully controlled subsidiary, Zaporozhje 2015 2014 number of personnel Kran Holding, which is located in Ukraine. After the purchase of the The cumulative revenues of non-delivered 10. Financial income and expenses projects 297.5 316.7 additional shareholding, Konecranes now owns 95% of the subsid8.1. Personnel expenses Advances received netted 216.9 225.4 iary. The purchase price for the additional 46% amounted to EUR 2015 2014 10.1. Financial income Progress billings netted 3.3 5.5 3.0 million. Receivable arising from percentage of Wages and salaries 527.1 472.7 2015 2014 As part of the initial acquisition of Sanma Hoist & Cranes Co. completion method, net 77.3 85.8 Pension costs: Defined benefit plans 5.5 5.1 Interest income on bank deposits and loans 1.1 1.2 Ltd in 2014, the Group had accrued EUR 2.8 million of deferred Pension costs: Defined contribution plans 47.3 39.6 Fair value gain on derivative financial Gross advance received from percentage of instruments 0.0 0.7 consideration. This deferred consideration has now been paid, Other personnel expenses 81.6 76.4 completion method 221.1 297.7 Exchange rate gains 6.5 0.3 therefore total consideration paid in the year ended 31 December Advances received netted 216.9 225.4 Total 661.5 593.7 Other financial income 0.2 0.1 2015 was EUR 5.8 million. Advances received from percentage of Total 7.8 2.4 completion method (netted) 4.2 72.3 8.2. Average personnel Acquisitions and divestments in 2014 Net sales recognized under the percentage of completion method 2015 2014 In June 2014 Konecranes completed the acquisition of the amounted EUR 291.2 million in 2015 (EUR 318.3 in 2014). Average number of personnel 11,934 11,920 10.2. Financial expenses remaining shares (35%) of Jiangsu Three Horses Crane ManufacReceivable arising from percentage of completion method Number of personnel as at December 31 11,887 11,982 2015 2014 ture Co. Ltd. (“SANMA”) and owns 100 percent of the company. relate to construction contracts. Net asset balances are balances Number of personnel as at December 31 in Interest expenses on liabilities 11.2 11.5 Finland 1,954 2,002 The transaction costs decreased Konecranes equity attributable where the sum of contract costs, recognized profits and recogExchange rate loss 5.4 0.0 to the equity holders of the parent company by EUR 1.9 million nized losses exceed progress billings. Construction contracts, Other financial expenses 3.7 3.0 and the non-controlling interest by EUR 6.4 million reflecting the here and as follows, include service contracts accounted for under 8.3. Personnel by Reportable Segment at end of period Total 20.3 14.5 amount paid in 2014 of EUR 5.9 million and accrued consideration the percentage of completion method. Where progress billings 2015 2014 of EUR 2.4 million. The transaction was accounted for as an equity exceed the sum of contract costs, recognized profits and recogService 6,503 6,285 Financial income and expenses net -12.5 -12.1 transaction and did not result in additional goodwill. Konecranes nized losses these liabilities are included in the line item Advance Equipment 5,328 5,639 also paid accrued consideration for business acquired in previous received from percentage of completion method (netted). Group Staff 56 58 The company applies hedge accounting on derivatives used to years of EUR 0.3 million. The cash flow effect of the purchase Total 11,887 11,982 hedge cash flows in certain large crane projects. The cash flow considerations paid in 2014 totaled EUR 6.2 million of which EUR 6.2. Advance payments received hedges of the expected future cash flows are assessed to be highly 5.9 million is presented as financing cash flow as it related to the 2015 2014 effective and a net unrealized effect of EUR -9.1 million (2014: EUR acquisition of non-controlling interest. Advance received from percentage of -8.6 million) with deferred taxes of EUR 2.3 million (2014: EUR 2.2 completion method (netted) 4.2 72.3 million) relating to the hedging instruments is included in equity. Other advance received from customers 172.2 130.4 5. Specification of sales The hedged operative cash flows are expected to occur during the Total 176.4 202.7 2015 2014 next 3–18 months. The realized and recycled currency differences Sale of goods 1,411.1 1,347.4 from these hedges recorded in the statement of income was EUR Rendering of services 714.7 663.3 -15.1 million in 2015 (EUR -1.5 million in 2014). Leasing of own products 0.1 0.2 Royalties 0.3 0.5 Total 2,126.2 2,011.4 86 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 87 11. Income taxes 11.3. Tax effects of components in other comprehensive income 13.3. Total goodwill in reportable segments after impairments Sensitivity analyses 2015 2014 2015 2014 In addition to impairment testing using the base case assumptions, 11.1. Taxes in statement of income Cash flow hedges -0.1 -2.8 Industrial Equipment 1) 44.9 43.1 four separate sensitivity analyses were performed for each CGU: 2015 2014 Re-measurement gains (losses) on defined Lifttrucks 12.6 12.3 1) A discount rate analysis where the discount rate was increased benefit plans 1.4 -4.7 Local income taxes of group companies 24.6 32.1 Stahl CraneSystems 20.4 20.4 by 5 percentage points Total 1.3 -7.5 Taxes from previous years -1.1 -0.6 Agilon 3.9 3.9 2) A Group management adjustment to the future profitability. The Change in deferred taxes 1.1 1.3 Goodwill in Equipment total 81.8 79.7 cash flow of each CGU was analyzed by the Group management. Total 24.6 32.8 12. Earnings per share Based on the CGU specific historical data and future growth Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net income Port Service 10.7 10.8 prospects the cash flows were decreased by 10% in each year 11.2. Reconciliation of income before taxes attributable to the shareholders of the parent company by the Crane Service 10.7 10.0 including terminal year. 2015 2014 weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. Machine Tool Service 4.4 4.3 3) A higher discount rate (+5% points) analysis combined with with total income taxes Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the weighted Goodwill in Service total 25.8 25.1 lower (-10%) cash flows as mentioned above Profit before taxes 55.4 107.4 average number of shares outstanding during the year for the dilutive 4) A decrease in the compound annual growth rate for the sales Total goodwill in reportable segments as of Tax calculated at the domestic corporation tax effect of the shares issued under the stock option plans. Weighted December 31 107.6 104.8 for each five forecasted years (2% points) combined with rate of 20.0% (2014: 20.0%) 11.1 21.5 Effect of different tax rates of foreign average number of shares is excluding the number of treasury shares. 1) Includes Light Lifting, which was reported as separate CGU in 2014. the current discount rate. subsidiaries 0.7 7.3 Taxes from previous years -1.1 -0.6 2015 2014 The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined based on value 2015 Tax effect of non-deductible expenses and Net profit attributable to shareholders of the in use calculations using the discounted cash flow method. The foreThe recoverable value of CGU Machine Tool Service was EUR tax-exempt income 1.1 -1.7 parent company 30.8 74.4 Tax effect of unrecognized tax losses of the casting period of cash flows is five years and it is based on financial 6.7 million higher and the recoverable value of CGU Industrial current year 9.5 6.7 forecasts of the management responsible for that CGU, and adjusted Equipment was EUR 40.5 million higher than the carrying value Weighted average number of shares Tax effect of utilization of previously outstanding (1,000 pcs) 58,542 57,909 by Group management if needed. The forecasts have been made of the assets under impairment testing. Sensitivity tests using unrecognized tax losses -0.4 -0.6 Tax effect of recognition of previously Effect of dilution from share options (1,000 based on the CGU specific historical data, order book, the current both higher discount rate (+5% points) and lower cash flow estipcs) 0 125 unrecognized tax losses -2.3 -1.6 market situation and industry specific information of the future growth mates (-10%) indicated that Machine Tool Service would have Weighted average number of shares Tax effect of impairment of previously recognized tax assets on carry forward losses 5.7 0.0 outstanding, diluted (1,000 pcs) 58,542 58,034 possibilities. These assumptions are reviewed annually as part of been impaired by EUR 1.0 million and the goodwill in Industrial Tax effect of recognizing the controlled management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycles. Calculations Equipment would have been fully impaired. Sensitivity test for temporary difference from investment in subsidiaries -0.9 1.0 Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 0.53 1.28 are prepared during the fourth quarter of the year. compound annual growth rate for the sales (-2% points) with the Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 0.53 1.28 The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is the weighted current discount rate indicated that the goodwill in CGU Machine Tax effect of tax rate change 0.0 0.2 Other items 1.2 0.6 average (pre-tax) cost of capital and is based on risk free long Tool Service and Industrial Equipment would have been fully Total 24.6 32.8 There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or term goverment bond rates and market and industry specific risk impaired. The recoverable amount of EUR 14.5 million of Machine potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date premiums. These risk premiums are derived based on the business Tool Service would be the same as the carrying amount if the Effective tax rate% 44.4% 30.6% of authorization of these financial statements. portfolio of companies which operate in a similar industry. discount rate would be 4.6% points higher, or if the present value The key assumptions, being the average compound annual of the cash flows would be 46.5% lower. The recoverable amount The Company evaluates regularly the net realizable value of its 13. Goodwill and goodwill impairment testing growth rate for the sales of the five years forecasted and the of EUR 208.8 million of Industrial Equipment would be the same deferred tax assets. The tax effect of impairment of previously discount rate are as follows: as the carrying amount if the discount rate would be 2.1% points recognized tax assets on carry forwards losses includes impair13.1. Goodwill higher, or if the present value of the cash flows would be 19.4% ment made for deferred tax assets previously recognized for Indian 2015 2014 Compound annual lower. The forecasts of Machine Tool Service and Industrial Equipgrowth rate Discount rate tax losses carry forwards. Acquisition costs as of January 1 119.5 116.3 ment include also a specific key assumption for a decrease of fixed Industrial Equipment 3% 10.5% Translation difference 2.8 3.2 costs. The recoverable amount of EUR 14.5 million of Machine Tool Stahl CraneSystems 2% 11.6% Uncertain tax positions Acquisition costs as of December 31 122.3 119.5 Service would be the same as the carrying amount if the EBITDA Port Service 2% 10.5% Konecranes estimates and accrues taxes that will ultimately be Accumulated impairments as of January 1 -14.7 -14.7 % would be 1.3% points lower and the recoverable amount of EUR Machine Tool Service 1% 8.1% payable when reviews or audits by tax authorities of tax returns are Impairments for the financial year 0.0 0.0 208.8 million of Industrial Equipment would be the same as the Agilon* 104% 7.6% completed. On August 14, 2015 Konecranes announced that one Total as of December 31 107.6 104.8 carrying amount if the EBITDA % would be 0.7% points lower. There Crane Service 2% 9.8% of its foreign subsidiaries had become the victim of a fraud. The Lifttrucks 5% 9.1% was no indication of impairment of goodwill for any other CGU from perpetrators had through identity theft and other fraudulent actions 13.2. General principles *The growth rate in CGU Agilon is 104% (80% in 2014) as the CGU is in a start-up phase. the sensitivity tests. managed to induce the subsidiary to make unwarranted payments Management monitors the performance of the Group through the for a total amount of EUR 17.0 million. Konecranes has recorded monthly meetings and monthly reporting that take place on a busiThe average compound growth rate for the gross profit is 2014 this item as tax deductible based on the information available about ness unit level. Impairment testing is done at the lowest level of consistent with that of sales. Furthermore for all the CGU’s a 1% Sensitivity tests using both higher discount rate (+5% points) and the position expected to be taken by the tax authority. However the the Group at which goodwill is monitored internally. terminal growth rate has been applied. lower cash flow estimates (-10%) indicated that Machine Tool outcome of the tax assessment is not yet certain. Service would have been impaired by EUR 2.7 million. The SensiImpairment charges tivity test for compound annual growth rate for the sales (-2% The impairment testing performed in 2015 and 2014 did not result points) with the current discount rate indicated that CGU Machine in any impairments being recognized. Tool Service would have been impaired by EUR 6.1 million. The recoverable amount of EUR 12.6 million of Machine Tool Service 88 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 89 would be the same as the carrying amount if the discount rate the recoverable value of CGU Light Lifting was EUR 26.3 million 15. Property, plant and equipment would be 2.5% points higher, or if the present value of the cash higher than the carrying value of the assets under impairment flows would be 21.5% lower. There was no indication of impairment testing. For CGU Agilon the recoverable amount exceeded EUR Machinery & Property, plant and 2015 Land Buildings Equipment equipment total of goodwill for any other GCU from the sensitivity tests. The recov22.4 million of the carrying amount of the assets under impairAcquisition costs as of January 1 7.0 65.6 247.9 320.4 erable value of CGU Port Service was EUR 15.0 million higher and ment testing. Additions 0.1 2.0 19.2 21.3 Disposals 0.0 -0.2 -7.9 -8.1 14. Intangible assets Transfer within assets 0.0 0.3 -0.3 0.0 Impairment 0.0 0.0 -2.3 -2.3 Patents and Intangible 2015 trademarks Software Other assets total Translation difference 0.2 2.1 2.0 4.3 Acquisition costs as of January 1 29.0 102.6 108.8 240.4 Acquisition costs as of December 31 7.3 69.9 258.5 335.6 Additions 0.0 31.0 0.8 31.8 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 0.0 -16.1 -153.9 -170.0 Disposals 0.0 -0.2 -1.0 -1.2 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 Impairment 0.0 -1.8 -1.1 -2.9 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 0.0 0.1 3.7 3.8 Translation difference 0.4 0.0 1.4 1.8 Depreciation for financial year 0.0 -3.7 -23.2 -26.9 Acquisition costs as of December 31 29.4 131.6 108.9 269.9 Total as of December 31 7.3 50.2 85.0 142.5 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 -13.9 -41.2 -84.2 -139.3 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 Machinery & Property, plant and Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2014 Land Buildings Equipment equipment total Depreciation for financial year -0.7 -15.8 -5.4 -21.9 Acquisition costs as of January 1 6.8 60.8 243.0 310.6 Total as of December 31 14.9 74.6 19.2 108.7 Additions 0.1 3.6 27.0 30.7 Disposals 0.0 -0.1 -24.3 -24.4 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Patents and Intangible Impairment 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 2014 trademarks Software Other assets total Translation difference 0.1 1.3 2.4 3.7 Acquisition costs as of January 1 28.6 73.5 107.9 209.9 Acquisition costs as of December 31 7.0 65.6 247.9 320.4 Additions 0.0 31.2 0.6 31.8 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 0.0 -12.9 -153.2 -166.1 Disposals 0.0 -2.2 -0.6 -2.9 Translation difference 0.0 -0.1 -0.4 -0.5 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.2 -0.2 0.0 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 0.0 0.1 20.9 21.0 Translation difference 0.4 0.0 1.2 1.5 Depreciation for financial year 0.0 -3.2 -21.3 -24.5 Acquisition costs as of December 31 29.0 102.6 108.8 240.4 Total as of December 31 7.0 49.5 94.0 150.5 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 -13.2 -32.2 -77.5 -122.8 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 -0.3 -0.3 There were no buildings capitalized under finance lease at the end of year 2015 and 2014. Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 0.0 2.2 0.2 2.4 The carrying amount of machinery and equipments under finance lease as of December 31,2015 is EUR 6.4 million (EUR 6.5 million in Depreciation for financial year -0.7 -11.2 -6.7 -18.6 2014). Due to the restructuring actions of the Group during the year machinery and equipment was written off in 2015 by EUR 2.3 million. Total as of December 31 15.2 61.4 24.6 101.2 16. Interests in other entities and non-controlling interests The category Other consists mainly of customer lists and techinflows for the entity, it is classified as intangible assets having a nology acquired in business combinations. They are stated at cost indefinite useful life. The carrying amount of this asset is tested on 16.1. Investments accounted for using the equity method and amortized on a straight-line basis over their expected useful a yearly basis by using a similar kind of impairment testing method Associated Companies 2015 2014 Joint Ventures 2015 2014 lives. The normal amortization period varies from 4 to 20 years. as goodwill. Acquisition costs as of January 1 37.2 34.5 Acquisition costs as of January 1 5.8 5.9 The amortization of intangible assets is included in the depreciaThe addition of EUR 31.8 million (EUR 31.8 million in 2014) Share of associated companies result after Share of joint ventures result after taxes 1.0 0.2 taxes* 3.8 3.6 Dividends received -0.5 -0.2 tion and impairments line in the consolidated statement of income. mainly consisted of capitalized development costs of the Group’s Share of associates’ other comprehensive Total as of December 31 6.3 5.8 On December 31, 2015, the intangible assets having an indefinite ERP systems. income 3.8 0.0 useful life consisted of the Stahl trademark of EUR 10.4 million Due to the restructuring actions of the Group during the year Dividends received -1.0 -0.9 (EUR 10.4 million in 2014). As there is no foreseeable limit on intangible assets of EUR 2.9 million (mainly customer relations as Total as of December 31 43.9 37.2 the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash well as software) were written off in 2015. * Including adjustments from purchase price allocation. 90 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 91 16.2. Investments in associated companies and joint ventures million (EUR 76.0 million in 2014) and deferred tax liabilities EUR The main portion of carry-forward losses relates to Morris MateThe following table illustrates the summarized financial information of the Group’s investments and reconciliation with the carrying 25.6 million (EUR 24.5 million in 2014). rial Handling, Inc., USA, which was acquired in 2006. The overall amount of the investments in consolidated financial statements Konecranes has not recognized the temporary differences in carry-forward losses of Morris Material Handling, Inc. amounted investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they probably will to EUR 40.2 million (EUR 38.3 million in 2014). The Group has Profit / not reverse in the foreseeable future. The biggest temporary differrecorded a deferred tax asset amounting to EUR 8.8 million (EUR Carrying loss after Total amount of NonNontax from compreence for which no deferred tax liability has been recognized relates 7.9 million in 2014) of Morris Material Handling, Inc. based on the the investcurrent Current current Current continuing hensive Dividends to the distributable profits in Canadian subsidiaries which are not tax losses estimated to be utilized during the years 2016–2025 2015 ment assets* assets* liabilities* liabilities* Revenue* operations* income* received Kito Corporation (associated company) 42.8 173.3 301.9 153.8 124.4 366.9 15.6 32.5 1.0 expected to be repatriated. The estimated withholding tax of 5% amounting to EUR 25.1 million. For the amount of EUR 15.1 million Other investments in associated amounts to EUR 1.5 million. tax loss carry-forwards deductible over the period 2026–2031 no companies and joint ventures 7.5 2.6 46.5 0.4 27.3 72.2 2.9 2.9 0.5 deferred tax asset has been recognized due to uncertainties and Total 50.2 175.9 348.4 154.2 151.7 439.1 18.5 35.4 1.5 17.3. Tax losses carried forward limitations on deductible annual amounts. At the end of year 2015, Konecranes recorded a deferred tax At the end of year 2015, Konecranes recorded EUR 4.7 million Profit / asset of EUR 16.3 million (EUR 18.4 million in 2014) related to impairment of previously recognized deferred tax assets on tax Carrying loss after Total amount of NonNontax from compreunused tax losses on the carry-forward losses of EUR 172.2 million losses carry-forwards in WMI Konecranes India Ltd (India). the investcurrent Current current Current continuing hensive Dividends (EUR 149.0 million in 2014) in total. The tax losses, for which no To assess if the convincing evidence threshold per IAS12 was 2014 ment assets* assets* liabilities* liabilities* Revenue* operations* income* received Kito Corporation (associated company) 36.2 140.3 245.2 34.9 194.5 303.6 15.1 15.1 0.9 deferred tax assets are recognized due to the uncertainty of the met Konecranes has prepared tax forecasts for future periods in Other investments in associated utilization of the losses, amounted to EUR 117.7 million in the year which it has given effect to the restructuring done and the tax plancompanies and joint ventures 6.8 3.1 51.9 0.3 31.4 66.7 1.7 1.7 0.2 2015 (EUR 89.6 million in 2014). ning opportunities that were being implemented at that time. The Total 43.1 143.3 297.1 35.1 225.9 370.4 16.9 16.9 1.1 EUR 60.4 million of these tax losses carry-forwards available taxable income in these forecasts has led management to recoghave unlimited expiry, EUR 66.1 million expiry in more than in five nize the deferred tax assets as recorded for China, ­­the ­Netherlands Kito Corporation carrying amount of the investment includes purchase price allocation effects and translation differences of EUR 1.8 million in 2015 (EUR 0.7 million in 2014). * Asset and liability values, revenue and profit / loss represent values according to the latest published financial information. years and EUR 45.7 million expire in five years. and Austria. Kito Corporation Tax losses carried forward and related deferred tax assets on December 31 by the most significant countries are as follows: Konecranes holds a 22.65% (2014: 22.73%) interest in the shares cranes retains ownership of the current models of motor designs Tax losses Potential deferred Deferred tax assets Deferred of Kito Corporation (“Kito”), which is incorporated and has its prinand the trademark rights to the end carriages. 2015 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets cipal place of business in Yamanashi, Japan. The market value of Konecranes owns as of December 31, 2015 49.5% in Konesko USA 40.2 14.5 5.7 8.8 Kito Corporation shares owned by Konecranes as of December A/S domiciled in Estonia. India 37.0 12.0 12.0 0.0 31, 2015 amounted to EUR 49.4 million (2014: EUR 49.0 million). Konecranes has recognized and accounted for the assets, liabilAustria 21.9 5.5 4.2 1.3 The market value is based on the quoted price on the Tokyo stock ities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in Konesko A/S China 9.3 2.3 0,0 2.3 exchange at each period end. in accordance with IFRS11. Japan 9.1 2.9 2.9 0.0 South-Africa 8.6 2.4 2.4 0.0 16.3. Joint operations 16.4. Subsidiaries with material non-controlling interest Germany 7.7 2.3 2.3 0.0 Konecranes has classified the interest in Konesko A/S (domiciled In August 2015, Konecranes acquired 46% of its subsidiary CJSC Brazil 6.1 2.1 2.1 0.0 in Estonia) as a joint operation based on the joint arrangement Zaporozhje Kran Holding in Ukraine and now owns 95% of the company. The Netherlands 6.1 1.5 0.3 1.2 Spain 5.8 1.4 0,0 1.4 agreement. Konesko A/S is a strategic supplier of components In June 2014, Konecranes completed the acquisition of the Other 20.4 5.2 4.0 1.1 used in Konecranes products. Konecranes has the exclusive right remaining shares (35%) of Jiangsu Three Horses Crane Manufacture Total 172.2 52.1 35.8 16.3 to purchase certain motors and end carriages from Konesko A/S Co. Ltd. (SANMA) and owns now 100% of the company. See also at a price to be agreed upon with Konesko A/S. However Konenote 4. Tax losses Potential deferred Deferred tax assets Deferred 2014 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets USA 38.3 13.9 5.9 7.9 17. Deferred tax assets and liabilities India 25.2 8.2 3.9 4.3 Austria 22.5 5.6 4.2 1.4 17.1. Deferred tax assets 17.2. Deferred tax liabilities China 1.4 0.4 0,0 0.4 2015 2014 2015 2014 Japan 6.9 2.7 2.7 0.0 Employee benefits 17.7 17.5 Intangible and tangible assets 14.3 14.8 South-Africa 1.0 0.3 0.3 0.0 Provisions 24.2 14.8 Other temporary differences 5.5 3.6 Germany 7.7 2.3 2.3 0.0 Unused tax losses 16.3 18.4 Total 19.8 18.5 Brazil 7.1 2.4 2.4 0.0 Other temporary differences 13.5 19.4 The Netherlands 5.8 1.5 0.2 1.2 Total 71.7 70.0 The deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been Spain 7.9 2.0 1.3 0.7 netted in a juridical company level when there is a legally enforceOther 25.1 6.4 4.1 2.3 Other temporary differences include timing differences arising for able right to offset income tax receivables against income tax Total 149.0 45.8 27.4 18.4 example from accrued costs, advances received and unrealized payables related to income taxes levied by the same tax authority. currency differences that are not deductible in taxation until they occur. The gross amount of deferred tax assets in 2015 was EUR 77.4 92 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 93 18. Inventories 22. Cash and cash equivalents and retained earnings. Consistent with local legislation Kone2015 2014 cranes’ share has no nominal value. Konecranes has only one Raw materials and semi-manufactured goods 137.3 146.2 2015 2014 class of shares and all issued shares are fully paid. Work in progress 201.0 159.1 Short-term deposits 10.7 13.0 Share premium includes the value of shares, which exceeds Finished goods 20.6 19.0 Cash in hand and at bank 70.0 85.0 the accounting par value of the shares, for shares issued before Advance payments 6.4 11.3 Total 80.8 97.9 September 1, 2006. Cash flow hedges include changes in the fair Total 365.2 335.5 values of derivative financial instruments used to hedge operaShort-term deposits have a maturity of three months or less. Cash tional cash flows. Translation differences comprise the differences and cash equivalents are carried at nominal value, which correarising from translating non-euro functional currency entities to Balance at Utilized Balance at sponds to their fair value. euro, which is the Group’s presentation currency. Other reserve the beginning Translation during Provision the end of 2015 of the year difference the period not needed Additions the year includes the credit for equity settled share based payment cost. Provision for obsolete inventory 28.6 1.5 9.7 1.4 9.1 28.2 23. Equity The paid in capital includes the portion of shares’ subscription price, which is not recorded to share capital or to liabilities 23.1. Shareholders’ equity according to IFRS. The paid in capital includes also other capital Balance at Balance at Number of contributions to the Group, which are not recorded to some other the beginning Translation Utilized during Provision the end of Number of treasury 2014 of the year difference the period not needed Additions the year shares shares reserve within the equity. The paid in capital includes also the Provision for obsolete inventory 22.1 0.5 3.5 0.4 9.9 28.6 As of January 1, 2014 57,828,080 5,444,262 possible amount of share capital decrease, which is not netted Share subscriptions with options 115,847 -115,847 against accumulated losses or is not distributed to shareholders. As of December 31, 2014 57,943,927 5,328,415 Dividend per share was in 2015 1.05 euro and in 2014 19. Ageing analysis of accounts receivable 1.05 euro. 2015 2014 Share subscriptions with options 788,502 -788,502 Not overdue 239.8 216.7 As of December 31, 2015 58,732,429 4,539,913 23.2. Distributable earnings 1–30 days overdue 62.2 69.6 See page 125 / Board of Director’s Proposal to the Annual General 31–60 days overdue 24.9 30.7 The total shareholders’ equity consists of share capital, share Meeting. 61–90 days overdue 17.4 18.2 premium, paid in capital, cash flow hedges, translation difference, more than 91 days overdue 33.0 29.7 Total 377.3 364.9 24. Provisions The carrying amount of accounts receivable approximates to their fair value. Accounts receivable are subject to only minor credit risk Pension concentrations due to the Group’s extensive diversified customer portfolio. Credit losses recognized for the financial year totaled EUR 5.6 2015 Warranty Restructuring commitments Other Total million (EUR 5.2 million in 2014). Total provisions as of January 1 22.1 2.2 7.9 12.9 45.2 Translation difference 0.1 0.0 0.8 0.7 1.6 Balance at Utilized Balance at Additional provision in the period 16.3 4.2 1.5 9.4 31.4 the beginning Translation during Provision the end of Utilization of provision 9.5 2.0 0.9 6.8 19.2 2015 of the year difference the period not needed Additions the year Unused amounts reversed 2.9 0.1 0.7 2.3 6.0 Provision for doubtful accounts 18.0 0.8 5.4 6.3 10.8 17.9 Total provisions as of December 31 26.2 4.3 8.5 13.9 52.9 Balance at Balance at Pension the beginning Translation Utilized during Provision the end of 2014 Warranty Restructuring commitments Other Total 2014 of the year difference the period not needed Additions the year Total provisions as of January 1 24.4 5.0 6.1 12.0 47.5 Provision for doubtful accounts 17.9 0.5 3.5 4.4 7.5 18.0 Translation difference 0.4 0.0 0.7 1.0 2.1 Additional provision in the period 8.3 1.7 1.4 7.0 18.3 The release of the provision for doubtful accounts relates to the cash received from individual receivables which were historically Utilization of provision 9.1 4.3 0.2 5.3 18.9 provided for due to management’s uncertainty of their collectability. Unused amounts reversed 1.8 0.2 0.1 1.7 3.8 Total provisions as of December 31 22.1 2.2 7.9 12.9 45.2 20. Other receivables 21. Deferred assets 2015 2014 2015 2014 The provision for warranties covers the expenses due to the repair a detailed reorganization plan and begun implementation of the Notes receivable 5.6 7.3 Interest 0.3 0.2 or replacement of products during their warranty period. The plan or announced the matter. Pension commitments include Value added tax 19.3 17.3 Prepaid expenses 14.1 14.6 warranty liability is based on historical realized warranty costs for provisions for local pension schemes. Total 24.9 24.5 Unbilled revenue 4.5 5.9 deliveries of standard products and services. The usual warranty Other provisions include provisions for claims, litigations and Other 17.1 28.1 period is 12 months. For more complex contracts, mainly including provisions for loss contracts in which the amount is not provided Total 36.0 48.8 long-term projects, the warranty reserve is calculated contract by for as part of work in progress or percentage of completion receivcontract and the warranty period can be significantly longer. The able of the loss making project. restructuring provision is recognized when the Group has prepared 94 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 95 Restructuring costs 27. Interest-bearing liabilities 27.3. Maturity tables of financial liabilities and liquidity risk Konecranes has recorded EUR 20.5 million restructuring costs The following table reflects the maturity of interest bearing liabilities. during 2015 (EUR 3.2 million in 2014) of which EUR 5.3 million has 27.1. Non-current been impairment of assets (EUR 0.0 million in 2014). 2015 2014 2015 Loans from financial institutions 54.5 160.0 Maturity 25. Current liabilities Pension loans 0,0 3.8 Avg. Avg. Less than Amount Currency duration rate % 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years MEUR Finance lease liabilities 4.5 3.2 EUR 1.7 years 1.07 167.9 48.1 7.1 223.1 25.1. Accruals Other long-term loans 0.1 0.3 INR 0.3 years 9.26 27.6 3.9 0.0 31.5 2015 2014 Total 59.2 167.2 CNY 0.3 years 4.24 22.7 0.0 0.0 22.7 Wages, salaries and personnel expenses 71.7 72.7 Others 0.1–1.4 years 0.12–16.64 6.6 0.1 0.0 6.7 Pension costs 3.8 5.6 27.2. Current Total debt 2.30 224.8 52.1 7.1 284.0 Interest 1.2 0.7 2015 2014 Other items 19.5 35.9 Loans from financial institutions 139.5 17.2 Total 96.2 114.8 Pension loans 3.8 3.8 2014 Maturity Finance lease liabilities 1.7 2.9 Avg. Avg. Less than Amount Currency duration rate % 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years MEUR 25.2. Other current liabilities (non-interest bearing) Commercial papers 45.0 31.0 EUR 2.5 years 1.23 55.1 137.2 21.4 213.8 2015 2014 Other short-term loans 0.3 0.3 INR 1.4 years 9.83 24.3 7.6 0.0 31.8 Notes payable 0.1 0.3 Overdraft 34.5 25.0 Others 0.1–1.0 years 0.4–12.5 0.8 1.0 0.0 1.8 Value added tax 17.1 10.3 Total 224.8 80.2 Total debt 2.38 80.2 145.8 21.4 247.4 Payroll tax liability 6.6 5.5 Other short-term liabilities 8.0 9.9 On October 13, 2011 the Group signed a bilateral term loan facility Total 31.9 26.0 of EUR 100 million with a commercial bank. The term of the loan is 27.3b Liquidity risk, containing undiscounted cash flows of non-derivative financial liabilities by currency five years and repayment can occur in full at the end of the agreeThe following table reflects all contractually fixed pay-offs for settlement, repayments and interest resulting from recognized financial ment. liabilities, excluding derivatives. The amounts disclosed are undiscounted net cash outflows for the respective upcoming fiscal years, 26. Lease liabilities On July 16, 2014 the Group signed a loan of EUR 50 million based on the earliest date on which Konecranes could be required to pay. Cash outflows for financial liabilities (including interest) without for financing of the research and development program until 2017. fixed amount or timing are based on the conditions existing at December 31. 26.1. Finance lease The term of the loan is seven years and repayments start in 2018 2015 2014 on a semi-annual basis. 2015 Maturity Minimum lease payments The interest period is monthly for the EUR 100 million term Avg. Avg. Less than Amount Currency duration rate % 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years MEUR within 1 year 2.1 3.0 loan facility and semi-annual for the EUR 50 million R&D loan. The EUR 1.7 years 1.07 169.7 50.2 7.2 227.1 1–5 years 3.8 3.3 interest on the EUR 100 million loan facility has been hedged at INR 0.3 years 9.26 28.0 4.4 0.0 32.4 over 5 years 0.7 0.0 December 31, 2015 in full to a fixed rate through three different CNY 0.3 years 4.24 23.0 0.0 0.0 23.0 Total 6.7 6.4 interest rate swaps signed between 2011 and 2014. The interest Others 0.1–1.4 years 0.12–16.64 6.8 0.1 0.0 6.8 rate has been fixed to a range of 0.665% to 1.765%. The weighted Total debt 2.30 227.5 54.7 7.2 289.4 Present value of finance lease average fixed interest rate is 1.033%. Other financial liabilities 171.0 3.6 0.0 174.6 within 1 year 1.7 2.9 The Company is in compliance with the quarterly monitored Total financial liabilities 398.4 58.3 7.2 464.0 1–5 years 4.0 3.1 financial covenant for these loans. No specific securities have over 5 years 0.5 0.0 been given for either of these loans. 2014 Maturity Total 6.2 6.1 The Group has an INR denominated debt relating to short term Avg. Avg. Less than Amount Currency duration rate % 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years MEUR working capital needs and with a portion remaining for capital EUR 2.5 years 1.23 57.0 138.9 25.5 221.4 Konecranes has finance leases mainly for vehicles with an average expenditure for the Indian crane factory. In addition the Group has INR 1.4 years 9.83 27.4 8.6 0.0 36.0 of four years leasing time. certain revolver facilities the details of which can be found in Note Others 0.1–1.0 years 0.4–12.5 0.8 1.0 0.0 1.8 33.3. Total debt 2.38 85.2 148.5 25.5 259.3 The average interest rate of the non-current liabilities portfolio Other financial liabilities 163.1 2.0 0.0 165.1 at December 31, 2015 was 1.92% (2014: 1.69%) and that of the Total financial liabilities 248.3 150.6 25.5 424.4 current liabilities portfolio was 2.4% (2014: 3.82%). The effective interest rate for EUR-loans varied between 0.00%–4.39% (2014: 0.34%–3.76%). 96 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 97 27.4. Maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities times the years of employment (maximum of 42 years). The net 28.4. Movements of the present value The following table reflects the maturity of all financial liabilities. liability in Germany was EUR 74.8 million (EUR 77.1 million in 2014). of defined benefit obligation The defined benefit plans typically expose the company to actu2015 2014 2015 Maturity of financial liabilities arial risks such as: investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk Obligation as of January 1 154.9 128.2 Amount Less than and salary risk. The investment risk is being mitigated by investing Translation difference 4.2 3.8 Liability type drawn 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years the funds both to equity and debt instruments. Reclassification of pension liabilities 0.7 0.0 Loans from financial institutions 193.9 139.5 47.3 7.1 The following tables summarise the components of net benefit Settlements and curtailments 0.0 0.0 Finance lease liabilities 6.2 1.7 4.5 0.0 expense recognised in the statement of profit or loss and the Current service cost 2.6 2.1 Commercial paper program 45.0 45.0 0.0 0.0 funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for Interest cost 4.5 5.0 Pension loans 3.8 3.8 0.0 0.0 Other long-term debt and short-term loans 0.6 0.3 0.2 0.0 the respective plans: Past service cost 0.5 0.2 Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from Overdraft 34.5 34.5 0.0 0.0 changes in demographic assumptions -0.1 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 11.4 11.4 0.0 0.0 28.2. Amounts recognized in the balance sheet Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from changes in financial assumptions -7.2 20.7 Account and other payables 174.6 171.0 3.6 0.0 2015 2014 Benefits paid (-) -8.3 -5.2 Total 470.0 407.2 55.7 7.1 Present value of obligation wholly unfunded 88.2 88.5 Present value of obligation wholly or partly Obligation as of December 31 151.8 154.9 funded 63.6 66.3 2014 Maturity of financial liabilities Defined benefit plan obligations 151.8 154.9 Movements of the fair value of plan assets Amount Less than Fair value of plan assets -63.1 -61.5 Liability type drawn 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years 2015 2014 Total net liability recognized 88.7 93.3 Loans from financial institutions 177.1 17.2 138.4 21.4 Fair value of plan assets as of January 1 61.5 51.6 Finance lease liabilities 6.1 2.9 3.1 0.0 Translation difference 3.5 3.7 Commercial paper program 31.0 31.0 0.0 0.0 28.3. Components of defined benefit plan Business combinations 0.0 0.0 Pension loans 7.6 3.8 3.8 0.0 recorded in comprehensive income Interest income 2.1 2.2 Other long-term debt and short-term loans 0.7 0.3 0.4 0.0 2015 2014 Employer contributions 1.8 1.7 Overdraft 25.0 25.0 0.0 0.0 Service cost: Settlements and curtailments 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 18.2 16.2 2.0 0.0 Current service cost 2.6 2.1 The return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in the net interest expense) -1.3 4.1 Account and other payables 165.1 163.1 2.0 0.0 Net interest cost 2.4 2.8 Benefits paid (-) -4.5 -1.9 Total 430.7 259.5 149.7 21.4 Past service cost 0.5 0.2 Fair value of plan assets as of December 31 63.1 61.5 Components of defined costs recorded in profit or loss 5.5 5.1 28. Other long-term liabilities Remeasurement on the 28.5. Major categories of plan assets at 2015 2014 to achieve the Trustees’ stated objectives for the scheme funding net defined benefit liability: the end of the reporting period level and taking into account the agreed risk appetite. The Fiduciary The return on plan assets (excluding amounts Employee benefits 88.7 93.3 included in the net interest expense) 2015 2014 Other non-interest-bearing long-term liabilities 3.6 2.0 Manager has trigger points set in conjunction with the Trustees gains (-) / losses (+) 1.3 -4.1 Equity instruments 26.3 22.1 Total 92.3 95.4 which when reached allows them to make changes to the investActuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from Debt instruments 29.7 31.3 changes in demographic assumptions -0.1 0.0 ments to repatriate the gains to achieve full funding position. The Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from Insurances 0.7 1.3 28.1. Employee benefits UK plan is subject to the UK’s pensions legislation, is regulated changes in financial assumptions -7.2 20.7 Others 6.4 6.8 Components of defined benefit plan costs The Company and most of its subsidiaries offer retirement plans by the UK Pensions Regulator and is exempt from most UK taxarecorded in other comprehensive income -6.0 16.7 Total plan assets 63.1 61.5 which cover the majority of employees in the Group. Many of these tion through its registered status. The UK plan was closed to new plans are defined contribution, where Konecranes’ contribution members in 2005. Under the UK plan the employees are entitled to Total (income (-) / expense (+)) -0.5 21.8 The plan assets do not contain any Konecranes shares or assets. and resulting charge is fixed at a set level or is a set percentage of post-retirement installments calculated as an average annual basic Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices employees’ pay. However the Group has a significant defined benefit salary from the best three years within the last ten years. The net The actuarial gains in 2015 and actuarial losses in 2014 were in active markets. The plan assets originate from the United pension plan in the United Kingdom and Germany as well as individliability in the United Kingdom was EUR 0.3 million (EUR 4.8 million mainly caused by the change of discount rates in the defined Kingdom. It is the policy of the UK fund to invest approximately ually insignificant plans in other countries. In addition, the defined in 2014). benefit plans of Germany and the United Kingdom. 40–50% to growth assets such as equity instruments as well as benefit plans of the German companies have other long term In Germany the obligations are unfunded and payments to plan property and growth funds and 50–60% to risk reducing assets employee benefits such as part time pension benefits and jubilee participants start after retirement. Retirement benefits are based such as corporate bonds and fixed or index-linked gilts. The actual benefits. on the number of years worked and salaries received during the return on plan assets was EUR 0.8 million (2014: EUR 6.3 million). The UK defined benefit plan is administered by an independent pensionable service. The commencement of pension payments is trustee company that is legally separated from the Group. The being coordinated with the national pension scheme retirement. The investments are managed by a professional and independent biggest defined benefit pension plan in Stahl CraneSystems GmbH Fiduciary Manager who is appointed by the trustees. The Fiduciary has been closed to new members since 1997. The post-retirement Manager appoints Investment Managers as they see fit in order installments are calculated as 0.35% of the last month’s salary 98 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 99 28.6. Defined benefit plan: the main actuarial assumptions extrapolation of these amounts based on alternative changes in Company in total corresponds to the value of his or her annual 29.1. Expenses for employee service With the objective of presenting the assets and liabilities of the the assumptions as well as an addition of combined changes in gross salary. Such number of shares will be held as long as his or 2015 2014 defined benefit plans at their fair value on the balance sheet, the individual assumptions is not possible. her employment or service in a Group company continues. The Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 2.2 1.3 assumptions under IAS 19 are set by reference to market condiThere are no changes in the way the sensitivity analyses were target group of the Plan consisted of approximately 150 people. Expense arising from cash-settled tions at the valuation date. Qualified independent actuaries have performed compared to the previous years. The fair value of the equity-settled portion of the share options share-based payment transactions 3.4 0.1 updated the actuarial valuations under IAS 19 of the major defined The average duration of the defined benefit obligation granted is estimated at the date of grant using a Monte-Carlo Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 5.6 1.4 benefit schemes operated by the Group to 31 December 2015. weighted by the present value of the defined benefit obligation is simulation model, taking into account the terms and conditions The assumptions used by the actuaries are chosen from a range of 16 years (2014: 18 years). upon which the share options were granted. The model simulates The carrying amount of the liability arising from cash settled possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the long-term nature The Group expects to contribute EUR 1.7 million to the above the TSR and compares it against the group of principal competportion was EUR 3.6 million (2014: EUR 1.9 million) of the schemes, may not necessarily be borne out in practice. defined benefit pension plans in 2016 (employer contribution). itors. It takes into account historical and expected dividends, The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the benefit liabilities and the share price fluctuation covariance of the Group and its 29.2. Changes in the number of shares from therefore vary according to the country in which the plan is situ29. Share based payments competitors to predict the distribution of relative share perforKey Personnel Share-option Plan ated. The following table shows the assumptions, weighted by mance. Fair value of the cash-settled portion is measured at each 2015 2014 liabilities, used to value the principal defined benefit plans. Key Personnel Share-option Plan reporting date using a binomial option pricing model taking into Number of shares of option rights outstanding as of January 1 1,372,044 1,486,891 On March 12, 2009 the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments Granted during the year 0 30,000 2015 2014 of Konecranes Plc has approved the Key Personal Share-option were granted and the current likelihood of achieving the specified Forfeited during the year 0 -26,500 Germany Plan. This stock option can be granted to key personnel throughout target, such as the Group’s EBIT margin. Exercised during the year -733,495 -115,847 Discount rate % 2.40 2.16 the Group, including subsidiaries. In each of the three tranches The Board of Directors resolved in 2013 to amend the PerforExpired during the year -49 -2,500 Expected development of salaries % 2.10 2.05 there are 750,000 stock options with the maximum value of mance Share Plan launched in 2012 so that two three-year discreTotal number of shares from option rights Expected development of pensions % 1.50 1.50 2,250,000 stock options with the following vesting periods: tionary periods 2013—2015 and 2014—2016 will follow the discreoutstanding as of December 31 638,500 1,372,044 Mortality table: Richttafeln 2005 G von Klaus Heubeck tionary periods commenced in 2012. The performance criterion for Tranche 1: 2009A 11.6.2009–1.4.2012 the discretionary periods 2013–2015 and 2014–2016 is the cumu29.3.Changes in the number of share UK Tranche 2: 2009B 27.4.2010–1.4.2013 lative Earnings per Share (EPS) excluding restructuring costs of the rewards in Performance Share Plan Discount rate % 3.90 3.70 Tranche 3: 2009C 27.4.2011–1.4.2014 financial years 2013—2015 and 2014–2016 correspondingly. Number of Number of shares shares Expected development of pensions % 3.20 3.25 The Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc resolved in 2015 on Number of shares 2015 2014 Mortality table: SAPS base table of S1NA, applied at year of birth, and CMI 2014 A service condition is satisfied and the option vests at the option a new three-year plan with the same aim. The plan consisted of (2014: CMI 2011) projections with a long term improvement parameter of 1.5% As of January 1 1,500,801 873,534 (2014: 1.25%) per annum exercise date if the optionholder remains employed by the one three-year discretionary period. Earning during the three-year Share rewards granted 745,000 666,000 Company. Options subscription date commences at the respective discretionary period beginning on 1 January 2015 will be based on Share rewards awarded -107,315 0 Other vesting date and ends after a two-year time. The fair value of share the Konecranes Group’s cumulative EPS excluding restructuring Share rewards expired -107,152 0 Discount rate % 2.15–13.00 2.15–14.00 options granted is estimated at the date of grant using a Blackcosts. The potentially earned reward will be paid in spring 2018. Share rewards forfeited -182,334 -38,733 Expected development of salaries % 1.50–10.00 2.00–10.00 Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon If a key employee’s employment or service ends before the end Total as of December 31 1,849,000 1,500,801 Expected development of pensions % 1.50–6.00 1.50–6.00 which the share options were granted. However, the above service of the discretionary period, no reward will be paid on the basis of condition is only considered in determining the number of instrusuch discretionary period. The below table shows the % effect of a change in the significant ments that will ultimately vest. 29.4.Changes in the number of share rewards actuarial assumptions used to determine the retirement benefits There are no cash settlement alternatives and the Company Employee Share Savings Plan in Employee Share Savings Plan obligations in our main defined benefit pension obligation counhas never historically settled these share options for cash. The Group has launched an Employee Share Savings Plan (ESSP) Number of Number of shares shares tries. The effect shows the increase or decrease in the liability. in which each participant will receive one free matching share for 2015 2014 In the calculation of the sensitivity of the discount rate any effect Performance Share Plan every two acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivOutstanding as of January 1 105,185 55,258 from the return of plan assets has been ignored. On March 22, 2012 the Board of Directors of Konecranes has ered to a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares Share rewards granted 45,322 54,047 approved the Performance Share Plan (PSP), according to which from the plan until the end of the designated holding period. The Share rewards forfeited -8,426 -4,120 Sensitivity analysis Increase Decrease vesting of the share options is dependent on the Group´s EBIT matching shares will be paid in Konecranes shares and partly in Outstanding as of December 31 142,081 105,185 0.5% points change in the discount rate -7.2% 8.0% margin (33% weight) and the Group’s total shareholder return (TSR) cash. The expenses of the plan are recognized over the vesting 0.5% points change in the expected (67% weight), as well as service conditions. PSP is approximately period based on the quarterly acquired savings share amounts. development of salaries 1.0% -1.0% 50% cash settled and 50% is equity settled depending on the indiThe fair value of the equity-settled portion of the share options 0.5% points change in the expected development of pensions 6.0% -5.4% vidual participant’s tax rate. The discretionary periods began in the granted is estimated at the date of grant using a binominal option beginning of 2012. The potentially earned reward was paid in spring pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based 2015. Key employee must remain in employment during the discrewhich the share options were granted. Fair value of the cash-seton reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions tionary period in order to meet the service condition. tled portion is measured at each reporting date using a binomial occurring at the end of the reporting period and may not be repreThe Board of Directors requires that each member of the option pricing model taking into account the terms and conditions sentative of the actual change. It is based on a change in the key Extended Management Team holds a half of shares paid on the upon which the instruments were granted and the current likeliassumption while holding all other assumptions constant. A linear basis of the Plan until the value of his or her shareholding in the hood of achieving the specified target. 100 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 101 29.5. Assumptions made in determining the fair 29.6.Assumptions made in determining the President and CEO value of Key Personnel Share-option Plan fair value of Performance Shares Plan The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the President and CEO’s performance. Based on this review and relevant facts, 2009C The fair value for the cash settled portion is remeasured at each the Board sets the total compensation package for the President and CEO. Konecranes CEO has changed during the autumn of 2015. Subscription price of the share, EUR 27,22* reporting date until the possible share delivery. The fair value of Fair market value of the share, EUR 32.30 the liability will thus change in accordance with the Konecranes Plc 2015 2014 Dividend per share, EUR 1.00 share price. Salary and benefits, EUR 501,356 596,071 Expected volatility, % 20 % For the 2013–2015, 2014–2016 as well as for 2015–2017 Annual variable pay, EUR 216,000 200,000 Risk-free interest rate, % 2.82 % vesting periods granted in 2013, 2014 and in 2015, the fair value Variable pay related to time abroad, EUR 0 270,000 Grant date fair value of the stock options, EUR 8.17 for the equity settled portion based on non market vesting condiTotal 717,356 1,066,071 Model used Black-Scholes tion (EPS) has been determined at grant using the fair value of *The original subscription price was EUR 31.37. ­Konecranes share as of the grant date and expected dividend yield. Expense of statutory pension plans 124,820 103,330 Expense of voluntary pension plans 84,268 110,869 Total 209,088 214,200 2015 plan 2014 plan 2013 plan Share price at grant, EUR 29.50 24.94 25.68 Shareholding in Konecranes Plc (number of shares) 0 216,497 Share price at reporting period end December 1 22.90 22.90 22.90 Expected volatility, % * 29.0% 40.0% 40.0% Option rights owned (number of options) 0 45,000 Risk-free interest rate, % 0.0% 0.5% 0.2% Performance share rights allocated 96,000 115,200 Expected dividend per share, pa , EUR 1.0 1.0 1.0 Share-based payment costs, EUR 119,406 54,954 Expected contractual life in years 2.3 1.3 0.3 Weighted average fair value of the share rewards at the grant date 26.51 21.14 22.66 Retirement age 63 years 63 years Model used Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Period of notice 6 months * Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Konecranes share using monthly observations over corresponding maturity. 18 months salary Severance payment and fringe benefits 30. Related party transactions EUR 105,000), EUR 67,000 for the Vice Chairman of the Board The related parties of Konecranes include subsidiaries (see (2014: EUR 67,000), and EUR 42,000 for other Board members Group Executive Board & Senior Management The defined contribution payment by the company is 1% of annual Company list), associated companies, joint ventures and joint oper(2014: EUR 42,000). In addition, compensation of EUR 1,500 In 2015 Konecranes had a two-tier operative management strucsalary excluding performance based compensation (annual or long ations, pension fund in the United Kingdom and the key managewas approved per meeting for attendance at Board committee ture consisting of the Group Executive Board (GXB) and the Senior term incentives). The Finnish Group Executive Board members ment personnel of the Group and major shareholders. The key meetings (2014: EUR 1,500). However, the chairman of the audit Management (SM).The GXB convenes as frequently as necessary, also have life insurance and disability insurances. Non-Finnish management personnel of the Group is comprised of the Board of committee is entitled to a compensation of EUR 3,000 (2014: EUR normally on a monthly basis. The SM convene twice a year, in members have local insurances. Directors, the CEO and the Group Executive Board. 3,000) per meeting for attendance at audit committee meetings. April–May and in December. Business Areas and Regions have According to the proposal, 50% of the annual remuneration is their own management teams that convene on a regular basis. Group Executive Board excluding the President and CEO 30.1. Key Management compensation to be used for acquiring shares in the Company. The remuneraOnly the GXB is classified to key management personnel due to its 2015 2014 tion may also be paid by transferring treasury shares based on decision making powers. Salary and benefits, EUR 1,587,657 1,393,095 Board of Directors the authorization given to the Board of Directors by the general The GXB includes the President, the CEO, and the Chairman Annual variable pay, EUR 237,016 204,128 The remuneration packages for Board members are resolved by meeting. In case such purchase of shares cannot be carried of the Group Executive Board and the following: the Executive Total 1,824,673 1,597,223 the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on proposal by the Nominaout due to reasons related either to the Company or to a Board Vice President, the Head of Business Area Service and the Chief tion and Compensation Committee. The AGM 2015 confirmed an member, the annual remuneration shall be paid entirely in cash. Customer Officer; the Executive Vice President and Head of BusiExpense of statutory pension plans 263,859 231,437 annual fee of EUR 105,000 for the Chairman of the Board (2014: Travel expenses will be compensated against receipt. ness Area Equipment; the Executive Vice President, Strategy and Expense of voluntary pension plans 9,577 9,583 Technology; the Chief Financial Officer; the Senior Vice President, Total 273,436 241,020 Total compensation to the Board of Directors Human Resources; and the Chief Digital Officer. Number of Value of Compensation Total The Nomination and Compensation Committee of the Board Shareholding in Konecranes Plc shares as part of compensation paid in cash, compensation, (number of shares) 144,517 128,156 2015 compensation in shares, EUR EUR EUR reviews Group compensation policies and issues guidelines for Chairman of the Board 1,805 52,499 52,501 105,000 the same. In accordance with these guidelines, the Nomination Option rights owned (number of options) 15,000 84,000 Board members 4,761 138,476 228,524 367,000 and Compensation Committee confirms compensation packages Performance share rights allocated 324,000 249,600 Total 6,566 190,975 281,025 472,000 for those Group Executive Board members who report directly Share-based payment costs, EUR 950,406 133,500 to the President and CEO. For other Group Executive Board Number of Value of Compensation Total members, the compensation packages are confirmed by the There were no loans outstanding to the Group Executive Board shares as part of compensation paid in cash, compensation, President and C ­ EO. at end of the periods 2015 and 2014. 2014 compensation in shares, EUR EUR EUR The retirement age of the Finnish members of the Group ExecuThere were no guarantees on behalf of the Group Executive Chairman of the Board 2,281 52,500 55,500 108,000 tive Board (excluding the President and CEO) is set according to the Board in the years 2015 and 2014. Board members 6,384 146,935 186,065 333,000 Employees Pensions Act (TyEL). The Finnish members of the Group The employee benefits to the key management personnel of Total 8,665 199,435 241,565 441,000 Executive Board also participate in the contribution-based group the Group were in total EUR 4.6 million in year 2015 (3.7 million pension insurance scheme offered to key personnel in Finland in 2014). 102 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 103 30.2. Transactions with associated • tender guarantees (bid bonds) given to the customer to secure 32. Financial assets and liabilities companies and joint arrangements the bidding process 2015 2014 • advance payment guarantees given to the customer to secure 32.1. Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities Sales of goods and services with associated their down payment for project 2015 2014 companies and joint arrangements 14.9 16.3 • performance guarantees to secure customers over the Financial Financial Receivables from associated companies Financial assets / Financial Financial assets / Financial and joint arrangements 3.6 3.1 Company’s own performance in customer contracts, and assets / liabilities assets / assets / liabilities assets / liabilities at fair value liabilities Carrying liabilities at fair value liabilities Carrying • warranty period guarantees to secure the correction of defects at fair value through measured amounts at fair value through measured amounts Purchases of goods and services from during the warranty period. through income Loans and at amorby balance through income Loans and at amorby balance associated companies and joint arrangements 45.6 41.6 Financial assets OCI statement receivables tized cost sheet item OCI statement receivables tized cost sheet item Liabilities to associated companies Current financial assets and joint arrangements 4.6 4.2 Contingent liabilities relating to litigation Account and other receivables 0.0 0.0 402.2 0.0 402.2 0.0 0.0 389.4 0.0 389.4 Various legal actions, claims and other proceedings pend against Derivative financial instruments 4.1 3.5 0.0 0.0 7.5 3.1 3.0 0.0 0.0 6.1 Sales to and purchases from related parties are concluded using the Group in various countries. These actions, claims and other Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 80.8 0.0 80.8 0.0 0.0 97.9 0.0 97.9 terms equivalent to arm’s length transaction. proceedings are typical of this industry and consistent with a global Total 4.1 3.5 482.9 0.0 490.5 3.1 3.0 487.4 0.0 493.4 business offering that encompasses a wide range of products and 30.3. Transactions with Pension Fund in the United Kingdom services. These matters involve contractual disputes, warranty Financial liabilities 2015 2014 claims, product liability (including design defects, manufacturing Non-current financial liabilities Employer contributions 1.8 1.6 defects, failure to warn and asbestos legacy), employment, vehicles Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 59.2 59.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 167.2 167.2 and other matters involving claims of general liability. Derivative financial instruments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.9 While the final outcome of these matters cannot be predicted Other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.6 3.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.0 2.0 31.Guarantees, lease commitments and with certainty, Konecranes has the opinion, based on the informaCurrent financial liabilities contingent liabilities tion available to date and considering the grounds presented for Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 224.8 224.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 80.2 80.2 such claims, the available insurance coverage and the reserves Derivative financial instruments 5.1 6.3 0.0 0.0 11.4 6.6 9.6 0.0 0.0 16.2 2015 2014 made, that the outcome of such actions, claims and other proceedAccount and other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 171.0 171.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 163.1 163.1 For own commercial obligations ings, if unfavorable, would not have a material adverse impact on Total 5.1 6.3 0.0 458.6 470.0 8.5 9.6 0.0 412.5 430.7 Guarantees 437.3 404.8 the financial condition of the Group. Operating lease liabilities (note 31.1.) 112.1 101.3 Two lawsuits have been filed as class actions asserting claims Additional information on financial instruments is presented in Note 34. Other 0.3 0.2 relating to the Merger by purported stockholders of Terex. The two Total 549.7 506.3 complaints name as defendants Terex and the members of its 32.2. Fair values board of directors, Konecranes, Konecranes, Inc. and Konecranes Set out below is a comparison, by class, of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities: 31.1. Operating leases Acquisition Company LLC. The complaints seek, among other relief, 2015 2014 an order enjoining or rescinding the Merger and an award of attorCarrying amount Fair value Minimum lease payments neys’ fees and costs on the grounds that the Terex board of direcFinancial assets 2015 2014 2015 2014 Note within 1 year 35.7 32.9 tors breached their fiduciary duty in connection with entering into Current financial assets 1–5 years 71.8 63.8 the business combination agreement and approving the Merger. Account and other receivables 402.2 389.4 402.2 389.4 19,20 over 5 years 4.6 4.7 The complaints further allege that Terex, Konecranes, Konecranes, Derivative financial instruments 7.5 6.1 7.5 6.1 34.1 Total 112.1 101.3 Inc. and Konecranes Acquisition Company LLC aided and abetted Cash and cash equivalents 80.8 97.9 80.8 97.9 22 the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties by the Terex board of Total 490.5 493.4 490.5 493.4 Operative rental expenses during the year 40.9 36.9 directors. Konecranes believes that the allegations in the suits are without merit, and will vigorously defend against them. Financial liabilities The Konecranes Group has major operating lease agreements of Non-current financial liabilities factory and office buildings in Hyvinkää and Hämeenlinna, Finland. Contingent assets Interest-bearing liabilities 59.2 167.2 59.2 165.0 27.1 They are valid for 10–12 years unless the lessee extends the lease The Company has a contingent asset of EUR 10.0 million from the Derivative financial instruments 0.0 2.0 0.0 2.0 34.1 Other payables 3.6 2.0 3.6 2.0 period by five years. The lessee is entitled to exercise the five-year crime insurance against the unwarranted payments due to the Current financial liabilities extending option three consecutive times. The Group has various identity theft and fraudulent actions. See note 36. Interest-bearing liabilities 224.8 80.2 223.8 80.2 27.2 other operating leases for office equipment vehicles and premises Derivative financial instruments 11.4 16.2 11.4 16.2 34.1 with varying terms and renewal rights. Leasing contracts comply Account and other payables 171.0 163.1 171.0 163.1 25.2 with normal practices in the countries concerned. Total 470.0 430.7 469.0 428.4 From time to time Konecranes provides customers with guarantees that guarantee the Company’s obligations pursuant to the applicable customer contract. In sales of investment goods (machinery) the typical guarantees are the following: 104 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 105 The management assessed that cash and short-term deposits, IFRS 7 requires that the classification of financial instruments 33. Management of financial risks Foreign exchange risk trade receivables, trade payables, bank overdrafts and other at fair value be determined by reference to the source of inputs The nature of Konecranes’ business and its global presence The Group’s global business operations generate foreign exchange current liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to used to derive the fair value. exposes it to a range of financial risks. These risks include (i) risk. However, most of the business units only have transactions in the short-term maturities of these instruments. This classification uses the following three-level hierarchy: market risks, which include potential unfavorable changes in their own currency, i.e., these units have their sales and costs as The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included • Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical financial foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodities (ii) liquidity well as internal funding from Konecranes Finance Corporation in at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a instruments risk and (iii) credit and counterparty risk. their local home currency. Only 20 out of some 100 Group compacurrent transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced • Level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within level nies operate regularly in a foreign currency. These companies or liquidation sale. Long-term fixed-rate and variable-rate borrow1 that are observable for the financial instrument, either directly 33.1. Market risk hedge their foreign exchange risk with Group Treasury. Depending ings are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices) The responsibility of identifying, evaluating and controlling the on the business area and the probability of the cash flows, the interest rates and the risk characteristics of the loan. • Level 3 – inputs for the financial instrument that are not based financial risks arising from the Group’s global business operations hedging covers operative cash flows for the next 1–24 months and on observable market data (unobservable inputs) is divided between the business units and the Group Treasury. is done by using internal foreign exchange forward contracts. In However the Group uses an approach in which most of the this way, Konecranes Finance Corporation can manage the foreign 32.3. Hierarchy of fair values management of financial risks is centralized to Konecranes’ Group exchange risk of the whole Group. The foreign currency funding The following table allocates financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value to the three levels of the fair value hierarchy. Treasury. The Group Treasury functions within the legal entity of the other Group companies and possibly some external foreign 2015 2014 Konecranes Finance Corporation. By centralization and netting of currency funding can net some of these foreign currency items. Financial assets Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 internal foreign currency cash flows, the Group’s external hedging The residual net exposure can be covered with commercial banks Derivative financial instruments needs can be minimized. using foreign exchange forward contracts or currency options. Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.0 7.5 0.0 0.0 6.1 0.0 Konecranes Finance Corporation is not a profit center in the Currency derivatives belonging to hedge accounting are managed Total 0.0 7.5 0.0 0.0 6.1 0.0 sense that it would pursue to maximize its profits. The Company in a separate portfolio than derivatives hedging other commercial aims to serve the operating companies of the Group in reducing flows and funding and cannot thus be netted out against other Other financial assets their financial risks. internal items. These instruments are used when the hedging Cash and cash equivalents 80.8 0.0 0.0 97.9 0.0 0.0 The Group’s global business operations involve market risks effect cannot be obtained through internal netting and matching of Total 80.8 0.0 0.0 97.9 0.0 0.0 in the form of currency, interest rate, commodity, credit and cash flows within the Group. Total financial assets 80.8 7.5 0.0 97.9 6.1 0.0 liquidity risks. The Group’s objective is to increase the short-term The business units’ commercial bids in a foreign currency can stability of the financial environment for the business operations be hedged by using currency options or exchange forwards, but, in Financial liabilities by reducing the negative effects caused by price fluctuations and general, using currency clauses covers the risk. Derivative financial instruments other uncertainties in the financial markets. For certain large crane projects, the Group applies hedge Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.0 9.7 0.0 0.0 15.5 0.0 Business units hedge their risks internally with the Group accounting under IAS 39. Hedges are done by using foreign Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 Treasury. As a result of this, most of the financial risks of the Group exchange forward contracts. Currently, only USD denominated Interest rate swaps 0.0 1.1 0.0 0.0 2.0 0.0 are concentrated into one company, Konecranes Finance Corporaprojects are included in the hedge accounting. The hedge Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 tion, and can be evaluated and controlled in an efficient way. accounting portfolio comprises both USD sales and purchases Total 0.0 11.4 0.0 0.0 18.2 0.0 Almost all funding, cash management and foreign exchange where gross flows are hedged separately. At the end of 2015, the with banks and other external counterparties are centralized to hedge accounting net cash flows totaled USD 185 million (USD Other financial liabilities Konecranes Finance Corporation in accordance with the Group’s 176 million in 2014). Interest bearing liabilities 0.0 284.0 0.0 0.0 247.4 0.0 Treasury Policy. In a few special cases, when the local central bank The following table shows the transaction exposure of KoneAccount and other payables 0.0 0.0 4.0 0.0 0.0 5.9 Total 0.0 284.0 4.0 0.0 247.4 5.9 regulation prohibits using group services in hedging and funding, cranes Finance Corporation as of December 31, 2015 and Total financial liabilities 0.0 295.4 4.0 0.0 265.6 5.9 this must be done directly between an operating company and a December 31, 2014 (in EUR millions): bank under the supervision of the Group Treasury. There were no significant changes in classification of fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities in the period 2014 to 2015. Konecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury system, There were also no significant movements between the fair value hierarchy classifications. which enables practically a real-time processing of transactions The level 3 valuations in other payables are contingent consideration liabilities resulting from business combinations or the acquisiand in-depth records of activities and performance. The standard tion of non-controlling interest and the cash settled share based payment liability. reporting is done on a weekly basis and it covers group-level commercial and financial cash flows, foreign currency transaction exposure, debt positions, portfolio of derivatives and counterparty credit exposure for financial transactions. In addition, all group companies participate in the monthly managerial and statutory reporting. 106 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 107 2015 2014 Please see note 34 for the notional and fair values of derivative Interest rate risk Commodity risk AUD 5 2 financial instruments. Changes in market interest rates have an impact on the Group’s By using electricity derivatives, the Group strives to reduce the BRL 1 1 Changes in currency rates can affect the profitability and equity net interest expenses and the market value of interest rate derivanegative effect caused by electricity price fluctuation. The overall CAD 3 -7 of the Group. The US dollar has the biggest impact, as many of the tives. The objective for interest rate risk management is to reduce importance of the energy price risk is small compared to other CHF 0 2 large crane projects outside the United States are denominated in the volatility impact the market interest rate changes cause by financial risks and cannot be described as significant. CNY -3 0 USD and because the Group has a lot of local business operations optimizing the allocation between fixed and floating interest rates Please see note 34 for the notional and fair values of derivative GBP 5 -2 in the United States. A decline in the USD would have a negative according to principles set in Capital structure management. financial instruments (including electricity forwards). IDR 3 0 impact. Approximately 79% of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities are Steel prices are fixed as a normal part of the procurement NOK 1 2 The following table shows the theoretical effects that changes denominated in euro (86% in 2014). Please see note 27.3 for the process. Price changes naturally affect the future procurement, PLN 1 1 in the EUR / USD exchange rate would have on the Group’s annual currency split of outstanding debt. but these changes can be taken into consideration in the price SEK -67 -40 EBIT and equity. A decline of the average rate of US dollar against The portion of the Group’s long term debt of total debt is quotes to the end customers. SGD -3 -20 euro for 10% increases EBIT by EUR 22.2 million (24.3 million in related to the Group’s gearing ratio. The higher the ratio is, the In large crane projects, the steel structures are sub-contracted THB 1 4 2014) and equity by EUR 2.2 million (3.9 million in 2014). The bigger the share of long term debt is of the total loan portfolio in and as a normal part of the sub-contracting process, the steel is TRY 1 1 below table provides a sensitivity analysis over the past two years: line with principles set in the Capital structure management. The included in the price of the sub-contracting (i.e. the price is fixed USD 255 190 Change in 2015 2015 2014 2014 interest rate risk related to long term loans may be hedged with with the sub-contractor). ZAR 5 3 EUR/USD rate EBIT Equity EBIT Equity interest rate derivatives such as interest rate swaps for which The Group can procure steel and steel components and thus +10% 18.1 1.8 19.9 3.2 hedge accounting is applied. Other instruments that can be used may have an inventory of those. Market price fluctuation of steel 10% +22.2 +2.2 +24.3 +3.9 The following table shows the translation exposure, which reprefor which no hedge accounting is applied are forward rate agreecan impact the profitability of customer projects or cause inventory sents the equity of the Group in a local currency as of December The EBIT effect comprises transaction exposure for euro based ments, interest rate futures and interest rate options. obsolescence. 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 (in EUR millions): companies having frequent sales in USD and the translation A change of one percentage point in interest rates in the exposure from EBIT generated in USD translated into euros. The Group’s long term debt portfolio would have the following effect on 33.2. Credit and counterparty risks 2015 2014 transaction position is estimated for 2015 as the USD positions the Group’s income statement and equity: Credit risk arises from the potential failure of a commercial counAED 7 9 changes from one year to another and these changes are mainly 2015 2014 terparty to meet its commercial payment obligations. To limit Change in Income 2015 Income 2014 AUD 6 6 due to timing of major ports projects and currencies used in them. interest rates statement Equity statement Equity this risk, the Group applies a conservative credit policy towards BRL -3 -1 The estimate of the effects is based on the assumption that +1 0.6 +0.9 1.6 +1.8 customers. It is Konecranes’ practice to review customers carefully CAD 31 33 the USD denominated transactions are not hedged. In practice, -1 +0.0 0.9 +0.2 1.9 before entering into formal business relationships and to require CHF 4 4 however, all large projects with long maturities generating substancredit reports from new customers. Customer credit risks are CLP 11 9 tial portion of the annual changes in the transaction position, are The effect on income statement is comprised of the Group’s mitigated with advance payments, letters of credits, payment guarCNY 56 65 hedged and subject to project specific pricing. The change in equity floating long term debt which is recognized through the statement antees and credit insurance where applicable. With these actions DKK 1 1 is the translation exposure on the Group’s equity in USD. of income. The effect on equity is comprised of the changes in and careful monitoring of the customer payments credit risks can GBP 3 3 Appreciating US dollar has a positive impact on the Group’s fair value of interest rate swaps which are hedging the debt portbe mitigated. HUF 3 3 operating margin when it impacts the revenues and costs reported folio. The effect of a one percentage point decline is calculated The business units manage credit risks related to their INR -11 4 in euros asymmetrically. This is due to the fact that the exchange with a 0% interest rate floor. The proportion of fixed interest loans commercial flows. There is currently no significant concentration IDR -5 -3 rate change impacts mostly both the Group’s revenues and costs in the loan portfolio can be increased by means of interest rate of credit risk regarding the commercial activities, as the number JPY -7 -6 and partly only either of these. If from the sensitivity analysis derivatives. As a consequence of this treasury policy, the Group’s of customers is high and their geographic distribution is wide. MAD -6 -7 the EBIT generated in USD based entities as well as cash flows average interest rate level, in general, can be higher than the It is the Group’s policy not to fund its customers beyond regular MXN 3 -3 from long lasting projects, as they are subject to project specific market level of short-term interest rates when low rates prevail payment terms. Please see note 19 for a table of an aging analysis MYR 1 2 pricing which in practice may be adjusted to reflect the currency and, on the other hand, lower than the market level when high of accounts receivable. The theoretical maximum credit risk equals NOK -3 -3 rate changes, are excluded the effect on EBIT is estimated to be rates prevail. the carrying amount of all receivables. PEN 3 2 approximately a EUR 6 million increase (EUR 5 million in 2014) PHP 1 0 when the US dollar appreciates 10 percent. PLN 2 1 RON 0 1 RUB 7 7 SAR 14 13 SGD 22 51 SEK -19 -9 THB -1 -1 TRY 1 2 UAH -20 -21 USD 20 39 ZAR -9 -1 108 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 109 Counterparty risk arises from the potential failure of a finan33.4. Capital structure management 34. Hedge activities and derivatives Cash flow hedges cial institution to meet its payment obligations regarding financial The primary objective of the Group’s capital structure management Derivatives are initially recorded in the balance sheet at fair value instruments. All credit risks related to other financial instruments is to ensure that it maintains a good credit status and a healthy and subsequently measured at fair value at each balance sheet Foreign currency risk than the regular accounts receivable are managed by Konecranes capital ratio to support its business operations. At the same time, date. All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive Foreign exchange forward contracts measured at fair value Group Treasury. There is no substantial concentration of credit risk the Group also aims to maximize shareholder value by effective and liabilities when fair value is negative. Derivative instruments through OCI are designated as hedging instruments in cash flow regarding the financial instruments, since investments are rare and use of capital. that are not designated as hedges (hedge accounting) are meashedges of forecast sales and purchases in US dollar. These forehedging instruments are done with a number of banks. However, The Group manages its capital structure and fine-tunes it to ured at fair value, and the change in fair value is recognized in the cast transactions are highly probable, and they comprise about counterparties for financial instruments are limited to the core adjust to probable changes in economic conditions. These actions consolidated statement of income. When the derivative is desig48.4% of the Group’s total hedged transaction flows. banks of the Group. These are all major banks with good credit may include adjusting the dividend payment to shareholders, nated as a cash-flow hedge (hedge accounting) the effective part The foreign exchange forward contract balances vary with ratings. The majority of all financial instruments are of short-term buying back own shares or issuing new shares. of the change in fair value is recognized in other comprehensive the level of expected foreign currency sales and purchases and nature, with maturity of less than one year. There are no significant The Group monitors its capital structure using gearing ratio. income. Any ineffective part is recognized in the consolidated statechanges in foreign exchange forward rates. deposits or loans granted with external counterparties. This is calculated as a ratio of interest-bearing liabilities less liquid ment of income. The foreign exchange forward contracts are measAt the inception the Company assess whether the critical terms The Group has counterparty risk in form of cash holdins in several assets less loans receivable to total equity. At the end of 2015, the ured based on the closing date’s observable spot exchange rates of the foreign currency forward contracts match the terms of the banks around the world. Despite the active cash management strucgearing ratio was 44.6% (33.3% in 2014). and the quoted yield curves of the respective currencies. Interest expected highly probable forecast transactions. On a quarterly tures the Group has in place, cash holdings globally with several The Group has no quantitative targets for the capital structure rate swaps are measured based on present value of the cash flows, basis the Company performs a quantitative effectiveness test banks are needed to ensure the liquidity of Group companies. The but the optimal long-term gearing ratio is in the range of 50–80 which are discounted based on the quoted yield curves. using the dollar value method approach by comparison of past Group Treasury follows closely the exposure in the Group according %. However, in the short term, the gearing can also be significantly changes in the cash flows of the hedged item that are attributto principles set out in the Treasury Policy and takes necessary higher or lower than this range depending on the short-term 34.1. Nominal and fair values of able to the hedged risk with past changes in the cash flows of the actions for reducing the risk. changes in working capital. derivative financial instruments hedging instrument and reviews whether the actual results of the A credit risk is run on the financial assets of the Group, which The Group decides on the split between long-term and short2015 2015 2014 2014 hedge are within a range of 80–125%. As a result, no hedge inefNominal Fair Nominal Fair consist of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and certain term debt in relation to the gearing ratio level. The following table value value value value fectiveness aroused that would require recognition through profit derivatives arising from default of the other party, with a maximum shows the rough guidelines for the portion of long–term debt of Foreign exchange forward contracts 788.7 -2.2 663.1 -9.4 or loss. risk equal to the carrying amount of these instruments. total debt under different gearing ratio levels: Interest rate swaps 100.0 -1.1 100.0 -2.0 Currency options 0.0 0.0 35.8 -0.2 Interest rate risk 33.3. Liquidity risks Gearing ratio level Portion of long–term of total debt Electricity forward contracts 1.3 -0.6 2.2 -0.5 At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Group had interest rate Liquidity risks concern the availability of liquid assets or funding. Lack Under 50% Under 1/3 Total 890.0 -3.9 801.0 -12.1 swap agreements in place with a notional amount of EUR 100 of funding might jeopardize normal business operations and eventuBetween 50–80% Between 1/3 and 2/3 million (2014: EUR 100 million) whereby the Group receives a varially might endanger the ability to fulfill daily payment obligations. Over 80% Over 2/3 See note 32.3 for the fair values of the derivatives recognized in able interest rate equal to EURIBOR 1 month and pays interest at a For managing the liquidity risks, the Group has established EUR assets and liabilities fixed swap rate on the notional amount. The swap is being used to 300 million committed revolving credit facilities with an internaThe Group monitors the gearing ratio level on a weekly basis. hedge the cash flow exposure on interest. tional loan syndication (2014–2019 and 2015–2020). Both facilDuring 2015, no changes have been made in the objectives, poliDerivatives not designated as The cash flow hedges of the expected future sales in 2015 ities at the end of 2015 were unutilized. To cover the short-term cies or processes. The objectives of the Group’s capital managehedging instruments and 2014 were assessed to be highly effective and a net unrefunding needs, Konecranes Finance Corporation can borrow from ment have been met in recent years. The Group enters into other foreign exchange and electricity alized loss, with a deferred tax asset of relating to the hedging institutional investors through five domestic commercial paper forward contracts or currency options with the intention of instruments, is included in OCI. The amounts recognized in OCI programs (totaling EUR 480 million). In addition, business units reducing the foreign exchange risk of expected sales and are shown in the table below and the reclassifications to profit or around the world have overdraft facilities totaling some EUR 200 purchases, these other contracts are not designated in hedge relaloss during the year are as shown in the consolidated statement of million to cover the day-to-day funding needs. tionships and are measured at fair value through profit or loss. income. It is the Group’s policy under normal conditions to keep a minimum amount of cash in the balance sheet as deposits or any 34.2. Fair value reserve of cash flow hedges other liquid assets to maximize the return of capital employed. 2015 2014 Cash and cash equivalents totaled EUR 80.8 million at the end of Balance as of January 1 -8.6 2.6 2015 (EUR 97.9 in 2014). Gains and losses deferred to equity (fair value reserve) -0.6 -14.0 See note 27.3 for the maturity profile of the Group’s financial Change in deferred taxes 0.1 2.8 liabilities. Balance as of December 31 -9.1 -8.6 110 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 111 Konecranes Group 2011–2015 35. Additional information concerning 36. Fraudulent transactions Business development 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 possible Konecranes Terex merger On August 14, 2015 Konecranes announced that one of its foreign Orders received MEUR 1,965.5 1,903.5 1,920.8 1,970.1 1,896.1 On August 11, 2015 Konecranes and Terex Corporation (“Terex”) subsidiaries had become the victim of a fraud. The perpetrators Order book MEUR 1,036.5 979.5 893.5 942.7 991.8 announced that their respective Boards of Directors have unanhad through identity theft and other fraudulent actions managed Net sales MEUR 2,126.2 2,011.4 2,099.6 2,171.5 1,896.4 of which outside Finland MEUR 2,050.7 1,942.5 2,025.1 2,081.5 1,796.6 imously approved a definitive agreement to combine their busito induce the subsidiary to make unwarranted payments for a total Export from Finland MEUR 633.4 621.3 653.7 638.9 570.7 nesses in a merger of equals. Under the agreement, Terex shareamount of EUR 17.0 million. The expense resulting from these Personnel on average 11,934 11,920 11,987 11,917 10,998 holders will receive 0.80 Konecranes shares for each existing unwarranted payments is included in other operating expenses Personnel on December 31 11,887 11,982 11,832 12,147 11,651 Terex share. Upon closing of the merger between Terex and in the consolidated statement of income for the twelve months Capital expenditure MEUR 49.3 60.0 65.7 41.7 32.4 Konecranes (the “Merger”), based on current fully diluted shares ended December 31, 2015 (2014: nil). Konecranes has reported as % of net sales % 2.3% 3.0% 3.1% 1.9% 1.7% outstanding, Terex shareholders will own approximately 60 percent the crime to the police authorities in the relevant countries and Research and development costs MEUR 28.7 28.9 25.6 25.8 29.6 and Konecranes shareholders will own approximately 40 percent is working closely with the authorities to recover its losses and as % of Group net sales % 1.4% 1.4% 1.2% 1.2% 1.6% of the combined company. to bring the perpetrators of the fraud to justice. Konecranes has The combined company, to be called Konecranes Terex Plc filed a claim with its crime insurance policy. The policy is set up to Profitability (“Konecranes Terex”), is planned to be listed on the Nasdaq cover all Group companies from crime. The amount of insurance Helsinki and the New York Stock Exchange. coverage available per insurable event is EUR 10 million. The result Net sales MEUR 2,126.2 2,011.4 2,099.6 2,171.5 1,896.4 The joint intention of Konecranes and Terex is for Konecranes of the insurance claim is still pending. Terex to execute a share buy-back program post-closing of up Operating profit (including restructuring costs) MEUR 63.0 115.8 84.5 132.5 106.9 to USD 1.5 billion, split between ca. USD 500 million as soon 37. Subsequent events as percentage of net sales % 3.0% 5.8% 4.0% 6.1% 5.6% as possible after closing and up to an additional USD 1.0 billion On January 26, Konecranes announced that the Board of Direcexecuted within 24 months after closing. The dividend policy for tors of Konecranes has been notified by Terex of the non-binding Income before taxes MEUR 55.4 107.4 75.5 124.2 95.8 the combined company will be set by the Board after closing. conditional proposal by Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and as percentage of net sales % 2.6% 5.3% 3.6% 5.7% 5.1% However, given the enhanced growth profile of the combined busiTechnology Co. to acquire Terex. The Board of Directors of KoneNet income (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 30.8 74.6 49.4 84.8 64.9 ness, it is expected that the combined company will maintain the cranes has confirmed that Konecranes will continue to pursue the as percentage of net sales % 1.4% 3.7% 2.4% 3.9% 3.4% current annual dividend of EUR 1.05 share paid by Konecranes. merger of equals with Terex as planned. Konecranes continues to The combined company’s intention is to strengthen the balance believe that the Merger represents a highly compelling opportunity Key figures and balance sheet sheet of the new entity over time. for both companies and their shareholders, and stands behind and Konecranes Terex will be incorporated in Finland, with headremains committed to the Merger. Equity (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 456.0 449.2 444.5 462.6 435.4 quarters in Hyvinkää, Finland and Westport, Connecticut, USA. On January 27, Konecranes announced that Konecranes has Balance Sheet MEUR 1,484.9 1,477.4 1,482.0 1,576.3 1,447.5 Upon closing of the transaction, the combined company is planned made its Business Combination Agreement with Terex dated Return on equity % 6.8 16.7 10.9 18.8 14.6 to have a Board of Directors comprising nine members, five DirecAugust 10, 2015, available on its website at www.konecranes. Return on capital employed % 10.4 17.0 11.6 18.4 17.1 tors among which will be nominated by Terex and four Directors com/investors. Current ratio 1.1 1.3 1.2 1.4 1.3 by Konecranes. Konecranes’ current Chairman of the Board will On February 3, Konecranes announced that it intends to initiate Solidity % 34.8 35.2 34.0 34.0 34.2 become Konecranes Terex’s Chairman and the Terex CEO will actions aiming at annual cost savings of EUR 25 million by the end Net working capital MEUR 317.4 263.7 289.4 295.5 320.0 become Konecranes Terex’s CEO. Should Terex determine to of 2017. Approximately half of the cost savings are expected to Interest-bearing net debt MEUR 203.2 149.5 187.3 181.8 219.8 appoint a new CEO before the completion of the transaction, the be realized by the end of 2016. This has been taken into considGearing % 44.6 33.3 42.1 39.3 50.5 parties have agreed to do this in close collaboration between the eration in the 2016 financial guidance. To reduce fixed costs and Boards of Directors of Terex and Konecranes. improve efficiency in operations, Konecranes is planning to pursue Shares in figures The transaction is subject to approval by both Terex and Konethe following measures to reach the targeted cost savings. Some cranes shareholders, regulatory approvals and other closing condiof the actions mentioned below are already in progress. Earnings per share, basic EUR 0.53 1.28 0.85 1.47 1.11 Earnings per share, diluted EUR 0.53 1.28 0.85 1.46 1.10 tions. Closing of the transaction is expected to occur approximately • evaluation of the business model in certain countries which we Equity per share EUR 7.79 7.75 7.56 7.97 7.52 mid-year 2016. operate in Cash flow per share EUR 0.67 2.56 2.08 2.77 -0.35 • closures and rightsizing of manufacturing units and optimization Dividend per share EUR 1.05* 1.05 1.05 1.05 1.00 of supply chain Dividend / earnings % 199.8 81.7 123.4 71.4 90.1 • streamlining product portfolio and related resources Effective dividend yield % 4.6 4.4 4.1 4.1 6.9 • consolidation of regional functions Price / earnings 43.6 18.5 30.4 17.4 13.1 Trading low / high** EUR 20.98/34.98 18.63/27.60 20.45/28.89 14.34/26.67 13.18/34.17 To reach the targeted cost savings of EUR 25 million, Konecranes Average share price** EUR 27.73 23.47 25.30 21.39 22.83 expects to incur restructuring costs of approximately EUR 20 Share price on December 31** EUR 22.90 23.82 25.86 25.55 14.54 million by the end of 2017. Year-end market capitalization MEUR 1,345.0 1,380.2 1,495.4 1,463.8 831.7 Number traded*** (1,000) 141,080 111,667 105,051 206,014 220,567 Stock turnover % 240.2 192.7 181.7 359.6 385.6 Average number of shares outstanding, basic (1,000) 58,542 57,909 57,684 57,228 58,982 Average number of shares outstanding, diluted (1,000) 58,542 58,034 57,877 57,517 59,362 Number of shares outstanding, at end of the period (1,000) 58,732 57,944 57,828 57,291 57,199 * The Board’s proposal to the AGM ** Source: Nasdaq Helsinki *** Source: Fidessa 112 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS KONECRANES GROUP 2011–2015 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 113 Calculation of key figures Company list Net profit for the period (1,000 EUR) Return on equity (%): X 100 Total equity (average during the period) Subsidiaries owned by the parent company Book value of shares Parent company’s share, % Group’s share, % Finland: Konecranes Finance Oy 46,448 100 100 Konecranes Finland Oy 17,163 28 100 Income before taxes + interest paid + other financing cost Return on capital employed (%): X 100 Konecranes Global Oy 102,391 100 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities non-interest bearing debts (average during the period) Subsidiaries owned by the Group Book value of shares Group’s share, % Australia: Konecranes Pty. Ltd. 183 100 Current assets Austria: Konecranes Ges.m.b.H. 22,557 100 Current ratio: Current liabilities Bangladesh: Konecranes (Bangladesh) Ltd. 103 100 Belgium: S.A. Konecranes N.V. 0 100 Brazil: Konecranes Talhas, Pontes Rolantes e Serviços Ltda. 8,066 100 Shareholders' equity Canada: 3016117 Nova Scotia ULC 0 100 Solidity (%): X 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities advance payment received Hydramach ULC 0 100 Kaverit Cranes and Service ULC 0 100 Konecranes Canada Inc. 893 100 Interest-bearing liabilities liquid assets loans receivable Gearing (%): X 100 MHE Canada ULC 0 100 Total equity Overhead Crane Ltd. 0 100 Cayman Islands: Morris Middle East Ltd. 0 100 Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Chile: Konecranes Chile SpA 1 100 Earnings per share: China: Dalian Konecranes Company Ltd. 2,124 100 Average number of shares outstanding Konecranes Manufacturing (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd. 28,611 100 Konecranes (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 0 100 Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Konecranes (Shanghai) Company Ltd. 4,173 100 Earnings per share, diluted: Average fully diluted number of shares outstanding Konecranes Port Machinery (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 7,693 100 Morris Crane Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 115 100 Sanma Hoists & Cranes Co., Ltd. 1,416 100 Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent company Equity per share: Stahl CraneSystems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 199 100 Number of shares outstanding SWF Krantechnik Co., Ltd. 657 100 Czech Republic: Konecranes CZ s.r.o. 1,168 100 Net cash flow from operating activities Denmark: Konecranes A/S 958 100 Cash flow per share: Estonia: Konecranes Oü 0 100 Average number of shares outstanding Finland: Leporinus Oy 5 100 Nosturiexpertit Oy 10 100 Dividend per share Permeco Oy 113 100 Effective dividend yield (%): X 100 Share price at the end of financial year Suomen Teollisuusosa Oy 5,811 100 France: KCI Holding France S.A. 461 100 Konecranes (France) SAS 17,635 100 Share price at the end of financial year Price per earnings: Stahl CraneSystems SAS 677 100 Earnings per share Verlinde SAS 10,720 100 Germany: Eurofactory GmbH 1,239 100 Non interest-bearing current assets + deferred tax assets Konecranes GmbH 4,300 100 Net working capital: Konecranes Holding GmbH 15,262 100 Non interest-bearing current liabilities deferred tax liabilities provisions Konecranes Lifting Systems GmbH 804 100 Stahl CraneSystems GmbH 30,776 100 Interest-bearing liabilities (non current and current) cash and SWF Krantechnik GmbH 15,500 100 Interest-bearing net debt: cash equivalents loans receivable (non current and current) Greece: Konecranes Hellas Lifting Equipment and Services S.A. 60 100 Hungary: Konecranes Kft. 889 100 Konecranes Supply Hungary Kft. 3,899 100 Year-end market capitalization: Number of shares outstanding multiplied by the share price India: Stahl CraneSystems India Pvt. Ltd. 58 100 at the end of year WMI Konecranes India Limited 31,824 100 Indonesia: Pt. Konecranes 0 100 Average number of personnel: Calculated as average of number of personnel in quarters Italy: Konecranes S.r.l. 5,390 100 Japan: Konecranes Company, Ltd. 5,141 100 Latvia: SIA Konecranes Latvija 2 100 Number of shares outstanding: Total number of shares treasury shares Lithuania: UAB Konecranes 139 100 114 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 CALCULATION OF KEY FIGURES COMPANY LIST Konecranes Annual Report 2015 115 Subsidiaries owned by the Group Book value of shares Group’s share, % Subsidiaries owned by the Group Book value of shares Group’s share, % Luxembourg: Materials Handling International S.A. 300 100 Morris Material Handling, Inc. 65,618 100 PHMH Holding Company 0 100 Malaysia: Konecranes Sdn. Bhd. 779 100 R&M Materials Handling, Inc. 7,532 100 Mexico: Konecranes Mexico S.A. de C.V. 2,185 100 Stahl CraneSystems, Inc. 0 100 Morocco: Techniplus S.A. 0 99.9 Vietnam: Konecranes Vietnam Co., Ltd 211 100 The Netherlands: Konecranes B.V. 7,518 100 * Konecranes Group has the majority representation on the entity’s board of directors and approves all major operational decisions and thereby Konecranes consolidates Konecranes Holding B.V. 13,851 100 them in the Group’s financial statements. Norway: Konecranes AS 6,749 100 Other shares and joint operations Assets value Group’s share, % Konecranes Norway Holding AS 3,588 100 Estonia: AS Konesko 4,448 49.46 Peru: Konecranes Peru S.R.L. 0 100 Finland: Kiinteistöosakeyhtiö Kuikantorppa 261 50 Philippines: Konecranes Philippines Inc. 163 100 Poland: Konecranes Sp. z o.o. 810 100 Portugal: Ferrometal Limitada 1,556 100 Investments accounted for using the equity method Assets value Group’s share, % Konecranes Portugal, Unipessoal Lda 0 100 China: Guangzhou Technocranes Company, Ltd. 762 25 Romania: S.C. Konecranes S.A. 98 100 Jiangyin Dingli High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 627 30 Russia: OOO Kranekspertiza 0 100 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 1,738 28 AO Konecranes 161 100 France: Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 417 25 Saudi Arabia: Saudi Cranes & Steel Works Factory Co. Ltd. 15,518 100 Levelec S.A. 218 20 Singapore: KCI Cranes Holding (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 49,117 100 Manulec S.A. 248 25 Konecranes Pte. Ltd. 2,013 100 Manelec S.A.R.L. 88 25 Morris Material Handling Pte. Ltd. 296 100 S.E.R.E. Maintenance S.A. 125 25 Japan: KITO Corporation 42,793 22.65 Stahl CraneSystems Pte. Ltd. 0 100 Saudi Arabia: Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 1,777 49 SWF Krantechnik Pte. Ltd. 162 100 United Arab Emirates: Crane Industrial Services LLC 1,400 49 Slovakia: Konecranes Slovakia s.r.o. 200 100 Slovenia: Konecranes, d.o.o. 200 100 South Africa: Konecranes Pty. Ltd. 3,356 100 Available-for-sale investments Book value of shares Group’s share, % Spain: Konecranes Iberica S.L.U. 16,299 100 Austria: Austrian CraneSystems GmbH 86 19 Stahl CraneSystems S.L. 0 100 Finland: East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 50 5.26 Sweden: Konecranes AB 1,487 100 Fimecc Oy 120 5.69 Konecranes Lifttrucks AB 25,285 100 Levator Oy 34 19 Konecranes Sweden Holding AB 1,682 100 Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 345 3.3 Ulvaryd Fastighets AB 1,414 100 France: Heripret Holding SAS 53 19 Switzerland: Konecranes AG 3,980 100 Societe d'entretrien et de transformation d'engins mecaniques 0 19 Thailand: Konecranes (Thailand) Ltd.* 110 49 Indonesia: Pt. Technocranes International 3 15 Turkey: Konecranes Ticaret Ve Servis Limited Sirketi 93 100 Malaysia: Kone Products & Engineering Sdn. Bhd. 13 10 Ukraine: Konecranes Ukraine PJSC 2,048 100 Venezuela: Gruas Konecranes CA 4 10 PJSC Zaporozhje Kran Holding 395 95 Others: 253 PJSC Zaporozhcran 216 86.38 Total: 961 United Arab Emirates: Stahl CraneSystems FZE 221 100 Konecranes Middle East FZE 1,774 100 United Kingdom: Axis Machine Tool Engineering Limited 0 100 J.H. Carruthers Ltd. 0 100 Konecranes Machine Tool Service Ltd. 0 100 KCI Holding UK Ltd. 13,656 100 Konecranes UK Limited 7,719 100 Lloyds Konecranes Pension Trustees Ltd. 0 100 Morris Material Handling Ltd. 7,307 100 Stahl CraneSystems Ltd. 19 100 U.S.A. KCI Holding USA Inc. 53,901 100 Konecranes Acquisition Company LLC 0 100 Konecranes, Inc. 48,948 100 Konecranes Nuclear Equipment & Services, LLC 0 100 Merwin, LLC 0 100 MMH Americas, Inc. 0 100 MMH Holdings, Inc. 0 100 116 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 COMPANY LIST COMPANY LIST Konecranes Annual Report 2015 117 Parent company statement of income FAS Parent company cash flow FAS (1,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31 2015 Jan 1–Dec 31 2014 (1,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31 2015 Jan 1–Dec 31 2014 Note: 4 Sales 94,863 105,355 Cash flow from operating activities Operating income -15,040 2,062 5 Depreciation and impairments -15,359 -11,875 Adjustments to operating profit 6 Other operating expenses -94,544 -91,419 Depreciation and impairments 15,359 11,875 Extraordinary income 0 14,740 Operating profit -15,040 2,062 Operating income before changes in net working capital 319 28,676 7 Financial income and expenses 156,494 9,153 Change in interest-free short-term receivables -12,871 -5,218 Change in interest-free short-term liabilities 7,152 6,814 Income before extraordinary items 141,454 11,215 Change in net working capital -5,719 1,596 8 Extraordinary items 25,000 0 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes -5,399 30,272 Income before appropriations and taxes 166,454 11,215 Interest received 504 637 Interest paid -10 -12 9 Appropriations 2 -530 Other financial income and expenses -1,276 -253 10 Income taxes -1,639 -150 Income taxes paid 2,237 -2,423 Financing items and taxes 1,454 -2,051 Net income 164,817 10,536 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES -3,945 28,221 Cash flow from investing activities Investments in other shares -3 0 Capital expenditure to tangible assets -1,156 -3,124 Capital expenditure and advance payments to intangible assets -13,566 -18,734 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 126 57 Dividends received 57,300 8,900 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES 42,702 -12,902 Cash flow before financing activities 38,757 15,319 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from options exercised and share issues 17,879 2,394 Repayments of long-term receivables 4,832 43,055 Dividends paid -61,468 -60,768 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -38,756 -15,319 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1 0 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 3 3 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1 0 118 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF INCOME FAS PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW FAS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 119 Parent company balance sheet FAS (1,000 EUR) Dec 31 2015 Dec 31 2014 (1,000 EUR) Dec 31 2015 Dec 31 2014 Note: Note: ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES NON-CURRENT ASSETS 16 EQUITY Intangible assets Share capital 30,073 30,073 11 Intangible rights 0 62,445 Share premium account 39,307 39,307 Advance payments 0 28,168 Paid in capital 68,378 50,499 0 90,613 Retained earnings 43,549 94,481 Net income for the period 164,817 10,536 Tangible assets 346,124 224,895 12 Machinery and equipment 13 4,214 Other tangible assets 0 230 APPROPRIATIONS Advance payments 190 7 Depreciation difference 7 530 203 4,451 LIABILITIES 13 Investments Investments in Group companies 153,040 50,649 Provisions 0 5 Other shares and similar rights of ownership 170 515 153,210 51,164 Current liabilities Accounts payable 3,116 12,913 Total non-current assets 153,414 146,228 Liabilities owed to Group companies Accounts payable 961 2,103 CURRENT ASSETS 17 Accruals 11,361 218 Long-term receivables Other short-term liabilities 187 755 Loans receivable from Group companies 70,044 74,876 17 Accruals 5,547 10,230 70,044 74,876 21,172 26,218 Short-term receivables Total liabilities 21,172 26,223 Accounts receivable 513 59 Amounts owed by Group companies TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 367,303 251,649 Accounts receivable 15,488 19,271 15 Deferred assets 126,104 70 Other receivables 491 806 15 Deferred assets 1,246 10,336 143,842 30,542 Cash in hand and at banks 3 3 Total current assets 213,889 105,420 TOTAL ASSETS 367,303 251,649 120 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET FAS PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET FAS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 121 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 1. Accounting principles 7. Financial income and expenses Balance sheet 14. Investments The financial statements of the company have been prepared 2015 2014 2015 2014 in euro and in accordance with accounting principles generally Financial income from long-term investments 11. Intangible rights Acquisition costs as of January 1 51.2 51.2 accepted in Finland. Dividend income from Group companies 157.3 8.9 2015 2014 Increase 102.4 0.0 Dividend income total 157.3 8.9 Acquisition costs as of January 1 87.7 57.7 Decrease 0.3 0.0 2. Extraordinary items Increase 14.4 31.1 Total as of December 31 153.2 51.2 The extraordinary items in the financial statements include Interest income from long-term receivables Decrease -102.1 -1.2 received group contributions. From Group companies 0.5 0.6 Acquisition costs as of December 31 0.0 87.7 Investments in Group companies Other interest income 0.0 0.0 Accumulated depreciation January 1 -25.2 -15.3 2015 2014 Interest income from long-term receivables Accumulated depreciation relating to Domicile Book value Book value 3. Research and development costs total 0.5 0.6 disposals 39.7 1.2 Konecranes Finance Corp. Hyvinkää 46.4 46.4 Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Accumulated depreciation -12.7 -11.1 Konecranes Finland Corp. Hyvinkää 4.2 4.2 Financial income from long-term Impairments -1.8 0.0 investments total 157.8 9.5 Konecranes Global Corp. Hyvinkää 102.4 0.0 Statement of Income Total as of December 31 0.0 62.4 Total 153.0 50.6 Interest and other financial income 0.0 0.0 4. Sales Interest and other financial income total 0.0 0.0 In the parent company the sales to subsidiaries totaled EUR 94.9 12. Machinery and equipment Other shares and similar rights of ownership million (EUR 105.4 million in 2014) corresponding to a share of 2015 2014 2015 2014 Interest expenses and other financial 100% (100% in 2014) of net sales. expenses Acquisition costs as of January 1 8.2 6.2 Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 0.0 0.3 Other financial expenses 1.3 0.3 Increase 0.2 2.9 Pärjä Oy 0.0 0.0 5. Depreciation and impairments Interest expenses and other financial Decrease -8.3 -0.9 East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 0.1 0.1 expenses total 1.3 0.3 2015 2014 Acquisition costs as of December 31 0.0 8.2 Fimecc Oy 0.1 0.1 Intangible rights 12.7 11.1 Accumulated depreciation January 1 -4.0 -4.1 Total 0.2 0.5 Financial income and expenses total 156.5 9.2 Machinery and equipment 0.8 0.8 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 4.7 0.9 Other tangible asset 0.0 0.0 Accumulated depreciation -0.8 -0.8 15. Treasury shares Impairments 1.8 0.0 8. Extraordinary items Total as of December 31 0.0 4.2 2015 2014 Total 15.4 11.9 2015 2014 Number of shares as of January 1 5,328,415 5,444,262 Group contributions received from Increase 0 0 subsidiaries 25.0 0.0 6. Other operating expenses and personnel 13. Other tangible assets Decrease -788,502 -115,847 Total 25.0 0.0 Costs and expenses in the Statement of Income were as follows: 2015 2014 Number of shares as of December 31 4,539,913 5,328,415 2015 2014 Acquisition costs as of January 1 0.2 0.0 Wages and salaries 17.8 20.7 9. Appropriations Increase 0.0 0.2 Pension costs 3.3 3.9 2015 2014 Decrease -0.2 0 Other personnel expenses 0.6 0.9 Difference between planned and untaxed Acquisition costs as of December 31 0.0 0.2 16. Deferred assets depreciations 0.0 0.5 Other operating expenses 72.9 65.8 Accumulated depreciation January 1 0.0 0.0 2015 2014 Total 0.0 0.5 Accumulated depreciation relating to Total 94.5 91.4 Group contributions 25.0 0 disposals 0.0 0.0 Income taxes 0.8 4.7 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Wages and salaries in accordance with the Statement of Income 10. Income taxes Total as of December 31 0.0 0.2 Payments which will be realized during 2015 2014 2015 2014 the next financial year 101.5 5.7 Remuneration to Board 0.5 0.4 Taxes on extraordinary items 5.0 0,0 Interest 0.0 0.1 Other wages and salaries 17.3 20.3 Taxes on ordinary operations -3.4 0.3 Total 127.4 10.4 Total 17.8 20.8 Taxes from previous years 0.0 -0.2 Total 1.6 0.1 The average number of personnel 294 351 Auditors fees Audit 0.2 0.2 Other services 3.8 0.3 Total 4.0 0.4 122 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STATEMENT NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STATEMENT Konecranes Annual Report 2015 123 Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting 17. Equity 19. Contingent liabilities and pledged assets The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR 276,744,547.45 of which the net income for the year is EUR 164,816,834.32. 2015 2014 2015 2014 Share capital as of January 1 30.1 30.1 Contingent liabilities The Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR 395,615,000. New issue 0.0 0.0 Share capital as of December 31 30.1 30.1 For obligations of subsidiaries According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable funds of the Company are calculated based on the parent company’s non-reGroup guarantees 276.4 345.0 stricted equity. For the purpose of determining the amount of the dividend the Board of Directors has assessed the liquidity of the parent Share premium account January 1 39.3 39.3 company and the economic circumstances subsequent to the financial year-end. New issue 0.0 0 Other contingent and financial liabilities Share premium account as of December 31 39.3 39.3 Based on such assessments the Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 1.05 will be paid on Leasing liabilities each share and that the remaining non-restricted equity is retained in shareholders’ equity. Share issue January 1 0.0 0.0 Next year 1.4 1.0 Increase 17.0 1.3 Later on 1.6 1.6 Decrease -17.0 -1.3 Total 3.0 2.6 Espoo, February 3, 2016 Share issue December 31 0.0 0.0 Leasing contracts are valid, in principle, for three years and they have no terms of redemption. Paid in capital January 1 50.5 48.1 Stig Gustavson Svante Adde Increase 17.9 2.4 Other liabilities 0.0 0.0 Chairman of the Board Board member Decrease 0.0 0.0 Paid in capital as of December 31 68.4 50.5 Total by category Guarantees 276.4 345.0 Ole Johansson Bertel Langenskiöld Retained earnings as of January 1 105.1 155.3 Other liabilities 3.0 2.6 Vice Chairman of the Board Board member Dividend paid -61.5 -60.8 Total 279.4 347.6 Decrease 0.0 0.0 Retained earnings as of December 31 43.6 94.5 20. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments Malin Persson Christoph Vitzthum Net income for the period 164.8 10.5 2015 2015 2014 2014 Board member Board member Fair Nominal Fair Nominal value value value value Shareholders' equity as of December 31 346.1 224.9 Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.0 1.6 -0.1 25.0 Panu Routila Distributable equity President and CEO Derivatives are used for currency rate hedging only. Paid in capital as of December 31 68.4 50.5 Retained earnings as of December 31 43.5 94.5 Net income for the period 164.8 10.5 Total 276.7 155.5 18. Accruals 2015 2014 Income taxes 0.0 0.0 Wages, salaries and personnel expenses 0.5 6.8 Interest 0.0 0.0 Other items 16.4 3.6 Total 16.9 10.4 124 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STATEMENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROPOSAL TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Konecranes Annual Report 2015 125 Auditor’s report Shares and shareholders To the Annual General Meeting financial statements and report of the the Board of Directors that Shares and share capital Board authorizations of Konecranes Plc give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that As of December 31, 2015, Konecranes Plc’s fully paid-up share On March 16, 2015, the Board of Directors decided on a directed We have audited the accounting records, the financial statements, are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose capital entered in the Trade Register was EUR 30,072,660, divided share issue related to the reward payment for the performance the report of the Board of Directors, and the administration of of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s into 63,272,342 shares (63,272,342 in 2014). Konecranes has periods 2012 and 2012—2014 of Konecranes Performance Share Konecranes Plc for the financial period 1.1.–31.12.2015. The internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the approprione class of shares and each share entitles its holder to one vote Plan 2012. In the share issue, 55,007 Konecranes Plc shares financial statements comprise the consolidated statement of ateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of at the Annual General Meeting and an equal dividend. Konecranes’ held by the Company were conveyed without consideration to the financial position, income statement, statement of comprehensive accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating shares are registered in the Finnish book entry system. key employees that participated in the plan in accordance with income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash the overall presentation of the financial statements and the report On December 31, 2015, Konecranes Plc was in the possession the terms and conditions of the plan. The decision on the directed flows, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, as well of the Board of Directors. of 4,539,913 own shares (5,328,415), which corresponds to 7.2 share issue was based on the authorization granted to the Board as the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffipercent of the total number of shares having a market value of of Directors by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held flow statement and notes to the financial statements. cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. EUR 104.0 million on that date. In 2015, 733,495 treasury shares on March 27, 2014. were transferred to the subscribers, pursuant to the Konecranes The Annual General Meeting held on March 26, 2015, authorResponsibility of the Board of Directors Opinion on the consolidated Plc’s stock options 2009B. In addition, 55,007 treasury shares ized the Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase of the and the Managing Director financial statements were conveyed without consideration to the key employees particiCompany’s own shares and/or on the acceptance of the CompaThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true pating in the Performance Share Plan 2012. ny’s own shares as a pledge. The amount of the Company’s own for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, and shares to be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge based on this a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial cash flows of the Group in accordance with International Financial Market capitalization and share trading authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares in total, which Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, as well as for Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. As of the end of 2015, the total market capitalization of corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all of the shares in the the preparation of financial statements and the report of the Board Konecranes Plc on Nasdaq Helsinki was EUR 1,345.0 million Company. The authorization is effective until the end of the next of Directors that give a true and fair view in accordance with the Opinion on the Company’s financial (1,380.2), excluding treasury shares. Annual General Meeting, but no later than September 25, 2016. laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements and the report of Konecranes’ shares closed the year at EUR 22.90 (23.82) on The Board of Directors did not use this authorization in 2015. statements and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The the Board of Directors Nasdaq Helsinki. The volume-weighted average trading price for The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the Board of Directors is responsible for the appropriate arrangement In our opinion, the financial statements and the report of the Board the year was EUR 27.73. The highest quotation for the Konecranes issuance of shares as well as on the issuance of special rights of the control of the Company’s accounts and finances, and the of Directors give a true and fair view of both the consolidated and share was EUR 34.98 in August and the lowest was EUR 20.98 in entitling to shares referred to in Chapter 10 of Section 1 of the Managing Director shall see to it that the accounts of the company the parent company’s financial performance and financial position September. Finnish Companies Act. The amount of shares to be issued based are in compliance with the law and that its financial affairs have in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the prepaThe traded volume of Konecranes’ shares totaled some 57.0 on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, which been arranged in a reliable manner. ration of the financial statements and the report of the Board of million on Nasdaq Helsinki. In monetary terms, this was valued corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all of the shares in the Directors in Finland. The information in the report of the Board of at EUR 1,579.6 million. The daily average trading volume was Company. The authorization can also be used for incentive arrangeAuditor’s responsibility Directors is consistent with the information in the financial state226,922 shares, representing a daily average turnover of EUR 6.3 ments, however, not more than 700,000 shares in total together Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements. million. In addition, approximately 84.1 million Konecranes shares with the authorization in the following paragraph. The authorization ments, on the consolidated financial statements and on the report were traded on other trading venues (e.g., multilateral trading facilis effective until the end of the next Annual General Meeting, but of the Board of Directors based on our audit. The Auditing Act Opinions based on assignment ities and bilateral OTC trades) in 2015 according to Fidessa. no later than September 25, 2016. However, the authorization for requires that we comply with the requirements of professional of the Audit Committee ethics. We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing We support that the financial statements should be adopted. The practice in Finland. Good auditing practice requires that we plan proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the distribMonthly price and volume on the and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about utable equity shown in the balance sheet for the parent company is Nasdaq Helsinki 2011–2015 whether the financial statements and the report of the Board of in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support EUR Number of shares, million Directors are free from material misstatement, and whether the that the Members of the Board of Directors and the Managing members of the Board of Directors of the parent company or the Director of the parent company should be discharged from liability Managing Director are guilty of an act or negligence which may for the financial period audited by us. 50 25 result in liability in damages towards the Company or have violated 40 20 Konecranes the Limited Liability Companies Act or the articles of association of Helsinki, February 15, 2016 the Company. 30 15 Nasdaq Helsinki Industrial An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit Ernst & Young Oy 20 10 Goods & Services Index evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial Authorized Public Accountant Firm 10 5 Nasdaq Helsinki Cap Index statements and the report of the Board of Directors. The proceMonthly trading volume 0 0 dures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement, whether due Kristina Sandin 11 12 13 14 15 to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor Authorized Public Accountant considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of 126 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 AUDITOR’S REPORT SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 127 Changes in the share capital and the number of shares Performance share plans plan that commenced July 1, 2013. The number of new shares to Change in Total number Change in Share capital In 2012, the Board of Directors resolved to implement a perforbe issued or own shares held by the Company to be transferred number of shares of shares share capital EUR mance share plan according to which earning reward is based under the terms and conditions of the plan may be a maximum 1999 March 11, Conversion of share capital into EUR 15,000,000 30,000,000 2002 December 20, invalidation of shares held by the company and reduction of share capital -691,370 14,308,630 -1,382,740 28,617,260 on attainment of targets determined by the Board of Directors. total of 47,779 shares, which corresponds to 0.1 percent of all of 2004 New shares subscribed for with the 1997 stock options 1,400 14,310,030 2,800 28,620,060 Earning during the one-year discretionary period that began in the Company’s shares. 2005 New shares subscribed for with the 1997, 1999A, 1999B, 2001A and 2003A stock options 176,000 14,486,030 352,000 28,972,060 2012 was based on the Konecranes Group’s EBIT margin, and A new plan period began on July 1, 2014 and ended on June 30, 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A and 2003A stock options 286,700 14,772,730 573,400 29,545,460 during the three-year discretionary period that began in 2012 2015. Each participant will receive one free matching share for every pre-split on the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of the Company’s share. two acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to 2006 March 17, 2006 Share split 1:4 44,318,190 59,090,920 0 29,545,460 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, 2003A and 2003B series stock 986,800 60,077,720 493,400 30,038,860 In March 2015, 55,007 treasury shares were conveyed without a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from the post-split options consideration to the key employees participating in the plan. plan period until the end of the designated holding period, February 2007 February, new shares subscribed for with 2003B stock options 67,600 60,145,320 33,800 30,072,660 There will be no reward payment for the discretionary period 15, 2018, and if his or her employment has not ended before this 2007 March–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, 2001B, 2003B 833,460 60,978,780 0 30,072,660 2013—2015 as the performance criterion was not met. date for reasons related to the employee. Approximately 1,550 and 2003C stock options 2008 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001B, 2003B and 633,540 61,612,320 0 30,072,660 The performance criterion for the discretionary periods 2014— ­Konecranes employees signed up for the plan that commenced July 2003C stock options 2016 and 2015—2017 is the cumulative Earnings per Share 1, 2014. The number of new shares to be issued or own shares held 2009 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 2001B and 2003C stock options 260,600 61,872,920 0 30,072,660 (EPS), excluding restructuring costs, for the respective years. The by the Company to be transferred under the terms and conditions 2010 February–May, new shares subscribed for with 2001B stock options 129,200 62,002,120 0 30,072,660 target group of the plans consists of approximately 190 people. of the plan may be a maximum total of 43,827 shares, which corre2011 January, share issue directed to the shareholders of KCR Management Oy 281,007 62,283,127 0 30,072,660 The rewards to be paid on the basis of each discretionary period sponds to 0.1 percent of all of the Company’s shares. 2011 February–May, new shares subscribed for with 2007A and 2007B stock options 958,300 63,241,427 0 30,072,660 correspond to the value of an approximate maximum of 700,000 A new plan period began on July 1, 2015 and will end on June 2012 May–June, new shares subscribed for with 2009A stock options 30,915 63,272,342 0 30,072,660 Konecranes Plc shares, which corresponds to 1.1 percent of all 30, 2016. The maximum savings amount per participant during of the Company’s shares. If the targets determined by the Board one month is 5 percent of gross salary and the minimum is EUR of Directors are attained, the reward payout may be a half of the 10. Each participant will receive one free matching share for every maximum reward. The maximum reward payout requires that the two acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to targets are clearly exceeded. a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from the For a more detailed description of the performance share plan, plan period until the end of the designated holding period, February see Note 29 on Page 100 of the Financial Statements. 15, 2019, and if his or her employment has not ended before this incentive arrangements is valid until March 25, 2020. The Board of 250,000 to one or more Finnish universities or research centers date for reasons related to the employee. The total amount of all Directors did not use this authorization in 2015. to thus support education or research. The authorization was valid Employee share savings plan savings of the commencing plan period may not exceed EUR 8.5 The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the until December 31, 2015. The Board of Directors used this authorKonecranes Plc’s AGM 2012 approved the Konecranes Employee million. Approximately 1,550 Konecranes employees signed up for transfer of the Company’s own shares. The authorization is limited ization in 2015. Share Savings Plan. The first plan period began on July 1, 2012 the Plan Period that commenced on July 1, 2015. to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approxThese authorizations are explained in more detail in the release and ended on June 30, 2013. Each participant will receive one free For a more detailed description of the employee share savings imately 9.5 percent of all the shares in the Company. The authoricovering the resolutions of the 2015 AGM, which can be consulted matching share for every two acquired savings shares. Matching plan, see Note 29 on Page 101 of the Financial Statements. zation can also be used for incentive arrangements, however, not at the Company’s web site at www.konecranes.com > Investors > shares will be delivered to a participant if the participant holds the more than 700,000 shares in total together with the authorization Corporate governance > General meeting > 2015. acquired shares from the plan period until the end of the desigFlagging notifications in the previous paragraph. This authorization is effective until the nated holding period, February 15, 2016, and if his or her employOn February 5, 2015, Konecranes received a disclosure according next Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, but no later than Stock option plans ment with the Company has not been terminated on the last day of to which the holding of Harris Associates L.P. in Konecranes September 25, 2016. However, the authorization for incentive Konecranes has stock option plan 2009 for its key employees, the holding period on bad leaver terms. Approximately 1,500 Plc has decreased below 5 percent. Harris Associates L.P. held arrangements is valid until March 25, 2020. The Board of Directors including top and middle management, and employees in certain Konecranes employees signed up for the plan that commenced 3,158,600 Konecranes Plc’s shares on February 4, 2015, which is did not use this authorization in 2015. expert positions. In 2015, 733,495 treasury shares were transJuly 1, 2012. The number of new shares to be issued or own 4.99 percent of the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on a ferred to the subscribers, pursuant to Konecranes Plc’s stock shares held by the Company to be transferred under the terms and On April 20, 2015, Konecranes received a disclosure according directed share issue without payment needed for the implementaoptions 2009B. conditions of the plan may be a maximum total of 37,895 shares, to which the holding of Harris Associates L.P. in Konecranes Plc tion of the Share Savings Plan, which the Annual General Meeting As of the end of 2015, Konecranes Plc’s stock options 2009C which corresponds to 0.1 percent of all of the Company’s shares. has exceeded 5 percent. Harris Associates L.P. held 3,200,000 2012 decided to launch. The number of new shares to be issued or entitle option holders to subscribe for 638,500 shares, which A new plan period began on July 1, 2013 and ended on June Konecranes Plc’s shares on April 17, 2015, which is 5.06 percent own shares held by the Company to be transferred may amount in corresponds to 1.0 percent of all of the Company’s shares. 30, 2014. Each participant will receive one free matching share of the Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. the aggregate to a maximum total of 500,000 shares, which correFor a more detailed description of the option plans, see for every two acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be On May 14, 2015, Konecranes received a disclosure according sponds to 0.8 percent of all of the Company’s shares. The authorNote 29 on Page 100 of the Financial Statements. The terms and delivered to a participant if the participant holds the acquired to which the holding of Sanderson Asset Management LLP in ization concerning the share issue is valid until March 25, 2020. conditions of the stock option plans can also be consulted at shares from the plan period until the end of the designated holding ­Konecranes Plc has exceeded 5 percent. Sanderson Asset The Board of Directors did not use this authorization in 2015. www.konecranes.com > Investors > Share information > Stock period, February 15, 2017, and if his or her employment has Management LLP held 3,239,980 Konecranes Plc’s shares on May The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on one option plans. not ended before this date for reasons related to the employee. 13, 2015, which is 5.12 percent of the Konecranes Plc’s shares or several donations of a maximum aggregate amount of EUR Approximately 1,650 Konecranes employees signed up for the and votes. 128 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 129 On September 18, 2015, Konecranes received a disclosure Konecranes Plc share trading information Shares and options owned by the members of the Board and of Directors according to which the holding of Harris Associates Investment • Date of listing on Nasdaq Helsinki: March 27, 1996 and of the Group Executive Board on December 31, 2015 Trust in Konecranes Plc has exceeded 5 percent. Harris Associ• Segment: Large Cap Change in Number of % of shares Change in option Option ownership shareholding in 2015 shares owned and votes holdings in 2015 (2 December 31, 2015 (2 % of shares and votes ates Investment Trust held 3,177,500 Konecranes Plc’s shares on • ICB classification: Industrials, Industrial Goods & Services, Board of Directors (1 8,665 49,250 0.1 % 0 0 0.0 % September 17, 2015, which is 5.02 percent of Konecranes Plc’s Industrial Engineering, Commercial Vehicles & Trucks 2753 Group Executive Board -200,136 144,517 0.2 % -114,000 15,000 0.0 % shares and votes. • ISIN code: FI0009005870 Total -191,471 193,767 0.3 % -114,000 15,000 0.0 % On November 6, 2015, Konecranes received a disclosure • Trading code: KCR1V 1) Konecranes Plc received on December 28, 2011 information according to which the Chairman of the company’s Board of Directors Mr Stig Gustavson has donated all of his shares he at that time owned in Konecranes Plc to his near relatives retaining himself for life according to which the holding of Polaris Capital Management, • Reuters ticker: KCR1V.HE the voting rights and right to dividend attached to the donated shares. The donation encompassed in total 2,069,778 shares. LLC in Konecranes Plc’s shares has exceeded 5 percent. Polaris • Bloomberg ticker: KCR1V FH 2) Option holdings are reported as the number of shares that they entitle to subscribe for. Capital Management, LLC held 3,169,748 Konecranes Plc’s shares on November 6, 2015, which is 5.01 percent of Konecranes Plc’s Konecranes Plc’s stock option shares. Polaris Capital Management, LLC held 2,277,440 voting 2009C trading information Breakdown of share ownership by number rights in Konecranes Plc on November 6, 2015, which is 3.60 • Date of listing on Nasdaq Helsinki: April 1, 2014 of shares owned on December 31, 2015 percent of voting rights in Konecranes Plc. • Last trading date: April 25, 2016 Number of shares Shares Number of shareholders % of shareholders and votes % of shares and votes • ISIN code: FI4000041504 1–100 8,934 44.9 % 477,397 0.8 % Shareholders • Trading code: KCR1VEW309 101–1,000 9,456 47.5 % 3,238,783 5.1 % Konecranes had 19,915 (19,199) shareholders on December 31, 1,001–10,000 1,330 6.7 % 3,581,204 5.7 % 2015. At year-end 2015, 48.7 (47.3) percent of the company’s 10,001–100,000 157 0.8 % 4,392,336 6.9 % shares were nominee registered. More information on the break100,001–1,000,000 22 0.1 % 6,076,575 9.6 % down of share ownership and board and management interests Over 1,000,001 5 0.0 % 14,670,534 23.2 % Registered shareholders total 19,904 99.9 % 32,436,829 51.3 % can be found in the Shares and Shareholders section on Page 131 Nominee registered shares 11 0.1 % 30,835,513 48.7 % of the Financial Statements. Total 19,915 100.0 % 63,272,342 100.0 % Shares and shareholders According to the register of Konecranes Plc’s shareholders kept by Euroclear Finland Oy, there were 19,915 (2014: 19,199) shareholders at the end of the 2015. Breakdown of share ownership by shareholder category on December 31, 2015 % of shares and votes Largest shareholders on December 31, 2015 Private companies 20.3 % Number of shares % of shares and Financial and insurance institutions 4.8 % and votes votes Public sector organizations 5.5 % 1 HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab 6,870,568 10.9 % Households 14.3 % 2 Gustavson Stig, Chairman of the Board of Konecranes, and family1) 2,078,013 3.3 % Non-profit organizations 5.5 % 3 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,190,275 1.9 % Foreigners 0.8 % 4 The State Pension Fund 780,000 1.2 % Nominee registered shares 48.7 % 5 OP Investment Funds 655,000 1.0 % Total 100.0 % 6 The Local Government Pensions Institution, Keva 598,542 0.9 % Source: Euroclear Finland Oy, December 31, 2015. 7 Danske Capital Funds 562,120 0.9 % 8 Samfundet Folkhälsan i Svenska Finland 535,600 0.8 % 9 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 501,603 0.8 % 10 Aktia Funds 491,086 0.8 % Ten largest registered shareholders' total ownership 14,262,807 22.5 % Nominee registered shares 30,835,513 48.7 % Other shareholders 13,634,109 21.5 % Shares held by Konecranes Plc 4,539,913 7.2 % Total 63,272,342 100.0 % 130 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS Konecranes Annual Report 2015 131 Investor information INVESTOR RELATIONS INFORMATION FOR Financial reports in 2016 SHAREHOLDERS • Financial Statements for 2015: February IR principles 3, 2016 The main objective of Konecranes’ Investor Annual General Meeting • Interim report, January–March: April 27, Relations function is to assist in the correct Konecranes’ next Annual General Meeting 2016 valuation of the Company’s shares by will be held on Wednesday, March 23, 2016 • Interim report, January–June: July 22, providing capital markets with information at 10 a.m. in Hyvinkääsali, Jussinkuja 1, 2016 on its operations and financial position. 05800 Hyvinkää, Finland. • Interim report, January–September: Konecranes pursues an open, reliable, and Shareholders registered no later than October 26, 2016 up-to-date disclosure policy, aimed at giving March 11, 2016 in the company’s list of all market participants access to correct shareholders maintained by Euroclear Konecranes’ annual and interim reports are and consistent information regularly and Finland Ltd. are entitled to attend the AGM. published in English, Finnish, and Swedish. equitably. Holders of nominee-registered shares The Annual Report is available in pdf format Investor Relations is responsible for intending to participate in the AGM shall on the Company web site and in print form. investor communications and daily contacts. notify their custodian well in advance of Copies are mailed to shareholders on The President and CEO, together with the their intention and comply with the instrucrequest: orders can be placed through the Chief Financial Officer, participate in IR tions provided by the custodian. Company web site. activities and are regularly available for A shareholder wishing to participate in All press and stock exchange releases meetings with capital market representathe AGM must notify the company (Ms Laura can be consulted at the Company’s web tives. The function regularly gathers and Kiiski) of his/her participation no later than site (www.konecranes.com) and can be analyzes market information and investor March 18, 2016: received by e-mail by subscribing at www. feedback for use of top management and konecranes.com > Investors > Releases > the Board of Directors. Internet: www.konecranes.com/agm2016 Order releases. The Annual Report can also E-mail: agm2016@konecranes.com be ordered from: Silent period Fax: +358 20 427 2105 (from abroad) Konecranes observes a silent period prior or 020 427 2105 (Finland) Konecranes Plc to the publication of its financial statements Phone: +358 20 427 2017 (from abroad) or Investor Relations and interim reports starting at the end of 020 427 2017 (Finland) P.O. Box 661 the quarter in question. During this time, Mail: Konecranes Plc, Laura Kiiski, P.O. Box FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Company representatives do not comment 661, FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Phone: +358 20 427 2960 on Konecranes’ financial position. Fax: +358 20 427 2089 Shareholders are requested to inform Web: www.konecranes.com > Investors > Investor relations in 2015 the Company of any proxies for the AGM in Reports and result presentations > Order In 2015, Konecranes participated in four connection with their registration. A sample annual report investor seminars and held 26 roadshow proxy can be found on the Company’s web days. All in all, we took part in approximately site. Shareholder register 250 investor meetings and conference Konecranes shares are covered by the calls: in Amsterdam, Boston, Chicago, Payment of dividend Finnish Book Entry Securities System. Copenhagen, Edinburgh, Frankfurt, Helsinki, The Board of Directors will propose to the Shareholders should notify the relevant London, Los Angeles, Milan, Munich, New Annual General Meeting of Shareholders holder of their book entry account about York, Oslo, Paris, Stockholm and Toronto. that a dividend of EUR 1.05 per share changes in address or account numbers for should be paid for 2015. The dividend will the payment of dividends and other matters Equity research be paid to shareholders who are registered related to their holdings. The following banks, investment banks, and on the record date in the Company’s shareequity research providers cover Konecranes: holders’ register maintained by Euroclear IMPORTANT DATES ABG Sundal Collier, Carnegie Investment Finland Ltd. Bank, Danske Markets, DNB Markets, Evli • Record date of dividend payment: March Record date of the AGM: March 11, 2016 Bank, Handelsbanken Capital Markets, 29, 2016 Registration for the HSBC, Inderes, Kepler Cheuvreux, Nordea • Date of dividend payment: April 6, 2016 AGM closes: March 18, 2016 Bank, Pohjola Bank, and SEB Enskilda. The AGM: March 23, 2016 Konecranes takes no responsibility for Dividend ex-date: March 24, 2016 the opinions expressed by analysts. More Dividend record date: March 29, 2016 information on Konecranes as an investDividend payment date: April 6, 2016 ment can be found at www.konecranes.com > Investors. 132 Konecranes Annual Report 2015 INVESTOR INFORMATION Corporate HQ Corporate Headquarters Konecranes Plc P.O. Box 661 (Koneenkatu 8) FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel: +358 20 427 11 Corporate responsibility For corporate responsibility matters please contact: corporate-responsibility@konecranes.com Investor contacts Miikka Kinnunen Director, Investor Relations Tel: +358 20 427 2050 E-mail: miikka.kinnunen@konecranes.com Regional Headquarters Anna-Mari Kautto Americas Assistant, Investor Relations Konecranes, Inc. Tel: +358 20 427 2960 4401 Gateway Blvd. Main production sites E-mail: anna-mari.kautto@konecranes.com Springfield, OH 45502, USA Sales and service locations Tel: +1 937 525 5533 Global Business Area Headquarters Europe, Middle East and Africa Konecranes Region EMEA Service P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) Konecranes Finland Corporation FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) Tel: +358 20 427 11 FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel: +358 20 427 11 Asia-Pacific Konecranes (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Konecranes is a world-leading group of Lifting Businesses™, serving a broad range of customers, incluEquipment Building D, No.100, Lane 2891, ding manufacturing and process industries, shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes provides producKonecranes Finland Corporation South Qilianshan Road, tivity-enhancing lifting solutions as well as services for lifting equipment and machine tools of all makes. P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) 200331, Shanghai, China In 2015, Group sales totaled EUR 2,126 million. The Group has 11,900 employees at 600 locations in FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel: +86 21 2606 1000 Tel: +358 20 427 11 48 countries. Konecranes is listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki (symbol: KCR1V). ” “The industrial internet and digitalization bring huge possibilities to material handling: new business models will emerge very soon.” Jari Myyryläinen, Head of Waste-to-Energy Industry at Konecranes
