COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS YEAR: 2015/2016 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd reaﬃrms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Since we became members in August 2014, we have made eﬀorts to embed the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in our everyday work and ensure we operate in a sustainable manner. As we submit our second annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Adil El Youssefi CEO, Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd 2 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Company name: Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Sector: Telecommunication sector Number of employees: 219 UN Global Compact signatory since: 7th August 2014 Contact person: Joy Nyaga Address: Parkside Towers, Mombasa Road, P.O. Box 73146-00200, Nairobi Kenya Email: Joy.Nyaga@ke.airtel.com Phone: +254 733 750 177 3 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Who we are We are part of Bharti Airtel Limited, a leading global telecommunications company with operations in 20 countries across Asia and Africa. Headquartered in New Delhi, India, the company ranks amongst the top 3 mobile service providers globally in terms of subscribers. In India, the company’s product oﬀerings include 2G, 3G and 4G wireless services, mobile commerce, fixed line services, high speed DSL broadband, IPTV, DTH, enterprise services including national & international long distance services to carriers. In the rest of the geographies, it oﬀers 2G, 3G and 4G wireless services and mobile commerce. Bharti Airtel had over 328 million customers across its operations at the end of May 2015. What we do Airtel has been operating in Kenya since 2010, going from strength to strength while maintaining and evolving its strong customer values and competitive services. In Kenya, we are the second largest telecommunication operator oﬀering mobile services on 2G and 3G wireless service, telemedia service, mobile commerce and Airtel business for our enterprise consumers. Some of our products and things we do include: • Airtel in the community: Airtel is dedicated to empower, enable and unlock the potential of future generations to succeed in life. We are driven by the desire to unlock potential in our communities and through our CSR, we have the Internet for schools program through which, we offer students across the country free 24 hour access to the Internet, allowing them access to unlimited amount of educational material and information available online hence broadening their learning and their success in life. • Unliminet: This is a unique and exciting product that continues to offer our customers the peace of mind and freedom to talk and remain connected to their world through the internet. The product is destined to offer customers the convenience and freedom to make unlimited connections to their professional, family and social networks wherever they are. 4 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd • Airtel Money: With Airtel Money, the company provides e-commerce solutions including online payments, online banking, utility bill payments for electricity, DSTV, and water. Airtel Money currently has a vast dealer network of more than 12,000 active agents which include banks, bank agents, supermarket chains and Posta outlets. • Airtel Money VISA Card: This is a card that has changed how customers shop allowing them to pay for goods and services at all VISA accepted merchants. The card has also allowed customers to withdraw money from their Airtel Money accounts from VISA ATMs instead of joining a queue at the agent’s counter to withdraw their money. • Airtel Premier Club: This is a unique club that presents a variety of unique offers and services from Airtel as well as other partners in various business sectors. The club enables premier customers to have personalized credit services such as credit facilities, an exclusive website, free SIM replacement, priority services and discount with preferred partners. • Mobile Virtual Network Operators (MVNO): Airtel is the first player in the country to host the Mobile Virtual Network Operators, (MVNOs) on our network. They include: w Equity Bank, through its subsidiary Finserve Africa Limited (Equitel) w Zion cell Kenya Limited w Mobile Pay Limited w Kenya Airways which is awaiting the regulator’s approval The three will be operating on our network infrastructure to provide mobile phone services to their customers. • Investments in Kenya: Airtel Kenya reaffirmed its commitment to Kenya with the announcement of an ambitious investment program totaling Kshs.19 billion over the next 3 years. The investment ensures that the Company delivers on its stated commitment to offer the most reliable and best quality network, products and services in the market. The investment plan will cover network upgrades for its voice and data services, shops, and brand equity development, customer service quality improvement staff training programs and community development programs across the country. 5 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Our Mission At Airtel, we provide globally admired technology and services to give Africa an easy and dependable way to connect to the world. We bring everything internet to everyone. Our Vision Connected people are inspired people. We connect Africa’s people to each other, empowering them to create opportunities, dream big and live well. Our Values • Alive We act with passion, energy and a can-do attitude. Innovation and an entrepreneurial spirit drives us • Inclusive We champion diversity. We anticipate, adapt and deliver solutions that enrich the lives of the communities we serve. • Respectful We share the joy and pain of our customer. We act with humility and are always open and honest. Scope of this COP This COP report covers our operational internal processes in relation to our customers, our staﬀ, our suppliers and our community in adhering to the four main areas of the UN Global Compact: Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption for the financial period 2015/2016. 6 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd AIRTEL AT A GLANCE 95% 250,000 71% VWD˨KDYHUHFHLYHGWUDLQLQJ VWXGHQWVEHQH˩WWHGIURPRXU (QJDJHPHQWVFRUHLQGH[ HTXLYDOHQWRIZRUNLQJGD\V IUHH$LUWHOLQWHUQHWIRUVFKRROVLQLWLDWLYH 8SIURPWKHSUHYLRXV\HDU 7 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment Airtel as a company is committed to family-friendly policies that provide employees with a safe and conducive working environment in line with the international human rights as well as adequate resources to perform optimally in their roles. These policies are aligned to the employment act to ensure full compliance with the law. A brief description of our Processes or System • The company has an able HR team which ensures that the rights of its employees and stakeholders are adhered to and none is violated. These policies are made clear to the employees through the company’s handbook. • We have 26 annual leave days per year to all employees to enable them to have ample rest as required and are approved by respective line manager, 5 days compassionate leave for employees who are bereaved in their immediate family and those who are planning their wedding. • Maternity/paternity leave: We also offer female employees (3) three months maternity leave with full pay in addition to their annual leave entitlement while male employees are entitled to two (2) weeks paternity leave. 8 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd • We have the role of Head of security, who is in charge of overall security, critical updates to staff, health and safety training and also a security policy that is updated annually and published in public for all staff to see and be informed. • We also have an in house fire marshals and first aiders on each floor and a mandatory floor audit every day by our contracted security vendor. These fire marshals show all new staff the emergency exits and explains the fire alarm procedures and how it will be an offence to obstruct an emergency exit for whatever reason. • All employees who have any physical or hearing disability which could affect either their speed or ease with which they leave the building are aided by other employees. • The company also advocate for clean desks policy where all employees are expected to keep their working desks and area clean at all times. • We provide a lunch space per floor for the employees to enjoy their lunch break which is equipped with a fridge and a microwave for their use. • The employees have access to tea and safe drinking water. Those based in the field are paid a separate pantry allowance to enable them to buy good quality drinking water Activities we implemented in the last year • Training on first aid and fire safety to selected employees who were selected to be fire marshals and first aiders on their respective floors as part of our Safety Policy. • Fire marshals and first aiders wear their reflective jackets every Tuesday to create awareness to employees. • We implemented the clean desk policy to all staff to ensure that they maintain a clean and environment friendly desk. • All employees were taken through one fire safety and security training to equip them with the required knowledge. • The fire equipment and emergency exit are inspected every morning by the contracted security vendor. • Published our Security policy on each floor as well as the evacuation plan for employees and public awareness. • Installation of a new CCTV security system complete with live audio advisory to the Head of security. • Installation of intrusion alarm systems in all our Base Transmission Station (BTS) in the fields • Deployment of armed Police officers for employees safety • Promotion of employees’ expressions and concerns through an online survey to the HR department. • Compliance and Renewal of work place licenses both internal and external 9 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • The Head of Security must submit audited safety reports to the Ministry of labour every two years. • At least two fire drills must be executed in a year to inculcate a culture of safety awareness to all employees. • Occupational Safety and Health performance: number of fatalities, Lost Time Injuries (LTI), Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR) and Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) has not been reported in the last year. • Tracking of leave accrual per staff member by HR and ensuring approved annual leave plans are in place so that employees commit to going on leave. • People survey results in terms of response rate, engagement index, manager index and employee net promoter score been at an average of 71% in the Year ended March 2016” Activities planned for next year • Wellness week at least once a year to create awareness on pertinent health issues. • Fire drill to inculcate the evacuation policy. • Fire marshals wearing the reflective gear every Tuesday for easy identification and also awareness purpose. LABOUR RIGHTS Our Commitment The company is committed to employee policies that are in adherence to the labour laws of Kenya, International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions and other International Standards, eliminating all forms of labour malpractices and also enforcing a culture of Airtel being an equal opportunity employer in support to a zero tolerance attitude in respect to employment and occupation. Airtel as a company states clearly that no staﬀ shall be discriminated against due to sex, race, color, political opinion, HIV status and beliefs. The company states clearly that each role will have a job description that outlines the scope and mandate of the role holder. A brief description of our Processes or Systems • We advocate the standard working hours for Airtel employees to be 40 hours a week and lunch break of 1 hour except those working on shift programs. • We have transparent disciplinary process that gives either party freedom to air their grievance before a final decision is taken be it a gross misconduct or a general misconduct. 10 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd • The recruitment process is structured and has a documented policy which strives to maintain diversity through gender, skills, race, values, attributes, and characteristics while offering equal opportunity to all potential candidates. We extend the same quality of selection to our vendors and partners. • We don’t recruit persons under the age of 18 years since it’s a violation of children rights and we extend it to our vendors and partners and at the same time we strongly advocate for the abolition of child labour. • We also have compensation and benefits policy where employees are entitled to some benefits that are additional to their salary and allowances. • We have a learning and development policy where Airtel recognizes that employees are its most valued asset and commit itself to the best of its ability to provide an opportunity for continuous learning and professional growth towards organizational effectiveness. Activities implemented in the last year • Employee Communication Forum – where all employees gathered to reaffirm commitment to the company strategy and set targets • Functional teambuilding to build team spirit and engagement • Amazing race created to energize the work environment and build collaboration in a fun way • Our commitment of at least 2 trainings per year per staff which falls under our Learning and Development Policy for the employee which supports growth of high potential employees with the aim of preparing them for senior management jobs in the future. • Fire Drill to build a culture that is conscious of Health and Safety at the workplace • Morning hurdles to provide a platform where staff can give feedback and express their concerns, compliments and ideas • Monthly staff town halls to keep employees informed on our progress against set targets Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • Our Senior Management commitment demonstrated in: w The re-launch of our organizational culture and values through the relaunch of our core values i.e. Alive, Inclusive and Respectful among the other values w Rewarding performance and desired behaviour in line with re-launched Company values – Launch of the Almasi app which is designed as a tool for giving feedback as a way of embodying the company’s core values. w Consequence Management for non-compliance staﬀ – There were 4 terminations in Dec 2015 on non-compliance. • Improved engagement score, we were second overall in Airtel Africa Operational countries. • Continued review of our processes and systems to ensure a solid control environment 11 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Activities planned for next year • Competency based interviews for line managers • Cultural change within the company to embrace our new values of Alive, Inclusive and Respect ENVIRONMENT Our Commitment As a company, we are committed in ensuring that we operate and take initiatives that will promote our company as environmentally responsible and a company that embraces environmentally friendly technologies in its businesses. Activities implemented in the last year • We phased out traditional physical tender box and we are now on e-sourcing for all our sourcing activities. The e-sourcing technology has immensely facilitated the sourcing process. • Commitment by our suppliers to annually sign the Bharti Code of conduct • Promoted a greener , sustainable environment in the workplace through an E waste management partnership with Computers for Schools Kenya (CFSK) who have helped us manage our electronic waste by ensuring proper recycling, recovery and disposal is conducted in an environmentally manner. • Compliance of statutory requirement Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • The advanced shipping module in our e-sourcing system has created visibility of the logistics process where clearing documents are processed online, including the amount of duty to be paid. Cost reduction on paying excess demurrage cost due to clearance delays and improve on our clearing turnaround. • Operationalizing our supply chain system has promoted efficiency, speed, control and transparency of the process. • Employees’ positive feedback on the safe environment at the working place. Activities planned for next year • Continued partnership with Computers for Schools Kenya (CFSK) to help us manage our electronic waste in the office. 12 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd ANTI-CORRUPTION Our Commitment Airtel Networks Management is committed to ensuring a corruption free environment. Corruption is fought at three levels through: • Nurturing a culture of compliance Through Compliance awareness/training, compliance checks, reporting and corrective action for breaches. • Ethics Management setting the tone at the top by driving the ethics message; and • Integrity As embedded in our Code of Conduct and other policies. More importantly for the company is the leadership commitment and zero tolerance to the vice. Policy and Practices Integrity The Code of Conduct summarizes the key ethics principle that guides our dealings with each other as employees, with vendors and other key stakeholders. As an example , Our Code of Conduct provide specific guidance on corruption related concerns such as fair competition, conflict of interest, acceptance and giving of gifts, improper payments, working with government and regulators and ethical advertising. As per the Code of Conduct, employees are strictly forbidden to accept any bribe, improper payment or Inappropriate favour of any other kind. Besides cash payments, such inappropriate payments would include: • Kickbacks or kickback schemes, especially in form of cash • Unexplained rebates • Payments for advertising or disguised allowances or expenses • Personal favours such as club memberships, entertainment and preferential treatment Compliance Reporting of Acceptable Gifts and Entertainment • All sponsored trips and gifts along with their estimated value must be reported on quarterly basis, in writing, to the Group HR and Administration manager in the office of the Group Human Resource Director. • A consolidated report of all such trips and gifts (including those below the limit of USD 50 should be submitted on a quarterly basis to the Corporate Director Human Resources at the corporate office. • The Group Internal Assurance function will review these reports and conduct any audit procedures considered appropriate and issue a monthly report to the CEO & AIMB. 13 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd The process the Disciplinary Committee follows regarding employee misconduct: • The Reporting Manager presents the case • A Human Resource Representativeensures that due process is followed and that all parties are protected and given a fair hearing • A chairperson (A Head of Department or Function according to the case) moderates and makes the final decision in consultation with all the panel members • A representative from Legal takes all the minutesand ensures these are signed by everyone as true copy of the conversation held • Internal Audit or any other party depending on the case for their expert and professional input • An independent investigator if it is a fraud case or whistle blower case • Representative from another department as an additional team member Communication from Senior Management Airtel senior management set the tone at the top through verbal and non-verbal communication to all staﬀ. This is through recognizing employees embodying correct ethical culture. Where there have been instances of deviation, communication of strong messages of zero tolerance to non-compliance coming from Senior Management. We have embedded an ethics culture by cascading Key Performance Indicator around Compliance for all Managers. This ensures a direct linkage between compliance and compensation and encourages compliance. A brief description of our Processes or System In line with the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Framework, our key processes revolve around Prevention, Detection and Response. The tenets of this framework include the below. Governance Through Internal Audit Committee/ Governance oversight, reporting on initiatives and eﬀorts for adequate fraud/ corruption risk management. Risk Assessments Having resources and skilled risk assessment champions such as the Compliance Managers to undertake regular assessments to uncover any control gaps. Policies and procedures Developing and communicating policies that address AntiBribery and Corruption as well as fraud and misconduct. For example Gift and Donation Policies, Conflict of Interest Policy, Duty to Report Policy, Disciplinary Procedures and Consequence Management Policy. 14 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Communication and Training Ensuring all staﬀ including key vendors and outsourced staﬀ are trained on Code of Conduct and Ethics. Undertaking induction training on all new staﬀ on the key ethics policies and procedures Due diligence Includes vetting agents who have access to confidential areas, background checks on new employees, physical visits and verifications where necessary for some of the agents. Response strategy response and investigative procedures Reporting any incidents to Fraud and Investigation teams and instituting relevant procedures for disciplinary in instances where necessary. Activities implemented in the last year • Online Ethics training and employee annual code of conduct certification • Update of the Gift Registry during festive seasons during the year • Implementation of various Governance WorkWays including the HR Committee whose agenda includes among other things compliance governance. • Revamp of numerous processes and policies • Introduction of Compliance KRA’s (Key Result Areas) to be appraised as part of performance, in order to embedded compliance in day to day operations. • Training of our sales agents and field staff on the various compliance measures instituted • Review of Contracts with Key Vendors to facilitate transparency and accountability in our dealings • Vendors annual signoff of compliance to code of business • Undertook our first governance meeting with Vendors which enabled us to align Vendors on new processes around governance and ethics. • Internal Audit undertaken in various functions and specifically covering Procurement , Finance and Sales Functions which are generally prone to fraud or irregularities • Inclusion of Ethics and Compliance processes in on boarding of all new employees Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • Increased transparency for example due to use of i-procurement With the procurement system, information on changes to bids or negotiations are broadcast to all bidders, closure of bids is automated and grievance resolution is monitored with system escalations to relevant staff . • Reduced fraud impact and revenue leakages. • Reduction in Customer Resolution timelines • Ethics and values measures; the company issued warning letters to employees found in contravention of code of conduct 15 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd • Increased awareness of compliance as a result of tying Compliance Key Result Areas to Performance appraisals and subsequent compensation benefits • Improved relations with Vendors due to the various governance meetings and initiatives • Improved Internal audit scores in the Key functions mentioned above. Activities planned for next year • Annual Employee Signing of Code of Conduct • Annual Vendor Code of Business Ethics signoff • Continued Governance meetings and Workshops with Vendors • In order to improve communication of processes and compliance programmes finalization of an organization wide process and policy repository • Full Implementation of a fully automated Fraud Management System (FMS) for Airtel Money How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? • We intend to communicate to all our stakeholders through: • Upload the COP report on our official Airtel website • Communicate to our customers and media stakeholders through email 16 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd DONATIONS AND AWARDS As Airtel Kenya we want to be known and recognized as a socially responsible companya good corporate citizen amongst our stakeholders. We want our employees to be energized and motivated through opportunities to be involved in CSR projects in the community around us. The company through The Airtel Spirit tries as much as possible to impact the community through the following: EDUCATION Internet for Schools Airtel continues to invest in supporting government’s eﬀorts of improving quality of education through the “Internet for Schools” program. Through this program, the company continues to oﬀer students free 24 hours access to the Internet, allowing them access to unlimited amount of educational material and information available online hence broadening their learning. Since its inception, the company has so far connected more than 300 schools and institutions across the country impacting over 250,000 students to-date, with a plan of connecting at least 1 million students to the internet in a period of one year. Recently we built alliances with several organizations such as Computers for Schools Kenya, The National and County Government as well as UNESCO to drive the program further. 17 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Sunil Bharti Mittal, Chairman, Bharti Airtel Pledges Company’s support of the Government Digital Learning Program Sunil was accompanied by Airtel Africa Executive Chairman Christian de Faria, Airtel Kenya’s CEO Adil El Youssefi, Chairman Dr. Titus Naikuni and Kenya Regulatory and Legal Director Joy Nyaga. Sunil pledged to the President and the ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru of the Company’s support with FREE internet connection to schools in the rollout of the Digital Learning Programme. The meeting between Sunil and President Kenyatta also discussed Airtel’s provision of free internet to over 200 schools and 250,000 students across the country with plans to reach 1 million by the end of 2016. 18 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd County Governments’ Initiatives Through the program, we have connected more than 250,000 students in 35 Counties across the country. The program was oﬃcially launched in Machakos and Kisii County by Kenya’s ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru and Education Cabinet Secretary Dr. Fred Matiang’i respectively. The Machakos County launch event was also attended by Principal Secretaries Eng. Victor Kyalo (ICT & Innovation) and Sammy Itemere (Broadcasting & Telecommunications), Machakos County ICT Minister Helen Kiilu among other top government and education oﬃcials from the County where 27 schools were connected to the free internet. ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru lauded Airtel for its commitment to support e-learning in schools by providing free internet connection to schools in Kenya and urged the students to continue using the free connectivity constructively in order to be successful in their education. Education Cabinet Secretary Dr. Fred Matiang’i echoed the ICT Cabinet Secretary words when he launched the program at Kenyoro Mixed Secondary School in Kisii County by appreciating the ongoing exercise Airtel is doing to connect more schools to the internet which is a huge boost to the education sector in Kenya that will go a long way in helping students do better in school and prepare them for lifelong success. LEAP Hub program Airtel partnered with Chandaria Foundation and the Global Peace Foundation to oﬃcially launch the LEAP (Leadership and entrepreneurship) Hubs program at Mary Leakey Girls High School. Launched in March 2014, LEAP Hubs are dedicated space within secondary schools where students are incubated and nurtured to be creative, innovative and be able to launch sustainable business ventures and social enterprises. Through the partnership, Airtel oﬀers free internet connection to students within the program who use the internet to access online resources and tools that help them nurture and develop their business ideas. The support is part of Airtel’s ongoing community programInternet for Schools designed to provide internet connectivity to millions of students in the country ensuring that they are able to leverage the information, access and content that the internet provides. Students participating in the LEAP Hubs program continue to go through leadership and entrepreneurship training focusing on business plan development, financial literacy and critical 21st century skills that will empower them to be self-reliant job creators as opposed to job seekers. The program has so far reached out to 23 schools in Nairobi, Kiambu, Machakos, Mombasa and Kajiado County and is expected to expand to other parts of the country in the coming months with an expected growth of 41 schools in the first year. 19 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Teacher training Airtel partnered with Computer for Schools (CFSK) to train teachers from Machakos County and Kiambu County on Internet for Schools program. The training workshop sought to train teachers from sixty schools on how to use data devices provided by Airtel through the company’s community flagship program Internet for Schools, develop e-content and access educational content online as a way to help more schools embrace ICT integration in learning. The workshop was designed as an interactive session for teachers to get the relevant training on how they can integrate ICT in classroom activities using Airtel’s free Internet for Schools program. The workshop was also a great opportunity for the County government oﬃcials to share their experiences, challenges, and opportunities in the use of free internet connectivity provided by Airtel to improve education standards in their respective Counties. Kipeto Primary School commissioning Airtel Kenya extended its community sustainability program to Kajiado with the launch of several initiatives at Kipeto Primary School which aimed at improving the education standards in the school and provide a conducive learning environment for students as well as teachers. Through the rehabilitation of a borehole, the company commissioned a water project which is expected to provide clean water to the school with an aim of enhancing the living standards for the students with improved hygiene and health in pursuit of academic excellence. The project is also expected to enhance the wellbeing of the people from the neighboring community who are going to benefit from the water project. The company also facilitated the connection of electricity to the school, a gesture that is expected to bring a new learning and teaching experience to the students and teachers of the school. The school also received 2 energy saving cooking stoves that will help the school to eﬃciently prepare food for over 500 students in the school. The company also donated computers to the school with an aim of connecting it to the internet for free, allowing the students to join hundreds of thousands of students across the country who continue to benefit from Airtel’s Internet for Schools program. 20 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Employee Volunteerism The Airtel Spirit encourages a selfless giving of time on both an individual and at a corporate level. Airtel employees have taken time oﬀ their busy schedules to attend CSR activities such as Free Internet connection in various schools across the country as well as mentorship programs in some of the schools. Their involvement revolves around identifying schools to be connected to Airtel Free Internet for Schools Program, Network team confirming the availability of network and regional team being involved in the launch as well as follow ups with the schools already connected. 71% of the employees have been involved in various CSR initiatives across the country for the past one year. Mentorship The Airtel Mentorship Program was launched last year October with students of St. Bakhita Primary School in Mukuru Promotion Centre. The company feels that Airtel employees have a great deal of career and life experiences that can contribute to today’s children who grow up having to cope with many social issues and challenges as they pursue their dreams of achieving their education dreams and as they go through diﬃcult life transitions. Airtel organized a motivation talk where students of Mukuru Promotion Centre St. Bakhita Primary School got a special motivational talk from the renowned motivational speaker Pepe Minambo just before they sat for their Kenya Certificate of Primary Education in November who challenged the candidates to search for greatness and take on opportunities that await them at their doorstep. Led by the company CEO Adil El Youssefi, the employees used the forum to inspire students, share insightful knowledge that will help them identify their career paths and develop skills that will help them become better people in the community as well as motivate the students to do well in the Kenya Certificate of Primary School (KCPE) exams. 21 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd HEALTH Airtel Kenya in its commitment to provide wellness and health care provision to communities has been witnessed by the great eﬀorts exhibited in contributing to this important course of life. Free medical clinic at Kipeto Primary School As part of Airtel partnership with Medanta Africare, Airtel hosted a free medical clinic at Kipeto Primary school in Kajiado County where hundreds of pupils, teachers and people from the communities benefitted from the exercise. The check-up exercise included BMI test, Blood pressure, Sugar check test, Nutrition consultation, Optical and Dental checkups. Beyond Zero Campaign Support: Through the CSR program, Airtel Kenya putting in mind that health outside starts from inside, donated a mobile clinic worth Kshs 10 million to support the First Lady’s Beyond Zero campaign which aims at reducing high rates of maternal and child mortality in Kenya. The company leadership led by Airtel Africa CEO Christian de Faria, Airtel Kenya chairman Dr. Titus Naikuni and Airtel Kenya CEO Adil El Youssefi presented a fully kitted mobile clinic to Her Excellency First Lady Margaret Kenyatta at Statehouse, Nairobi. Airtel Kenya CEO Adil El Youssefi joined Her Excellency the First Lady Margaret Kenyatta for the oﬃcial handover ceremony of the fully-kitted mobile clinic that was donated by the company to Governor Martin Nyaga Wambora on behalf of the people of Embu County. 22 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd The team commended the First Lady’s commitment to fighting maternal mortality and improving child health in the country through the Beyond Zero Campaign, which saw her named the 2014 UN person of the year. The enthusiasm on matters health by Airtel saw 182 employees participating in the third edition of the First Lady’s half marathon. Airtel further supported Beyond Zero program by supporting the special Olympics team to the third edition Beyond Zero Half Marathon. The Special Olympics Kenya team consisted of twenty Olympians of the age between 15 and 20 who come from diﬀerent parts of the Country. Airtel Kenya employees trained with the Special Olympics Kenya team at the University of Nairobi Sports Ground ahead of the Beyond Zero Half Marathon. 23 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd ENVIRONMENT Airtel Kenya is committed in ensuring that it operates and takes initiatives that will promote the company as environmentally responsible and that embrace environmentally friendly technologies in its businesses. These initiatives include: E waste management program Airtel Kenya partnered with Computer for Schools Kenya (CFSK) to launch an e-waste management program that was set to minimize the potential environmental impact associated with the disposal of old electrical equipment in the country . The initiative is part of Airtel’s sustainability and corporate responsibility eﬀort geared towards taking accountability for environmental impacts of old equipment that contain diﬀerent toxic materials that are harmful to the environment if not disposed properly. The company donated old computers and electronic devices that are no longer in use to CFSK which will handle them through recycling and disposal in an environmentally friendly manner. Computer for Schools Kenya will also refurbish some of the old computers then disburse them to schools all over the country. Tree planting Airtel contributes to the protection and conservation of the environment and supports the government’s eﬀorts in achieving the Millennium Development Goal No. 7 of ensuring environmental sustainability. During the semifinals of the 5th edition of Airtel Rising Stars (ARS), which was held in Machakos Boys High School in Machakos County which was the venue for a week-long ARS national championship saw Airtel Kenya organize a tree planting exercise. The exercise brought together the company’s employees from the region, Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) and 20 schools that participated in the ARS tournament where at least 100 varieties of tree species were planted around the environs of the school. The school administration ensured that each student adopts and waters at least one tree daily, to ensure growth and maintenance of the planted trees. 24 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT This is part of the company’s longstanding commitment to continue strengthening its ties with the local community as it is in line with the Airtel Spirit, a code which the brand and staﬀ engage in sustainable community development initiatives to create lasting value beyond monetary value. Some of the initiatives done include: Ramadhan Iftar donations: As Muslim faithful across the country marked the Holy month of Ramadhan, in partnership with Jamia Mosque Committee Airtel Kenya donated water and dates to 20 Mosques and Mama Fatuma children’s home in Nairobi. The donation went a long way in helping the Muslim communities in various parts of Nairobi as they broke their fast during the Holy month. The company supported the Muslim faithful at Jamia Mosque with an Iftar every Friday during the Ramadhan period and also extended its support towards the Jamia Mosque education program for the second year running. 25 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Kinyago slum clean up exercise Airtel Kenya employees participated in a slum clean up exercise in Kinyago slums which was in partnership with the area youth groupJitolee Pamoja Youth Group. Over 80 people turned out in support of the activity and took part in collecting garbage, unblocking drainages and trenches following the heavy rains experienced in Nairobi, causing major flooding especially in areas with poor drainage. This also saw Eastleigh South District Oﬃcer (D.O) Charles Muiruri, Kinyago area chief Rose Ayere and Sub-Chief Joshua Karanja participating. Jitolee Youth Group is a youth group that brings together young boys of between the ages of 15 to 30 from Kinyago slum with an aim of encouraging them to take part in community development programs. With over 30 members, the group takes part in a garbage collection activity every Saturday, as well as carrying out environmental awareness campaign within the slum. The company donated wheelbarrows, racks, and protective gears such as gumboots, gloves and dust masks to the youth group which will help them continue with their weekly clean-up activities. 26 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Christmas donations During the Christmas festive season, Airtel shared the Spirit of Christmas with the less privileged in the community being that Christmas is a season of giving; time, love, and sharing with the less fortunate in the society bringing joy and happiness into the community as a whole. The Airtel employees took time from their busy schedule to celebrate Christmas with the less privileged in the community by visiting various children’s homes and elderly care homes. They spent some quality time in celebrating Christmas parties, and donating various items which include food, gifts such as toys and other daily amenities. The joy was spread across the following homes: Rift region team visited: Street Children’s Assistance for Nakuru Networks, ALM home for the elderly and St. Nicholas Children’s Home in Nakuru. Coast region team visited: Little Sisters of the Poor (Nyumba ya Wazee) and Salvation Army Children’s Home in Mombasa. The Nairobi West region team visited: Feed the Children in Dagoretti and Karika elderly care home in Satellite. The Nyanza region team visited: Mama Ngina Children’s Home and Agape Children’s Home in Kisumu. The Central region team visited: Nkabune Children’s Home and Meru Children’s home in Meru. The Western region team visited: Bungoma Children’s Home for the Disabled, Bungoma District Hospital and Kandui Children’s home in Bungoma. The Eastern region team visited: Nyumbani Children’s Home in Kitui, St. Patrick Rehabilitation Centre in Wote and Kyenzenzeni Children Development CentreKaani Machakos. The Nairobi East region team visited: Rehema PEFA Children’s Home and Little Sisters of The Poor (Nyumba Ya Wazee) in Kasarani. The head oﬃce visited: Mogra Rescue Centre in Kiambu and Kabete Children’s Home. 27 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM Airtel Kenya partnered with Kenya Red Cross to launch the first of its kind public emergency information service in Kenya that oﬀers disaster management information on disease outbreaks and other emergencies such as fires, floods and terrorist attacks. Using an innovative location-targeted SMS system called the Trilogy Emergency Relief Application (TERA), texts containing disaster warnings, health advice and updates on emergency preparedness and responses is shared with Airtel customers across the country through their mobile phones at the touch of a button in cases of emergencies or outbreaks. The technology was first used in Sierra Leone where International Federation of Red Cross (IFRC) and International Crescent Red Cross Societies (ICRC) partnered with leading mobile operators to reach out to people during the Ebola crisis. Kenya became the second country in Africa to use the TERA technology. The messages also contain information on relief distributions such as clean water, food and shelter, detailed advice on a range of issues such as hygiene, warnings on looming natural disasters and more relevant information. The system is also used to gather information through simple questionnaires, which inform and improve the eﬀectiveness of Red Cross activities. The alerts will encompass the following: • Advice – General information to keep the community up to date with developments. • Watch and Act – The community is likely to be impacted by the emergency and should start taking action to protect their life. E.g. floods, Health –outbreaks such as Cholera • Emergency Warning – The community will be impacted by the emergency and must take action immediately. This service helps Kenya Red Cross society to save lives, improve conditions for survivors and eﬃciently manage the overall aid eﬀort in aﬀected areas. 28 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd AWARDS RECEIVED East Africa Power industry award Airtel Kenya received regional recognition for the CSR Initiative of the year nearly a year after the company commissioned the Immanuel Afrika’s (I-Afrika) biogas project in Kikuyu, Kenya. The announcement was made at the East African Industry Awards Ceremony that took place in Nairobi. In October 2014, the Airtel funded biogas digester went live at Immanuel Afrika (I-Afrika), helping the institution produce enough biogas needed for cooking and boiling water, hence saving it thousands of shillings that could have been used on Gas and coal that was used to boil water and prepare breakfast for the kids in the morning. The impressive results achieved by the I-Afrika biogas project which has made great strides towards improving the lives of children at the Centre and saving the institution thousands of shillings that could have been used on Gas and coal that was used to boil water and prepare breakfast for the kids in the morning. The biogas digester has improved their health by providing a safe, renewable and cheap source of fuel that’s easily available and sustainable than firewood. The technique uses cattle waste to produce methane gas for lighting and cooking. The dung is collected in a “digester,” where microbes break it down and release methane, which is captured in a cylinder and piped straight into the Centre’s kitchen. Before Airtel commissioned the biogas project at the institution, they used to spend Ksh8, 000 on 2 tonnes of firewood per month. Money that would have been used for this expense is now being utilized to cater for other critical needs for the children. Nduati added that they are now glad to be part of environment conversation. 29 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Bharti Change maker environment award Airtel Kenya was named Change Maker Company of the Year for Corporate Social Responsibility for Environmental Conservation through its I-Afrika biogas project at the 2015 Bharti Foundation Annual Change Maker Awards. Airtel Kenya received the highest honor (Gold) for its significant eﬀorts to help in environmental conservation through the Immanuel Afrika’s (I-Afrika) biogas plant in Kikuyu, Kiambu County. 30
