CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Report UPDATE 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 About this report Every two years, we publish an in-depth Corporate Responsibility Report detailing our sustainability achievements according to the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), most recently in our 2014 CR Report. This update presents key indicators and highlights the progress we made in our corporate responsibility efforts in 2015. Contents 3 STRATEGY 19 EMPLOYEES 20 Our principles 22 Progress 5 COMPLIANCE 6 Our principles 7 Progress 24 ENVIRONMENT 25 Our principles 26 Progress 9 PRODUCTS 10 Our principles 11 Progress 28 COMMUNITY 29 Our principles 29 Progress 15 SUPPLIERS 16 Our principles 17 Progress 33 FACTS & FIGURES 34 Indicators 59 Goals 72 Global Compact CoP 86 Assurance Report 2 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Strategy We take responsibility every day – and have been doing so for nearly 350 years, a commitment codified in our corporate strategy and values. We think in terms of generations instead of quarters, and we conduct our operations in a responsible manner. This ethos is what underpins our sustainable business success. We believe it's important to take an active role in shaping the future. Our products and technologies are key to achieving this because they play a major role in helping solve global challenges. 3 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Strategy Managing responsibility: Our CR strategy Acting responsibly means looking, listening and doing In realizing our corporate responsibility, we focus our things better. We respect the interests of our strengths on those areas where we can have the employees, customers, shareholders, and society, an greatest impact. We pursue three strategic spheres approach that ensures our business success. This is of activity, namely health, environment and culture. an integral part of our corporate strategy, which in In the process, we continuously seek to hone our turn underpins our corporate responsibility (CR) competitive edge while working to sustainably secure strategy, the basis for the responsible governance we our future. live each and every day. CR strategy Our strategic spheres of activity customers achieve their own sustainability goals. Take for instance the development of liquid crystal Health technology: when used in smartphone and tablet Many people in lowto middle-income countries lack displays, our liquid crystals reduce the power access to high-quality health solutions. We leverage consumption of these devices. our expertise and collaborate with strong partners to develop solutions for patients in developing Culture healthcare systems. Take for example the fight Culture inspires people and broadens their horizons. against the worm disease schistosomiasis in Africa, or Our research and development benefits from the quest for an improved antimalarial. creativity and enthusiasm. But cultural inspiration also opens people up to new ideas it facilitates their Environment acceptance of science, technological progress and We work non-stop to improve the sustainability innovation. This is why we support cultural initiatives footprint of our products while also helping our and educational programs across the globe. 4 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Compliance Clear principles guide our actions. Operating profitably while living up to the highest ethical standards – that is what we mean by good business. Compliance with laws and statutory regulations is absolutely essential to responsible business conduct. At both the national and international level, legislators are passing increasingly stringent transparency requirements and anti-corruption guidelines, while the public has increasingly higher and higher expectations for companies in terms of integrity. Read More 6 Principles 7 Progress 5 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Compliance Our principles Compliance is our number-one priority worldwide. As The Merck Code of Conduct guides our employees an international company that also operates in in taking an ethical course of action. A copy of this developing and emerging markets, we set high code is provided to every employee; it explains the requirements for effective compliance management. principles for interacting with business associates, But to us, compliance does not end with adherence to general partners, co-workers, and employees, as statutory regulations. Instead, we aspire to always well as the communities in which we operate. abide by the ethical principles we've defined in our The Merck Human Rights Charter supplements the Values. We want to do good business – to operate Code of Conduct with global principles, such as the profitably while living up to the highest ethical core labor standards of the International Labour standards. Organization (ILO). Founded on Group-wide guidelines Since 2014, Merck has also had a uniform anticorruption guideline that applies across the whole Our entrepreneurial conduct is underpinned by clear Group. guidelines that apply across all of our facilities. In addition to this, our Pharma Code (for prescription medicines) and our Consumer Health Code (for our over-the-counter product business) define crucial fundamentals for interactions with our partners in the health industry. 6 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Compliance Progress Compliance within the company function Internal Auditing reviews the implementation of compliance procedures within our facilities. The Group Compliance Officer and other specialists from our Group function Compliance are in charge of We regularly hold workshops to inform our defining Merck's compliance agenda, which we employees about new compliance requirements. In continuously adjust in response to current 2015, a total of 20,404 persons participated in antirequirements. Local and regional compliance officers corruption courses. In 2014, we designed an eare responsible for implementing compliance course to introduce our new anti-corruption guideline, measures within their respective subsidiaries. In and in 2015 we had the course translated into 16 2015, we appointed a compliance officer for each of different languages. This has allowed numerous our business sectors (Healthcare, Performance employees to complete the course in their local Materials and Life Science) in an effort to better language. In 2015, we also developed a special eaddress the needs of each specific business sector. In course for our pharmaceutical business that explains the course of regular compliance audits, our Group the guidelines specific to this field. Personnel training on anti-corruption guidelines Number of persons trained * Includes contractors and supervised workers (e.g. temps) who were trained on our anti-corruption guidelines (2,023 in 2014; 3,026 in 2015). Stringent requirements placed on our governed by our Global Business Partner Risk business partners Management Guideline. This policy stipulates that Merck shall only do business with partners who Effective compliance management does not stop at comply with all applicable laws; who do not engage in our front door, which is why we set the highest bribery; who adhere to environmental, health and standards for the conduct of our business partners. safety guidelines; and who refuse to tolerate The selection process for business associates is discrimination. Furthermore, we require our partners 7 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Compliance to demonstrate a commitment to internationally Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and recognized human rights and labor standards, as well Associations (EFPIA). In 2014, our Compliance as to the compliance standards defined in our Code of organization had already initiated the measures Conduct. We also audit existing business necessary to satisfy this disclosure obligation. In relationships, usually when it's time to renew a 2015, we focused part of our efforts on informing our contract. partners in the health industry just how important this transparency initiative is to us. We also took If we identify red flags, we may consider rejecting steps to ensure data quality and data security in all potential business partners or even terminating the affected countries. Our goal is to disclose the business relationship. However, our business required information by June 30, 2016. A valuable associates are frequently willing to modify their side benefit: Our efforts to promote transparency for structures and processes to meet our stringent our stakeholders have also improved our internal compliance requirements. Since implementing this processes. process in 2013, nearly 1,500 business partners have undergone this audit. Fighting corruption hand-in-hand with the Alliance for Integrity In 2015, we introduced compliance training in eight languages for the employees of our business In October 2015, we joined the Alliance for Integrity associates. The training is mandatory for anyone who (AfIn), an initiative founded in October 2015 by the comes into contact with Merck or Merck's products in German Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ), the course of their work. It focuses on general the German Global Compact Network, and the compliance, corruption prevention, and competition Federation of German Industry. The aim of the AfIn is law. to develop practical procedures to improve the framework for compliance, thereby furthering the Transparent business relationships in the fight against corruption. The initiative is pharmaceutical industry concentrating first on local activities in India, Ghana, and Brazil. At the end of November 2015, we took In Europe effective 2016, all non-research related part in a meeting of the AfIn Advisory Group in New donations made to physicians and healthcare Delhi, and in December 2015 we were represented organizations must be disclosed, with the recipients for the first time at a meeting of the organization's individually named. This is a requirement stipulated steering committee. by the transparency initiative of the European 8 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Products Offering innovative solutions for a better life, our Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials business sectors stand for highquality products and the utmost in standards. Our healthcare products – whether prescription technologies make lab work easier and more costmedicines or over-the-counter products – help efficient. At the same time, we seek to optimize people across the world live healthier lives. our sustainability footprint while helping our However, approximately 1.3 billion people customers achieve their own sustainability goals. worldwide lack access to sustainable healthcare. We are working to alleviate this situation, for Our Performance Materials business sector instance by creating health solutions to serve develops products for sophisticated applications, developing health systems and emerging from effect pigments for coatings and cosmetics, countries. to high-tech materials for the electronics industry. Innovations such as our liquid crystals technology Our Life Science products make it possible to make displays more energy-efficient and thus help perform pioneering research; our innovative save power. Read More 10 Principles 11 Progress 9 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Products Our principles The safety of our products is the bedrock of our reaction reports and scientific literature. Our Global corporate responsibility. When used properly, they Chief Medical Officer is the voice of the patients; he should pose no risk to patients, consumers, bears ultimate responsibility for the safety of our customers, or the environment. To ensure this across biopharmaceuticals, with support from our Medical all three of our business sectors, we have Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB). Our Global Drug implemented globally applicable policies, standards Safety unit continuously monitors and evaluates the and processes. safety and risk-benefit ratio of our biological medicines worldwide (pharmacovigilance). For our We steer our global processes for chemical product Consumer Health products, this function is performed safety via our Group-wide Product Safety Chemicals by the Global Product Safety unit. Overall policy, which covers all relevant national and responsibility for the safety of our over-the-counter international regulations of the chemical industry. products falls under the Chief Medical Officer of our These include, among others, the Globally Consumer Health business, supported by the Safety Harmonised System of Classification and Labeling of & Labelling Committee (SLC). For products in our Chemicals (GHS) and its implementation in regional Allergopharma business, we have developed and national legislation, as well as the EU chemicals comprehensive clinical efficacy and safety profiles regulation REACH (Registration, Evaluation, that are continuously updated. To guarantee the Authorisation, and Restriction of Chemicals). safety of our patients, we have established a global pharmacovigilance system that we continually work Patient and consumer safety is our number-one to optimize. priority in everything we do. Throughout the entire lifecycle of our medicines and consumer health Through our compliance policies for our Biopharma products, we provide patients, consumers and and Consumer Health businesses, we set standards physicians with up-to-date product safety information for responsible pharmaceutical marketing practices. based on risk-benefit evaluations. To this end, our These aim to ensure that patients and healthcare experts process safety-relevant information from professionals have access to the relevant information, various sources such as clinical trials, adverse and that patients receive effective treatment. 10 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Products Progress Resolutely fighting product-related crime Laboratory animal facilities: Utmost in quality standards Across the globe, the pharmaceutical and chemical industries are confronted with product-related crime. As a science and technology company whose Counterfeit medicines in particular pose a major products include pharmaceuticals, we are required to challenge because they represent a threat to public conduct animal studies in order to satisfy statutory health. We strive to protect customers and patients regulations, not to mention ethical and scientific from harm as well as safeguard our reputation. To principles. For us, it goes without saying that our lab this end, we collaborate with law enforcement, foster animals be handled, cared for and fed in a manner internal and external expert networks, and take appropriate to the species. Our animal facilities meet appropriate measures to protect our products against the most stringent international quality standards. counterfeiting. But our efforts go beyond this, in the form of a Group-wide network headed by our Corporate Animal Since October 2015, we have been consolidating our Welfare Officer and populated by experts in animal various measures Group-wide to leverage synergies welfare and laboratory animal science. This network between our business sectors, making our battle is in charge of our own strict standards, ensuring against product-related crime even more effective. compliance throughout the Merck Group. We expect comparable standards from contract research Our Group-wide Merck Anti-Counterfeiting organizations and industry partners as well, Operational Network – MACON for short – is guaranteeing their compliance via a certification and responsible for globally monitoring and implementing audit program. In 2015, we furthermore initiated a all anti-counterfeiting measures for our products. similar certification and audit program to monitor This network, comprised of experts from various suppliers and manufacturers of products of animal units such as Legal/Trademarks, Product Security, origin such as blood sera, hormones and antibodies. Export Control, Supply Chain, and Quality Assurance, is coordinated by our Corporate Security unit. In For the animal facilities of our Biopharma business, 2015, we expanded the network to include we set out to attain accreditation from the representatives from Global Drug Safety as well as Association for Assessment and Accreditation of representatives from various legal entities. Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC International). In 2015, four of our five animal In 2015, we discovered multiple underground facilities were accredited to AAALAC standards, while laboratories that were counterfeiting several of our the fifth one is currently undergoing the accreditation products. In order to bolster our fight against process. In addition to certifying our facilities, we product-related crime, we launched a dedicated Anti also constantly review our compliance with national Product Crime unit at the beginning of 2016. guidelines and legislation. Furthermore, we are working on a Product Investigation Standard with product crime case studies in an effort to enhance the knowledge base and processes within our legal entities. 11 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Products FAST FACT utilize 15% more light from the display's backlighting, thus reducing the device's energy consumption by up to 30%. We adhere to the 3R principle of animal welfare by reducing the number of animals With the July 2015 acquisition of a 100% stake in the needed (Reduction); by minimizing the start-up Qlight Nanotech, we have bolstered our potential pain, suffering, or distress for the leadership in this sector. This company, headquartered animals before, during and after testing in Jerusalem, is developing a quantum material (Refinement); and by replacing animal technology that will help further enhance the color testing with alternative non-animal test spectrum and energy efficiency of displays. methods, such as in-vitro tests or computer simulations (Replacement). Consolidating resources to fight infectious diseases The experts of our Global Health innovation platform are Early access to life-saving medicines partnering with leading global health institutions and Our Biopharma business develops medicines that help organizations to develop innovative, affordable, and people suffering from serious diseases. Before these implementable health solutions for children in developing medicines are granted regulatory approval, we conduct countries. We are focusing our efforts here on neglected clinical studies involving patients from across the globe. diseases, in particular schistosomiasis and related These trials always comply with all applicable laws and helminth diseases, as well as malaria and co-infections. regulations. In addition, we adhere to the most stringent statutory, ethical and scientific standards. Since July 2012, we have been working, within the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium, on the development However, not all patients have the opportunity to of a pediatric formulation of praziquantel, the existing participate in a clinical trial. They must often wait for a ‘gold standard’ treatment for schistosomiasis. The new pharmaceutical product to be approved. Through current treatment is only available for adults and schoolour Early Access Program, we are, under specific age children. No suitable drug formulation is available for circumstances, enabling patients to gain early access to the high-risk group of preschool children (under the age potentially life-saving medicines. Patients with serious of six), which accounts for about 10% of the estimated conditions can obtain medicines that have already been nearly 260 million schistosomiasis patients worldwide. In clinically tested but have not yet obtained marketing 2015 we completed the Phase I bioavailability trials with approval. Here as well, we meet the most stringent healthy subjects in South Africa, as well as a taste study statutory, ethical and scientific standards, which are laid with children in Tanzania. In June 2015, the Consortium out in the position paper we published in 2015. For was awarded a prestigious research grant from the instance, we only consider those patients for whom all Japanese Global Health Innovation Technology Fund, other suitable therapies have proven ineffective. In making it the second time the Consortium has received addition, we perform a thorough assessment of all this honor. available data to ensure that the potential benefits surpass the potential risks for our patients. Since February 2013, we have been partnering with the Medicines for Malaria Ventures (MMV) in the battle against malaria. Since current treatments are Liquid crystals help conserve energy increasingly succumbing to drug resistance, this initiative Through our products, we help customers and end users is focusing on the development of new antimalarial save energy. Take for example the development of compounds. In March 2015, we obtained the rights to a innovative liquid crystal technologies for displays, a field new, highly promising compound that we'll continue in which we are the global leader. Our liquid crystals developing for both treatment and prevention of 12 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Products malaria; the project is in the preclinical phase. In provide an indication of the disease's progression. addition, our Healthcare and Life Science business Patients with a low count of these cells in their blood sectors are currently developing a kit for malaria based have an increased risk of opportunistic infections. on the MUSE cell analysis system; the device will assess the presence and type of malaria parasite and potentially In October 2015 our Life Science business sector measure co-infection with HIV. launched the Muse Auto CD4/CD4%, a system that medical professionals even those in small rural clinics can use to quickly check patients' CD4 cell counts. The FAST FACT advantages? With the Muse system, they no longer need to send blood samples to urban hospitals, and each test requires very little in terms of materials and manpower. Our anti-malaria activities are part of “One The new system is smaller and faster than its Merck for Malaria”, an integrated strategic predecessor the Guava and can even be used for approach that seeks to develop new children. treatments along with diagnostics and insect repellent. Through digital health The Muse Auto CD4/CD4% system has been granted initiatives and educational campaigns, we regulatory approval in five African countries (Angola, support governmental malaria control Ivory Coast, Cameroon, Nigeria, and Zimbabwe) as well programs in African countries. as Myanmar, and we are currently working with customers such as the Institute for Human Virology in Nigeria to evaluate the device. Knowledge sharing via the WIPO Re:Search innovation platform Transporting products safely Minimizing climate impact We are a member of the United Nations WIPO Re:Search initiative (WIPO = World Intellectual Property As an international company, we ship large quantities of Organization), an open innovation platform to accelerate chemicals everyday to our customers and facilities discovery for neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). The worldwide. Safety is our top priority. All deliveries need to consortium seeks to accelerate early discovery for reach their destinations intact, with proper labeling and infectious diseases, in particular neglected tropical the necessary documentation. In addition to safety diseases, through the sharing of intellectual property and measures, we have been working for years to knowledge. In 2015, we finalized our first collaboration systematically reduce our transport-related carbon with the University of Buea in Cameroon, which aims to emissions. This is why, in 2012, we started reducing our repurpose compounds from Merck's library to develop a use of air shipping for chemicals, switching instead to sea treatment for onchocerciasis, also known as river freight. This move enabled us to save around € 2.2 million blindness. Through this collaboration, we are helping to and more than 3,500 metric tons of CO2 by 2015. We build research capacity, knowledge and expertise in intend to implement further such initiatives in 2016. developing countries. Smart technology for clean water More efficient HIV treatment in rural regions Today's world faces numerous challenges, the greatest of which is providing burgeoning megacities with clean Of the more than 35 million people infected with HIV water, treating wastewater and managing waste in a worldwide, 25 million live in sub-Saharan Africa alone. sustainable manner. To help solve these issues, we offer However, many patients in this part of the world lack intelligent, forward-looking technologies. One prime access to regular medical care, particularly in rural example of this is the German-Chinese research project areas. For people infected with HIV, CD4 cell counts known as Semizentral, which we officially joined in 2015. 13 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Products The term “Semizentral” stands for an interurban, semiability to participate in the economy. Moreover, women’s centralized approach to supplying and treating water, health needs in the workplace, including the high burden wastewater and organic waste, while recovering water, of non-communicable diseases, are often ignored. Thyroid energy and nutrients. This public-private partnership is disorders occur 8-10 times more frequently in women led by the Technische Universität (TU) Darmstadt, which than in men, for instance. A little known fact is that is partnering with Tongji University in Shanghai as well as cardiovascular diseases are the primary cause of death the Qingdao Technological University. The research work among women worldwide people tend to think of these headed by TU Darmstadt is funded by the German diseases as being mainly an issue for men. Yet, according Federal Ministry of Education and Research. to studies conducted under the Healthy Women, Healthy Economies initiative, better health outcomes are a The first resource recovery center (RRC) pilot plant is now prerequisite for increasing women’s participation in the operating in Qingdao, a metropolis in eastern China. This economy. facility treats wastewater from homes, which can then be used as service water, mainly for toilet flushing. This Under this public-private partnership, Merck has joined approach significantly lowers the freshwater consumption forces with the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation of an entire city district of roughly 12,000 inhabitants. An (APEC) to empower women's economic development and integrated bio-gas plant utilizes sewage sludge and bioimprove their health. With support from Merck as well as waste to generate all the energy needed by the RRC. Our the Philippine, Mexican and U.S. governments, Life Science business sector is contributing its knowledge representatives from the public and private sectors as well in the area of water analysis; we have provided test kits as non-governmental organizations worked together to and measuring instruments, teaching university staff how develop a policy toolkit aimed at better supporting women to use these tools. The RRC represents a technological in the following five areas: milestone in the development of efficient, modular water infrastructure. In May 2015, Semizentral won a GreenTec Workplace health and safety Award, Europe's biggest environmental and business Health access and awareness prize, in the urbanization category. On top of that, in November 2015 the project placed in the top three in the Work-life balance research category of the 2015 German Sustainability Sexual and reproductive health Award. Gender-based violence Healthy Women, Healthy Economies The toolkit was launched in the Philippines in September 2015, and the first set of projects has since been Women in the workforce can have a profound impact on a initiated. In October, the toolkit was presented in Mexico country's productivity and prosperity; they can help drive City to a conference of female legislators representing 160 economic development. However, many countries. Furthermore, the 21 APEC member states have emerging countries and developing healthcare systems set the goal of incorporating toolkit components into their fail to leverage this potential. For many women, this is legislation by the end of 2019. partially attributable to their health poor health correlates to reduced productivity and impacts women's 14 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Suppliers We have high expectatons of our suppliers and owe a special responsibility to developing and emerging countries in particular. Our approach to supplier management focuses on more than just quality, delivery reliability and competitive pricing for us, compliance with fundamental environmental and social standards is also a key goal. To achieve this, we have implemented strategies, processes and guidelines that we continuously monitor and work to improve. These aim to prevent violations of our standards throughout our supply chain. We have a special responsibility to developing and emerging countries, which are becoming increasingly important to us as sourcing markets. Read More 16 Principles 17 Progress 15 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Suppliers Our principles Our basic expectations for suppliers and service and also features provisions on promoting human providers include their compliance with fundamental rights, environmental protection, and human health. environmental and social standards, which are In addition to this, we have integrated the Merck derived primarily from the International Labour Responsible Sourcing Principles into our general Organization's (ILO) Core Labor Standards and the terms and conditions, which apply Group-wide. These principles of the UN Global Compact. principles define what we require of our suppliers with regard to corporate responsibility (CR), Our Group Procurement Policy specifies these obligating them to apply our corporate responsibility expectations and defines the methods used to standards to their upstream value chain. monitor compliance with our standards. It reflects numerous internal guidelines, such as the Merck At the end of 2014, we joined the industry initiative Code of Conduct, our Human Rights Charter, and our known as Together for Sustainability (TfS), which has Corporate EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) given us access to CR evaluations along with the Policy. It also reflects the principles of the Code of results of CR vendor audits. Conduct of the German Federal Association for Materials Management, Purchasing and Via our central SpeakUp Line, our employees can Logistics (BME), a code that we have endorsed. This report compliance violations as well as violations of document contains provisions for combating CR standards that occur within our supply chain. In corruption, violations of antitrust law, and child labor, the 2015 period, we received no such reports. 16 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Suppliers Progress More supply chain transparency: Together plagued by poverty and political uncertainty. We for Sustainability source mica exclusively from licensed mines. This formal working environment is the only way to The Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative, ensure that the mines and processing plants are founded in 2011 by companies in the chemical complying with social standards. For mica collected industry, aims to systematically assess and improve outside of formal working conditions, we cannot rule sustainability sourcing practices across the globe, out the use of child labor, nor can we monitor including ecological and social aspects. Suppliers are compliance with fundamental labor standards. scored either on the basis of self-reported information, original documents, and publicly Our supply chain is structured to allow us influence accessible information (CR assessments), or on over our vendors, and we have furthermore information obtained during audits (CR audits). The implemented a series of oversight mechanisms. In evaluation results are utilized by TfS member doing so, we can ensure that our suppliers adhere to companies, who abide by all restrictions stipulated the principles of our Human Rights Charter as well as within competition law. We thus have access not only the requirements of the Merck Responsible Sourcing to the evaluations of suppliers selected because of Principles. their risk rating, but also to assessments and audit results for other vendors who provide us goods and We cultivate direct business relationships with the services. mica mine operators and mica processing plants. We have an office in the region, and our staff there are in To date, TfS has enabled us access to evaluations for close contact with our business partners, who have in more than 300 of our most important suppliers. At turn been instructed on our values, as well as the our prompting, around 100 of these social and environmental standards we expect of our assessments were initiated in 2015, focusing first on suppliers. In addition to these measures, we have raw material and packaging vendors. In addition, we also installed a tracking system to monitor the origin also conducted TfS audits on nine vendors in 2015. of our mica. For 2016, we have scheduled TfS audits with more than 15 other suppliers. We use a monitoring and audit system to track compliance with our social and environmental For around 50 of our suppliers, the CR assessment standards. The IGEP Foundation (Indo-German has yielded significantly below-average results. A Environment Partnership), a local organization, root cause analysis showed that most of these arranges unannounced visits every month to check vendors had not provided original documents, which the labor conditions in the mines, including in turn negatively impacted the results. We will occupational safety and adherence to the ban on therefore contact these suppliers once more in 2016 child labor. In addition to this, Environmental in order to obtain a realistic assessment. Resource Management (ERM), an international consultancy, conducts annual audits of all the mines Stringently monitoring working conditions and processing plants, investigating both working in mica mines conditions as well as environment, health and safety issues. At the beginning of 2016, ERM audited six of Among other materials, we utilize mica from northern our mica suppliers. Roughly 90% of the corrective India in the manufacture of our effect pigments. Child actions specified in either these audits or the labor is extremely common in this region, which is 17 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Suppliers preceding ones had already been implemented or two vocational training centers for tailoring and were being implemented at the time of the audit. The carpentry. More than 500 children and adolescents red flags identified primarily pertained to are enrolled in these institutions. At a fourth school occupational safety measures and gaps in the opened by one of our mica suppliers in 2014, we also implementation of management systems. Our provide scholarships for 100 children. employees in India pay regular visits to the mines and processing plants to check whether these We are improving medical care in the region through corrective actions are still being carried out. a local health center that is operated by the IGEP Foundation. This facility has a doctor and a nurse on In partnership with IGEP, we are also working to duty every day and helps increase access to improve the living conditions of the families in healthcare for the region's 20,000 residents. The Jharkhand, a region in northeastern India where we doctor and nurses also pay visits to schools and source mica. To this end, we are financing three villages in the vicinity. schools with an affiliated daycare center, as well as Mica supply chain 18 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Employees Our success is founded on the abilities of our employees on their ideas and enthusiasm for our company. We therefore seek to offer them the best-possible working conditions. In an international business world, we align ourselves with the key values of fairness and mutual respect, equal opportunity, and inclusion of individual diversity. In various areas of the company, we are working to adopt new trends such as increasing digitalization. We wish to position ourselves on the global talent market as an attractive employer. We furthermore strive to ensure that our employees stay healthy and fit for work for a long time to come – even among the aging populations found in Germany, several other EU countries, the United States, and Japan. Read More 20 Principles 22 Progress 19 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Employees Our principles Worldwide, 49,6131 employees work for Merck across program of the chemical industry. In our Code of 661 countries (39,639 employees as of December Conduct as well as our EHS (Environment, Health, 31, 2014). The increase in our employee count and Safety) Policy, we have set down fundamental primarily stems from the integration of the company rules for collaboration that define our understanding Sigma-Aldrich. Our corporate culture of mutual of a safe, healthy working environment. We have put respect and inclusion binds all employees together Group-wide policies and guidelines into place to across national boundaries. Our stance makes a clear ensure that these standards are implemented at our statement: In our Human Rights Charter, we commit individual sites, often going beyond the statutory ourselves to complying with fundamental labor and requirements. social standards, as well as the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) core labor standards, the United Nations Global Compact, and the Responsible Care® Distribution of employees by region As of Dec. 31, 2015; Merck incl. Sigma-Aldrich, a company acquired in November 2015 (%) One key aim of our HR work is to further bolster our new ways to develop talent. Thanks to our performance-oriented corporate culture. This includes investments in leadership quality, talent expanding our global talent development process as development, and continuing education, we well as our management development activities. To strengthened employee loyalty in 2015 in countries this end, we revised our Competency Model in 2015, with comparatively high fluctuation rates such as trained managers in growth markets, and devised China and India. 1 This figure pertains to Merck and Sigma-Aldrich combined. Unless otherwise stated, however, the remainder of this chapter refers to Merck only, as we are currently in the integration process (Sigma-Aldrich has been part of Merck since November 18, 2015). The Sigma-Aldrich figures that are already available can be found under Indicators Employees (p. 38). 20 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Employees As an international company, diversity represents a in the workplace. This seeks to ensure the health and major success factor for us. In 2015, we signed the physical fitness of our employees across all sites. Equal Opportunity Charter of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE). In We are likewise developing specific procedures in doing so, we have promised to exploit every possible response to increasing digitalization and increasingly opportunity to achieve gender equality within the flexible working conditions (work 4.0). For instance, company. we are integrating forward-looking technologies such as 3D printing into our vocational training programs. In 2015, as part of our OHSAS 18001-aligned EHS An in-house working group is focusing its efforts on management process, we introduced a Group-wide big data and e-commerce. Concrete objectives are guideline for the analysis of job-specific stress factors currently in development. 21 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Employees Progress Business success through good leadership motivate their teams to recognize and leverage the opportunities offered by the diverse cultures and Our Competency Model describes the conduct we experience of our employees. Managers are expect of our employees and managers in order to furthermore expected to act as role models by living drive Merck's strategy as well as its business success. our Values and promoting our feedback culture. Following an evaluation of our management and business model, we not only adapted roles, but also Our six strategic competencies, which guide our identified leadership as a key issue. In October 2015, employees and managers in their tasks, comprise the we therefore introduced a new strategic Competency following: Model that defines the leadership culture needed to advance our business strategy. Our managers 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Employees Management program for growth markets opportunities within the company. In 2015 we started work on an online platform that allows talents to find Our extensive global Management Program series out about current projects and job vacancies within ensures that our international managers develop the our company. Interested individuals can then apply skills we need to implement our company strategy with just a few clicks of the mouse. This platform will and continue our success. Here, we are particularly also be available Group-wide as of 2016. With the focused on the needs of our growth markets. In introduction of the People Developement Award for 2015, for instance, we rolled out the Growth Markets managers who develop the talents on their teams in Management Program for managers in India and an exemplary manner, we are aiming to show more Latin America. As of Dec. 31, 2015, 35 appreciation for our managers' dedication to talent managers from India and Latin America had taken development. In 2016, we will be presenting this part in this initiative, which seeks to expand award to recognize Merck's best talent developers management and business knowledge. Our aim is for during our annual Group Executive Conference. at least 50% of managers rated Global Grade 14 and up to participate in one of our management programs First-time OHSAS 18001 certification by the end of 2018. Our occupational health and safety efforts are based New opportunities for our talent on the international standard known as OHSAS 18001. Since 2015, we have been undergoing an Our Talent Management Process seeks to external certification process for this standard. By the systematically develop the employees we have end of 2016, we intend to have all Performance identified as talents, thereby building long-term Materials production facilities certified to OHSAS loyalty to the company. In 2015, we analyzed the 18001; nine of 23 sites, including two facilities of the global roll-out of this process, identified areas for company Sigma-Aldrich (acquired in November improvement, and developed the tools needed to 2015), have already successfully completed the hone it. audit. The process is helping us hone in on weak points and areas for improvement, as well as track A new toolbox will make the internal talent and the impact of our corrective measures over the long performance management processes more term. This certification underscores how much we as transparent for managers and talents, while also a company value the occupational health and safety explaining the existing programs offered by HR. This of our employees. includes initiatives such as Drive Your Development, a new event format aimed at teaching identified Switch to health-friendly solvents talents how to promote their own development. Launched in 2015, Drive Your Development will be In 2015, we achieved a major advance in the area of available Group-wide as of 2016. Other tools have occupational health and safety. For most of the been available since the beginning of 2016, such as purification processes of our organic production an improved information packet for talents as well as plants in Darmstadt, we have replaced a video that provides examples and information to tetrahydrofuran (THF), a solvent suspected to be help managers conduct career development carcinogenic, with non-hazardous substances. We are interviews. thus protecting the health of our employees while also saving nearly € 700,000 per year. For other We are also working to help identified talents purification processes, we intend to soon replace THF proactively take advantage of the development with non-hazardous substances as well. 23 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Environment We consider it highly important to mitigate our impact on the environment. We utilize resources such as energy, water and raw materials as efficiently as possible while reducing our waste and emissions. Climate impact mitigation and resource scarcity are key challenges facing society in the 21st century. For us, it goes without saying that we must take on responsibility and do our part. Through our certified environmental management system, we aim to reduce our emissions and waste while also ensuring that resources such as energy, water and raw materials are utilized as efficiently as possible. Read More 25 Principles 26 Progress 24 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Environment Our principles Our environmental activities are governed by our examined whether we were meeting the new ISO Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 14001:2015 requirements released in September Policy. This framework is based on documents such 2015. The analysis showed that we already have as the Responsible Care Global Charter of the good practices in place to meet all major new chemical industry; it also draws on ISO 14001 and requirements. We plan on expanding these efforts as OHSAS 18001, two internationally recognized well as adapting our environmental management standards that govern environmental management system, EHS Policy, and our Merck Group EHS, systems as well as occupational health and safety Security and Quality Manual accordingly. In 2015, we systems. Our policy is implemented through internal furthermore had nine facilities achieve OHSAS 18001 guidelines such as the Merck Group EHS, Security (p. 22) certification for the first time. and Quality Manual. We have set the goal of reducing our greenhouse gas Since 2009, we've had an ISO 14001:2004 group emissions by 20% by 2020, relative to the 2006 certificate for our environmental management baseline. All respective activities have been system. We successfully passed the surveillance consolidated under our EDISON program, which was audits conducted in 2015. These audits also launched in 2009. 25 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Environment Progress Over 400 climate impact mitigation Our plant in Onahama, Japan, where we measures initiated manufacture Xirallic® effect pigments for highquality automotive coatings, is one of the five In order to attain our CO2 reduction target, we largest CO2 producers in the Merck Group. In launched the EDISON climate impact mitigation 2015, we instituted two measures to cut down CO2 program in 2009. All our climate impact mitigation emissions there. First, since January 2016 we've and energy efficiency efforts are consolidated under been using natural gas to meet all the site's energy this initiative. Since 2012, we have initiated or needs. Second, in the course of 2016 we plan to implemented more than 400 measures, roughly 60% replace the old boilers for steam production with of the total projects planned under EDISON. Through new ones. These two efforts combined will save these efforts, we are aiming to cut CO2 emissions by roughly 3,200 metric tons of CO2 per year. The about 90,000 metric tons per year in the medium project is viewed throughout the country as a best term. In 2015, the following projects made a major practice. contribution toward this goal: In summer 2015 in Shanghai, China, we commissioned a new photovoltaic plant with an By 2014, process optimizations had resulted in a output of 400 kW, which will reduce this facility's two-thirds reduction in process-related emissions CO2 emissions by 280 metric tons per year. at our facility in Jaffrey, New Hampshire (USA). In 2015, we initiated a project to cut emissions In total, we cut our 2015 greenhouse gas emissions even further. by approximately 8% relative to 2006, despite growth in our operating business. In 2015, the Executive Board once more earmarked funds specifically for additional energy cutting and greenhouse gas reduction initiatives. 26 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Environment Total greenhouse gas emissions (metric kilotons) CO2 equivalents * Figures do not include Sigma-Aldrich, which was acquired in November 2015. Award for responsible conduct in China procedure that allows up to 90% of the used acetone to be treated. We successfully implemented the At all our facilities, we consistently meet our own procedure within our Darmstadt site in 2014, which high environmental standards as well as the enabled us to recycle 270 metric tons of acetone in respective local statutory regulations. In 2015, the 2015, thus saving roughly € 210,000. Association of International Chemical Manufacturers (AICM) presented Merck Chemicals China with the Working hard to reduce water use Responsible Care Chairman Award. This prize recognizes the example Merck has set for responsible In many parts of the world, water is becoming ever conduct, as well as its efforts to promote sustainable scarcer, which is why we're working to utilize water growth in the chemical industry. The award was at our sites in a responsible manner. In our given specifically for the recycling system at our production operations, we employ water primarily for Merck Electronic Materials site in Suzhou, which cooling and as process water. In 2015, we used employs vacuum distillation to treat hazardous internal consumption data along with tools such as waste, thereby significantly reducing the amount of the Water Risk Filter and Aqueduct Water Risk solvent wasted. We are thus adhering strictly to both Atlas to systematically analyze our sites. The aim was our own internal hazmat regulations as well as to to identify the ones that consume large quantities of local statutes. water as well as those located in areas of high water stress (i.e. regions where water is a particularly Employees develop recycling process for precious resource). At the beginning of 2016, we set acetone the goal of implementing a sustainable water management system at facilities with high At the organic production plant at our Darmstadt site, consumption levels, to be accomplished by 2020. At we utilize large quantities of the solvent acetone to sites with relevant water use located in areas of high clean multi-purpose devices. Until recently, the used water stress, we are aiming to cut our water solvent was disposed of as waste. In response to this consumption by 10% by 2020 (2014 baseline). situation, Production employees worked together with Process Development staff to co-develop a new 27 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Community For us, responsibility for our community is an integral part of who we are. We focus our activities on those areas where we can leverage our expertise to help solve problems. We see ourselves as part of the community not only regionally at our individual locations, but also globally as well. As both a major economic player and employer, we help contribute to the prosperity of many countries. For us, corporate responsibility is an integral part of our culture. Our community involvement activities are primarily focused on health initiatives where we can leverage our business-specific expertise to help solve problems. We also work to promote specific aspects of culture and education. On top of this, we provide disaster relief in emergency situations, especially to those regions in which we operate. Read More 29 Principles 29 Progress 28 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Community Our principles To make our efforts more effective and efficient, we progress to the Executive Board. Our subsidiaries are focus our resources on the following activities: also involved locally. Guided by criteria defined at the corporate level, our individual legal entities are given We are partnering with various organizations to the leeway to choose aid projects that reflect our globally eliminate schistosomiasis, an insidious corporate responsibility ethos. worm disease. We conduct annual Group-wide surveys to ascertain The Global Pharma Health Fund, a charitable the regional scope of our community involvement initiative funded by Merck, works to fight efforts, to identify our objectives and focus, and to counterfeit medicines in developing health care track our progress. In 2015, Merck invested a total of systems and emerging countries. € 100 million in social responsibility activities, The Deutsche Philharmonie Merck is the musical compared to € 50.8 million in 2014. ambassador of our company. These figures do not include activities that primarily The Group function Public Affairs & Corporate serve to market our products. Responsibility coordinates and implements the above-mentioned projects, regularly reporting their Progress Fighting to eliminate schistosomiasis suitable formulation is currently available to treat children under the age of six, we are furthermore More than 235 million people in Africa suffer from the working to develop a new formulation of praziquantel tropical worm disease schistosomiasis. Every year, (p. 11) that will enable this age group to receive more than 200,000 die as a result of this parasitic treatment as well. infection. At the end of 2014, we furthermore launched the In the 1970s, we participated in a research Global Schistosomiasis Alliance (GSA) in an effort to partnership to develop the active pharmaceutical address any remaining gaps to meeting the ingredient known as praziquantel, which is the only elimination target. Founding members include the Bill API that can be used to treat all forms of & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Schistosomiasis schistosomiasis. Since 2007, we've been making an Control Initiative, the United States Agency for annual praziquantel donation to the World Health International Development, and World Vision Organization (WHO). In 2015, we donated over International. In 2015, the alliance launched 100 million tablets. To achieve our goal of eliminating Something in the Water, a digital campaign that aims schistosomiasis in Africa, we intend to donate up to to increase awareness of the condition. 250 million tablets per year to WHO. Because no 29 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Community Number of praziquantel tablets donated to WHO millions * In 2014, Merck produced around 75 million tablets, 72.2 million of which were supplied to 20 African countries by the year's end, a collaborative effort with the World Health Organization. Help for colorectal cancer patients The Global Pharma Health Fund (GPHF), a non-profit initiative funded by Merck, is dedicated to fighting Since its reform in 2009, the healthcare system in counterfeit medicines. The organization has China has undergone visible improvement. Despite developed the GPHF-MinilabTM, a compact, portable this, many people remain unable to afford innovative lab that fits into one tropics-resistant case. Thanks to ® medicines such as Erbitux , which we offer as a this kit, counterfeit medicines can be detected treatment for colorectal cancer. China's health quickly, easily and cheaply. The tests screen insurance system does not yet cover this drug. Our pharmaceuticals for physical appearance, identity and Biopharma business in China has joined forces with API concentration. The GPHF developed five new test the China Charity Federation (CCF) to help remedy methods in 2015, ranging from antimalarials and this situation through the Erbitux® China Patient antibiotics, to analgesics and antipyretics, which Assistance Program (ECPAP). For patients with a brings the total number of testable APIs to 80. good prognosis, ECPAP will cover roughly 90% of the costs for Erbitux treatment. In addition to helping The GPHF generally provides its Minilabs at cost, but with costs, we also offer free services such as in 2015 they donated seven kits to various African providing patients with information on the disease, or countries. In 2015, Merck also donated seven ensuring that the medicine remains properly Minilabs to nations in Africa. In collaboration with refrigerated until reaching them. Since 2012, 5,160 international organizations, the GPHF also trains local people have benefited from the program. In healthcare professionals how to use the test kit. The recognition of these efforts, we were honored with a GPHF is furthermore involved in efforts to combat prize at the fifth Capital Philanthropy Awards in counterfeit medicines. Take for instance the Beijing. DeveloPPP.de program that Merck and the GPHF are supporting in partnership with the German Agency Rapid detection of counterfeit medicines for International Cooperation (GIZ). This project seeks to build capacity by improving the quality of Interpol estimates that up to 30% of all medicines in pharmaceutical vocational training in Tanzania. Four developing nations are either illegal, counterfeit or of the Minilabs donated by the GPHF in 2015 went to substandard which can have deadly consequences. this initiative. In addition, we integrated instruction 30 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Community on Minilab use into the vocational training program emergency medical aid stations in Lebanese refugee for pharmacy assistants in Tanzania. camps. The majority of the people fleeing Syria are staying in this region, which means that Connecting people through music humanitarian aid is desperately needed there. Lebanon alone has taken on more than one million We have a long tradition of cultural engagement. people, roughly 25% of the country's total Take for instance the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. population. Through our donations, we are seeking to Initially founded 50 years ago as a company fight the reasons for flight and to help people close to orchestra, this professional ensemble has become an their homeland. integral part of cultural life in the vicinity of our headquarters in Darmstadt, Germany. With concerts In addition to this effort, we are also taking action in and international guest performances attended by the vicinity of our global headquarters in Darmstadt more than 26,000 music enthusiasts per year, our through various measures to help support refugees. philharmonic plays a key role in communicating our Our apprentices are also doing their part. For Values. In 2015, the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck instance, in November 2015, 88 Merck apprentices gave guest performances in Latin America (Mexico renovated a building that will be used to house City, Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo), the United refugees. Additionally, we have offered the use of our Kingdom (Cambridge), and Israel (Tel Aviv). In own gymnasium for the activities of clubs and schools organizing the tour in Latin America, we partnered that have made their gymnasiums available to with three local social aid organizations to whom we accommodate refugees. donated the ticket proceeds: the Association Against Cancer (Mexico), Together Against Cancer (Brazil), On top of this, we are planning to enroll ten refugees and the School of Music and Citizenship in Rio. in one of the 10-12 month courses that we call Start Thanks to our support of the music school, around in die Ausbildung , which help prepare participants to 400 socially disadvantaged children and adolescents start a vocational training program. Before doing so, have learned to play a musical instrument. however, the candidates must first acquire the necessary language skills, which they can do through In 2015 as in previous years the Deutsche the job academies of the city of Darmstadt, as well as Philharmonie Merck once more invited 50 children through special classes on offer by external training and adolescents to participate in its annual orchestra agencies. After successfully completing the language workshop in Darmstadt, Germany. Students program, the ten refugees will be accepted into our rehearsed with members of Merck's philharmonic and Start in die Ausbildung course. then performed together in a joint concert, which gave the young musicians experience playing in a In autumn 2015, our legal entity in Austria donated professional ensemble. around € 19,000 towards medical care for three Austrian refugee camps. The activities of the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck also include annual benefit concerts. The proceeds Merck in Thailand honored for its dedication from the January 2016 concert went to the “Echo to corporate responsibility hilft!” campaign, which is raising funds for the “Menschenskinder Werkstatt für Familienkultur In 2015, Merck in Thailand received the Asia e.V.” club in Darmstadt. Corporate Excellence and Sustainability (ACES) Award in the sustainability category in honor of its Actively helping refugees transparent, measurable corporate responsibility (CR) objectives. Merck in Thailand has also set the In December 2015, we donated € 50,000 to the example when it comes to integrating CR into its German Red Cross toward the operation of leadership development processes, which is why the 31 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Community subsidiary received the Top Multinational Company in Thailand funds various Raks Thai Foundation Southeast Asia Award in 2014. projects, such as an initiative to teach sustainable rice farming methods. Many years of partnership have forged a bond between Merck in Thailand and the Raks Thai Furthermore, Merck in Thailand regularly initiates Foundation, a local branch of the global humanitarian volunteer campaigns, calling on employees to organization known as Care International. The Raks participate. In 2015, for instance, 300 employees Thai Foundation deploys sustainable development worked to plant roughly 10,000 trees, part of the programs in the most impoverished regions of Together We Grow reforestation project. In the northern and southern Thailand. Their goal is to help course of a fundraising campaign, staff raised local inhabitants earn a stable, long-term income as 100,000 Baht (around € 2,560), which was well as safeguard their natural resources. Merck in distributed to three charities. 32 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures We use indicators to facilitate comparison of our ecological, economic and social performance. This chapter illustrates the development of our indicators over the last several years. It furthermore presents our corporate responsibility objectives and describes our progress towards achieving these goals. Capping off the chapter, the Communication on Progress describes our efforts to implement the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Read More 34 Indicators 59 Goals 72 Global Compact CoP 86 Assurance Report 33 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Indicators We use indicators to measure and assess our corporate responsibility performance. The following key figures have undergone a limited assurance by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. Sigma-Aldrich became part of the Merck Group in November 18, 2015. Because of the integration process currently underway, we have specified under each of the following tables whether the figures presented include or exclude Sigma-Aldrich. Indicators: Economics Net sales, operating result (EBIT) and research and development costs, by business sector 1 (€ million) Performance 2 Healthcare Life Science Materials Group 2014 3 Net sales 6,620.5 2,682.5 2,059.8 11,362.8 Operating result (EBIT) 1,106.4 289.2 611.5 1,762.0 R&D costs 1,366.0 162.6 170.6 1,703.7 4 2015 3 Net sales 6,933.8 3,355.3 2,555.6 12,844.7 Operating result (EBIT) 1,096.7 300.8 878.0 1,843.2 R&D costs 1,310.1 197.5 197.0 1,709.2 1 On January 1, 2015, the Merck Group changed its segment reporting structure to report on the three segments Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials. 2 As a non-operating segment, Corporate and Other is not shown here (see Annual Report 2015, Segment Reporting). 3 The composition of net sales has been changed, see ‟Changes to accounting and measurement principles and disclosure changes” in the Notes to the Group Accounts. 4 Merck including Sigma-Aldrich. 34 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Indicators: Compliance Internal audits on corruption and Human Rights Charter 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of audits relating to corruption 40 30 36 49 % of audits relating to corruption not recorded 64 68 64 Number of audits relating to the workplace section of the Merck Human Rights Charter 40 27 32 41 1 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. Compliance violations reported via the SpeakUp Line 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of reported compliance incidents 20 22 26 33 Number of confirmed cases 5 9 11 8 1 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. Compliance training 1 2 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total number of persons trained on anti3 3 corruption guidelines 22,890 24,168 7,519 20,404 % of employees trained on anti-corruption 59 63 14 43 Number of employees Global Grade 10 or higher trained on anti-corruption 10,164 12,390 3,071 12,747 % of employees Global Grade 10 or higher trained on anti-corruption 60 69 17 64 % of employees Global Grade 9 or lower trained on anti-corruption 58 51 12 22 1 In Q1 – Q3 2014, Group Compliance performed a thorough analysis and review of its Compliance Training Program. No courses were scheduled for these quarters. 2 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 3 Includes contractors, external supervised workers (e.g. temps) and contract partners working on-site who were trained on anti-corruption guidelines (2014: 2,023, 2015: 3,026). In order to address the special responsibility held by management personnel, as well as by staff with HR responsibility, these employees are increasingly receiving training on anti-corruption guidelines. This applies to all employees rated Global Grade (GG) 10 or higher. To date, we have not differentiated between regions when recording compliance training; we are planning to do so in the future. Our compliance and anti-corruption principles are communicated to all our business partners, who undergo a Business Partner Risk Management (BPRM) process. 35 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Legal actions 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 2 Total number of legal actions pending or completed (for anti-competitive behavior, violations of anti-trust or violations of monopoly legislation) 3 3 2 2 pending 2 2 2 2 completed 1 1 0 0 1 Merck including Sigma-Aldrich. 2 As published in the annual reports, the herein listed total number of legal actions refers to the significant legal risks as per the company’s definition. The significance of legal risks is based on potential negative effects on projected financial objectives as well as on the probability of occurrence. For further information please see our annual reports: Annual Report 2012, page 88 and pages 168-169, no. 50 Annual Report 2013, pages 132-134 and pages 226-227, no. 48 Annual Report 2014, pages 130-131 and pages 213-215, no. 48 Annual Report 2015, pages 128-129 and pages 212-213, no. 27 36 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Indicators: Products Customer privacy 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total number of substantiated complaints received from outside parties not recorded 0 0 0 Total number of complaints from regulatory bodies not recorded 0 1 0 Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data not recorded 0 0 0 1 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. A corporate directive regulates data protection within the Merck Group. We have received no significant complaints from customers, regulatory bodies or outside parties. 37 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Indicators: Employees Total number of employees 2015 2015 (Merck (Merck excl. incl. As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 Sigma-Aldrich) Sigma-Aldrich) Total number of employees 38,154 39,639 40,718 49,613 Men 22,253 23,273 23,891 28,997 Women 15,901 16,366 16,827 20,616 38 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Number of employees by hierarchical level 2015 2015 (Merck excl. (Merck incl. 1 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 Sigma-Aldrich) Sigma-Aldrich) Total employees 38,154 39,639 40,718 49,613 2 Senior management (Global Grade above 17) 63 63 75 – Low and middle management (Global Grade 2 14–17) 1,949 2,108 2,333 – 2 Other employees (Global Grade below 14) 36,142 37,468 38,310 – % of women (total) 42 41 41 42 thereof in senior management (Global Grade 2 above 17) 10 10 12 – thereof in low and middle management 2 (Global Grade 14–17) 498 562 633 – thereof other employees (Global Grade 2 below 14) 15,393 15,794 16,182 – % of men (total) 58 59 59 58 thereof in senior management (Global Grade 2 above 17) 53 53 63 – thereof in low and middle management 2 (Global Grade 14–17) 1,451 1,546 1,700 – thereof other employees (Global Grade 2 below 14) 20,748 21,673 22,128 – by age group Up to 29 years old (%) 15 15 15 15 thereof in senior management (Global Grade 2 above 17) 0 0 0 – thereof in low and middle management 2 (Global Grade 14–17) 5 6 5 – thereof other employees (Global Grade 2 below 14) 5,901 5,884 5,848 – 30 to 49 years old (%) 64 64 64 63 thereof in senior management (Global Grade 2 above 17) 27 24 29 – thereof in low and middle management 2 (Global Grade 14–17) 1,233 1,340 1,469 – thereof other employees (Global Grade 2 below 14) 23,302 24,082 24,680 – 50 years or older (%) 20 21 21 22 thereof in senior management (Global Grade 2 above 17) 36 39 46 – thereof in low and middle management 2 (Global Grade 14–17) 711 762 859 – thereof other employees (Global Grade 2 below 14) 6,939 7,502 7,782 – 1 Figures do not include the employees of AZ Electronic Materials, a company acquired in July 2014, because our Global Grading System had not yet been implemented for them as of December 31, 2014. These employees are included under thereof other employees (Global Grade below 14) . 2 The Global Grading System has not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company acquired in November 2015. It is not possible to provide figures for them. 39 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Average number of employees by functional area 2015 2015 (Merck excl. (Merck incl. SigmaSigma1 1 2 2 Average number of employees 2013 2014 Aldrich) Aldrich) Group 38,282 38,930 40,147 41,511 Thereof women not recorded 16,110 16,600 17,180 Production 9,985 10,176 11,122 11,563 Thereof women not recorded 3,202 3,494 3,642 Logistics 1,779 2,207 2,345 2,581 Thereof women not recorded 774 829 913 Marketing and Sales 12,214 12,113 12,553 12,871 Thereof women not recorded 4,814 5,022 5,204 Administration 5,106 6,342 6,550 6,763 Thereof women not recorded 3,557 3,664 3,757 Research and Development 4,433 4,738 4,954 5,097 Thereof women not recorded 2,534 2,605 2,674 Infrastructure and Other 4,765 3,354 2,623 2,636 Thereof women not recorded 1,230 986 990 1 Average Head Count (HC) 2014 and 2013 is calculated based on the End HC of the last 5 quarters divided by 5. 2 The average employee headcount for 2015 is calculated by adding up all employees at the end of each of the last 13 months (Dec. 31, 2014-Dec. 31, 2015), and dividing this total by 13. Employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company acquired in November 2015, are only included in the employee headcount calculations as of November 2015. 1 Number of employees by region 2015 2015 (Merck excl. (Merck incl. As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 Sigma-Aldrich) Sigma-Aldrich) Total 38,154 39,639 40,718 49,613 Employees in Europe 20,013 20,537 20,950 23,429 thereof women 8,755 8,893 9,114 10,316 Employees in North America 4,911 5,092 5,172 9,794 thereof women 2,246 2,272 2,290 4,183 Employees in Asia-Pacific (APAC) 8,862 9,488 9,839 11,096 thereof women 2,947 3,176 3,282 3,706 Employees in Latin America 3,798 3,883 4,032 4,352 thereof women 1,699 1,745 1,824 1,986 Employees in the Middle East and Africa (MEA) 570 639 725 942 thereof women 254 280 317 425 1 As regards segment reporting by country and region, the composition of regions was adjusted and the corresponding comparative year-earlier figures are presented. The regional reporting structure now comprises five regions: Europe, North America, Asia-Pacific, Latin America as well as Middle East and Africa. Contractors such as temps are currently not logged in our employee data system. We are investigating possibilities for recording this information. 40 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures 1 Employees by business sector 2015 2015 (Merck excl. (Merck incl. As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 Sigma-Aldrich) Sigma-Aldrich) Healthcare employees 17,278 17,757 18,566 18,566 Thereof women 7,909 8,130 8,522 8,522 Thereof women (%) 46 46 46 46 Life Science employees 9,837 9,796 9,716 18,611 Thereof women 4,124 4,134 4,094 7,883 Thereof women (%) 42 42 42 42 Performance Materials employees 4,709 5,995 6,228 6,228 Thereof women 1,210 1,498 1,531 1,531 Thereof women (%) 26 25 25 25 1 On January 1, 2015, the Merck Group changed its segment reporting structure to report on the three segments Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials. The corresponding figures from the preceeding years have been retroacively adjusted. Employees by contract type 2015 2015 (Merck excl. (Merck incl. As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 Sigma-Aldrich) Sigma-Aldrich) Total employees 38,154 39,639 40,718 49,613 Number of employees with permanent contracts 36,908 38,410 37,690 46,454 Number of employees with temporary contracts 1,246 1,219 3,028 3,159 % of employees with permanent contracts 97 97 93 94 % of employees with temporary contracts 3 3 7 6 full-time employees 34,911 37,573 38,627 47,292 % full-time 95 98 95 95 thereof women 13,524 14,497 14,963 18,557 thereof women (%) 39 39 39 39 part-time employees 1,994 2,066 2,091 2,321 % part-time 6 5 5 5 thereof women 1,839 1,869 1,864 2,059 thereof women (%) 92 90 89 89 41 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures New employees 1 2013 2014 2015 Total number of new employee hires 5,007 6,212 5,710 by age group Up to 29 years old 2,358 2,305 2,088 30 to 49 years old 2,397 3,361 3,252 50 or older 252 546 370 by gender Women 2,051 2,513 2,450 Men 2,945 3,689 3,260 by region Europe 1,757 2,312 2,119 North America 526 826 730 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 2,060 2,298 1,913 Latin America 548 619 780 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 116 157 168 2 Rate of new employee hires (%) 13 16 14 3 by age group Up to 29 years old 47 37 37 30 to 49 years old 48 54 57 50 or older 5 9 6 3 by gender Women 41 41 43 Men 59 59 57 3 by region Europe 35 37 37 North America 11 13 13 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 41 37 33 Latin America 11 10 14 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 2 3 3 1 These figures exclude the 8,975 Sigma-Aldrich employees, who are not classified as new hires because they joined Merck as part of the Sigma-Aldrich acquisition. 2 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires: Total number of new employee hires divided by Number of employees at the end of the fiscal year. 3 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires by age/gender/region: New employee hires of the focus group divided by the total number of new employee hires. In consequence of the modified calculation method and the new composition of our regions effective January 1, 2015 corresponding figures for the preceeding years have been retroactively adjusted. 42 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures 1 Staff turnover 2 2 3 2013 2014 2015 Total turnover rate 14.61 11.01 10.38 Turnover rate by gender Men 13.98 10.75 10.13 Women 15.00 11.38 10.73 Turnover rate by age group Up to 29 years old 21.55 18.71 17.49 30 to 49 years old 13.44 9.72 9.69 50 or older 13.01 9.49 8.08 Turnover rate by region Europe 14.61 7.05 6.22 North America 10.51 12.45 12.72 4 Asia-Pacific (APAC) not recorded 17.55 15.95 4 Latin America not recorded 13.67 15.29 4 Middle East and Africa (MEA) not recorded 13.62 12.00 Total number of leavers 5,573 4,364 4,168 by gender Men 3,110 2,502 2,386 Women 2,385 1,862 1,782 by age group Up to 29 years old 1,273 1,102 943 30 to 49 years old 3,300 2,474 2,505 50 or older 1,000 788 720 by region Europe 2,367 1,447 1,290 North America 516 634 638 4 Asia-Pacific (APAC) not recorded 1,665 1,540 4 Latin America not recorded 531 618 4 Middle East and Africa (MEA) not recorded 87 82 1 The table contains unadjusted turnover rates. The rate excludes employees who depart due to parental leave or a longterm illness, as well as employees who are transitioning to the non-working phase of partial retirement. 2 Employee turnover for fiscal 2013 and 2014 is calculated as follows: Total number of leavers of the past 12 months multiplied by 100 divided by the employee headcount as of December 31. 3 Employee headcount for fiscal 2015 is calculated as follows: Total number of leavers from the past 12 months divided by the average employee headcount of the past 12 months multiplied by 100. These figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since it is still undergoing the integration process. In consequence of the modified calculation method for turnover rate, it is only possible to make a limited statement concerning interannual trends. 4 We have no 2013 data for the Asia-Pacific (APAC), Latin America, and Middle East and Africa (MEA) regions, which were realigned in 2015. 43 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) 1 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 % of full-time employees (standard contract, excluding exempts) with contractually stipulated working hours of 2 maximally 48 hours/week 99 99 100 % of full-time employees (standard contract) with at least 3 15 vacation days/year 98 95 97 % of female employees with access to maternity leave 4 programs 100 100 100 5 % of employees with the right to collective bargaining 97 97 98 % of employees working at companies where collective agreements apply 68 66 71 % of sites that rule out complicity in child labor as described in ILO Convention 138 100 100 100 Age of youngest employees, excluding apprentices 16 17 17 1 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 2 ILO: Hours of Work (Commerce and Offices) Convention, 1930 (No. 30). 3 ILO: Holidays with Pay Convention (Revised), 1970 (No. 132). 4 ILO: Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952 (No. 103). 5 ILO: Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87). Local minimum wage 1 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 % of sites that guarantee a salary above the local minimum 2 wage 100 100 100 1 The figure does not include data from Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 2 Minimum wage as stipulated by law, or derived from other provisions such as collective agreements. The Global Rewards Policy applies across all Merck subsidiaries worldwide and guarantees a systematic compensation structure. Base pay is oriented to the median base pay, and short-term variable compensation is based on the third quartile of the relevant reference market. The overall compensation package thus exceeds the market median. 44 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures 1 Work-related accidents 2 2013 2014 2015 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR=workplace accidents resulting in missed days of work per one million manhours) 2.2 1.8 1.5 by region Europe 3.7 2.9 2.7 North America 0.9 1.0 0.8 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 0.3 0.5 0.2 Latin America 2.1 1.3 0.5 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 1.8 0.9 0.0 Number of deaths 0 2 2 by region Europe 0 0 1 North America 0 0 1 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 0 1 0 Latin America 0 1 0 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 0 0 0 by gender Women 0 1 1 Men 0 1 1 1 Including contractors. 2 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. Despite our efforts at accident prevention, we've had four fatal workplace accidents over the last two years. In 2015, one employee died in a car accident in the USA, and in Germany one employee suffered a fatal accident involving a fork lift. In 2014, an employee died in Venezuela in a traffic accident, and in Pakistan an employee suffered a fatal incident doing maintenance work on a scissor lift. Both Merck employees as well as contractors have been included in the calculation of these indicators. Through the LTIR, we record work-related accidents that involve at least one day of missed work. A workrelated accident is an injury that results from the type of work, in the course of doing said work, and that has no internal cause (cumulative trauma). Work-related accidents are considered relevant if they occur on the premises, on business trips, during goods transport, as a result of external influences (e.g. natural disasters), or due to criminal acts involving personal injury. Commuting accidents and accidents during company sporting activities are not included. First-aid incidents are generally not included in the LTIR since these usually do not result in more than one day of missed work. By 2020, we intend to sustainably lower the LTIR to 1.5. The aim is to permanently stabilize or outperform this challenging number, which we achieved for the first time in 2015. For the Merck KGaA sites in Darmstadt and Gernsheim (about 19% of the employees of the Merck Group) we only report work-related illnesses if these have been diagnosed and verified by a physician. In the reporting period, no cases of work-induced illness were recorded. We have defined the LTIR as a key indicator for the Merck Group. Therefore, we do not publish any other indicators such as workplace accidents, lost days or days of absence. The LTIR is not broken down by gender as this differentiation is not relevant to our strategic planning. 45 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Spending on advanced training for employees (€) 1 2013 2014 2015 Average continuing education spending per employee 679 718 775 1 The figure does not include data from Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. We record and report the costs of vocational training and continuing education for our employees. We are not currently tracking the average number of continuing education hours consolidated at Group level, but we are working on a technical solution to track all training hours globally. Employees who regularly receive a performance and development evaluation 1 2 3 2013 2014 2015 % of employees who receive a performance and development evaluation 72 79 88 by gender Women 75 84 90 Men 71 77 87 by employee category 4 Senior management (Global Grade above 17) 100 97 100 4 Low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) 100 96 100 4 Other employees (Global Grade below 14) 72 78 88 1 The 2013 data is based on a reporting date of March 12, 2014. 2 The 2014 data is based on a reporting date of March 2, 2015. 3 The 2015 data is based on a reporting date of February 29, 2016. The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 4 The fluctuations in participant numbers by employee category can be explained by the process of the Merck’s acquisition of AZ Electronic Materials. Regular feedback and employee performance evaluations are essential to a systematic development process. Our globally uniform Performance and Talent Management Process requires annual feedback meetings and performance assessments for all employees rated Global Grade 10 and up in our position grading system. Apart from evaluating employee performance, this helps us to identify individual development opportunities. The Performance and Talent Management Process is coordinated via the HR Suite IT system. When it comes to applying this process, our individual subsidiaries can decide for themselves whether to include employees rated below Global Grade 10. In Germany, all permanent employees have been participating in the Performance and Talent Management Process since 2013. In 2015, around 36,017 employees worldwide were involved in the process. 46 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Apprentices 1 2 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 Number of apprentices 516 498 506 % of apprentices 5.6 5.4 5.3 1 Only pertains to Merck KGaA sites in Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Grafing, Germany (which accounted for roughly 24% of the Merck Group's employees in 2014). 2 Only pertains to Merck KGaA (roughly 19% of the Merck Group's total employee headcount in 2015) Internationality of employees 1 2 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 Number of nationalities 114 122 122 Number of nationalities in management positions (Global Grade 14 or above) 64 67 64 % of non-Germans in management positions (Global Grade 14 or above) 60 60 61 1 These figures do not include the employees of AZ Electronic Materials, a company that was acquired in July 2014. As of December 31, 2014, the Global Grading System had not yet been implemented there. 2 The figures do not include data from Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 47 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Employee age by region As of Dec. 31 Europe Middle East Number of North (including Asia-Pacific Latin and Africa employees Worldwide America Germany) Germany (APAC) America (MEA) 2014 Up to 29 years old 5,890 512 2,427 1,513 2,256 538 157 thereof women 2,458 221 1,105 579 778 295 59 30 to 49 years old 25,446 2,804 12,979 6,359 6,444 2,818 401 thereof women 10,854 1,302 5,862 2,486 2,224 1,283 183 50 or older 8,303 1,776 5,131 3,319 788 527 81 thereof women 3,054 749 1,926 1,133 174 167 38 Average age 40.6 44.5 42.0 42.7 36.1 39.2 37.2 Total employees 39,639 5,092 20,537 11,191 9,488 3,883 639 2015 (Merck excluding Sigma-Aldrich) Up to 29 years old 5,853 529 2,497 1,544 2,121 539 167 thereof women 2,479 224 1,147 602 749 297 62 30 to 49 years old 26,178 2,790 13,149 6,421 6,841 2,929 469 thereof women 11,150 1,287 5,963 2,501 2,338 1,349 213 50 or older 8,687 1,853 5,304 3,357 877 564 89 thereof women 3,198 779 2,004 1,159 195 178 42 Average age 41.1 45.2 42.4 42.9 36.9 39.8 37.8 Total employees 40,718 5,172 20,950 11,322 9,839 4,032 725 2015 (Merck including Sigma-Aldrich) Up to 29 years old 7,565 1,314 2,912 1,624 2,496 666 177 thereof women 3,233 522 1,378 649 898 367 68 30 to 49 years old 31,047 5,117 14,589 6,775 7,651 3,092 598 thereof women 13,242 2,285 6,673 2,674 2,576 1,434 274 50 or older 11,001 3,363 5,928 3,539 949 594 167 thereof women 4,141 1,376 2,265 1,241 232 185 83 Average age 41.2 44.2 42.4 43.0 36.7 39.5 39.5 Total employees 49,613 9,794 23,429 11,938 11,096 4,352 942 Insurance and pension systems for employees In addition to having statutory accident insurance, more than 95% of our employees are covered by locally arranged company accident insurance. We offer a company pension in numerous countries along with various programs for supplemental company pensions and survivor's benefits. Around two-thirds of our employees are enrolled in such a program. 48 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures In addition to this, in numerous countries we also offer supplementary health insurance for employees and family members, an option utilized by roughly two-thirds of our employees. Long-term pension obligations and post-employment benefits 1 € million 2013 2014 2015 Present value of all pension obligations as of Dec. 31 2,737 3,813 4,153 Pension expenses 147 157 210 1 Merck including Sigma-Aldrich. Depending on the legal, economic and fiscal circumstances prevailing in each country, different retirement benefit systems are provided for the employees of the Merck Group. Generally these systems are based on the years of service and salaries of the employees. Pension obligations of the Merck Group include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and comprise both obligations from current pensions and accrued benefits for pensions payable in the future. In the Merck Group, defined benefit plans are funded and unfunded. Provisions also contain other post-employment benefits, such as accrued future health care costs for retirees in the United States (see our Annual Report 2015, Note on Provisions for pensions and other postemployment benefits). Flexible working hours 1 As of Dec. 31 2013 2014 2015 % of employees with the option of working flexible hours 75 74 80 1 The figure does not include data from Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 49 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Indicators: Environment Spending on environmental protection, safety and health (€ million) 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 2 Spending 146 142 145 148 1 The figure does not include data from Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 2 Figure retroactively adjusted. These figures include both investments in as well as internal and external spending on waste and wastewater management, water, occupational safety, fire protection, noise reduction, air pollution prevention, decontamination, preservation of nature and the landscape, climate impact mitigation, and energy efficiency. 1 Total greenhouse gas emissions (metric kilotons) (Scope 1 and 2 of the GHG Protocol) 2 3 2006 2012 2013 2014 2015 4 Total CO2eq emissions 561 543 559 517 518 Thereof direct CO2eq emissions 316 318 348 321 327 indirect CO2eq emissions 245 225 211 196 191 Biogenic CO2 emissions 6 5 6 11 54 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions (e.g. AZ Group in 2014) or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolioadjusted). 2 Baseline for our emission targets is 2006. 3 This figure does not include data from Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. The direct and indirect CO2eq emissions (Scope 1 and 2) of the former Sigma-Aldrich sites add up to approximately 215 metric kilotons in 2015. 4 eq = equivalent The increase in biogenic carbon emissions was caused by the biomass powerplants that were commissioned in Goa, India, and Jaffrey, New Hampshire (USA) at the end of 2014. Our response to the Carbon Disclosure Project contains a detailed description of our calculation methods. We have included the following gases in our calculation of direct and indirect CO 2eq emissions: Direct CO2 emissions: CO2, HFCs, PFCs; CH4/N2O negligible; SF6/NF3 not available. Indirect CO2 emissions: CO2. In 2015, we emitted 0.040 kg of CO2eq per euro of net sales. 50 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3 of the GHG Protocol) 2 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total gross other indirect emissions (metric 1 kilotons CO2eq ) 49 64 319 349 Fueland energy-related emissions, not included in Scope 1 or 2 (category 3) not recorded not recorded 97 95 Waste generated in operations (category 5) not recorded not recorded 96 123 Business travel air travel (category 6) 48 63 74 79 Business travel rail travel (category 6) 0.1 0.05 0.02 0.02 Business travel rental car travel (category 6) 0.8 1.3 1.2 1.1 Employee commuting (category 7) not recorded not recorded 51 51 3 3 Upstream leased assets (category 8) not recorded not recorded 0 0 4 4 Processing of sold products (category 10) not recorded not recorded 0 0 Downstream leased assets (category 13) not recorded not recorded 0 0 Franchises (category 14) not recorded not recorded 0 0 1 eq = equivalent 2 The figure does not include data from Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 3 Already covered under Scope 1/2 emissions. 4 Merck produces a huge variety of intermediate products for various purposes. Due to their many applications and our customer structure, the associated GHG emissions cannot be tracked in a reasonable fashion. No data is available for Scope 3 categories not listed above. Their relevance to Merck is assessed in the Scope 3 document. Biogenic emissions (Scope 3), if present, are not being recorded. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (metric tons) 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total emissions of ozone-depleting substances 1.9 1.5 0.9 1.4 2 CFC-11eq 0.10 0.08 0.05 0.08 1 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 2 CFC-11eq is a unit of measure used to compare the potential of various substances to deplete the ozone. Reference figure 1 indicates the potential of CFC-11 to cause the depletion of the ozone layer. Substances included: R-12, R-22, R-141b, R-402a, R-409a, R-401a. Source for the emission factors: Montreal Protocol. Other air emissions (metric kilotons) 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 Nitrogen oxide 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Sulfur dioxide 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.05 Dust 0.03 0.01 0.02 0.06 1 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. The increase in dust and sulfur dioxide emissions was caused by the biomass power plant that was commissioned in Goa, India at the end of 2014. 51 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures The VOC, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, and dust emissions reported here are attributable to production activities as well as energy generation. These figures do not include emissions from vehicles. Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters. 1 Transport of finished goods, by means of transportation 2012 2013 2014 2015 % Truck 58 56 56 53 % Boat 36 37 38 41 % Airplane 6 7 6 6 1 Pertains to goods shipped by our Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Hohenbrunn sites in Germany (excluding Sigma-Aldrich). These figures pertain to the total weight of the transported products. Indicated here is the primary means of transport. In shipping finished goods from our production sites to the local warehouses of our subsidiaries, we have been working to reduce the use of air shipping in favor of sea freight. This change aims to both reduce costs as well as lower transport-related CO2 emissions. 52 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures 1 Energy consumption 2 in GWh 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total energy consumption 1,528 1,549 1,602 1,720 Direct energy consumption 924 991 1,056 1,171 Natural gas 813 871 919 933 3 Liquid fossil fuels 98 105 110 103 Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 13 15 27 135 Indirect energy consumption 604 558 546 549 Electricity 491 493 460 466 Steam, heat, cold 113 65 86 83 Total energy sold 0.5 0.4 0.6 0.5 Electricity 0.5 0.4 0.6 0.5 Steam, heat, cold 0 0 0 0 in TJ 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total energy consumption 5,501 5,577 5,767 6,193 Direct energy consumption 3,327 3,568 3,801 4,216 Natural gas 2,927 3,136 3,308 3,359 3 Liquid fossil fuels 353 378 396 371 Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 47 54 97 486 Indirect energy consumption 2,174 2,009 1,966 1,977 Electricity 1,768 1,775 1,656 1,678 Steam, heat, cold 407 234 310 299 Total energy sold 2 1 2 2 Electricity 2 1 2 2 Steam, heat, cold 0 0 0 0 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the energy consumption has been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). 2 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 3 Light and heavy fuel oil, liquified petroleum gas (LPG), diesel and gasoline. At our sites in Billerica, Massachusetts (USA), Bedford, Massachusetts (USA), Molsheim (France), Tel Aviv (Israel), Rome (Italy), Ciudad de Guatemala (Guatemala), and Shanghai (China), we use photovoltaics to produce power. The increase in biomass and self-generated renewable energy consumption is attributable to the biomass power plants that were commissioned in Goa, India, and Jaffrey, New Hampshire (USA) in 2014. Merck currently only records purchased secondary energy – this is primarily electricity and, to a lesser extent, heat/steam/cold. Details on the local energy mix, including the respective percentage of primary energy, renewable energy, etc. are not available. Data on local energy efficiency in electricity or heat generation are not available either. Our production sites are located in countries with a widely varying energy mix. Our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany consume the most energy, representing 37% of our Groupwide total. At these sites, fossil energy (coal, gas, etc.) accounts for approx. 55%, nuclear energy approx. 17% and renewable energies approx. 28% of the energy mix. 53 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Renewable energies account for a higher share of electricity generation at production sites in Switzerland, with nuclear energy taking the lead in France. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 37% for the conversion and distribution of generated electricity, this results in a primary energy consumption of 1,260 GWh for 2015. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 85% for heat/steam/cold, this results in a primary energy consumption of 98 GWh for 2015. This yields a total primary energy consumption of 1,358 GWh for 2015. The calculation is based on factors stated in the Handbuch für betriebliches Energiemanagement Systematisch Energiekosten senken ( Manual for energy management in practice Systematically reducing energy costs ) published by DENA, 12/2012. In 2015, Merck's energy intensity relative to net sales totaled 0.134 kWh/€. 3 Water consumption (millions of m ) 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total water consumption 16.3 9.6 11.1 11.6 Surface water (rivers, lakes) 7.0 0.0 0.3 0.3 Groundwater 5.3 5.4 6.3 6.7 Drinking water (from local suppliers) 4.0 4.2 4.5 4.6 Rain water and other sources 0.01 0.01 0.03 0.03 1 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. These figures do not include the ground water that we use for safety measures at the Gernsheim site in Germany. Here, the water is fed back directly into natural circulation. 3 Water reused (millions of m ) 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 Water reused 17.8 16.6 16.0 23.0 1 The figure does not include data from Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. The increase in reused water in 2015 is attributable to the recirculating cooling system that went on line at our facility in Darmstadt, Germany. This system provides recirculating cooling water to both our new cogeneration unit as well as our new cold and compressed air generator. 54 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Wastewater volume and quality 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 3 2 Total wastewater volume (millions of m ) 8.5 8.6 10.1 10.0 2 Chemical oxygen demand (metric tons of O2) 929 756 1,319 1,384 Phosphorous (metric tons) 7 7 11 11 Nitrogen (metric tons) 76 77 81 108 Zinc (kg) 267 293 288 280 2 Chromium (kg) 21 23 36 41 Copper (kg) 37 36 34 62 Nickel (kg) 101 110 128 126 Lead (kg) 35 42 55 53 Cadmium (kg) 10 10 10 13 Mercury (kg) 1 1 1 1 Arsenic (kg) 3 4 4 4 1 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 2 Figures retroactively adjusted. The wastewater volume includes indirect discharge into both public and Merck-owned wastewater treatment plants, as well as direct discharge (such as rainwater and cooling water). The wastewater treatment plant at our Gernsheim, Germany site also treats wastewater from the neighboring municipality of Biebesheim. The communal wastewater from Biebesheim is included in the wastewater volume as well as in the emissions stated in the table. Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste (metric kilotons) 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 2 Total waste 189 161 228 295 3 Hazardous waste disposed 62 37 53 55 3 Non-hazardous waste disposed 36 31 55 31 2 Hazardous waste recycled 48 50 49 59 Non-hazardous waste recycled 43 43 71 150 1 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 2 Figures retroactively adjusted. 3 Disposed = incineration and landfill. The amount of non-hazardous waste disposed decreased in 2015 because there was less landfill needing disposal. The increase in non-hazardous waste recycled can be attributed to the sharp rise in landfill, construction waste, and demolition waste. Landfill, construction waste, and demolition waste accounted for 47% of total waste in 2014, and 53% of total waste in 2015. 55 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Exported/Imported hazardous waste (metric kilotons) 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 2 3 Exported not recorded 7.1 9.6 4.3 4 Imported not recorded 0.01 0.003 0.01 1 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 2 Disposal within the EU. 3 Figure retroactively adjusted. 4 As part of the return system for our cell tests, these kits are brought to our Gernsheim site in Germany for proper disposal. Waste by disposal method 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 2 Total waste (metric kilotons) 189 161 228 295 Disposed waste (metric kilotons) 98 67 108 86 Landfilled waste (metric kilotons) 19 13 37 12 Incinerated waste (metric kilotons) 79 54 71 74 2 Recycled waste (metric kilotons) 91 94 120 209 2 Material recycling (metric kilotons) 67 69 93 181 Waste-to-energy (metric kilotons) 24 25 27 28 Recycling rate (%) 48 58 53 71 1 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 2 Figures retroactively adjusted. The waste output of the Merck Group rose to 295 metric kilotons in 2015 (228 metric kt in 2014). Waste from construction and renovation projects accounted for the majority of the waste (2014: 47%; 2015: 53%), stemming in particular from the remodeling of our Global headquarters in Darmstadt. In 2014, roughly 50 metric kilotons of this waste was recycled, with approximately 124 metric kilotons recycled in 2015. Significant spills 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total number of significant spills 0 0 0 0 1 The figure does not include data from Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 56 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Indicators: Community Spending on community involvement (€ million) 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total spending 11.8 46.2 50.8 100.0 1 The figure does not include data from Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. We calculate the value of pharmaceutical product donations according to the WHO Guidelines for Medicine Donations; for other product donations, we apply their fair value. The increase in our community involvement spending is attributable to the expansion of the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program (MPDP) as well as the expansion of the Erbitux® China Patient Assistance Program. In the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program, we are partnering with the World Health Organization to combat the worm disease schistosomiasis in African school children. Through the Erbitux ® China Patient Assistance Program, roughly 90% of the costs for Erbitux ® treatment can be covered for colorectal cancer patients with a good prognosis. 1 Spending on community involvement, by region (%) 2 2012 2013 2014 2015 Europe 20 36 37 8 North America 13 1 <2 1 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 59 61 60 91 Latin America 8 <1 <2 <1 Middle East and Africa (MEA) <1 <1 <1 <1 1 Excluding spending for the Global Pharma Health Fund, the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program and the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. As regards segment reporting by country and region, the composition of regions was adjusted and the corresponding comparative year-earlier figures are presented. The regional reporting structure now comprises five regions: Europe, North America, Asia-Pacific, Latin America as well as Middle East and Africa. 2 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. In 2015, the significant increase in spending on the Erbitux ® China Patient Assistance Program led to a relative rise in spending in our Asia-Pacific (APAC) region, and a relative decrease in spending in other regions. 57 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures 1 Focus of local community involvement (%) 2 2012 2013 2014 2015 Disaster relief 3 6 4 6 Education 16 23 23 25 Environment 9 10 10 7 Health 30 23 33 33 Support for culture and sports activities near our sites 28 19 15 8 Other 14 19 15 21 1 Based on number of projects, excluding the Global Pharma Health Fund, Merck Praziquantel Donation Program and Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. 2 The figures exclude data from Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. 1 Motivations for our community involvement (%) 2 2012 2013 2014 2015 Charitable activities 32 20 9 3 Community investment 52 59 59 92 Commercial initiatives in the community 16 21 32 5 1 Based on total spending, excluding spending for the Global Pharma Health Fund, the Merck Praziquantel Donation Program and the Deutsche Philharmonie Merck. 2 The figures exclude Sigma-Aldrich since the integration process is still underway. In 2015, the significant increase in spending on the Erbitux ® China Patient Assistance Program, which falls under Community investment , led to a relative decrease in spending in other areas. We categorize the motivations for our activities based on the London Benchmarking Group model as well as the guidelines of the Bertelsmann Foundation for corporate social responsibility. Projects that primarily aim to make improvements within the community are classified as community investment . Initiatives that are predominantly aimed at company-relevant factors such as image or personnel recruitment are classified as commercial initiatives in the community . Charitable activities” covers any other projects that benefit a charitable organization, but cannot be listed under either of the other two motivation categories due to missing data or their narrow scope. 58 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Goals Our corporate responsibility goals set the course to be followed for the next several years. This section presents these objectives and reports on the progress we've made towards achieving them. Products Product safety Goal: Establish a globally uniform hazard and risk communication standard for all relevant Merck chemical products in the supply chain based on the precautionary principle Measure(s): Implementation of REACH: Register substances produced in quantities of 1-100 metric tons per year (phase 3 of REACH implementation) and register non-phase-in substances By when: Mid-2018 Status description for 2015: We registered another 30 phase-3 substances in 2015. Status: In progress Measure(s): Implementation of the Global Product Strategy (GPS): Issue Product Safety Summaries for all hazardous substances registered under REACH By when: End of 2020 Status description for 2015: Another three Product Safety Summaries were issued in 2015. Status: In progress Measure(s): Projects for hazard communication: Update safety data sheets for non-hazardous chemical products By when: End of 2020 Status description for 2015: We have safety data sheets for around 20% of all non-hazardous substances and continually review them. Around 40% of the non-hazardous substances have replacement letters. Status: In progress Measure(s): Increase the number of safety data sheets in alignment with a globally uniform standard By when: End of 2020 Status description for 2015: Software-based EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) management system roll-outs in China, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan paved the way to globally uniform standards in hazard communication. Status: In progress 59 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Measure(s): Implementation of US GHS/HazCom 2012: Classify pure substances, mixtures and sets in the United States according to HazCom 2012 criteria By when: Mid-2015 Status description for 2015: All pure substances, mixtures and sets were classified and labeled in alignment with HazCom 2012 by the deadline. Status: Goal achieved Product-related crime Goal: Protect customers and patients from harm by product-related crime Measure(s): Continue to develop Group-wide product security guidelines for all relevant products By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: The following internal guidelines were created in 2015 and adopted in January 2016: MACON Team Charter: Expands and professionalizes the Merck Anti-Counterfeiting Operational Network (MACON) by involving local experts in securing evidence, performing analyses, etc. Product security standard for Merck's Healthcare business sector A product investigation standard is being created to expand knowledge and optimize processes at our subsidiaries with regard to handling product crime. Since October 2015, we have been consolidating our Group-wide measures in order to harness synergies between our business sectors, making our battle against product-related crime even more effective. Status: In progress Measure(s): Monitor the numbers for unreported cases of counterfeit medicines in select countries By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: In one of our markets, we have initiated a project to gather intelligence on cases of counterfeit medicines that are not officially reported. Based on the results, we are developing a method of monitoring these dark figures and applying it to other countries. The Dark Web is constantly under surveillance for signs of Merck products. Status: In progress Measure(s): Support regional efforts against product-related crime By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: In 2015, we supported investigations in India, China, the United States, and Mexico. Status: In progress 60 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Measure(s): Pilot a project to improve product safety in high-risk regions of Africa using software-based solutions By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: We have developed an app called Check-My-MedsTM, which was piloted in the United States in 2015. It is scheduled for launch in Africa in 2016. Status: In progress Measure(s): Conduct a risk assessment in our Healthcare business sector to identify strategically and commercially relevant data that have a greater need of protection By when: End of 2016 Status: New goal Measure(s): Increase internet searches to hunt down trademark infringement and counterfeit products By when: End of 2016 Status: New goal Goal: Increase internal awareness of strategic relevance of counterfeit pharmaceuticals Measure(s): Expand scope of employee training and increase internal reporting By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: We conducted three workshops at critical sites. Furthermore, during a meeting of the Global Security Network in Darmstadt, Germany, product crime officers gathered together to share their experience and best practices. The reporting system for product-related crime was enhanced in order to improve the reporting process and raise awareness of the importance of reporting. Status: Goal achieved Measure(s): Host a conference of the Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI) with industry representatives By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: Merck hosted a conference of the Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI). Status: Goal achieved Measure(s): Expand MACON network to include representatives from major sites By when: End of 2016 Status: New goal Measure(s): Conduct awareness workshops for employees By when: End of 2016 Status: New goal 61 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Access to health Goal: Monitor and assess the progress and efficacy of our Access to Health programs. Measure(s): Develop quantitative and qualitative performance indicators for the 4 A's: Availability, Accessibility, Affordability, and Awareness By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: In 2015, we began defining performance indicators that are used to monitor and assess the progress as well as efficacy of our Access to Health programs. Status: In progress Goal: Availability: Address unmet needs through the research, development and refinement of health solutions Measure(s): Expand our R&D portfolio for infectious diseases within the scope of the Global Health Innovation Platform. We have created a three-year business plan for implementing this new entity within Global Health R&D, with focal areas being the development of a pediatric formulation to treat schistosomiasis in preschool-aged children, as well as the development of a new anti-malarial drug. By when: End of 2017 Status description for 2015: Schistosomiasis: Successful completion of a Phase I trial with healthy subjects in South Africa, as well as a taste study with children in Tanzania. We are also working to identify new active ingredients. Malaria: In March 2015, we obtained the rights to a promising new antimalarial compound that is in the preclinical phase and that we will continue to develop. In addition, our Healthcare and Life Science business sectors are currently developing a kit for malaria based on the Muse ® Auto CD4/CD4% analysis system; the device will assess the presence and type of malaria parasite and potentially measure co-infection with HIV. Status: In progress Goal: Affordability: Address inability to pay Measure(s): Through our WIPO Re:Search membership, engage in a partnership to share our intellectual property and knowledge to catalyze the development of medical products against infectious diseases By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: In 2015 we finalized a collaboration agreement with the University of Buea in Cameroon that aims to repurpose compounds from our library to develop a treatment for onchocerciasis, also known as river blindness. Status: Goal achieved 62 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Goal: Awareness: Empower health workers, communities and patients Measure(s): Develop an integrated initiative of our Healthcare and Life Science business sectors to raise awareness and empower people to make informed decisions By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: In 2015, we were in the initial stages of developing a proposal that aims to take a holistic approach to tackling access to health challenges. Status: In progress Goal: Accessibility: Strengthen supply chains and provide localized solutions Measure(s): Develop an initiative to reach patients, regardless of their geographic location, and ensure they have access to health solutions. By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: In 2015, we started engaging a diverse array of stakeholders, including pharmaceutical companies, international organizations, governments, academics, and NGOs, among other private and public stakeholders, to address supply chain and delivery issues in developing countries. Status: In progress Animal research Goal: Harmonize animal welfare Group-wide Measure(s): Develop a Group-wide audit concept for the facilities of contract animal research organizations By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: Merck's audit concept is described in our Animal Safety & Welfare Manual. The processes specified were implemented in 2015. Status: Goal achieved Goal: Harmonize the high quality of animal facilities used by our Biopharma business Measure(s): Obtain AAALAC International accreditation for all Biopharma laboratory animal facilities By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: In 2015, four of our five Biopharma animal facilities were (re-)accredited to AAALAC standards, while the fifth one has applied for accreditation. Status: Goal not Achieved 63 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Goal: Launch a Merck 3R award Measure(s): Participate in the 3Rs IQ/AAALAC Award Program By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: Instead of initiating our own internal award, we decided to support the worldrenowned 3Rs IQ/AAALAC Award. The first award was presented in 2015. Status: Goal achieved Transport and warehouse safety Goal: Further improve warehouse and transport safety Measure(s): Expand scope of transport safety audits to include contracted service providers By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: The warehouses of all contracted service providers have been integrated into our audit process. We are currently working on a method of integrating transport companies into our audit process as well. Status: In progress Measure(s): Implement improvement programs in countries and regions selected on risks specific to the products being handled By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: In 2015, we piloted a project in India to increase transport and warehouse safety. The first set of improvements have already been implemented. In 2016, we plan to examine the documentation and risk assessment of participating suppliers to find areas for improvement. Status: In progress Measure(s): Implement a process to further improve our management approach to transport and warehouse safety By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: In the course of the assessment process, we utilized safety-relevant customer complaints to identify areas for improvement and then implemented measures such as the following: Improving the packaging concept for certain chemicals Warehouse audits of third-party companies Status: In progress 64 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Suppliers Supplier management Goal: Ensure our suppliers adhere to ethical, social, environmental, and compliance standards (part of our risk mitigation strategic procurement objective) Measure(s): Systematically collect supplier assessments using the Together for Sustainability (TfS) methodology By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: The TfS process has been implemented. TfS has given us access to evaluations for over 300 of our most important suppliers; roughly 100 of these were initiated in 2015 at our prompting. In addition, we also conducted TfS audits on nine vendors in 2015. Status: Goal achieved Measure(s): Establish a CR standard operating procedure By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: A CR SOP was drafted in 2015; it will be adopted and implemented Groupwide in early 2016. Status: In progress Employees Diversity and inclusion Goal: Increase the percentage of management positions (Global Grade 14+) held by women to at least 25%-30% Measure(s): Increase the percentage of management positions held by women through numerous initiatives that move women into those positions By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: We are utilizing targeted communication activities to raise awareness of diversity within the company. Our HR processes, such as talent management, help ensure that women are included as well as empowered. The percentage of management positions (Global Grade 14+) held by women is currently 27% Group-wide. Certain Group functions such as IT have a lower percentage of women in management positions. However, the figures are continuously increasing across the Group as a whole. We have reached our strategic goal of raising the percentage of management positions held by women to 25%-30% and intend to further increase this figure by the end of 2016. Status: In progress 65 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Attracting and retaining talent Goal: Talent & Succession Management: Fill at least 2/3 of positions ranked Global Grade 16+ with internal candidates Measure(s): Use the Talent Management Process to identify suitable employees with management potential and define a process to systematically develop them By when: Ongoing Status description for 2015: In 2013, we introduced the Talent & Succession Management Process in order to systematically foster and develop talent. In 2015, 70% of our vacant management positions were filled internally. Status: Goal achieved Goal: Have at least 50% of managers rated Global Grade 14+ take part in a management program Measure(s): Expand the geographical range of the programs to reach a broader target group. Have senior management act as the official program sponsors. By when: End of 2018 Status description for 2015: In 2015, we rolled out the Growth Markets Management Program for local managers in India and Latin America. This initiative covers both business administration as well as Merckspecific subject matter. To date, 35 managers from India and Latin America have taken part in the program, which is being offered in China and Turkey as well. Participants come from various countries and regions such as Africa, the Middle East, Japan, and Russia. In total, 98 managers Group-wide took advantage of this initiative in 2015. On top of this, we expanded the scope of our Advanced Management Program and offered workshops in China and Thailand. The initiative aims to empower our managers to make decisions and unleash their innovative strength. We also rolled out “Critical Conversations” and “Leader as a Coach” workshops. Status: In progress Goal: Build a talent pool that reflects the demographic structure of Merck Measure(s): Identify talent, keep managers informed about Merck's demographic profile (e.g. age, nationality, gender) By when: Ongoing Status description for 2015: In 2015, we incorporated demographic information into our talent pool. Managers are now familiar with the demographic structure of the pool, and we can thus steer its development accordingly. Status: In progress 66 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Goal: Competency-based interviews with 20% of the talent with potential for a GG18+ position Measure(s): Nominate suitable talent within the scope of the Talent & Succession Management program By when: Ongoing Status description for 2015: Annually, interviews are conducted with around 20% of the talent with potential for a GG18+ position. Status: Goal achieved Goal: Have 80% of all employees using the HR Suite IT system for their annual Performance Management Process assessment Measure(s): Expand the HR Suite user group to new target groups By when: Ongoing Status description for 2015: In 2015, around 85% of our employees used the HR Suite IT system. Status: Goal achieved Goal: Position Merck as an attractive employer for university graduates Measure(s): Participate in university fairs and organize events at Merck for graduates; position Merck as an attractive employer using employer branding channels (e.g. career websites, social media, image advertising) By when: Ongoing Status: New goal Occupational health and safety Goal: Reduce occupational accidents throughout the entire Merck Group (lost time injury rate = 2.5) Measure(s): Implement the BeSafe! program; hold EHS forums on safety behavior change By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: With a lost time injury rate of 1.5, we achieved the goal we set for 2015. The BeSafe! program was rolled out across all operational sites of the Merck Group (including warehouses) and contributed significantly to achieving our goal. Status: Goal achieved 67 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Goal: Reduce occupational accidents throughout the entire Merck Group (lost time injury rate = 1.5) Measure(s): Implement the OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety management system within all Performance Materials production sites By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: Within the framework of a group certificate, nine of our 24 Performance Materials production sites achieved OHSAS 18001 certification in 2015. Status: New goal Measure(s): Roll out the BeSafe! program at all newly acquired sites and monitor the program via appropriate indicators By when: End of 2020 Status: New goal Environment Environmental impact mitigation Goal: Audit and implement environmental management systems at acquired sites Measure(s): Certify environmental management systems at acquired sites By when: Ongoing Status description for 2015: Eight out of nine production sites of AZ Electronic Materials, which was acquired in 2014, have been incorporated into our group certificate. The ninth facility is still undergoing the process. Next year we plan to transition the Sigma-Aldrich production sites with existing ISO 14001 certifications to the Merck Group certificate (ISO 14001). A gap analysis is planned for the remaining Sigma-Aldrich production sites. Status: In progress Climate impact mitigation Goal: Reduce the Merck Group's direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 20% relative to the 2006 baseline Measure(s): Systematically examine the energy consumption at Merck's individual production sites By when: End of 2020 Status description for 2015: We continued to systematically investigate ways to save energy at our production sites. We conducted energy audits based on the EU Energy Efficiency Directive at several facilities, including our sites in Eppelheim and Berlin (Germany), as well as Calais and Meyzeiu (France). Status: In progress 68 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Measure(s): Identify and implement ways to save energy By when: End of 2020 Status description for 2015: In 2015, we lowered our greenhouse gas emissions by around 8% relative to the 2006 baseline, despite growth in our operating business. Around two-thirds of the EDISON projects planned Group-wide have already been or are being rolled out. In 2016, we intend to initiate 57 new projects. Status: In progress Measure(s): Reduce process-related emissions By when: End of 2020 Status description for 2015: Our Life Science business sector plays an important role in helping reduce process-related emissions. In 2014 at our site in Jaffrey, New Hampshire (USA), we optimized processes and thereby achieved a two-thirds reduction in our process-related emissions per production unit. In 2015, we initiated a project to realize additional savings. Status: In progress Measure(s): Reduce greenhouse gas emissions of our Life Science business sector (includes only former Merck Millipore business excludes Sigma-Aldrich, which was acquired in November 2015) by 10% by 2015 (2006 baseline) By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: In 2015, our Life Science business sector (only includes former Merck Millipore business excludes Sigma-Aldrich, which was acquired in November 2015) reduced greenhouse gas emissions by approx. 11% relative to the 2006 baseline. Status: Goal achieved Waste management Goal: Improve waste and recycling management processes Measure(s): Perform waste audits to identify ways to reduce waste or increase recycling efficiency By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: Waste reduction and recycling activities continued through 2015. We have begun to investigate options to recycle production scrap that requires custom recycling techniques. Status: Goal achieved 69 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Water Goal: 10% reduction (2006 baseline) in the water use of our Life Science business sector (only includes former Merck Millipore business excludes Sigma-Aldrich, which was acquired in November 2015) Measure(s): Implement water reuse and reduction initiatives By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: Despite significant increases in production volume, our Life Science business sector (only includes former Merck Millipore business excludes Sigma-Aldrich, which was acquired in November 2015) reduced water consumption by approx. 5% between 2006 and 2015. Status: Goal not Achieved Goal: 10% reduction (2014 baseline) in water use at sites with relevant levels of water consumption in water-scarce regions (i.e. areas of high water stress) Measure(s): Implement sustainable water management processes at production facilities with high levels of water consumption, as well as those sites located in water-scarce regions. By when: End of 2020 Status: New goal Community Merck Praziquantel Donation Program Goal: Eliminate schistosomiasis in African school children Measure(s): Provide praziquantel tablets free of charge to treat school children in Africa By when: Ongoing Status description for 2015: In 2015, we provided WHO with more than 100 million praziquantel tablets. Status: In progress Measure(s): Incrementally increase annual tablet donation by a factor of ten, from 25 milion in 2012 to up to 250 million By when: End of 2016 Status description for 2015: We increased the number of tablets donated annually to WHO to more than 100 million. Status: In progress 70 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Measure(s): Optimize the praziquantel formulation By when: End of 2019 Status description for 2015: We have finished developing the formulation, which we plan to submit to regulatory authorities in 2017. Status: In progress Measure(s): Research a new praziquantel formulation for children under the age of six By when: End of 2019 Status description for 2015: In 2015, we completed the Phase I bioavailability trials with healthy subjects in South Africa, as well as the taste study with children in Tanzania. For 2016, we are planning to conduct a Phase 2 trial with children under six in the Ivory Coast. Status: In progress Combating counterfeit medicines Goal: Fight counterfeit medicines by providing and optimizing the GPHF Minilab™ Measure(s): Develop new test methods for five active ingredients and expand manuals to describe the new testing methods By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: In 2015, five new test methods were developed, which means that 80 test methods total are now available. Instruction manuals have been updated accordingly. Status: Goal achieved Measure(s): Conduct three seminars on how to use the GPHF Minilab™; sell 25-30 Minilabs™ By when: End of 2015 Status description for 2015: In 2015, we held two seminars to teach people how to use the GPHF Minilab™; one workshop was postponed to the beginning of 2016. On top of this, we sold 45 Minilabs™. Status: Goal achieved Measure(s): Develop new test methods for five active ingredients and expand manuals to describe the new testing methods By when: End of 2016 Status: New goal Measure(s): Conduct two seminars on how to use the GPHF Minilab™; sell 40 Minilabs™ By when: End of 2016 Status: New goal 71 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Global Compact Implementation of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact Period: January 2015 to December 2015 The Global Compact (GC) is a UN initiative founded in 2000. Signatories of the initiative commit themselves to ten principles based on key UN conventions regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. At the same time, the compact obliges the signatories to actively engage themselves in propagating the principles within their own sphere of influence. Merck has been a Global Compact participant since 2005. The following Communication on Progress (COP) presents the key measures that we took in 2015 to implement the principles of the Global Compact. 72 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures CEO’s declaration Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Friends of Merck, As a global science and technology company, we at Merck spend every day searching for answers to the question: What kind of world do we want to live in? And we're seeking solutions that improve the lives of people across the globe. We have thus been supporting the United Nations Global Compact and its principles since 2005, which cover human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. We live these principles in our day-to-day work and intend to keep doing so in the future as well. Taking responsibility is the bedrock of our business. Through our ideas and technologies, we are helping solve global issues in numerous areas. As a company about to celebrate its 350th anniversary, we know that business success can only be sustained if achieved responsibly. 73 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures In this report, you will find a selection of our CR activities from 2015. They are just as diverse and international as our company. Our efforts show that much can be achieved through good ideas and the courage to take responsibility. To best leverage our corporate responsibility activities, we have defined three strategic spheres of activity: environment, health and culture. In each of these areas, Merck can contribute special expertise and skills. In the chapter on culture, for instance, we describe the literary prizes we present to recognize writers and translators. Why does literature fit so well to a science and technology company such as Merck? As an innovative, research-driven company, we bring people together who ask questions and never stop pondering the answers. We depend on creative ideas – and on a society that is receptive to innovation. Literature can open doors because it not only builds bridges between cultures, but also inspires people, expands their minds and makes them more receptive to new ideas. The chapter on our environmental activities spotlights our UB-FFS technology. This development for liquid crystal displays enables brilliant colors while consuming up to 30% less energy than conventional display technologies, which significantly boosts the battery life of smartphones and other portable devices. In recognition of this achievement, Merck has been honored with the German Innovation Award. We are the global market and technology leader in liquid crystals and are constantly working on new ideas such as UBFFS. After all, innovation not only improves products, but also helps find answers to global issues such as energy conservation. In the chapter on health, you can see how we're working to improve access to health for people around the world. In rural areas especially, millions of people lack adequate access to health information, medical care, and medicines. But we want to remedy this situation. We examine local needs and organize awareness campaigns, provide physicians with advanced training and manage mobile clinics. After all, we believe that everyone should have access to health, no matter where they live. Our report shows how, again and again, Merck exercises its corporate responsibility every day, how we're seeking answers to the question: what kind of world do we want to live in? Merck is working towards a world that's open to new concepts, in which ideas both improve our lives and reduce our impact on the environment a world in which everyone has access to health. After all, Merck is taking responsibility, now and in the future. Yours, Karl-Ludwig Kley 74 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment, principles & goals Code of Conduct: The Merck Code of Conduct is a compulsory set of rules for all employees. It explains the principles for dealings with business associates, general partners, co-workers, and employees, as well as the communities in which we operate. The Code thus guides our employees in taking an ethical course of action – not only in their interactions with one another, but also outside the company. Human Rights Charter: Our Human Rights Charter supports our commitment to respecting and protecting human rights. This document consolidates and complements existing human rights regulations and guidelines, such as our Code of Conduct, our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, and our Charter on Access to Health in Developing Countries. Our Human Rights Charter has three goals: first, to define our expectations; second, to increase awareness of human rights within the company; and third, to more accurately assess Group-specific risks as well as align our business operations with our Values. Procurement Policy: Through our Group Procurement Policy, we ensure that our procurement processes embody corporate responsibility standards.This includes the selection, assessment and management of suppliers. This policy reflects numerous internal and external guidelines, such as our Code of Conduct, our Human Rights Charter, and our EHS policy. Merck Responsible Sourcing Principles: To complement our Procurement Policy, we have developed the Merck Responsible Sourcing Principles and integrated them Group-wide into our general terms and conditions. These principles define what we require of our suppliers with regard to responsible conduct, highlighting the responsibility of our suppliers to apply our corporate responsibility standards to their upstream value chain. As a member company of the German Federal Association for Materials Management, Purchasing and Logistics (BME), we support the BME Compliance Initiative in the fight against corruption, cartels and child labor. 75 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Access to Health Charter: Access to health (A2H) is of great strategic importance to us. Our A2H strategy aims to help overcome access obstacles faced by underserved populations and communities in developing health care systems. There is no one-size-fits-all solution for this complex and multifaceted challenge, which is why we've tailored our programs and initiatives to suit global, regional and local needs. Our holistic, needs-driven approach consists of four strategic components: Availability, Affordability, Awareness, and Accessibility. To achieve sustainable results, we focus especially on partnerships, collaboration and ongoing dialogue with all stakeholders. We have consolidated our principles into our Access to Health in Developing Countries Charter, which addresses the topics of pricing, intellectual property, research and development for neglected tropical diseases (NTDs), and anti-counterfeiting measures, as well as medicine donations and philanthropic activities. We support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and are partnering with various other organizations to achieve them. Access to health is an integral component of these efforts. In lowto middle-income countries, we work with global stakeholders in helping strengthen health systems. Taking action and gauging the results Compliance management: The Group function Compliance, headed by the Group Compliance Officer (GCO) and supported by further specialists, is responsible for maintaining and driving our compliance program. At our subsidiaries, local compliance officers are responsible for implementing our compliance measures. Group Compliance provides these officers with guidance as well as training documents, along with other support. At this time, local compliance officers report to the GCO at regular intervals. In 2015, we appointed a compliance officer for each of our business sectors (Healthcare, Performance Materials and Life Science) in order to better address the needs of each specific business sector. The GCO reports at least once a month to the Merck Executive Board, updating them on compliance activities, compliance risks, and serious compliance violations. At least once a year, the Executive Board updates Merck's supervisory bodies on key compliance issues. Our compliance management procedures are continuously adapted to meet current requirements. Compliance training: We provide our employees with regular training on compliance issues via classroom courses and online classes. In 2015, a total of 20,404 persons completed anti-corruption courses. In 2014, we designed an e-course to introduce our new anti-corruption guidelines, and in 2015 we translated the course into 16 different languages, which has allowed numerous employees worldwide to complete the course in their local language. In 2015, we also developed a special e-course for our pharmaceutical business that explains the guidelines specific to this field. In addition, we regularly review our compliance training plan, adapting classes and workshops in response to new developments and local needs. Compliance audits: The Group function Internal Auditing conducts audits Group-wide. Our audit program covers the topic of anti-corruption as well as the requirements of our Human Rights Charter, all of which are reviewed during the general audits conducted on our facilities. In the course of the compliance audits, Internal Auditing verifies whether compliance guidelines, processes and structures are in place and assesses the quality thereof. We furthermore check whether individual facilities are violating our Code of Conduct or the social standards stipulated in our Human Rights Charter. A total of 49 anti-corruption audits were conducted in 2015. Across 31 countries, we also performed 41 audits relating to the workplace clause of our Human Rights Charter. The audits found no violations. 76 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Central SpeakUp Line for compliance violations: All employees are called upon to report compliance violations to their supervisor, Legal, HR, or other relevant departments. Employees can report violations via the SpeakUp Line, a central reporting system, doing so in their respective national language. Available as a telephone hotline or a web-based application, they can report such incidents free of charge and, if they wish, anonymously. The reports received are reviewed by the Group Compliance Officer (GCO) and submitted to the Compliance Committee, which then coordinates the necessary investigation into the matter. The Compliance Committee consists of senior representatives from Internal Auditing, Compliance, Group Security, Data Security, and Human Resources. They monitor the handling of reported cases and initiate appropriate corrective measures, as needed. Disciplinary actions are also taken, where necessary, against the employee who has committed a compliance violation. These actions may range from a simple warning up to dismissal of the employee, depending on the severity of the violation. In 2015, 33 compliance reports were received via the SpeakUp Line, eight of which were confirmed as being violations of our Code of Conduct. These incidents were investigated and reported to the Compliance Committee; corrective actions were taken and monitored by the Group Compliance Officer. We take such misconduct very seriously and will not hesitate to take appropriate action, including dismissal in accordance with applicable laws. The majority of these compliance violations were attributed to the misconduct of individual employees; they represented minor, isolated incidents which mostly entailed improper distribution and marketing methods to boost sales, or inappropriate interactions with medical professionals. In all cases, disciplinary action was taken against the employees responsible for the infractions. Supplier management: Supplier management is one of Group Procurement's key tasks; it comprises the entire process of assessing, rating, developing, and terminating vendor relationships. Underpinned by a transparent, globally standardized approach, our supplier management efforts aim to optimize the performance of our entire supply chain in order to create added value for Merck. We expect our suppliers to obey fundamental rules, such as bans on corruption and child labor, and we set minimum requirements regarding work standards. In the course of 2015, we largely replaced the supplier CR assessments and CR audits used previously with the equivalent tools set forth in the Together for Sustainability (TfS) standards. The audit results can be utilized by all TfS member companies. We thus have access not only to the evaluations of suppliers selected because of their risk rating, but also to assessments and audit results for other vendors who provide us goods and services. More detailed information can be found under Suppliers (p. 17). 77 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Merck Praziquantel Donation Program: Our efforts to combat schistosomiasis represent a key element in our access to health activities. We've been supporting the World Health Organziation (WHO) since 2007 in the fight against this global tropical worm disease in Africa. Since launching the program, we have donated more than 340 million praziquantel tablets. In total, over 74 million patients have been treated, primarily school age children. Our goal is to continue the fight until the disease has been eliminated in Africa. To this end, we are increasing the number of tablets donated and intend to provide WHO with up to 250 million tablets per year. More detailed information on our product donations can be found under Community (p. 29). Global Schistosomiasis Alliance: To combat schistosomiasis over the long term, in May 2014 we called on various stakeholders engaged in the fight against neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) to form the Global Schistosomiasis Alliance (GSA). The GSA's founding members include, among others, Merck, World Vision, the United States Agency for International Development, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The alliance seeks to pool resources and overcome the obstacles to eliminating schistosomiasis worldwide. Three working groups kicked off at the end of 2014. The first working group helps monitor, manage and track the distribution of praziquantel tablets. The second one is working to boost awareness of schistosomiasis in order to raise additional funds and resources. The third group is dedicated to research and development. Capacity Advancement Program (CAP): Through our Capacity Advancement Program (CAP), we are striving to improve the quality of and access to healthcare in Africa and Asia. The program also seeks to increase awareness and prevention of non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and cancer, as well as to educate the public about fertility treatment. Our goals are to raise awareness of these conditions by educating healthcare providers, as well as to support healthcare systems with measures to prevent, diagnose and treat them effectively. In 2015, we provided 7,000 students at African and Asian universities with training to teach them how to manage chronic diseases. By the end of 2018, we intend to provide more than 25,000 students in Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East with advanced training on managing and preventing non-infectious diseases. To fight infertility, we launched the More than a Mother campaign in Kenya in 2015, an initiative that provides med students and general practitioners with crucial medical knowledge on infertility. Additionally, we intend to help the Kenyan government develop concepts that facilitate access to safer, more effective infertility treatment. In Africa, women affected by infertility are often severely stigmatized, which is why the campaign also seeks to challenge the perception of the roles and worth of these women in society. On top of this, in May 2015 we also launched the Cancer Control Program in partnership with the Africa Oxford Cancer Foundation and the Universities of Nairobi (Kenya), Makerere (Uganda) and Muhimbili (Tanzania). Through this program, we are seeking to raise the early detection rates of cancer as well as improve the prevention of cancer in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. To this end, we are providing training to students and healthcare professionals, as well as educating communities through awareness campaigns. 78 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment, principles & goals Our entrepreneurial approach as a conscientious, responsible company includes ethical conduct as well as a commitment to human rights and core international labor standards. The Human Rights Charter listed under Principles 1 and 2 is the primary policy document on compliance with core labor standards within the Merck Group. At Merck, it goes without saying that we treat all employees with respect, handling them fairly and in compliance with local statutes and regulations. We abide by the core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO), especially with respect to the following issues: freedom of association; child labor; forced labor; discrimination; equal opportunity; compensation; working hours; occupational health and safety; and prevention of abuse and harassment. We furthermore regularly audit our facilities to ensure that these requirements are being met. Occupational health and safety is governed by our Group-wide EHS Policy (Environment, Healthy and Safety). This policy is the basis for internal, Group-wide EHS standards, as well as for site-specific guidelines and directives on compliant behavior. Our guidelines are aligned to the Responsible Care Global Charter, which was instituted by the international chemicals industry. One of our primary goals is to reduce the number of workplace accidents. In 2010, we set the goal of reducing the Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR the number of workplace accidents resulting in missed work per one million man-hours) to 2.5 by 2015. After having once more exceeded this goal by the end of 2014 with an LTIR of 1.8, we set a new, more ambitious target: to reduce the LTIR to 1.5 by 2020. We believe that workforce diversity nurtures innovation and better team performance. A good balance between different cultures, nationalities, and age groups as well as between male and female employees is conducive to our business success. We are therefore aiming to further workforce diversity and include all employees in company operations in the best possible way (inclusion). Increasing the proportion of women in management positions is important to us. We have thus set the goal of increasing the percentage of management positions (Global Grade 14+ as per the Towers Watson Global Grading System) held by women to 25%-30% by the end of 2016. In 2015, we endorsed the Equal Opportunity Charter of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE), which underscores our commitment to fairness and tolerance in the workplace. 79 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Taking action and gauging the results In order to monitor and assess adherence to our Human Rights Charter both within the Merck Group as well as among our suppliers, we conduct the audits mentioned under Principles 1 and 2; we furthermore have a SpeakUp Line that allows employees to report compliance violations. In addition to this, we collate key indicators every year and publish them in our Corporate Responsibility Report (p. 34). Occupational health and safety: Occupational health and safety in the Merck Group is an integral part of our Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) management system. Bernd Reckmann, Member of the Merck Executive Board, bears ultimate responsibility for environmental, health, and safety matters. The Group function Environment Health Safety Security Quality (EQ) is responsible Group-wide for our strategic alignment along with oversight of these issues, while the operational units at our sites are in charge of implementing procedures. In 2015, we started to implement an OHSAS 18001 group certificate for the production facilities of our Performance Materials business sector. By the end of 2015 this certificate covered nine out of 23 sites, including two sites from Sigma-Aldrich, a company that was acquired in November 2015. On top of that, we already have individual OHSAS 18001 certificates, or equivalent, for four other Merck Group facilities. For 2016, we are aiming to achieve OHSAS 18001 certification for additional sites. We provide regular training to educate employees and supervisors on potential accident risks and hazards. In addition to this, we bolster our safety culture by rewarding good performance at individual sites (e.g. our Safety Excellence Award for zero workplace accidents), and through best practice sharing at regional EHS forums. To continuously improve our EHS performance, we not only offer training and certification programs, but also conduct EHS audits throughout the Merck Group. Corrective actions as well as accidents and other incidents are reported across all production facilities. We use specific indicators to take monthly stock of our EHS performance. We also implement preventive occupational health and safety measures to protect our employees, efforts that are managed and carried out primarily at the local level. These include fitness activities, information on healthy nutrition, and early detection screening for diabetes or cancer. Data on occupational health and safety are collated and evaluated on a monthly basis and published inhouse. In 2015, our lost time injury rate (LTIR the number of workplace accidents resulting in missed work per one million man-hours) was 1.5. Despite our efforts to prevent incidents, there were unfortunately two workplace accidents resulting in fatalities in 2015. In the United States, one employee died in a car accident, while in Germany, one unfortunate employee had a fatal mishap involving a forklift. Our internal Safety Excellence Award, which recognizes production sites with no workplace accidents, was presented to 41 out of 61 production sites Group-wide. 80 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Diversity management: The Chief Diversity Officer (CDO) is responsible for promoting workplace diversity. In addition to this, we have a Diversity Council consisting of representatives from all our business sectors. This committee works to enhance and hone our diversity strategy, driving its implementation and monitoring progress. In order to foster diversity and inclusion within the company, we engage in numerous activities both Group-wide and at a local level. These include communications programs and special advanced training on topics such as leadership skills and self-marketing. Diversity and inclusion at Merck is also furthered by internal networks initiated by Merck employees, such as the International Community, the Rainbow Network for LGBT employees, and Women at Merck. In 2013, 25% of the global management positions (Global Grade 14+) at Merck were held by women, with 26% in 2014, thereby reaching our strategic goal of boosting this percentage to 25%-30%. We intend to increase this figure even further by the end of 2016. As of December 31, 2015, 27% of management positions (GG 14+) were held by women. People from 122 different nations work at Merck. Only 26% of our employees are German citizens, and 72% work outside of Germany. Monitoring the mica supply chain: We utilize mica sourced from the Indian state of Jharkhand as the primary raw material for the manufacture of effect pigments. Jharkhand is a region where child labor is very common. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we are actively fighting to end this practice. We require our suppliers to do the same and contractually prohibit them from utilizing child labor. In line with our general supply chain strategy, we have taken all measures needed to ensure that all suppliers comply with our requirements for mica procurement. We also support health and education projects in order to improve the social situation and living conditions of families in mica mining regions. More detailed information can be found under Suppliers. (p. 17) 81 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Environmental protection Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment, principles & goals Merck is committed to conserving natural resources as well as mitigating our impact on the environment. Our responsibility to the environment is an extension of our Values and our Group strategy. Adherence to Merck's Values is a key component of the Merck Code of Conduct, which is described under Principles 1 and 2. The policy document underlying environmental impact mitigation is the EHS Policy described under Principles 3, 4, 5, and 6. We aim to continually improve our performance by utilizing energy, water and materials economically and efficiently. In addition to this, we seek to boost our energy efficiency in order to reduce CO 2 emissions, thus mitigating our impact on the global climate. We have set ourselves the goal of reducing our total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 20% by 2020, relative to the 2006 baseline. For 2016, as in the four preceding years, the Executive Board has once more earmarked funds specifically for measures to conserve energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We strive to continually enhance the sustainability footprint of our products, developing suitable product and process innovations in order to do so. At the same time, we seek for our products to minimize not only our own environmental impacts, but those of our customers as well. In doing so, the safety and ethical conformity of our products is always our top priority. Taking action and gauging the results Measures to mitigate our impact on the environment have been implemented in our production processes in the form of the EHS management system described under Principles 3, 4, 5, and 6. EDISON program for climate impact mitigation and energy efficiency: We have consolidated our climate impact mitigation and energy efficiency activities into the EDISON program. Under this program, energy audits are conducted at various sites and energy saving processes implemented. Since 2012, we have initiated more than 400 EDISON projects Group-wide, around 60% of which have already been or are being rolled out. Through these efforts, we are aiming to cut CO2 emissions by about 90,000 metric tons per year in the medium term. In 2015, we lowered our greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 8% relative to the 2006 baseline, despite growth in our operating business. 82 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures EHS audits: The aforementioned internal EHS audits serve to scrutinize the Merck Group’s compliance with those regulatory requirements, standards, and business requirements specifically relating to environmental impact mitigation activities. In 2015, our annual external audit once more confirmed our group certificate for our ISO 14001 environmental management system. In addition to this, we conduct supplier audits (described under Principles 1 and 2) to ensure that our vendors are adhering to environmental standards. EHS data management: Our Group-wide EHS data management system is used to regularly collect environmentally relevant data at our individual sites and relay it to the EQ Group function. In 2015, Merck emitted a total of 518,000 metric tons of CO2, which represents an 8% reduction from 2006 levels. Product safety management: Through our Group-wide Product Safety Chemicals policy, we have established global processes for defining, steering and implementing product safety, and have also established the corresponding management structures to do so. This policy incorporates all relevant national and international chemical regulations, such as the Globally Harmonised System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) and its implementation in regional legislation (such as the CLP regulation in the EU and HazCom in the United States), the EU chemicals regulation REACH, the U.S. Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), and the German federal law on protection from hazardous substances (ChemG). The policy also incorporates legal standards that relate to the transport of hazardous substances, biocides, cosmetics, chemicals used in food and animal feed, etc. The Group Product Safety Committee (GPSC) initiates and steers the measures needed to respond to regulatory requirement changes worldwide; the Merck Executive Board Member responsible for chemical product safety is a member of this committee. Corporate Regulatory Affairs, a department within the Group function Environment Health Safety Security Quality (EQ), is responsible for compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements for product safety, a responsibility that it shares with local units as well. 83 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Product development: In line with the Green3 concept, our Performance Materials business sector offers our customers products that improve the sustainability of their own products for instance our innovative materials for energy-efficient displays. We furthermore help our customers develop more environmentally sustainable production processes. To meet the requirements of the WEEE Directive (EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive), we have developed recycling methods for used LC (Liquid Crystal) displays. We have also expanded the Green3 concept to include cosmetic products in our Performance Materials business sector. Here, we are working to sustainably source and manufacture cosmetic actives, as well as to optimize the associated production processes. Through our Green Product Policy, we have committed ourselves to complying with all international and country-specific laws and regulations (REACH, RoHS EU Directive) for products from our Performance Materials business sector. This policy also includes voluntary substance bans and self-imposed restrictions, such as our Halogen-free Policy. Our voluntary safety policy furthermore forbids the use of acutely toxic, mutagenic, or otherwise hazardous substances that remain present in the end product. As part of the Design for Sustainability program, our Life Science business sector has developed a process to drive sustainability across the product development process. This program is also aimed at reducing our customers' own environmental impacts, including their carbon footprint and water use. An analysis in 2015 showed that around 12% of our Life Science products (only includes former Merck Millipore business excludes Sigma-Aldrich, which was acquired in November 2015) exhibit one or more of the sustainability aspects that we've defined. 84 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment, principles & goals Merck does not tolerate bribery, extortion or corruption. We are expressly committed to fighting these crimes across the globe. The primary policy document governing these issues is the Code of Conduct mentioned under Principles 1 and 2, as well as Merck's Group-wide anti-corruption guideline. Taking action and gauging the results Our Code of Conduct and anti-corruption guidelines are applied within Merck through our compliance management process, as well as the internal compliance training and workshops mentioned under Principles 1 and 2. Global Business Partner Risk Management Policy: We adopted our Global Business Partner Risk Management Policy in 2012. It constitutes a fundamental component of the selection process for business partners, along with their overall assessment. This policy aims to ensure that business partners are selected diligently in order to minimize the danger of legal and financial risks, or damage to our reputation. This process is especially concerned with fighting corrupt practices. Guidelines on interactions with the health industry: Our Compliance Policies for our Biopharma and Consumer Health businesses guide our employees' interactions with medical professionals and other representatives of the health industry. These guidelines aim to ensure that all payments are made for a legally valid reason and never in exchange for prescribing our products. The policies are backed by a modern electronic compliance management system in which interactions with medical professionals and other representatives of the health industry are recommended, approved, documented, monitored, and, as relevant, disclosed. Our suppliers are subject to the supplier management process that is likewise described in these guidelines. In Europe effective 2016, companies must disclose all donations not connected to research that are made to physicians and healthcare organizations, with the recipients individually named. This is a requirement stipulated by the transparency initiative of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Our Compliance organization started initiating the measures necessary to satisfy this disclosure obligation in 2014. Our goal is to disclose the required information by June 30, 2016. Code of Conduct audits: In order to monitor and assess adherence to our Code of Conduct within the Merck Group as well as among our suppliers, we conduct the audits described under Principles 1 and 2. We furthermore have a SpeakUp Line that allows employees to report compliance violations. In 2015, 49 audits were conducted with respect to corruption. 85 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Assurance report Independent Assurance Report1 To the Executive Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt We have performed an independent limited assurance engagement on the information published in the chapter “facts & figures – indicators” in the online “Merck Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015” (further “The Report”) including the accompanying explanatory notes, for the business year 2015 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt (further “Merck”), published at http://reports.merckgroup.com/2015/cr-report. Management’s Responsibility for the Report The legal representatives of Merck are responsible for the accurate preparation of the Report in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Merck applies the principles and standard disclosures of the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 und 2), and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard of World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development, as described in the section of the Report “about this report”, as reporting criteria. This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, this responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Report in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. Independence and quality assurance on the part of the auditing firm We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA-Code), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. The quality assurance system of the KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft is based on the International Standard on Quality Control 1 “Quality Control for Audit, Assurance and Related Service Practices” (ISQC 1) and, in addition on national statutory requirements and professional standards, especially the Professional Code for Certified Accountants as well as the joint statement of WPK (Chamber of Public Accountants) and IDW (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany): Requirements for quality assurance in the auditing practice (VO 1/2006). 86 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed and the evidences obtained on the information disclosed in the abovementioned chapter. Nature and extent of the assurance engagement We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410: “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements” of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). These standards require that we comply with our professional duties and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance to preclude that the above mentioned qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the aforementioned Reporting Criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The choice of audit procedures is subject to the auditor‘s own judgement. This includes the assessment of the risk of material misstatement in the Report under consideration of the Reporting Criteria. Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst others the following procedures when conducting the limited assurance: Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of the indicators, including the consolidation of the data, at corporate and site level Interviews with relevant staff on corporate level responsible for providing and consolidating the data, as well as carrying out internal control procedures on the data including the explanatory notes Visits to the sites Darmstadt (Germany) and Gernsheim (Germany) as well as Cork (Ireland) and Mollet de Vallès (Spain) to assess local data collection, validation and reporting processes and the reliability of the reported data An analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all sites for consolidation at group level Use of the insights and relevant work performed for the group and statutory audit of the (consolidated) financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 of Merck KGaA with regard to audit procedures on those information and indicators that were derived from those consolidated financial statements An evaluation of the overall presentation of the information, including the explanatory notes, within the scope of our engagement 87 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and evidences received to obtain limited assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information published in the chapter “facts & figures – indicators” in the online “Merck Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015” including the accompanying explanatory notes, for the business year 2015 is in all material respects, not prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. This assurance report is issued based on an assurance engagement agreed upon with Merck. The assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance is issued on purpose of Merck and the assurance report is solely for information purposes of Merck on the results of the assurance engagement. This assurance report must not be used as basis for (financial) decision-making by third parties of any kind. We have responsibility only towards Merck. We do not assume any responsibility for third parties. Frankfurt am Main, April 11, 2016 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Fischer Glöckner Wirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüfer [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] 1 Our engagement applies to the German version of the Merck Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015. This is a translation of the independent assurance report, which is authoritative in German language. 88 Corporate Responsibility Report Update 2015 Facts & Figures Publication contributors Published on April 29, 2016 by Merck, Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Frankfurter Strasse 250, 64293 Darmstadt, Germany Tel.: +49 (0) 6151-72 0 Fax: +49 (0) 6151-72 5577 E-mail: comms@merckgroup.com Website: www.merckgroup.com Contact for questions regarding this report: Maria Schaad, Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Friederike Segeberg, Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Concept and implementation of HTML version & PDF: nexxar GmbH, Vienna – Online annual reports and online sustainability reports Text and consulting: Stakeholder Reporting GmbH www.stakeholder-reporting.com Photos and graphics: Merck 89
