GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Madrid April, 2016 Our Vision: Being an exemplary company with a business model based on sustainability, responsible investment, transparency and continuous engagement with the stakeholders. I am extremely proud to confirm once more that for Globalvia, performing our business honoring the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact is in our DNA. We do not conceive working outside these Principles which should help us build a sustainable and fair world giving every inhabitant of the globe access to the required infrastructure. The annual submission of a Communication of Progress (COP) is the culmination of our corporate and personal efforts to implement the Ten Principles while we serve communities in seven countries. We support public accountability and transparency, and we therefore commit to continue reporting on an annual basis according to the Global Compact COP policy. Globalvia is fully committed and has internalized the UN Global Compact and its Principles in our strategy, culture and day to day operations while continuing to engage with the local communities we serve thanks to collaborative projects that pursue to fulfill the broader sustainable development goals set by the United Nations. To this effect, Globalvia once more confirms this firm commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. I sincerely believe that Globalvia leveraging its global presence is a key partner for the UN in creating sustainable and fair growth, making our world a better place to live in. I, personally and on behalf of all of us who work in Globalvia, proudly accept and support the challenge. Sincerely yours, Javier Pérez Fortea CEO 2016 is the fourth year joining the UN Global Compact and for Globalvia, the commitment is even stronger. Our Corporate Governance Strategy is a clear path to excellence, and the Ten Principles the perfect resume of it. For Globalvia, the Corporate Responsibility is a KPI measure of value that involves all the activities developed by the company, everywhere and in all the business areas: Human Rights, Corporate Social Responsibility, Labor Relations, Environmental Care, among others. For us, to be a part of the UN Global Compact through Communication on Progress report is a responsibility, but also an honor. Sincerely yours, Nacho Colmenero Arenado Communication and CSR Director CONTENTS I. CONTENTS CONTENTS I. Introduction 02 II. Resumé 06 III. Human rights principles 11 III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals 12 III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 16 III.3 Measurement of human rights outcomes 25 IV. Labor principles 26 IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals 27 IV.2 Implementation of labor actions 31 IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes 39 V. Environmental principles 43 V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals 44 V.2 Implementation of environmental actions 47 V.3 Measurement of environmental outcomes 54 VI. Anti-corruption principles 57 VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals 58 VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions 60 VI.3 Measurement of anti-corruption outcomes 63 VII. Conclusions 65 5 5 6 II. RESUMÉ 6 II. RESUMÉ An overall of 76 assessments, actions and indicators that measure their outcomes have been developed in Globalvia that confirm the strategy and operations alignment with UN Global Compact ten principles in four different dimensions. Human rights “Businesses should support and respect the protection of the internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Code of Ethics • Corporate Governance policy and principles • Collaboration with Foundations Implemented actions: • Application of the Code of Ethics • Communication of both Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance policy and principles • Collaboration with Carmen Pardo Valcarce Foundation: labor integration • Collaboration with Manolo Maestre Davila Foundation: children social integration Globalvia presents in Spain assessments, policies, • Collaboration with Real Madrid Foundation: children social integration in Latin goals, implemented America actions and its measurements, related • Collaboration with Juegaterapia Foundation to human rights, labor, • Habaneras music spectacle environment and anti• School Volunteering and delivery of didactic material corruption. • Road educational talks: Costa Rica and Chile • Collaboration for training of disabled people: CAMPVS • Toy collecting campaign • Local Literary Culture Promotion Measurement of outcomes: • Harassment report • Code of Ethics training 7 7 II. RESUMÉ Labor “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms or forced and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor and; the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics • Labor Risk Prevention policy • Appraisal process • Training and development plan Implemented actions: • Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics implementation • Communication of Labor Risk Prevention policy • Social benefits for employees • Talent Management Review • Flexible Payment Plan • Photo contest 2014 • Sport promotion within the Company • Children sport promotion • Membership in economic association • Healthy habits promotion • Greetings with solidarity to employees Measurement of outcomes: • Employees distribution by gender and hierarchal level • Accidents, absenteeism and illness records • Internal quality of service survey 8 8 II. RESUMÉ Environment “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” Assessment, policy and goals: • ISO and OHSAS certifications 9001,14001,18001 and other Standdars • CSR strategic plan (and specific on Concessions) • Environmental Impact Declaration Implemented actions: • Collaboration agreement with Abadía de Montserrat Foundation • Training on ISO, OHSAS and other Standards certifications • CSR strategic plan (and specific to Concessions) implementation • Control Disclosure Protocol • Underwater photography contest • User awareness in waste management • Maintaining the Universal Path Carara • Supportive Recycling • Sustainable mobility • Animal Rescue Program Measurement of outcomes: • Headquarters • Ruta de los Pantanos • Concesiones de Madrid • Túnel d’Envalira • Autopista Central Gallega • Túnel de Sóller • Sociedad Concesionaria del Itata • Sociedad Concesionaria del Aconcagua • Chile Country Office • Ruta 27 • Tranvía de Parla • M50 Concession Limited • Hospital del Sureste • Autopista Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlán • N6 • GSJ • Autopista Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlán • Metro de Sevilla • Trambaix • Trambesòs 9 9 II. RESUMÉ Anti-corruption “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Fraud procedure • Compliance Manual Implemented actions: • Compliance Committee • Whistleblowing Channel • Ethics Committee and Ombudsman • Code of Ethics: tutorial video Measurement of outcomes: • Public legal cases statement • Internal Audits carried out and its actions 10 10 11 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 11 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals “Businesses should support and respect the protection of the internationally proclaimed human rights…” Globalvia supports the three principles related to human rights by the definition of certain actions, codes and manuals:  Code of Ethics  Corporate Governance policy and principles  Collaboration with Foundations “…and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses assessment, policy and goals.”  Code of Ethics Globalvia has designed the Code of Ethics as a guide for all employees and executives of the Company to perform their professional tasks. This code is related to their daily working lives, as well as to the resources used and the business environment they work in. According to this, Globalvia respects Globalvia respects and and adheres to the human and employment rights that are recognized adheres to the human under Spanish and international legislation and the principles behind the employment rights that World Compact, the UN standards on the responsibilities of transnational are recognized under and other organizations in the field of human rights, the OCDE guidelines for Spanish and multinationals, the tripartite declaration of principles on multinationals, and international legislation. the social policy of the International Labor Organization, respecting the laws of each country and the ethical principles of their respective cultures. This Code includes the following paragraphs: • Declaration of principles, stating that the compliance with the Code of Ethics is mandatory for all employees of Globalvia and its subsidiaries • Values of Globalvia Group, as part of the Organization’s culture in means of i) integrity (as acting ethically and responsibly), ii) team work (as in collaboration, cooperation and communication), iii) quality management (in regard to constant ongoing learning; clear, precise and rigorous action procedures; and last but not least, respect for the environment), iv) results-driven (as in organization and efficiency), v) customer service, and finally, vi) innovation, imagination and anticipation, vii) respect for healt and safety of people. • Professional Standards and Conduct, which states that the compliance to the Code of Ethics is compulsory for all Globalvia personnel and an inherent obligation as they fulfill their mission. All employees therefore accept specifically and irrevocably that any failure to observe or infringement of this Code of Ethics may be considered as a serious 12 12 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals breach of their contractual conditions and Globalvia may apply any disciplinary measures as appropriate, without prejudice to any other civil or criminal proceedings that may ensue. The breach of this Code is not negotiable under any circumstances. Furthermore, guidelines for professional conduct may include: › Confidential information and professional secrecy › Concurrence and conflict of interests › Intellectual property, means and resources › Relations with the public administration, payoffs and bribery, fraudulent subsidies and obligation of cooperating with investigations › Information about legal or administrative procedures › Prevention of money laundering › Transparency › Auditing and accounting › Giving and receiving gifts, benefits or advantages policy • Standards of conduct amongst professionals within Globalvia Group, as in general terms and more specific lines related to managers and Globalvia establishes executives the basis for development of their › Always encouraging relations driven by mutual respect and avoiding activities following the any kind of discrimination or other actions that may conflict with criteria of transparency the Organization’s values and ethics and confidentiality in › Any conduct that limits any professionals’ dignity, whether their relationship with physically or verbally, creating an intimidating, hostile or humiliating the stakeholders working atmosphere will be considered unacceptable involved in its business. › Any conduct considered inappropriate will be reported to Human Resourced for its study • Ethics Committee and Ombudsman, entrusted with the mission of ensuring compliance with the Code of Ethics in all Group’s companies. The Ombudsman will be responsible for cooperating with the Ethics Committee in the dissemination of the Code of Ethics and for managing the Reporting Channel. • Annex I: Reporting Channel (Whistleblowing), the new internal mechanism to report misconducts (available since this year 2016). • Annex II: Moral (Mobbing) Protocol, the protocol for prevention and action in cases of mobbing, gender-based harassment and/or sexual harassment in the workplace. • Annex III: Protocol against moral and sexual harassment at work, for the Group’s companies located in Costa Rica that applies without exception to all workers in Ruta 27, without differentiating in any way in terms of the rank the have been assigned. 13 13 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals  Corporate Governance policy and principles Corporate Governance policy represents a guide to all Globalvia’s employees and executives in the performance of their professional duties and in their daily work, as well as in relation to the resources used and the business environment in which it operates; it is also, an example of its commitment to transparency. This policy includes the following issues: • General principles, since the Company operates in OECD countries, its governance principles are based on the foundations laid in this organism and it nourishes from the Spanish Corporate Governance Code due to its shareholders nature. It includes the following principles that need to be followed by every employee: › Rights and fair treatment of shareholders › Interests of other actors, stating that the Organization takes its responsibilities with other non-stakeholders (legal, contractual, social and market) that may be related to its activity (employees, investors, creditors, suppliers, local communities, customers and government) › Role and responsibilities of the Board › Integrity and ethical behavior › Communication and transparency • Corporate Governance, stating General Counsel’s functions and responsibilities, which are to keep updated the information related to ownership structure, direction structure, related operations and any other interesting information, as well as to make it available to shareholders. • Current Company’s bylaws • Operation of the Board of Directors, its composition and member and delegated bodies, as expressed in articles 17 to 22 of the Company’s bylaws: › Ways of organizing the Administration › Nomination / Designation › Term of office › Powers of the Management Body › Remuneration of the Management Body › System and operation of the Board of Directors › Board composition and its Delegated Bodies 14 14 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals • Committees, within the powers granted by the applicable law and the provisions of the Bylaws, the Board has delegated certain functions by creating committees. As of today, there are several committees: Executive Committee, Designation and Retribution Committee, Commercial Committee, Risk Management Committee, on which Compliance Committee depends, Appointments and Remunerations Committee and Sustainable Committee. • Side agreements, Globalvia shareholders have entered into a Shareholders Agreement that governs the development of the Company.  Collaboration with Foundations/NGOs Since 2013 Globalvia has selected several Foundations/NGOs in which to invest taking into account the projects that best represent the goals of its CSR Strategic Plan mostly focused on environment, economic and social development and culture. Globalvia is currently collaborating with: • Real Madrid Foundation • Carmen Pardo Valcarce Foundation • Abadia de Montserrat Foundation • Manolo Maestre Davila Foundation (until December 2015) • Juegaterapia Foundation (from January 2016) • Cáritas • SEUR Foundation • FAD Foundation All the collaborations with Foundations are insightfully explained along this report. 15 15 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions This present chapter focuses on the description of concrete actions to implement human rights policies, address human rights risks and respond to human rights related concerns.  Application of the Code of Ethics  Communication of both Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance policy and principles  Collaboration with Carmen Pardo Valcarce Foundation: labor integration  Collaboration with Manolo Maestre Davila Foundation: children social integration in Spain  Collaboration with Juegaterapia Foundation: cancer children help in Spain  Collaboration with Real Madrid Foundation: children social integration in Latin America  Habaneras music spectacle  School Volunteering in Chile  Collaboration for training of disabled people: CAMPVS 10 Road Educational Talks: Spain, Costa Rica and Chile 11 Toy collection campaign 12 Literary Cultural Promotion The application of the  Application of the Code of Ethics Code of Ethics is a guarantee of ethical In the chapter above, “III.1 human rights assessment, policy and goals”, integrity for Globalvia Globalvia’s Code of Ethics has been described. At the end of that same and a reflection of the document a specific paragraph is dedicated to the application of the Code Company’s adherence and may be considered as its implementation. to the human and employment rights. According to this, the Code of Ethics is effective from the date of its approval by the Chairman, after which it was communicated to all employees and remains in force until it is cancelled or replaced by a new Code. Thus, all employees will be under the obligation to be aware of, uphold and comply with this Code of Ethics. Any breach of the standards contained in this Code will be considered as an infringement and result in the corresponding disciplinary action being taken. Managers requiring any other legal requirements for formal effectiveness must enforce due compliance. If employees do not agree with the application of any of the principles and standards, they may set out their objections within 10 days of receiving it from HR. If no such communication is received, it will be understood to consent to the full content of this document. Globalvia has developed a Communication Plan taking into account the different realities existing in the Group societies in order to guarantee full understanding of the Code. 16 16 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions  Communication of both Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance policy and principles The Code of Ethics is handed over to all employees along with their welcome pack on their first working day. Also, the Code of Ethics and the Corporate Governance policy and principles are available to everyone on the intranet. In 2013, Globalvia designed a tutorial video about the Company's Code of Ethics. At the beginning of 2016, the company redesigned this tutorial video including the new Whistleblowing Channel (further details are included in the point “VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions”). It is a universal tool to get all employees involved emotionally in the Code of Ethics video screenshot importance of the Code of Ethics. The tutorial is oriented to spread the mission, vision, values of Globalvia to its employees. The video is shown when the employee joins Globalvia allowing the learner to watch and learn at his own pace. After watching the video, the employee takes a test that will be retaken every three years to refresh its significance. Besides, different training sessions will be carried out in some concessions, especially in the new ones, to ensure the application of the Code of Ethics. Globalvia supports  Collaboration with Carmen Pardo Valcarce Foundation: labor integration integrating people with disabilities since it In keeping with its commitment to diversity, Globalvia ​collaborates with involves committing to Carmen Pardo Valcarce Foundation in order to promote and encourage the right of everyone to integration of people with disabilities. In 2013 the company hired a person play an active role in with intellectual disabilities for the General Services department of society under Headquarters, who gives support to the receptionist, attends phone calls, conditions of fairness scans and copies documents and does several administrative tasks. and equal opportunity. From the CSR Department the challenge was to build awareness about people with disabilities in the workplace. We were determined to make all employees learn that people with disabilities can make a positive contribution to business at all levels. For that employee and leadership sensitivity training was a real asset. That is why it was decided that the Steering Committee would be in charge of sensitizing Globalvia’s employees and teams to ensure the successful integration of this employee. Nowadays and thanks to everybody, this person is totally integrated in the company. Over time, Globalvia has increased both in number and diversity the Corporate Social Responsibility actions in cooperation with the FCPV, tightening the ties between both entities. This actions are described in following parts of this report. 17 17 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions  Collaboration with Manolo Maestre Davila Foundation: children social integration in Spain From January 2013 until December 2016, Globalvia collaborated in Madrid with the Manolo Maestre Foundation on its ”Amoverse” project to ensure school support for children with academic difficulties who come from dysfunctional families at risk of exclusion in the Pozo del Tío Raimundo area (Vallecas), not only attaining a better life for them but also a brighter future. Each employee had the option to make an economic contribution along the year and Globalvia contributed the same amount provided by all, thus doubling the donation. The project “With you, 1=2”, which was described in the COP of 2014, was the starting initiative from which this Foundation was selected by all employees. As originally planned, at the end of 2015, “With you, 1=2” project was relaunched and Juegaterapia Foundation is today the Foundation selected by all employees which replaced Manolo Maestre Foundation.  Collaboration with Juegaterapia: cancer children help in Spain From January 2016, Globalvia collaborates in Valencia with the Juegaterapia Foundation on its ”El jardín de mi hospi” project to offer a happier and more pleasant life to children suffering from cancer during their stay in the hospital. Juegaterapia Foundation’s mission is focused on improving the life quality of children with cancer through free delivery of any type of video consoles and promote the humanization of healthcare environments through psychosocial interventions to promote play, creativity and art as a source of welfare for these patients. That is why “El jardín de mi hospi” project exists. This project consists of the creation of an outdoor space of 1000 m2 located in the roof of the Hospital La Fe of Valencia (Spain). This space will thus become a zone of green games, with plants, trees and other elements designed to enjoy also visually Outdoor garden of being so the perfect space for these children for playing an relaxing. La Paz Hospital of Madrid Thanks to these green and recreation spaces, it is demonstrated that the patients significantly improve their mood and thus their physical conditions. This garden in Valencia is the third project of the Juegaterapia Foundation after La Paz and Doce de Octubre Hospitals in Madrid. 18 18 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions During 2015 and with a similar objective, Globalvia through some concessions, collaborated with other Foundations that provide support to people with cancer. M50 Concession Limited signed an ongoing collaboration agreement with Can Teen Ireland, a nationwide Dublin based support group for young people between the ages of 12 and 25 years who have cancer and for their families. Can Teen provides 1 to 1 support, health professionals involvement, home/hospital visiting, social events and counselling services. The first collaboration action for M50CL has been to manage and fund the provision to Can Teen of 3,000 Tin Cans to be distributed among their members and the public to collect money for supporting the organisation. Malaga Metro collaborated with Luis Olivares Foundation for Children with cancer illness sponsoring its charity dinner which was held in July 2015.  Collaboration with Real Madrid Foundation: children social integration in Latin America Globalvia and Real Madrid Foundation are joined by two cooperation agreements to develop two social and sporty schools in Costa Rica and Chile providing more value to the Group Corporate Social Responsibility Plan. Costa Rica’ school was born in 2013 and it increased his activity until today up to 125 children with ages between 7 and 14 years thanks to Globalvia contribution. This school, which is located in Universidad Latina de Heredia Campus, opens its doors every Saturday from 8 to 11 a.m. educating the children Social and sporty school in Costa Rica different values through the sport. To have a good educational performance is an indispensable requirement to join the school. Chile’ school was born in 2009 and thanks to Globalvia contribution it has been possible to increase the activity of this school to a maximum of 215 children and to expand the project to the female population. This school opens its doors to boys and girls who belong to dysfunctional families and/or living in care centers of Independencia and Estación Central communes located in Santiago de Chile. The main objective is to educate Social and sporty school in Chile them through different values using the sport as a tool. 19 19 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions Furthermore these two initiatives cover daily health and food needs both for children and their families and engage, inspire and educate them about healthy habits in living. Real Madrid Foundation main objective is to promote, both in Spain as well as abroad, the values inherent in sport, and the latter’s role as an educational tool capable of contributing to the comprehensive development of the personality of those who practice it. In addition, as a mean of social integration of those who find themselves suffering from any form of marginalization, as well as to promote and disseminate all the cultural aspects linked to sport. Ratification Protocol Signing event On 7 March 2016, a meeting between Globalvia and the Real Madrid Foundation was celebrated to strength their ties of commitment and collaboration. The event involved the signing of a Ratification Protocol regarding the two cooperation agreements between both entities. The event was also attended by children from both schools who were enjoying a visit to Spain these days. On the occasion of this visit, Globalvia, organized also an entire visit to Parla Tram, one of its Spanish railways. Thanks to this initiative, Globalvia Children’s visit to could explain to the children how a sustainable transport works and the Parla Tram concession. importance of use this type of transport regarding the environmental care.  Habaneras music spectacle Globalvia, in line with the Right to participate in the Cultural Life of Community, ​collaborated for the third time in a row in the celebration of the fifth Trobada de Havaneres edition in Port of Sóller on the 18th, 19th and 20th of September 2015. Habaneras spectacle poster 20 20 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions  School volunteering in Chile Since 2012, Globalvia, through the Aconcagua Highway, supports the children’s school known as Las Luciernagas in Llay-Llay (Chile). After the reconstruction project of the schoolyard carried out in 2014, during 2015 a new huge structure of outdoor games was installed in the schoolyard in regards to the recreation and amusement of the children. Globalvia, through the Itata Highway, supports the children’s rural schools that are closed to the highway in terms of helping in their culture and personal development. In 2014, the collaboration was focused on “Quinchamali” rural school in Children’s visit to the “Quellon” (Chile) and in 2015, the collaboration was focused on “Crucero Claudio Arrau León Museum. Huaro“ rural school in Bío Bío (Florida, Chile). Several cultural visits were organized by the concession through which the employees could enhance the integration of the children who belong to the rural communities. 9 Collaboration for training of disabled people: CAMPVS Carmen Pardo-Valcarce Foundation realized the integration of people with disabilities required for the disabled community to work to find solutions to break down existing barriers. Thus, the Foundation has launched an innovative educational project following trends imported from the U.S. and UK to involve private enterprise in the world of higher education. People with disabilities may not feel as if they are ready for the job because they do not have the practical, hands-on experience required for skilled positions or they do not have all abilities required. Many people with disabilities who are entering the workforce have not had the benefit of summer employment or part-time jobs as well as specialized training. 21 21 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions As a result of this situation, companies cannot find in these people the adequate training for some positions. CAMPVS is just the answer to this issues. Keeping in mind that hiring and supporting people with disabilities must be a successful endeavor for the business, an innovative training system was designed. Three different and very specific training paths have been defined to give students just the right practical experience needed for a job posting. Along the way, companies will play a key role since employees of the different sponsor companies will teach subjects related this “careers”. Globalvia is one of the Sponsors and as part of the CAMPVS Mentoring program, a total of 8 employees have joined the corporate social volunteering and become Mentors regarding the current school period Training sessions (CAMPVS) (2015-2016). Although three of our colleagues had been mentors in previous years and wanted to continue in the project, five of them have joined the Program this year. Moreover, another four colleagues contribute to the CAMPVS project by offering Master class sessions at the facilities of the university that serve as a complement to the training provided by CAMPVS teachers. The content of these Master Classes includes Business operation and structure , Employment relations, agreements, rights and duties of employees , Types of contracts and Selection processes . Master class sessions (CAMPVS) In addition and as a major novelty, Globalvia offers this year the execution of interview simulations for the 29 students currently attending the third and last year of CAMPVS. These interview simulations are designed and structured in the same way as the interviews that take place during real selection processes of the Company. Students come to Globalvia’s offices, are interviewed during a 40 minute period approximately and later get an appraisal report indicating their strengths and areas of improvement. And if this were not enough, Globalvia also wanted to offer CAMPVS students the opportunity to visit one of its railway concessions to bring the activities and business closer to their daily lives. Hence, visits have been organized to Madrid Light Rail for after Easter in which students may enjoy a complete two-hour tour through the concession. 22 22 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 10 Road Educational Talks: Spain, Costa Rica and Chile Since 2012, Globalvia has been running a Road Educational Talks program for schools, based on fostering responsible habits and behaviour and preventing accidents when using road infrastructure. At the same time, the children taking part are encouraged to be key actors to build awareness of responsible behaviour on the roads in their immediate circles, thereby becoming agents for change based on looking after oneself and respecting the environment. The aim is to generate and strengthen relationships with neighbouring communities on the road, forging new links and reaffirming the organisation’s commitment to local people’s quality of life. Globalvia develops this program in Chile and Costa Rica since several years. In Costa Rica the program is called “I am responsible” and through games, the children learn how to be responsible pedestrians, cyclists and passengers. Besides the training, each child receives a hi-vis jacket to wear when they are on the roads. The program has evolved in creating road educational brigades in a manner Road Educational Program in Chile that the children could transmit the information to their colleagues in the schools. During 2015 nine brigades were created in Salinas, Coloyar, Orotina, Atenas, Santa Ana y Escazú Schools. A total of 360 children has been included in this program until today. In Chile the program is called “Learn how to manage your safety” For 2015, the CSR challenges for Chile are to include the adult world and professional drivers in the program, because besides educating children, it will be of vital importance to give adults relevant information for them to take care of themselves, their children and respect the environment. “I am responsible” Program in Costa Rica 23 23 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 11 Toy collection campaign Globalvia in partnership with the users of Seville Metro organizes a Toy collection campaign every December. This action, which has a high level of participation, means that a large number of toys can be distributed through local associations. Last December the toys collected were donated to the program “No child without toys” of Amigos del Parque del Alamillo Association, who give out toys all over the province of Sevilla (south of Spain). Toy collecting 12 Local literary culture promotion In the framework of the CSR Strategic Plan of the company, it is highlighted the importance of enhancing the local culture of the communities around Globalvia's assets. That is way, during 2015 Globalvia has developed several literary cultural activities inviting the local young users of the Spanish railways concessions to participate voluntarily in them. The common idea of all these cultural activities was the theme, so participants had to write a short story, both individually or in group, about the railway. These cultural initiatives were the following: Book Fair poster • Book Fair of Parla Tram of Parla Tram • “TramA” competition of collective stories of Barcelona Trams • Micro-story contest of Malaga Metro 24 24 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.3 Measurements of human rights outcomes Globalvia has various ways of monitoring and evaluating the performance related to human rights issues:  Harassment report  Code of Ethics training  Harassment reports As the chapter related to Labor policies will detail, there is an external figure called the Compliance Officer to whom any Globalvia’s employee has the right to report any harassment situation of any kind. These reports followed the specific Protocol established in the annex to the Code of Ethics. As a result, the Investigation Committee determined that, in one case, had existed a situation of mobbing and sexual harassment and the perpetrator was fired; in the second case, it was determined that no harassment had occurred.  Code of Ethics training All people hired by Globalvia receive a Code of Ethics. Moreover, there is a tutorial video for newcomers (see III.2 Implementation of human rights actions). To assess whether the matter has been understood, the person viewing the video must fill in a questionnaire on the topic. This tutorial video has been recently extended including the new Whistleblowing Channel as we explained before. Besides, different training sessions will be carried out in some concessions to ensure the understanding and the application of the Code of Ethics (for example in Ruta 27 (Costa Rica) where it is important to reinforce the Code of Ethics). Code of Ethics video screenshot 25 25 26 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES 26 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals The following actions have been defined and implemented, these supports Labor principles:  Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics  Labor Risk Prevention policy  Appraisal process  Training and development plan “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining…”  Moral Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics The Code of Ethics includes a specific section that describes the protocol for prevention and action in mobbing and / or sexual harassment in the workplace. The Moral – Protocol states the compliance of the Company with the Spanish Constitution, European Union (EU) legislation and the Workers’ Statute and the Collective Bargaining Agreement for the Construction Sector, related to the safeguarding of dignity, the right to The Moral Protocol equality, moral integrity and non-discrimination. states the compliance of the Company with It also defines the concepts that involves moral harassment: the Spanish • Moral harassment or “mobbing”, that may take three different forms, Constitution, European depending on who is doing the harassing: Union (EU) legislation and the Workers’ › Descending: when the person doing the harassing is the victim’s Statute and the hierarchical superior. Collective Bargaining › Horizontal: When the person doing the harassing is on the same Agreement for the hierarchical level as the victim. Construction Sector. › Ascending: When the person doing the harassing is hierarchically below the victim. • Sexual harassment • Gender-based harassment The protocol has been adapted for Costa Rica to comply with local legislation.  Labor Risk Prevention Policy In line with the policy framework on labor risk prevention, from Human Risks department of Globalvia, various activities take place related to this matter with the aim of improving working conditions and workers safety and 27 health. To this end, the Company leans on the support and advice of a risk 27 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals prevention accredited service, with which various activities are developed aimed at the identification, evaluation and monitoring of risks condition arising from the Company’s activity. Globalvia’s Direction, consistent with the guidelines established by the International Labor Organization and the Europe Union and also in compliance with internal regulations related to labor risks prevention, has developed a labor risk prevention management system that is fully integrated in the Company, at all hierarchal and functional levels, and that is consistent as well with the fundamental right workers health. “…the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor”  Appraisal process Globalvia’s employees are remunerated with a fixed annual salary and a variable salary. This last one is a part of the Integrated Management System framework applied by the Company’s Human Resources. The Board determines the strategy and overall objectives of the Company which will be applied in the variable salary. Globalvia’s personnel, including those subsidiaries where the Company holds a majority stake are included within the Integrated Management System (IMS) Human Resources. The variable salary is assigned to each of the managers to ensure that there is a complete alignment between the objectives assigned and the objectives and interests of Globalvia and its shareholders / investors. The variable salary is composed of three types of targets with different weights depending on the degree of responsibility and job to do. There is also a fourth type that is not taken into account for the variable salary. The types of objectives are called R1 (Results-1), R2, R3: • R1, Corporate objectives: global Globalvia’s objectives › The entire organization has the same goals, with different weights. › The aim is that everyone participates in the Group’s development. 28 28 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals • R2, Team Goals: specific goals of each team › Business Direction: same goals that R1, but disaggregated to a specific scope: country or concession. › Corporate Areas: specific objectives to provide the service and to generate tools to manage the Company and the business line. • R3, Employee Assessment of Competence: › Specific employee competencies that a person should show executing a particular job (Human Resources has established a set Globalvia’s appraisal of 12 competencies aligned with the strategy and objectives of process ensures a Globalvia). complete alignment of › As a result of this assessment an action plan is defined to be the interests between coordinated with the career plan (specific training, functional and people and the geographical mobility, promotion opportunities, etc) Company The weight assigned to each of the objectives sets out the degree of importance of each. With this system Globalvia ensures a complete alignment of interests between people and the company.  Training and development plan Globalvia’s development plan sets the attitudes, skills and expertise needed for an employee to take over the responsibility of the next hierarchal level in the organization. Based on the analysis of the Company’s main functions, Organizational Families are extracted (Finance, Support, Business Development, Highways and Railways). A development path for each family has been also defined and established that details the trail that each functional level needs to follow for their development. Globalvia’s development plan takes into account: › Skills assessment result › Performance evaluation › Individual assessment › TOEIC level (English level) › Training › Individual development needs 29 29 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals The training policy is included within the Company’s development plan. The development modules provide four training blocks defined according to the Organization needs: • Corporate culture: › It includes common training activities to all the employees, regardless of the area or department. › The training aims to present the Company, and enhance the employees development within the Company (vision, mission, values, processes and systems). • Skills: › This blocks gathers skill training activities common to all employees and graded by level / category. › The aim is to train the employee for its development within the Organization. • Technical competences: › Specific training actions are included for each employee of the departments, areas, or professional levels. › The objective is to develop the employee skills and enhance the development of their daily activities. • Languages: › Globalvia offers English classes to their employees. › In societies where there is another language (different from English), the Society offers classes. › It requires students commitment and follow-up. The training modules may be taken at certain points of the development paths, although there are mandatory actions that must be successfully completed in order to access the next functional level. The training sessions take place at Globalvia’s campus, a space where to develop the Company’s talent. 30 30 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions “…the effective abolition of child labor; and…” The following paragraphs state the relevance of labor rights for Globalvia, through the implementation of various actions:  Moral Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics implementation  Communication of Labor Risks Prevention Policy  Social benefits for employees  Talent Management Review  Flexible Payment Plan  Photo contest 2014  Sport promotion within the Company  Children sport promotion  Membership in economic association  Healthy habits promotion 11 Greetings with solidarity to employees  Moral Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics implementation Related to the Moral-Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics, some measures to prevent harassment of any kind have been implemented within the Company: • Communication, it is necessary to build awareness among the workforce and assure their effective knowledge not only of the definitions and different types of harassment but also of the action procedures set out in this protocol if harassment occurs. • Responsibility, everyone at the Company is responsible for upholding the principle of not tolerating any conduct of this kind, if necessary by taking the disciplinary action provided under the applicable employment legislation. All personnel are also responsible for upholding the principle of co-responsibility in the monitoring of conduct in the workplace. This is especially applicable to supervisors and managers. • Training, this topic is included in the Company’s training programs for the whole workforce. The purpose of these programs will be to identify the factors that contribute towards creating a harassment-free working environment, fostering communication and proximity between supervisors and their teams at all the Organization's hierarchical levels. • Action procedure, has been drawn up and is available to all employees for them to communicate complaints in guaranteed confidentiality and protection of the privacy and dignity of all people involved. • Compliance Officer, an external figure that has been created as an expert in such procedures and whose mission is to channel any complaints and reports of harassment of any kind, working with the 31 31 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions worker or, as the case may be, acting with the worker’s authorization, to attempt to solve the conflict impartially. This Compliance Officer’s details may be obtained by the affected worker from the HR Manager on request. The Compliance Officer, upon being made aware of a case, will write up a report of the complaint made by the worker, which the worker then signs, in order for the corresponding formal investigation to be launched. Consequently, the Compliance Officer will have sufficient powers to interview any member of the Company’s personnel, regardless of their hierarchical level, to obtain the information necessary to resolve the conflict to the satisfaction of all parties, in confidence. If no such solution can be found, the Compliance Officer will refer the case to HR, attaching all the information obtained during the investigation and submitting a report on the action taken with a view to reaching a solution. The Compliance Officer may propose setting up an ad hoc committee to monitor the harassment reported, made up of the following members: › A staff delegate and/or representative of the Company’s tradeunion committee, or, if the company has no union representation, any Company employee proposed by the employee who does not work in the same department as the alleged victim. › A representative of the Company — the HR Director or whoever the HR Director may delegate the task to. › The Compliance Officer who was involved in the first stage of the process. This ad hoc committee, making use of the powers conferred under this protocol, will attempt to find an appropriate solution for the conflict in question. If the parties involved accept the proposed solution, they should explicitly say so in writing. However, if after the procedure described the existence of moral, sexual or gender-based harassment is confirmed, the penalties considered appropriate in each case will be imposed. • Additional provisions, to the Moral-Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics that include: › Precautionary measures: while the procedure is under way, Management will apply any precautionary measures necessary to put an immediate end to the situation of harassment, without negatively affecting the working conditions of the persons affected. › Assistance for the parties: During the processing of the action, the parties involved may be assisted by another person, who must undertake not to disclose any information obtained in consequence of holding this position of confidence. 32 32 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions › No reprisals: Any reprisals against complainants, witnesses, assistants or any other persons involved in good faith a harassment investigation are prohibited. › False complaints: if no harassment, in any of its modalities, is found to have taken place and the complainant is found to have acted in bad faith by falsely reporting improper conduct, the corresponding disciplinary action will be taken.  Communication of Labor Risks Prevention Policy The above detailed policy related to Labor Risks Prevention is available to all employees in the Company’s intranet, stating all the principles that everyone needs to know in order to ensure security and health in the daily work. During 2015 and due to the integration of the OHSAS Standard, the Company has continued improving the communications and training to its employees regarding the prevention of occupational hazards. Likewise, through the certification process (renewed until 2019), the Company has confirmed its compliance with every legal obligation on this matter.  Social benefits for employees Globalvia ​has different measures to control and improve the working environment related to health, safety and hygiene in the workplace. • Health insurance, according to this, the Company subsidize up to 50% , extended to partners and children of the employee. By the voluntary adherence, the employees will have access to benefits such as dental coverage or up to 80% refund when assisting to non-subsidized medical centers and / or hospitals, provided they do not exceed a specific monetary amount. • Risk prevention and health surveillance, the aforementioned agreement related to labor risk prevention offers every employee a yearly medical examination according to the protocol set out in the Company’s prevention plan. • Accidents and professional diseases, a Spanish Social Security collaborating institution manages and protects from accidents and professional diseases that may occur at the workplace and / or during working hours, by providing emergency medical assistance and also manages the transfer to hospital if needed. 33 33 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions • Life insurance, in case the employee dies (for any reason), his/her heirs will receive a compensation equivalent to the employee’s gross annual salary. Likewise, in case the employee results seriously injured and, therefore, unable to work, the employee will receive the same amount.  Talent Management Review Globalvia ​has a Talent Management process in order to align the current and future needs of the organization, with the ability, potential and aspirations of its employees. To do this, twice a year the Steering Committee meets to analyze the employee’s developments in order to detect High Potential Performers (HIPO), meaning a person with ability, motivation and commitment to successfully perform the duties of a more senior and critical role than the one currently performed.  Flexible Payment Plan A Flexible Payment Plan is implemented for the employees of Globalvia. This Flexible Payment Plan allows employees to allocate part of their gross salary to the payment of certain services and products (such as kindergarten services and the purchase of computer equipment) under favorable tax conditions. Therefore, employees can voluntarily join the Plan and optimize their monthly net salary while they are enjoying such services.  Photo contest 2015 In October 2015, Globalvia encouraged all its employees to participate on the IV Corporate Photo Contest offering them the opportunity to take part on the 2016 Company’s calendar design. The Communication and SCR Department set the basis: › 12 pictures were chosen as the ones to be published and print in the Corporate 2016 calendar. › Any employee, no matter their hierarchal level, could participate. › The theme of the pictures was “Connection”. Photo contest poster 34 34 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions › All the photos needed to be sent to the Communication and SCR Department that was in charge of uploading them in the intranet in order to be available to everyone. › Once in the intranet, any employee could vote their 10 favorite pictures. › A total of 97 photos were sent. › The upload of the photos was anonymous. › The owner of the most voted photo won an Apple watch. › The second prize was a Bit Pills loudspeakers and the third prize was a Spotify subscription. Photo contest winners › The 12 most voted pictures were the ones published in the Corporate calendar.  Sport promotion within the Company Two years ago Globalvia created the Sportive Club at the initiative of employees. Every year the Sportive Club participates in several supportive races and the Company manages and pays the registration fees and delivers the sport material required to the employees who participate in benefit races. Thus, among 2015, Globalvia organized a beneficial paddle tournament for its employees. The aim of the tournament was to encourage sport and build personal relationships between colleagues, also bringing in a focus on solidarity, due to it was organised in cooperation with the Carmen Pardo Valcarce Foundation, with which Globalvia already works in other Corporate Social Responsibility activities. Globalvia’s Sportive Club logotype Globalvia’s paddle players Supportive candy trophies. 35 35 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions  Children sport promotion Globalvia promotes sports to be practiced among children because sport is capable of conveying such educational values as effort, loyalty, teamwork and results-oriented performance. In 2015 Globalvia sponsored a school Rugby Championship at the 7 parishes of Andorra in which 460 children aged between 9 and 10 yeards ild of the 13 most important schools in the country have participated. School Rugby Championship (Andorra) Moreover, Globalvia (through M50 Concession and GSJ Maintenance) supports every year the local Gaelic Sports team Rathoath GAA Club in Meath county, close to Dublin. The local Gaelic Sports clubs play one of the most influential role in Irish society, that extends far beyond the basic aim of promoting Gaelic games. They are volunteer community based organisations that promote Irish culture and values to people of all ages and seek for lifelong participation from the local families. Rathoath GAA Club (Meath County Ireland) Thus, Globalvia (through Seville Metro) also supports two volleyball children’s clubs called Condequinto Sportive Club and Mairena Volley Club. Both clubs are located in the municipalities where Seville Metro Line pass through. The Company, once more, demonstrates its active participation in projects and activities of local communities. 36 36 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions  Membership in economic associations In 2015, Globalvia Ireland collaborated for the third year in a row with the ISEA (Ireland Spain Economic Association) becoming a member. The goal of the Association is to promote bilateral business relations between Ireland and Spain. The Association works in close cooperation with the Commercial Office of the Spanish Embassy and also Enterprise Ireland. The Association also established a counterpart association in Madrid under the patronage of Ireland's Ambassador to Spain.  Healthy habits promotion In order to promote healthy habits in the company, Globalvia has decided to offer employees that smoke a tobacco detoxification and withdrawal program organized by specialists from the Spanish Cancer Association. The phase prior to therapy consists of a psychological assessment based on a personal interview and medical consultation plus a co-oximeter; method that determines the level of carbon monoxide in the body. The therapy, organized in groups of at least eight persons, is divided into ten two-hour sessions over a period of three months. These sessions take place in the offices and are managed by the two AECC professional profiles: the medical profile and the psychological profile. The content of the sessions is aimed at the use of strategies and learning techniques in various useful areas in addition to the possibility of pharma treatment. The specialists Spanish Cancer follow-up on patients during and up to one year after the therapy on a Association logotype regular basis. After this one-year detoxification period, Globalvia will refund any possible pharmaceutical expenses if successful. This initiative has encouraged Globalvia and the AECC to sign a cooperation agreement on CSR. Thanks to this agreement, Globalvia supports the Corporate Health and Solidarity Program of the AECC in order to continue transmitting good healthy life habits to employees through training sessions. The success and warm welcome of this initiative has raised interest in some concessions. For instance in ACEGA, where a very similar action was arranged in cooperation with the Tobacco Use and Addictive Disorders Department under the Faculty of Psychology at the Santiago de Compostela University. The characteristics of the program are very similar regarding content and time period to the therapy carried out in Headquarters. 37 37 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions 11 Greetings with solidarity to employees A new Corporate Social Responsibility initiative by Globalvia in 2015 has been to greet the birth of the children of its employees with a gift layette prepared by the Caritas Foundation Madrid charity shop. The baby wear in the layettes is prepared by Taller 99, a labour integration company promoted by the Caritas Foundation Madrid charity, which offers comprehensive human and professional training to persons facing difficulty entering the labour market, through the manufacture of industrial clothing, children’s clothing and leatherwork. In turn, the layettes are delivered by the Asiscar courier service, a company whose objective is the incorporation of persons suffering social exclusion, providing them with the training they need to access the labour market. The mission of Caritas Foundation is to accept, accompany and work, through the commitment of the Christian community, with persons suffering or in risk of social exclusion, accompanying them and intervening comprehensively so that these persons can become the central players in their own development. It includes social action, public awareness raising and campaigning against situations of injustice in the quest for the transformation of society. Layettes made by Caritas Foundation 38 38 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes “…the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.” The following paragraphs state the relevance of labor rights for Globalvia, through the implementation of various actions:  Employees distribution by gender and hierarchal level  Accidents, absenteeism and illness records  Internal quality of service survey  Employees distribution by gender and hierarchal level Records from March 2016 shows the following employees distribution at Headquarters (Concessions and Societies not included) by gender in hierarchal level: 52 38 Women Men Direction Assistant 6 3 Department Director 7 21 Business Director 3 8 Analyst 22 20 From its 90 employees, 38 (42,22%) are women. From these women, 13 of them (34, 21%) are at seniority level in the Company. In March 2016, Steering Committee is composed by 10 members, 3 of them are women (figure shown in the next page). 39 39 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes Globalvia’s Steering Committee is composed by 10 members, 3 of them are women. (April 2016) CEO Javier Pérez Fortea Audit and Risk Control Director Carmen Rubio European Highways General Counsel HR, Communication Director José Felipe Gómez & CSR Director María Luisa de Barreda Belén Castro Castro CFO Construction, LATAM Highways Operations and Alberto García Systems Director Director García Pablo Pajares Javier Martín Rivals Chief Investment Officer Railways Director Joaquín Madrigal Daniel Quintero 40 40 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes  Accidents, absenteeism and illness records The Company keeps record of every accident and absenteeism of their employees • As of April 2016, just 1 accident has taken place since last year. • Absenteeism and illness, split into gender and absence reason, in 2015: 14 Maternity 9 7 Paternity 7 Illness Illness 7 2 Women Men  Internal quality of service survey At the beginning of this year, as part of the CSR Plan, an internal satisfaction survey took place considering 2015 period. With this, Globalvia evaluates annually the perceived satisfaction of the Company’s employees, regarding the service provided by the Corporative Services as well as their perception in relation to the requests made to them by the different Business Areas. The survey was launched on 11 of January 2016 and was closed on 22 of January 2016. 41 41 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes A total of 141 people were invited to respond to the survey and 94 people did so, producing a total participation of 66%. This data leads us to the conclusion that participation in 2016 has slightly decreased (-4%) compared to participation in the previous year (111 responses in December 2014 vs. 94 responses in January 2016). 75% 70% 68% 66% 42% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 42 42 43 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES 43 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges…” As of today, Globalvia has ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and UNE-EN 13816. It has expanded its certification year by year and has improved various CSR Strategic plans. Globalvia upholds a commitment in  Certifications on Quality, Environmental, Health & Safety and Public Service conducting its business Transport Standards around the  CSR Strategic Plan (and specific to Concessions) environmental  Environmental Impact Declaration preservation and the struggle against climate change.  Certifications on Quality, Environmental, OHSAS and UNE-EN 13816 During 2015 Globalvia has continued to implement global quality, environmental, health and safety and public service transport standards to address the environmental and social challenges related to its activity. • ISO certification 9001, is the internationally recognized standard for the quality management of businesses. It applies to the processes and services Globalvia supplies, and prescribes systematic control of activities to ensure that customers needs are met. During 2015, Globalvia has successfully renewed ISO 9001 in 19 centers until 2019. http://www.aenor.es/aenor/certificacion/buscador/fichacertificado.asp? empresaAenor=AEN&codigo=112031#.VQCuM_xwuZ4 (only Group) • ISO certification 14001, Maps out a framework that a company or organization can follow to set up an effective environmental management system and helps identify and control Globalvia’s environmental impact and constantly improve its environmental performance. During 2015, Globalvia has successfully renewed ISO 14001 in 19 centers until 2019. http://www.aenor.es/aenor/certificacion/buscador/fichacertificado.asp? empresaAenor=AEN&codigo=112032#.VQCuffxwuZ4 (only Group) • OHSAS 18001, is an internationally Standard for Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems. It exists to help all kinds of organizations put in place demonstrably sound occupational health and safety performance. During 2015, Tranvía de Parla and Latin America concessions were certified in OHSAS and 11 centers renewed its certification until 2019, plus 2 pending formalization. http://www.aenor.es/aenor/certificacion/buscador/fichacertificado.asp? empresaAenor=AEN&codigo=127598#.VwKIIrPtk7e Globalvia’s certifications. 44 44 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals • Other Standards certification: Tranvía de Parla is certified in UNE-EN 13816 to guarantee a high level of quality in the public service transport. The scope of Globalvia’s certification refers to management (acquisition, design, operation, maintenance, control and monitoring) of infrastructure concessions (roads, highways and railways), the conservation, operation and maintenance of roads, highways and railways. It includes 12 Globalvia’s centers: 8 highways, 2 railways, 1 Country Office and Headquarters. Moreover, Globalvia promotes the certification of those companies where it has a representative stake: 7 centers (Auto-Estradas XXI in Portugal, GSJ, M50 and N6 in Ireland, AUNETI in Mexico and Trambaix and Trambesòs and in Spain).  CSR strategic plan (and specific to Concessions) With the objective of assessing Globalvia’s situation regarding Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and devising the lines of actions necessary to lead its commitment to sustainable development, an internal diagnosis on CSR has been carried out in 2011, as well as a comparative study of its shareholders and leading competitors, positioning on this subject; with the aim of better defining, from the obtained results, the sustainability guidelines for the forthcoming years. As a result of the conclusions reached, the Company pledged a Strategic Plan to horizon year 2014 to establish the framework and guidelines to be Globalvia CSR logotype followed by the Company in this field. Globalvia has decided to continue with the same strategic lines of this CSR Plan throughout 2016. Nowadays Globalvia is preparing the next CSR Plan that will cover the period between 2017 -2020. The Strategic Plan defines global short, medium and long term initiatives for each key issue needed to develop CSR at Globalvia. The implemented actions or initiatives related to this matter and focusing on environment are described in the next chapter “Implementation of environmental actions”.  Environmental Impact Declaration Spanish legislation establishes the obligation to prepare an Environmental Impact Declaration, prior to the administrative decision related to the authorization and development of constructions and activities, is adopted. 45 45 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals The process starts with the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure, where the General Directorate of Quality and Environmental Assessment examines the record sent by the Highways Directorate. The dossier includes an informative study, an environmental impact study and the result of public information. Once analyzed, the General Directorate of Quality and Environmental Assessment submits to the Highways Directorate a report detailing various alternatives / performances considered, the content of the environmental impact study and protected natural areas affected. The Environmental Impact Declaration includes: › Environmental adaptation of the layout. › Soils protection and conservation. › Water system protection. › Territorial permeability and wildlife protection. › Cultural heritage protection. › Noise pollution. › Location of quarries, spoil, landfill and ancillary facilities. › Defense against erosion, environmental restoration and landscape work integration. › Monitoring and surveillance. 46 46 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions “…undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and…” Here are few concrete actions that support the implementation of environmental policies, reduce environmental risks, and respond to environmental incidents:  Collaboration agreement with Abadía de Montserrat Foundation  Training on ISO, OHSAS and other Standards certifications  CSR Strategic Plan (and specific to Concessions) implementation  Control Disclosure Protocol Joining  Underwater photography contest  User awareness in waste management  Maintaining the Universal Path Carara: volunteering program  Supportive recycling  Sustainable mobility and public transport promotion  Animal Rescue Program  Collaboration agreement with Abadía de Montserrat Foundation In the framework of the CSR Strategic Plan, it is highlighted the importance of working with communities around Globalvia's assets. Therefore, from the Department of Communication and CSR, it was considered a very good opportunity to collaborate with the Montserrat 2025 Foundation whose aim is to maintain, promote and encourage the social, spiritual, cultural and ecological values of the Monastery and the Sanctuary of Montserrat (Barcelona, Spain). Throughout 2015 Globalvia collaborated in one of the priority actions for the Montserrat Complex: repairing the cantilever of the Puig i Cadafalch cloister. Globalvia has just decided the project to collaborate in 2016: preservation of the sculptures and reliefs of the main façade of the Monastery. Globalvia’s CEO visited Abadía de Montserrat 47 47 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions “…encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” Abadía de Montserrat is made up of different buildings: museum, hotel and residential areas. These facilities are equipped with fire protection systems and external networks hydrants that cover the entire area and must operate simultaneously. Abadía de Montserrat Main façade of the Monastery  Training on ISO, OHSAS and other Standards certifications Within the Company’s training and development plan, there are learning sessions related to Quality, Environmental and Health & Safety at Work issues to raise the awareness of these subjects in the organization. This content is known as Training on Integrated Management System and is given to all Globalvia’s employees, following a scheme that includes: › Management system definition focusing on environmental issues. › Environment, pollution and sustainable development definition. › Environmental Management System: objectives and processes (identification and analysis / evaluation of environmental issues, identification and analysis / evaluation of legal requirement compliances, targets and planning, operational control and monitoring). › ISO 14001 Requirements: general requirements, environmental policy, planning, implementation and operation, controlling and monitoring, Board review. › OHSAS 18001 Requirements: general requirements, Health and Safety policy, planning, implementation and operation, controlling and monitoring, Board review. 48 48 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions Related to the last point, the final Board review has deeply stated that: › The Integrated Management System implementation has required a remarkable effort throughout the organization. › Specific objectives have been defined for each Concession to reduce environmental impact and health & safety risks. Integrating environmental  CSR Strategic Plan (and specific on Concessions) implementation protection in the management policy of The CSR Strategic Plan involves the entire Company and enables the CSR infrastructures is a strategy to be deployed throughout all business areas through specific constant challenge in initiatives adapted to the social reality of the different communities in which Globalvia's activity. Globalvia is present (seven countries). Among the different strategic lines governing the CSR strategy there is a specific one related to Environment where Globalvia upholds a commitment in conducting its business around the environmental preservation and the struggle against climate change. Globalvia has the following commitment with the environment: “Reduction of the environmental impact of Globalvia’s activities, also maintaining a respectful approach that benefits the environment”. To overcome this statement, there are two core objectives for the whole organization: • Promoting improvements and innovation projects with an environmental impact • Diagnosis of the environmental impact of operations through a single Environmental Management System for the entire Group. The system's support is mainly based on comprehensive systems certified under standards that contribute to reducing environmental risk, contemplating compliance with both the law and the various international commitments assumed as well as with internal regulations Globalvia also defines a group of objectives to be applied on each phase of the business engagements: • Project › Maintaining strict laws’ consideration and excellent performing of the environmental studies. › Studying and integrating minimization measures concerning acoustic protection, draining waters treatment, landscaping and ecological passages. 49 49 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions • Construction › Including specific environmental considerations in the building contracts. › Minimizing the impact by means of environmental training, environmental monitoring, archeological follow up and recovering and reintegrating affected areas. › Environmental Impact Analysis review and follow up in order to identify, predict, evaluate and mitigate the biophysical, social, and other relevant effects of Globalvia's activity. • Operation › Cooperating with the Environmental Management System, not only in terms on monitoring, but conducting the appropriate initiatives to mitigate the environmental impact. Aligned with these objectives, Globalvia plans to perform the following initiatives for the period 2013-2015: • Joining the Carbon Disclosure Project (CPD): Along with Globalvia’s commitment to environmental preservation comes the need to know the impact of its activities and to clearly expose to the stakeholders both the measures and the actions towards it’s reduction. The CDP provides a disclosure capability, allowing Globalvia to provide visibility to its stakeholders and also to obtain a disclosure and efficiency score that allows itself to analyze the effectiveness of its policies against market players. Globalvia through M50 Concession has completed the submission of the CDP response for the several years. Further details in the next paragraph “4.Carbon Disclosure Protocol”. Good environmental practices: stickers • Energy Efficiency Plan: Strategies to reduce the environmental impact aim to make less polluting processes and anticipate future regulations that affect the Company's business, particularly in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and waste management. As a result, Globalvia has planed to launch shortly an Energy Efficiency Plan. To do so, it is required that the Company conducts an energy audit at the Headquarters and concessions to identify potential energy-saving opportunities. The energy audit consists in a situation analysis that provides information on the operation of the building, the level of demand for energy used by services, the operation of its power systems and facilities and the condition of the components, energy consumed and associated operating costs. After that some targets of reduction will be established through the implementation of energy efficiency measures. 50 50 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions On the other hand, Globalvia has developed a specific CSR strategic plan in Costa Rica. Ruta 27 CSR strategic plan activities are split into three action pillars: Education, Environment and Fauna and Social Integration. The actions developed in 2015 are described in this report.  Carbon Disclosure Protocol Joining In 2014, Globalvia through M50 Concession Limited carried out an assessment of its carbon emissions for the years 2013 and 2012 and joined the Carbon Disclosure Protocol (CDP). In 2015, M50CL carried out a new assessment of its carbon emissions for the year 2014 and submitted the CDP response. The CDP response was scored 97 for Disclosure and D for Performance. Carbon Disclosure Protocol logotype The integration of climate change into our business strategy will help us to conduct our activity in a responsible and sustainable manner. This will prove our commitment with the society and will allow us to enhance our relationships with the Authority and stakeholders up to the point where they would recognise Globalvia in general and M50 in particular as the lead reference of the toll operators in Ireland.  Underwater photography contest Globalvia collaborates every year with the Club Naútico de Sóller by promoting marine ecosystem assessment, for that reason an underwater photography contest was organized on June 2015 in Sóller (Mallorca).  User awareness in waste management Globalvia has designed posters with awareness messages to users and these have been placed along highways. Moreover, Globalvia continued delivering travel bags to all users in order to store the waste generated during their trip and throw them in the appropriate place at other destination. Delivery of travel bags (Ruta 27 Highway) 51 51 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions  Maintaining the Universal Path Carara Globalvia is one of the main companies that supported the project to build the Universal Path in Carara National Park (Costa Rica). With this infrastructure, people with different disabilities can visit the park without any limitations. In 2014 Globalvia begun a volunteering program focused on cleaning and maintaining this sidewalk and it has been continued during all the year 2015. Carara National Park (Costa Rica) Globalvia volunteering program  Supportive recycling This initiative has began in 2015 and involves the collection of the plastic bottle tops and metal caps used every day in the Headquarters offices. The collection of this material has been made possible through the cooperation of all the employees of Globalvia, thanks to two containers placed in a communal area in daily use. All of the plastic tops that are collected are sent to SEUR Foundation, the flagship foundation which is driving this great initiative and which has created the “Tops for a New Life” Project, a project that delivers plastic bottle tops to a recycling plant to raise money to help children with health problems. The metal bottle caps collected are donated to the FAD Foundation, Foundation for the Attendance of mentally disabled people, which helps persons with learning difficulties, attending to over 260 people, and which offers advice and support to families and others involved through a team of specialised, committed professionals. All of the material we gather is channelled through the Liceo Europeo Supportive Recycling posters school, which stores, transports and delivers the material to the Foundations. 52 52 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions  Sustainable mobility and public transport promotion Some concessions use electric vehicles in their daily performance. Therefore, in addition to promoting sustainable mobility, they are improving year by year the access of emergency services in case of fire. Thus, Globalvia reinforces its image as a company committed to the environment promoting the public transport instead of using an own vehicle. During 2015 Globalvia has developed different communication campaigns explaining the environmental advantages and the benefits for the sustainable development thanks to using the public transport. Mupis, jets, posters of stations and stops and vinyl inside the trains are used to spread the campaigns. Public transport promotion In addition, in the majority of the railways concessions, Globalvia organizes training programs with schools focused on teaching children how to use this type of transport. For instance, “Aula Metro program” in Seville Metro, “School guide Visits” in Parla Tram and “Welcome to our light rail” in Sanchinarro Light Rail. “Aula Metro” Program in Seville  Animal Rescue Program In 2015 Globalvia continued its Animal Rescue Program launched in 2014 to rescue stray pets and wild animals on Ruta 27 in Costa Rica. In alliance with the Santa Ana Herpetological Refuge, any animals found on the route can be helped. The animals rescued so far include a toucan, a boa constrictors, a iguana and many turtles, cats and dogs. With the Animal Rescue Association, any stray pets injured in accidents on the road are rescued, treated and, once cured, offered for adoption. Animal Rescue The concessionaire’s personnel, who have been trained in animal handling, Training Sessions are responsible for carrying out the rescues. The animals are then passed on to vets who supervise their recovery. 53 53 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes Globalvia ​has identified and assessed all environmental issues generated as a result of its activities in all the Societies and areas included in the ISO 14001, which are:  Headquarters  Ruta de los Pantanos  Concesiones de Madrid  Túnel d’Envalira  Autopista Central Gallega  Túnel de Sóller  Sociedad Concesionaria del Itata  Sociedad Concesionaria del Aconcagua  Chile Country Office  Ruta 27 11 Tranvía de Parla 12 Metro de Sevilla Moreover, there are other Societies certified in ISO 14001 with their own Management Systems:  Autopista Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlán, S.A. (Mexico)  M50 Concession Limited (Ireland)  Hospital del Sureste, S.A. (Spain)  Autoestradas XXI (Portugal)  N6 (Ireland)  GSJ Maintenance (Ireland)  Trambaix (Spain)  Trambesòs (Spain) The following table shows some of the indicators identified and evaluated for each Society, that help monitoring the impact of the company on the environment: • Power consumption • Waste: solid waste generation • Water consumption • Waste: plastic containers • Paper consumption • Waste: alkaline batteries • Salt consumption (winter maintenance) • Waste: paper and cardboard • Paint consumption (road and graffiti) • Waste: fluorescent • Pesticide consumption • Waste: toner • Solvent consumption • Pruning • Vehicle fuel consumption and machinery • Waste: metal junk • Waste: batteries containing mercury • Other urban waste • Waste: electrical and electronic equipment • Waste from cleaning ditches 54 54 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes Societies made ​the identification and assessment of environmental aspects, obtaining the following relevant results (measured in highways, railways and Concession centers and calculated per km).  Power consumption Railways run on electricity, so power consumption is higher than in other Societies. That’s way highest level is recorded in Metro de Sevilla, due to the type and magnitude of this asset. However, the energy used in Tranvía de Parla is 100% from renewable sources. In a second level are Túnel D’Envalira and Túnel de Sóller due to the tunnel ventilation systems. In case of Ruta 27, this indicator has been recorded since October 2013, so the data are less representative than the rest because time series are shorter. Power consumption 2015 95.547,39 100.000 90.000 80.000 70.000 kWh / km 60.000 50.000 42.750,46 13.784,97 40.000 28.810,65 30.000 14.826,82 20.000 4.529,83 10.000 0 Based on the guidelines defined in Integrated Management System, Societies will continue raising awareness among its employees to reduce energy consumption and analyze energy efficiency measures implementation feasibility. For instance, in Metro de Sevilla an Energy Efficiency Studio was carried out during 2015 obtaining positive results. 55 55 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes In the framework of Globalvia’s Integrated Management System, some Societies have established environmental objectives in order to reduce their power consumption. The results will be analyzed at the end of 2016.  Water consumption Highest levels are recorded in Metro de Sevilla and to a lesser extend in Tranvía de Parla, due to the trams' tunnel washer. Water consumption 2015 250 200 155,53 m3 / km 150 123,32 97,37 101,78 107,10 100 50 30,10 27,52 37,54 40,90 0 Based on the guidelines defined in Quality and Environmental Management System, Societies will continue raising awareness among its employees and analyzing the best available technologies to reduce water consumption. In the framework of Globalvia’s Integrated Management System, some Societies have established environmental objectives in order to reduce their water consumption. For instance, a water recycling system is now available inside its tunnel washer in Tranvía de Parla. 56 56 57 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 57 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” Globalvia presents the following assessments, policies, goals that prove the relevance of anti-corruption for the company.  Fraud procedure  Compliance Manual  Fraud procedure Globalvia has identified two main types of potential fraud: › Internal fraud; carried out by employees › External fraud; carried out by people / entities out of the Company The Group has established several procedures to mitigate the internal fraud: › Company Level Controls; the Company has established and adequate control environment that is transmitted from top management to all the employees. Management’s commitment to integrity and ethical behavior is effectively communicated throughout the Company, both in words and deeds. › Management incentives are balanced. Compensation policy does not promote an excessive level of interest in increasing the entity’s earnings trend. › Adequate segregation of duties. › The Company has established adequate policies and procedures for authorization and approval of transactions at the appropriate level, specifically in Purchase, Payments and Treasury areas. › Hiring policies are centrally defined at Group level. Hiring requests of the management team from subsidiaries are centrally approved. › Management shows a willingness to consult with the auditors on and address significant matters relating to Internal Control and accounting issues. › The Group has a whistleblower scheme in place in order to detect any potential fraud situation (annex of the code of ethics). › Management takes appropriate disciplinary action in response to departures from approved policies and procedures or violations of the Code of Ethics, if any. › The Group has an Internal Audit Function that monitors that Internal Control activities are being performed and policies and procedures are being duly applied. 58 58 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals Special consideration should be given to a recent new regulation on Spanish Penal/Criminal Law that was passed on March 2015. Globalvia response has been to carry out together with an external advisor an exercise to update penal risk map in this field as well as the potential gaps that may exist with its internal control procedures. This initiative was led by the Internal Audit Area together with the Legal and Procurement&HR Areas. The result of this task has been an updated Code of Ethics which introduces a new regulation of Whistle-blowing channel and the implementation of a Committee of Ethics. The objective for 2016 will be the implementation of UNE-ISO 19600 Compliance Management System. For external fraud, the main procedures in place are focused on the safeguarding of assets (both tangible and intangible). All locations of the Group have physical access security procedures in place. Regarding intangible assets, mainly data and information stored in the computers, the Group has established access controls to the network and servers in order to prevent or detect unauthorized accesses. Additionally, all the computers have logical and physical security controls in place.  Compliance Manual The Organization is applying since May 2012 (updated on January 2013), a Compliance Manual that establishes the functions and responsibilities related to the identification, review and compliance with the service requirements provided by the Company. This Manual applies to offers, orders and contracts with customers and it details the following issues: › Service requirements identification, both related to Corporate and Country Offices, as well as Concessions › Internal and external services provided by Globalvia › Operating procedure, both for internal and external customer › Compliance Committee, further details are included in the next point “VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption action” 59 59 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions “…the fight against moral and sexual harassment, the fight against fraud and any other crime...” The following paragraphs state the relevance of anti-corruption for Globalvia, through the implementation of various actions: 12  Whistleblowing Channel  Ethics Committee and Ombudsman  Compliance Committee  Whistleblowing Channel During 2015 Globalvia has developed and implemented and internal mechanism to report misconducts called Reporting or Whistleblowing Channel. Reports must always be made in good faith, with absolute respect for the truth and belief that the reporter is acting correctly. Globalvia expressly forbids making false reports, since they are against the Law, morality and the principles and values of the Organization. Knowingly making a false report could be subject to application of disciplinary action by the Company. In order to submit a report, the reporter must be sufficiently identified by providing his/her personal details. Any reports submitted anonymously to the Reporting Channel will be disregarded. This aspect will ensure the system is serious, will help with the investigation of the reported facts, the data and information concerning them will be processed properly and truthfully, and the identity of the reporting party will be protected against any possible retaliation. At the same time the entire report will be processed confidentially, i.e. ensuring strict secrecy about the identity of the reporter, whose details may only be disclosed outside the Globalvia Group, in due course, to the competent Public Authorities in the investigation of the facts, when it is pertinent to refer the crime to said Authority in accordance with applicable regulations. The reports will be managed externally from Globalvia by an OMBUDSMAN, who will ensure the proper functioning of the process. 60 60 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions  Ethics Committee and Ombudsman During 2015 Globalvia has established an Ethics Committee entrusted with the mission of ensuring compliance with the Ethics Code in all Group’s companies. 12 The members, functions and responsibilities of the Ethics Committee are defined in a specific document. Among others, the Committee's principal Globalvia has functions are as follows: established an Ethics › To promote application and update of the Ethics Code, including Committee and the training and information about ethics within the company. figure of the Ombudsman with the › Decisions about allowing reports filed. mission of ensuring › Establishing control and prevention measures against crime and compliance with the breaches. Ethics Code. › Decisions about internal investigations to clarify the facts inherent to internal reports received, including appointing an Investigation Team to manage the investigation of the facts. › Recommendations about measures to take concerning reports processed once the case has been closed, including exercising of legal action and sanctions for breaches of the Ethics Code. Globalvia has also established the figure of the Ombudsman. This is a person, external to the Group (either an individual or a business). The decision to appoint and dismiss this figure will be freely taken at any time by the Ethics Committee.  Compliance Committee Globalvia runs a Compliance Committee which aim is to identify, advise, assess, warn and monitor any compliance risk. Compliance risk is defined as any violation of applicable laws or regulations, main contracts, Code of Ethics and best practices defined in IMS. This meant as any case of receiving sanctions by statutory or regulatory violations, financial loss, or reputation loss due to non-compliances with current law, regulations, ethics codes, and best practices standards defined in IMS procedures. 61 61 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions Compliance Committee is headed by Audit and Risk Control Director and is composed of Key Executives of following areas: › Legal › Organization IMS 12 › Labor Relationships › Finance › O&M › Construction › Tax › IT Meetings are twice a year and conclusions are reflected in a Compliance Report, which is presented to Risk Management Committee, which monitors the top risks of the Group. The Compliance Report includes the following issues: › Critical regulatory issues to monitor. › Critical internal regulations issues to monitor. › Updated list of applicable laws and regulations as they are published in the official files in order to prevent undesired effects on the Group. › New identified risks. › Proposed mitigation actions. 62 62 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.3 Measurements of anti-corruption outcomes Code of Ethics video screenshot. Regarding Globalvia’s anti-corruption performance, the Company’s Audit and Risk Control Area has made the following statement: “Globalvia has not been involved in any legal cases, ruling or other events related to corruption and bribery. Globalvia performs different internal audits every year and the report is directly submitted to the CEO. Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. These audits are used as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. There has been no such incident reported to the period.” In regard to the measurement of anti-corruption outcomes, various actions have taken place during 2015: • First semester › Update the Group's Risk Map › Internal audits of two concessions › Compliance Committee meeting › Risk Management Committee meeting › IT Risk Map › Risk Map and Internal Control Analysis report of one of its concessions • Second semester › Internal audits of two different concessions, one delegation and three corporate process › Compliance Committee meeting › Risk Management Committee meeting 63 63 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.3 Measurements of anti-corruption outcomes › Risk Map of two concessions and one delegation › Internal Control Analysis report of Corporation, two concessions and one delegation From these audits, a total of 69 actions were identified. This shows a positive trend as they have been reduced from 121 in 2014. 64 64 65 VII. CONCLUSIONS 65 VII. CONCLUSIONS VII. Conclusions Globalvia is one of the reference players in all the countries in which it operates thanks to its strategy of conducting its business in a responsible manner and establishing trusting relationships with its stakeholders. This commitment is key to understand the effort carried out for the past four years. The company has accomplished the task to review and redefine continuously all processes, is constantly investing in learning and developing initiatives for its employees and is making a great effort to manage environmental, cultural an social issues. These activities and are part of Globalvia’s business daily operations and therefore they are totally integrated in the DNA of all the employees. We care about the impact we make on the environment and local communities and this concern is totally aligned to the strategic objectives. This report shows our commitment to communicate our actions with credibility and authenticity, internally and externally, with the hope that the reward will be a better world for today and a greater hope for tomorrow. 66 66 USA IRELAND Luttrellstown Road N.Y. Diswellstown 1230 Avenue of the Americas, 7th Castleknock Floor -Offices 706 y 707 New York, Dublin 15, Ireland New York 10020 Tel. +353 (0)1 823 5888 Tel. + 1 212-618-6310 Fax+ 1 212-618-6309 MEXICO CHILE Monte Pelvoux, 220 Int 404 Rosario Norte 100 Of. 902-904 Edificio Virreyes Edificio Rosario Norte 100 9ª planta Col. Lomas de Chapultepec Las Condes Santiago Chile Del. Miguel Hidalgo Tel. +56 2 565 9011 11000 D.F. (México) Tel. +52 55 52763430 (Headquarters) Paseo de la Castellana, 280, 3ª Floor 28046, Madrid – SPAIN Tel. +34 91 456 58 50 Fax +34 91 662 56 07 67
