Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014-2015 UN Global Compact Nilfisk wishes to protect the environment, safeguard human and labour rights, and work against corruption Nilfisk statement Accelerate Growing our company to lead the industry Grow market share Strengthen Drive competitive Build strong Power front-end offerings brands supply chain performance Agile and commercial organisation Key strategic levers to support growth Parallel with the introduction of Accelerate, Nilfisk’s new business strategy, we have defined a value proposition which states that Accelerate we are ‘Clearing the way for a safer, cleaner and more productive everyday’. This proposition reflects Nilfisk’s commitment to act responsibly by offering cleaning solutions with focus on health, safety and efficiency. Growing our company to lead the industry Nilfisk believes that the adoption of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour rights, anti-corruption and environment will help us develop our business in a positive direction Promise made in the Accelerate and at the same time address the growing demand from customers strategy to Nilfisk customers: and regulations in this regard. In an effort to become more proactive a new Social Supplier Nilfisk acts innovatively and Audit Unit has been established within our Global Procurement department to place even greater focus on our business partners’ responsibly, and leverages over 100 adherence to the UN Global Compact principles. years of professional experience to The Accelerate business strategy combined with our sustainability offer a wide range of high quality and strategy Green Meets Clean, which emphasises cleaning solutions that provide a sustainable balance between cleaning efficiency, fully supported cleaning solutions environmental improvements and responsible behaviour within the that help people and businesses all industry, will be fundamental in our striving to continuously support the UN Global Compact agenda. over the world Jonas Persson President and CEO, Nilfisk 2/ 7 CSR Report 2014-2015 Nilfisk Highlights 2014-2015 Overskrift overskrift Nilfisk SC450 scrubber dryer offers low management costs and eco-friendliness achieved by minimised water and detergent consumption Accelerate business strategy our ORACLE an energy-saving Nilfisk core values value proposition to our customers demonstration project Safer Nilfisk, in cooperation with Serenergy, Aalborg Nilfisk has implemented a set of core values • Lower health hazard for workers University and Danish Power Systems, has shared by all constituent companies and • Less accidents on the job been part of project ORACLE (Outdoor entities around the world. • Increased security handling dangerous Reliable Application using Clean Energy). dust and liquids The aim of the project, partly sponsored by To succeed in the execution of our strategy EUDP (the Energy Technology Development common goals have been defined, and our Cleaner and Demonstration Programme from the core values explicitly encourage collaboration • More pleasing home Danish Energy Agency), was to demonstrate and treating others with respect. • Healthier and better working environment and verify advantages of fuel cells in outdoor • Improved hygiene and less bacteria cleaning vehicles to achieve higher energy Our values • Particle-free surroundings efficiency and reduced CO2 emissions. • Customers we are customer-driven • People we know people make the Productive As an outcome of the project, Nilfisk has difference • Optimise customers’ business implemented more energy-efficient fans on • Performance we want to win • Improve productivity and efficiency motors in vacuum cleaners, while additional • Professionalism we do things right • Increase up-time and running business learning is currently investigated. • Quality we stand for reliability Nilfisk CSR Report 2014-2015 3/7 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS To support the development of our organisation and leadership, more than 100 managers have attended a comprehensive leadership Nilfisk’s approach to the UN Global Compact principles is defined training programme. Additional leaders have attended a light version and globally communicated through the code of ethics and of the programme carried out locally in the Americas, Europe and Asia. business integrity principles introduced in 2012. Nilfisk is firmly committed to providing equal opportunity to its We have also implemented core values that are shared by all our employees and will not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any companies and entities around the world. These core values are part kind. During the present reporting period a number of cases relating of our culture and important to the success of the Accelerate to this area were recorded, duly investigated and internal actions strategy. One of them is ‘People we know people make the were taken. difference’. To ensure dialogue and foster commitment and engagement, an employee engagement survey was launched Another priority area is to ensure that the company’s suppliers globally in 2012 and is conducted annually conform to Nilfisk’s standards and observe the principles of the UN Global Compact which are fully integrated in our standard contracts. We have achieved a 71% signature rate and we will strive to improve this further by initiating relevant activities in entities with lower supplier adherence. Nilfisk has also worked with 2014-2015 Employee Engagement Survey SGS, a world-leading auditing services company, as our thirdparty supplier auditor, and this has resulted in the establishment 42 4,627 91% 72 of a Social Supplier Audit Unit within our Global Procurement department. More than 250 manufacturers supplying parts or countries respondents response engagement finished products to Nilfisk either directly or indirectly have been rate index identified, and they will all be a part of our comprehensive UN Global Compact social supplier audit programme. This programme will interact proactively with the supplier and assist the supplier with learning and adopting the UN Global Compact principles in Based on the most recent survey results and an employment all areas, if not already fully implemented. engagement index rating of 72, which is above average for comparable global companies, two global focus areas have been It is important for us to continue reducing the number of identified: 1) ‘Employee connection’, which relates to leadership occupational injuries. The level was stable compared with the communication and recognition, and 2) ‘Growth and execution’, previous reporting period, and to increase the focus on this area which is mainly about understanding our strategy and how it additional steps will be taken in selected entities, including the impacts our work. Teams and units in companies and entities across assignment of an internal EHS coordinator position and replacement Nilfisk work with initiatives to support these two focal areas. of the external EHS consultancy.   “ In order to support our 2014-15 30.06.15 Code of Ethics stating our position on this issue Goals & actions Human and labour rights Target Achieved Status Management  All local managements have been informed of our policies, have issued their comments, and endorsed the policy. 100% () 100% Zero tolerance of acts of discrimination of any kind. 100% () 100%  A 2015 engaement index of 77. This measures the managers’ ability to foster customer focus, empower the Index 77 Index 72 () organisation, promote team spirit, and ensure alignment in the organisation.  Procurement By end-2015, 80% of procurement (above EUR 50,000 in value) to be supplied by partners who have agreed 80% 71% () to abide by the principles of the UN Global Compact.  Occupational injuries Improving performance with a short-term goal of less than 5.5 accidents per 1 million working hours. The long term goal is zero accidents. <5.5 6.9 () Labour rights The UN Global Compact principles are an integral part of Nilfisk’s M&A due diligence process and any non-conformities are reported. 100% () 100% ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track 4/ 7 CSR Report 2014-2015 Nilfisk ENVIRONMENT Internal consumption of resources is another area of focus for Nilfisk, and we continuously strive to minimise environmental impact in Cleaning equipment invariably consumes energy and water and our manufacturing entities. For the present reporting period Nilfisk sometimes detergents are employed. When designing future achieved 2% reduction of CO2 emissions relative to output, which equipment Nilfisk constantly seeks new technologies and innovative was below the targeted average reduction of approx. 4% annually. solutions with view to increasing cleaning performance, improving However, CO2 emissions in absolute terms increased by 3% primarily productivity and reducing environmental impact. This is achieved due to higher activity level. Future reduction initiatives are mainly both through our technology development programme and based on ISO 14001 environment management. through product innovation. In the present reporting period Nilfisk introduced the Accelerate During the reporting period a significant number of new product strategy comprising substantial front-end investments, including introductions targeted environmental improvements. A new employment of sales personnel. This led to a significant rise of CO2 product development process has been commissioned with emissions from company cars. As the effect of the investments the focus on sustainability and environmental improvements in materialised later than expected only 2% reduction of CO2 emission energy, water and detergent consumption and improved end-ofrelative to output was achieved at this point of time. It is estimated life disposal features. 71% of new product introductions contained that in the coming reporting period the targeted average reduction improvements within at least one of the environmental focus areas. of approx. 4% annually will be achieved. On top of this, product platforms in the consumer and commercial vacuum cleaner segments have been optimised in terms of energy In terms of indirect CO2 emissions we achieved a reduction of 22%, performance to comply with the European regulation on eco-design mainly as a result of improving the transport of goods. In total, direct requirements for vacuum cleaners. and indirect CO2, emissions were reduced by 13% in the 2014-2015 reporting period. Nilfisk also constantly focuses on the performance of new products in the working environment, and during the period under review 76% of all new product introductions featured improved noise emission and ergonomics.  2014-15 30.06.15 Goals & actions Environment Target Achieved Status  Product development  New products feature sustainability improvements in at least one and preferably more of the following four areas: Energy consumption, water consumption, use of detergents and end-of-life disposal. 75% 71% ()  CO2 (emissions ) 8% reduction relative to output over 2013-2015, equivalent to ~4% annually. 4% 2% () Product environmental footprint Actively participate in industry-related activities, boards and committees to push for agreement on industry standard for measuring environmental performance of products. 100% () 100% ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track Nilfisk CSR Report 2014-2015 5/7 ANTI-CORRUPTION to sign a personal Statement of Representation on the principles of the UN Global Compact. The individual statements are then The Nilfisk code of ethics expresses our commitment to promote consolidated and signed by the CEO of Nilfisk. One case of misuse ethical standards, compliance and accountability. As a supplement of company assets was reported during the 2014-2015 period, and to the code of ethics we have introduced business integrity relevant investigation and internal actions were taken. principles that provide all Nilfisk employees with guidelines on how to and how not to conduct themselves in specific matters and Furthermore, Nilfisk’s global whistleblower system enables situations related to our business. To increase attention to this area, employees to report anti-corruption and other unlawful incidents. Nilfisk plans to carry out an internal communication campaign with Such reports are dealt with by an independent party. All incidents the ambition of having 90% of all employees complete a code of filed during the reporting period were accorded the highest priority, ethics programme by end-2016. The programme will also be part being discussed and dealt with by the Group Management of Nilfisk of new employees’ introduction plan as well as having all current and NKT. In 2016 we expect to expand our whistleblower system to employees signing off to these principles every second year. also enable external stakeholders to report. Furthermore, we plan to run an internal awareness campaign supporting the possibility to To ensure top-level commitment and support of our anti-corruption speak out. agenda, the local managements of all Nilfisk entities are obliged  2014-15 30.06.15  Goals & actions Anti-corruption Target Achieved  Status Management Local managements have been informed of our policies, issued their comments and endorsed our policies. 100% 87% ()  Anti-corruption  () Reported corruption or cartel cases. 0 (0 ) Ensure that employees are aware how to act in accordance with Nilfisk’s expectations where issues of business integrity are concerned. 100% 95% () Apply risk management in growth markets on business integrity issues. 100% 20% () ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track HIGH-PRESSURE WASHERS WITH CLEAR SUSTAINABLE PROFILE The new versions of SC DUO 6P/7P stationary high-pressure washers contain several improvements. The steel cabinet has been replaced by more environment-friendly expanded poly-propylene (EPP), which has also led to significant noise and weight (-18 kg) reduction, resulting in less shipment energy, lower cost as well as improved disposal. Some product variants enable higher water pressure, which increases cleaning performance while using less time and hence less water. The SC4MPS variant has a new foam sprayer system to minimise detergent usage. The sprayer system is placed in connection with the gun with the aim of reducing spills as the detergent does not have to travel through the complete hose. 6/ 7 CSR Report 2014-2015 Nilfisk Nilfisk A/S Sognevej 25 · DK-2605 Brøndby · Denmark Tel.: +45 43 23 81 00 · Fax: +45 43 43 77 00 mail.com@nilfisk.com www.nilfisk.com
