Sustainability Report 2015–2016 This is SMEC’s sixth annual Sustainability Report. The report covers SMEC’s economic, social and environmental performance from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016. Contents The CEO’s Message. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 The Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 The Executive Committee. . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Scope of Content. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Company Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Global Network. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Corporate Governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Stakeholders & Objectives . . . . . . . . . . 20 Vision & Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 Community. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Sustainability & Environment. . . . . . . . . 44 Global Reporting Initiative Index. . . . . . 56 Appendix A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Appendix B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62 2 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 This is SMEC’s sixth annual Sustainability Report. The report covers SMEC’s economic, social and environmental performance from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016. The information in this report pertains to SMEC’s Australian operations and selected international operations. It does not include SMEC’s joint ventures or any other controlled entities. SMEC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policies and procedures have been implemented in Australia over the last year, and have been rolled out across selected pilot sites internationally. SMEC has applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines to a self‑declared Level B. The GRI guidelines are the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting guidelines, and encourage greater organisational transparency. The data in this report has been gathered using standard measurement techniques which conform to national or international guidelines or regulatory requirements. Specific calculations are referenced where appropriate. All monetary figures are in Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. For further information, please contact: sustainabilityreport@smec.com. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 3 The CEO’s Message This is SMEC’s sixth annual Sustainability Report for submission to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The purpose of this report is to measure our progress towards the five-year sustainability objectives outlined in SMEC’s 2014-2016 Strategic Plan. These objectives formalise SMEC’s the indicative target four star water commitment to each of its three rating, with one office securing a Corporate Social Responsibility perfect six star rating. categories: People; Community; and Sustainability and Environment. The findings from these Water Audits Under these objectives, SMEC aims will be used to assist in the completion to: create a rewarding, inclusive of SMEC’s annual water assessment workplace for our people by for the Carbon Disclosure Project’s encouraging personal development, (CDP) Water Management Program. fostering equal opportunity and Now in its second year as signatory to ensuring employee health, safety and the CDP Program, SMEC will continue wellbeing; support community and to practise proactive sustainable charitable programs; and eliminate or water stewardship, and water risk and minimise potential adverse impacts resource management. Andy Goodwin that SMEC’s activities may have on In December 2015, SMEC established the environment. a Diversity and Inclusion Committee as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer SMEC is committed to improving a vehicle for driving SMEC’s Gender the energy efficiency of our offices, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy. SMEC and reducing the greenhouse believes in equal opportunity for all, gas emissions generated by the and respects differences in ethnicity, Company’s operations. In October gender, age, national origin, disability, 2015, all Australian offices underwent sexual orientation, education and an annual CitySwitch Energy Audit. religion. SMEC strives to promote The purpose of these audits was to a positive work environment for assess the impact of energy saving all employees and clients, and initiatives over the last year and understands that the diverse measure progress towards SMEC’s perspectives, work experiences, green office energy targets. lifestyles and cultures of its employees are a strength for the Company. I am pleased to advise that in 2015, more than half of SMEC’s offices In 2016, diversity will remain a achieved their target four star energy key business priority, and SMEC rating. As a result, SMEC reduced its will continue to invest in the total energy consumption by more implementation of a broad range of than 185,000 kWh of electricity, which diversity and inclusion initiatives. The equates to a saving of more than Diversity and Inclusion Committee 205 tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) will oversee the progress of diversity per annum. efforts across all of SMEC’s business groups and functions, and will seek to In addition to CitySwitch Energy identify and address local diversity and Audits, a pilot group of SMEC’s inclusion priorities and compliance Australian offices also underwent a requirements. Water Audit in February 2016 in order to establish baseline office water Throughout the year, SMEC continued ratings. 60% of these offices achieved its commitment to supporting people 4 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 in need through the small-scale grant positions from SMEC’s 2014 ranking SMEC is a professional services firm support of the SMEC Foundation. at number 57), and maintained its with a global footprint, recognised The SMEC Foundation is a core ranking at number 76 in the ‘2015 Top around the world for providing fully part of SMEC’s Corporate Social 150 Global Design Firms’ list. SMEC integrated engineering solutions for Responsibility (CSR) Program, and also secured strong rankings in ENR’s physical and social infrastructure helps fulfil the Company’s commitment Global Sourcebook, achieving: a projects. SMEC is consistently to community development and number seven ranking in Hydro Plants; ranked among the world’s top sustainable poverty reduction. number eight in Transmission and engineering design firms, and has Distribution; and number 10 in both During the period, the SMEC contributed to national development Highways and Dams & Reservoirs. Foundation donated over $70,000 in some of the world’s fastest to support communities in which the SMEC has made significant progress growing and emerging economies. Company operates. These funds were towards achieving the Company’s distributed through grants made to sustainability objectives this year, Habitat for Humanity Australia and So and I am confident that we are well They Can; two organisations that have on track to meet the sustainability a long-standing history of effective targets outlined in the 2014-2016 project delivery, local community engagement and measurable social Strategic Plan. I would like to thank all employees for their ongoing support 5,400+ benefits and results. in creating a sustainably-sensitive people work environment, and look forward In December 2015, SMEC was highly to driving a culture of sustainability successful at the Consult Australia and environmental awareness in all Awards for Excellence. SMEC functional, operational and regional secured two High Commendations areas of the business. for: the Geebung Overpass (GO) Alliance’s Robinson Road Open Level Crossing Replacement Project (Collaborations category); and the Preliminary Condition Assessment 75+ of Water Reservoirs for Queensland offices Urban Utilities (Technological Innovation category). These awards recognise SMEC’s contribution to the Andy Goodwin outstanding delivery of infrastructure Managing Director and projects, and leadership and Chief Executive Officer innovation in the application of new SMEC Holdings Limited and emerging technologies. SMEC finished a successful 201440+ 2015 financial year with strong countries rankings in Engineering News Record (ENR) Magazine’s 2015 annual design lists. SMEC was ranked at number 51 in the ‘2015 Top 225 International Design Firms’ list (an increase of six SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 5 The Board On behalf of the Board of Directors, I am pleased to welcome you to SMEC’s 2015-2016 Sustainability Report, and my first as Chairman of the Board. This year, SMEC has made substantial progress towards its economic, social and environmental objectives. During the period, SMEC role, Peter will take charge of driving strengthened its company compliance SMEC’s compliance program and with revisions to the Company’s reducing the Company’s working Business Integrity Policy and related capital. Peter’s extensive experience procedures. These mechanisms work in infrastructure, transportation, mining in conjunction with SMEC’s Code and building project management, of Conduct, and address areas of coupled with his commercial employee conduct, including: bribery acumen and postgraduate business and corruption; fraud; conflicts of qualifications, makes him the ideal interest; misleading conduct; collusion; person for this challenging role. engagement with suppliers; donations, gifts and entertainment; and nonIn 2015, the SMEC Foundation normal business. SMEC is serious underwent a strategic review to about having a culture of compliance, identify opportunities to strengthen and in 2016 will continue to ensure the delivery of support. The outcome Max Findlay of this review was the implementation ethical and safe working conditions for Chairman all its employees. of a new rationalised structure that will result in: increased employee In 2015/2016, there were a number engagement; stronger synergies with of changes to SMEC’s company size, non-governmental partners; and a structure and leadership. Foremost, wider and more diverse breadth of I would like to acknowledge the funding recipients. retirement of Peter Busbridge as Chairman of SMEC’s Board of I would like to warmly welcome the Directors. Peter made an enormous new SMEC Foundation Board: Roger contribution to SMEC over his 40+ Bayliss to the position of Chairman, years of service. His understanding of and Angus Macpherson and Philip SMEC’s business, combined Wilcox as Directors. I would also with his astute leadership, positive like to thank those Directors who drive, support and guidance will be this year resigned from the SMEC greatly missed across the Company. Foundation Board. You have been instrumental in shaping the Foundation I would like to welcome George Lasek into the sustainable, successful and to the Executive Committee in the role resourceful charity it is today. of Chief Operating Officer (COO) for South Asia and Middle East. George has held the role of Regional Manager India and Bhutan, as well as Managing Director SMEC India, for the last two and a half years. During that time, Max Findlay George has shown strong leadership Chairman and has successfully grown SMEC’s SMEC Holdings Limited business and reputation in the region. Peter Rundle (formerly COO South Asia and Middle East) has been appointed to the role of Director of International Operations. In this 6 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 SMEC’s Board of Directors is responsible for formulating SMEC’s strategic direction and maintaining good MAX FINDLAY ANDY GOODWIN corporate governance. Chairman Managing Director and CEO Max was appointed Chairman of Andy was appointed Managing Acting on behalf of SMEC in 2016, after servicing as Director and Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chairman since 2014, and of SMEC in 2014, after serving shareholders, the Non-Executive Director since 2010. as Chief Operating Officer South Max serves on the Boards of several Asia and Middle East since 2012. Board is accountable organisations, including the Royal Andy has more than 30 years’ Children’s Hospital. Max holds a engineering experience in the energy for SMEC’s financial Bachelor of Economics (Politics) from and infrastructure sectors in South Monash University and a Postgraduate Africa, Europe and Asia. Andy holds and operational Qualification in Accounting from a Bachelor of Science (Mechanical Swinburne University. Max is a Fellow Engineering) and a Bachelor of performance. of the Australian Institute of Company Commerce (Hons). BSc(Eng)Mech, Directors. BEc, FAICD. BCom(Hons). ALASTAIR MCKENDRICK KATE SPARGO ROGER BAYLISS Director and Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Alastair joined SMEC in 1999, was Kate was appointed as a Non‑Executive Roger is a Non-Executive Director of appointed Chief Financial Officer Director of SMEC in 2010 and is Chair SMEC, is Chairman of the Remuneration in 2000, elected to SMEC’s Board of the Audit and Risk Committee. and Nominations Committee and of Directors in 2001 and appointed Kate is currently Chairman of the Chairman of the SMEC Foundation. Group Finance Director in 2009. Boards of UGL Ltd and Suncorp Roger was appointed to the SMEC Alastair has worked throughout Portfolio Services, and is a NonBoard in 2002. Roger’s career has Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong Executive Director on the Boards included policy development, marketing, and the United Kingdom. Alastair of Sonic Healthcare Ltd, Fletcher international trade and investment. holds a Bachelor of Business Building Ltd, Adairs Ltd and CoInvest Roger is a Chartered Chemist, a (Accounting) from Monash University, Ltd. Kate holds a Bachelor of Law Member of the Royal Australian is a Fellow of Certified Public (Hons) and a Bachelor of Arts from Chemical Institute and a Fellow of Accountants Australia and a Member Adelaide University, and is a Fellow the Australian Institute of Company of the Australian Institute of Company of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. Roger holds a Bachelor of Directors. BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD. Directors. BA, LLB(Hons), FAICD. Science. BSc, MRACI, FAICD. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 7 The Executive Committee The Executive Committee (EC) has primary authority for the management and monitoring of the Company’s operations, and the implementation ANDY GOODWIN Managing Director and CEO of the Company Strategy subject to Andy was appointed Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer policies and procedures approved of SMEC in 2014, having held the role of Chief Operating Officer South Asia by the Board of Directors. The EC is and Middle East since joining SMEC in 2012. Andy has led multidisciplinary comprised of 10 senior individuals teams in technical and complex environments, and has developed with extensive experience in strategic and implemented business strategies leading to strong growth. Andy holds and operational planning. a Bachelor of Science (Mechanical Engineering) and a Bachelor of Commerce (Hons). BSc(Eng)Mech, BCom(Hons). ALASTAIR MCKENDRICK NEIL EVANS ANGUS MACPHERSON Director and Group Finance Director Director Director Alastair joined SMEC in 1999 as Strategy and New Business Corporate Affairs Financial Controller, was appointed Neil joined SMEC in 1993 and was Angus joined SMEC in 1993, was Chief Financial Officer in 2000 and appointed Director Strategy and appointed Director Corporate Affairs Group Finance Director in 2009. New Business in 2012. Neil has more in 2010, and elected to the SMEC Alastair has over 35 years’ experience than 35 years’ experience in the Foundation Board in 2015. Angus has across various industries ranging development, design and delivery of over 25 years’ experience in business from the management of major large infrastructure projects, and has management systems, project organisations to consulting for been a member of project boards and management of large multidisciplinary small‑to-medium sized businesses. review groups worldwide. Neil holds a projects and all aspects of civil Alastair has worked extensively in Bachelor of Science (Civil Engineering) engineering for the public and private Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong from the University of NSW and sectors. Angus holds a Bachelor of and the UK, and holds a Bachelor of has completed the Advanced Engineering (Civil) from the University Business (Accounting) from Monash Management Program at Harvard of Technology, Sydney. BE(Civil), University. BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD. University. BSc(Eng), AMP Harvard. CPEng, MIEAust. 8 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 PETER RUNDLE JOHN STOCCO HARI POOLOGASUNDRAM Director Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer International Operations Resources Australia and New Zealand Peter joined SMEC in 2014 and was John joined SMEC in 2014 as Chief Hari joined SMEC in 1994, and was appointed Director of International Operating Officer Resources, and appointed Chief Operating Officer Operations in 2015. Peter has over has over 30 years’ experience in the Australia and New Zealand in 2012. 35 years’ experience in engineering mining and minerals processing sector. Hari has been a member of the SMEC project management across transport, John holds a Bachelor of Engineering Australia Board since 2004, and has infrastructure, mining, process and (Mechanical) from the University of almost 30 years’ experience in the building. Peter is a member of the Western Australia, is a Fellow of the planning, design and management Institution of Engineers Australia and Institution of Engineers Australia, and of large infrastructure projects. Hari the American Society of Civil Engineers. member of the Australian Institute of holds a Bachelor of Science (Civil Peter holds a Masters of Business Project Management, the College of Engineering) and a Master of Science Administration and a Diploma of Mechanical Engineers Australia and (Civil Engineering) from City University, Civil Engineering. MBA, DEng (Civil), the Australian Society of Bulk Solids London. BSc(Hons), MSc, CPEng, MIEAust, MASCE. Handling. BEng(Mech), CPEng, FIEAust. MIEAust, MICE, MIHT. KALAI ARUMUGAM GEORGE LASEK TOM MARSHALL Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Asia Pacific South Asia and Middle East Africa Kalai joined SMEC in 1993 and was George joined SMEC in 2011, was Tom joined SMEC in 2012, and has over appointed Chief Operating Officer Asia appointed Managing Director SMEC 30 years’ experience in civil engineering Pacific in 2014. Kalai has over 27 years’ India in 2012 and appointed Chief design, construction supervision engineering experience in both the Operating Officer South Asia and Middle and management of multidisciplinary public and private sectors, and a strong East in 2015. George has over 30 years’ teams throughout southern Africa. background in business development experience in both the private and public Tom holds a Bachelor of Engineering and project management. Kalai holds a sectors, and has a proven ability to (Civil) and a Master of Engineering Bachelor of Civil Engineering from the operate effectively at both an operational (Geotechnics and Transportation) from University of Technology, Malaysia and and strategic level within large and the University of Stellenbosch, and a Diploma in Financial Management complex business environments. a Doctor of Engineering (Engineering from the Association of Chartered George holds a Bachelor of Engineering Management) from the University of Certified Accountants (ACCA). (Civil) from the University of Wollongong. Johannesburg. PrEng, BEng, MEng, BEng(Civil), PE, DipFM, MIEM. BEng, MIEAust. DEng, MSAICE, FIOD. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 9 Scope of Content The information in this report pertains to SMEC’s Australian operations and selected international operations only. It does not include SMEC’s joint ventures or any other controlled entities. For a complete list of SMEC’s controlled and associated entities, please refer to Appendix A. Material Aspects Defining Report Content Figure 1: Material Aspects contained within this report and Boundaries In compiling this report, SMEC has To determine the material aspects, adhered to the Reporting Principles ECONOMIC boundaries and content of this report, for Defining Report Content. These SMEC completed a four step process principles are: Economic Performance of identification, prioritisation, validation • stakeholder inclusiveness Indirect Economic Impacts and review. This process ensured all • sustainability context aspects identified were material to ENVIRONMENTAL • materiality SMEC, and provided a structured • completeness Materials approach for implementation of the Reporting Principles for Defining Implementation of these principles Energy Report Content. ensures the content contained within Water this report is relevant, accurate, Material aspects defined in this report meaningful and complete. Biodiversity are those aspects which reflect SMEC’s significant economic, social Stakeholder Inclusiveness Emissions and environmental impacts, or which Information in this report pertains Effluents and Waste have a substantial influence on the to SMEC’s stakeholders and has been compiled with reference to the Compliance decisions of company stakeholders. To determine the boundaries of each expectations, needs, interests and SOCIAL material aspect, consideration was information requirements of these made into the impacts of each, both stakeholders. Labour Practices and Decent Work within and externally to SMEC. Employment Sustainability Context Material aspects contained within This report presents SMEC’s company Labour/Management Relations this report are displayed in Figure 1. performance within the wider context All material aspects identified have of sustainability, and explores the Occupational Health and Safety an impact both inside and outside ways in which SMEC contributes Training and Education of SMEC, and are relevant for all to the improvement of economic, environmental and social conditions Diversity and Equal Opportunity stakeholders outlined in Stakeholder Engagement on page 20. on a local, regional and global level. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Materiality All material aspects identified in this Human Rights report are relevant and sufficiently Non-discrimination important in reflecting SMEC’s economic, social and environmental Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining impacts. Aspects identified as non‑material have not been reported. Child Labour Completeness Forced or Compulsory Labour Material aspects, scope, time and Indigenous Rights boundaries contained within this report enable stakeholders to assess Society SMEC’s performance during the Anti-corruption reporting period. Compliance 10 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Company Overview SMEC is a multidisciplinary consultancy firm with a global footprint, recognised for providing fully integrated engineering solutions to clients and communities around the world. SMEC operates in all key areas of SMEC provides clients with physical and social infrastructure, consulting services for the lifecycle SMEC aligns technical expertise including: of an infrastructure project, including: with local knowledge to address the prefeasibility and feasibility studies; needs of its diverse client base, and • Transport field investigations, laboratory testing has delivered thousands of projects • Hydropower and Energy and computer modelling; preliminary in more than 100 countries. SMEC is • Water and Environment through to detailed design (structural, consistently recognised for technical • Urban and Social Development civil, architectural, mechanical and excellence, design innovation • Resources (Mining, Oil & Gas) electrical); tender and contract and environmental and social risk • Asset Management management; quality assurance and management by the world’s leading control; construction supervision; engineering bodies. SMEC has operated for more than commissioning, operation and 40 years (in its current form), with maintenance; training and project the Company’s origins dating back management; and whole-of-life asset to the iconic Snowy Mountains management services. Scheme in 1949. As Australia’s largest infrastructure project, this scheme brought together over 100,000 people SMEC is consistently ranked amongst the world’s top engineering design # 51 from 30 countries to construct firms. In 2015, SMEC was ranked ENR’s Top 225 16 dams, seven power stations, one at Number 51 in Engineering News International pumping station, 145 km of tunnels, Record’s (ENR) Top 225 International 80 km of aqueducts and 2,000 km Design Firms Design Firms and Number 76 in the of roads. The aim of the Scheme Top Global Design Firms. was to provide water for irrigation and generate peak load electricity. In 2015, SMEC continued to gain Managed by the Snowy Mountains recognition for industry excellence. Authority (SMA), this A$820 million The Company was awarded two project became an iconic symbol of nation building in Australia. High Commendations at the Consult Australia Awards for Excellence for: # 76 the Geebung Overpass (GO) Alliance’s ENR’s Top 150 SMEC has delivered thousands of Robinson Road Open Level Crossing projects throughout Australia and Global Design Replacement Project (Collaborations New Zealand, Asia Pacific, South category); and the Preliminary Condition Firms Asia, the Middle East, Africa and Assessment of Water Reservoirs North and South America, and works for Queensland Urban Utilities with clients to provide cost‑effective, (Technological Innovation category). practical and sustainable project outcomes. Clients include local SMEC’s values of Teamwork & and multi-national contractors, government departments, statutory Trust, Diversity & Delivery, Integrity & Innovation, and Safety & Sustainability # 10 bodies, private sector organisations, underpin the way SMEC operates ENR’s Highways utility providers and International and defines the way in which the Sector Financial Institutions (IFIs) responsible Company works. These Values are for funding and coordinating major owned by SMEC’s employees; they infrastructure projects. guide decision making, foster good relationships and reflect what SMEC’s people stand for. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 11 Global Network North & South America Africa 6 Offices 27 Offices 90+ People 1,370+ People 12 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 South Asia & Middle East Asia Pacific 17 Offices 10 Offices 2,040+ People 840+ People Australia & New Zealand 17 Offices 1,070+ People SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 13 Corporate Governance Company Structure Independence of diversity and size to adequately perform its responsibilities. The SMEC operates using a Non‑Executive Directors Committee aims to ensure that divisional‑functional, cross-matrix An independent Director is SMEC secures, motivates and retains structure. This structure consists separate from management, free highly skilled and diverse senior of: a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of relationships that could interfere executives and employees in order reporting to a Board of Directors; one with the exercise of independent to guarantee SMEC’s long-term global sectoral division (Resources); judgement, and meets the criteria for success. The Remuneration and four geographic divisions (Australia independence in the ASX Standards. Nominations Committee must have and New Zealand, Asia Pacific, South SMEC’s Board has three independent at least three members, consist only Asia and Middle East, and Africa); Non-Executive Directors. of Non‑Executive Directors, have a and six industry sectors (Transport; majority of independent Directors, and Hydropower and Energy; Water have an independent Chair. and Environment; Urban and Social Board Committees Development; Resources (Mining, Oil The Board has two permanent Executive Committee & Gas); and Asset Management. committees which provide direction The Executive Committee (EC) has on specific areas. Each committee primary authority for the management SMEC’s structure makes use of a has written terms of reference and and monitoring of the Company’s number of subsidiary companies, is subject to annual review by the operations, and the implementation which meet operational (predominantly Board. These committees are: the of the Company Strategy subject to regional and functional) business needs. Audit and Risk Committee; and the policies and procedures approved Remuneration and Nominations by the Board of Directors. The EC is Board of Directors Committee. The Executive Committee comprised of 10 senior managers, all (EC) is not considered to be a Board of whom have extensive experience SMEC’s Board of Directors is committee. The EC consists of senior in strategic and operational planning responsible for formulating SMEC’s executives appointed by the CEO. The in the engineering industry. SMEC’s strategic direction and maintaining EC assists in the performance of the CEO is the Chair of the Committee, good corporate governance. Acting CEO’s duties to the Board and in their and is responsible for all matters not on behalf of shareholders, the Board role as an officer of the Company. reserved for the Board or individual is accountable for SMEC’s financial and operational performance. The Directors (generally described as Audit and Risk Committee Board has a written charter which the day-to-day operations and The Audit and Risk Committee assists management of the SMEC Group). outlines its responsibilities and the Board with financial reporting, The EC’s terms of reference and governance framework. managing SMEC’s material risks and authority are approved by the Board. SMEC’s Board is composed of ensuring that financial information two Executive Directors, three (provided to investors and the Board) Non‑Executive Directors (all of whom is accurate and timely. The Audit Remuneration are considered to be independent), and and Risk Committee must have at of Directors a Chair elected by the other members least three members, consist only Non-Executive Directors are paid of the Board. Directors are leaders in of Non‑Executive Directors, have a annual fees, which in total fall their field, and their expertise, skills majority of independent Directors, and within the fixed amount approved and experience drive the Company’s have an independent Chair (who is not by shareholders (currently set at sustained long‑term growth and the Chair of the Board). A$1,000,000). During the 2014–2015 ensure transparency of operations. financial year, remuneration of Remuneration and Nominations All Directors are required to retire at Non‑Executive Directors totalled Committee the fourth Annual General Meeting A$455,618. Non-Executive Directors following their appointment, with the The Remuneration and Nominations are not eligible for bonuses or exception of the Managing Director. Committee assists in establishing a incentive schemes, and only statutory Board with an effective composition, retirement benefits are payable. 14 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 SMEC’s success is driven by an experienced Board of Directors. They are leaders in their field and their expertise, knowledge and foresight ensure the Company’s continued growth. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 15 Corporate Governance (continued) Code of Conduct Equal Employment Risk Management SMEC’s Code of Conduct establishes Opportunity Procedure The Board of Directors is responsible a common understanding of the In addition to the Code of Conduct, for ensuring there are adequate standards of behaviour expected of all SMEC has an Equal Employment organisational arrangements for SMEC employees in the performance Opportunity Procedure to promote designing, implementing, monitoring, of their duties. SMEC employees are a positive work environment for all reviewing and improving risk expected to comply with this Code, employees and clients. SMEC is management throughout SMEC. along with all other SMEC policies committed to promoting an inclusive and procedures, and any legislation SMEC is committed to maintaining organisational culture, and strives to applicable to their role. an appropriate system of governance provide a safe and flexible workplace and risk management applicable to all where employees and clients are The Code requires that all employees of the Company’s locations, business treated with dignity, respect and act with honesty, integrity and in units and functional groups in order consideration at all times. compliance with the law, perform their to: implement a Risk Management duties to the best of their abilities, be SMEC does not condone any System conforming to International accountable for their performance, behaviour which may be perceived as Standard ISO 31000; clarify the roles and work collaboratively with their bullying, intimidation, discrimination, and responsibilities of management colleagues. The Code encourages or any form of sexual or workplace and Boards; identify, assess and employees to report any unethical, harassment. As such, SMEC manage significant risks and dishonest or unlawful practices and encourages the development of an opportunities; maintain the integrity of ensure the safety of themselves and inclusive and diverse workforce, and SMEC’s assets, people and reporting; those around them. believes that diversity is a strength for and comply with legal obligations in all our people, our clients, our partners jurisdictions in which SMEC operates. In addition to the above responsibilities, and our communities. managers are expected to develop a SMEC seeks to improve risk positive working environment, provide SMEC is committed to attracting the management through: appropriate ongoing support and feedback to best talent, and engages in recruitment charters for the Board and employees, and take appropriate and selection processes that are management groups (including action if a breach of the Code (or based on merit. SMEC’s recruitment their responsibilities to their various breach of any other SMEC policies and activities are undertaken free of bias or stakeholders); a Code of Conduct procedures) may have occurred. discrimination, and in compliance with recognising SMEC’s responsibilities all relevant local legislation. to all stakeholders; promotion of workplace culture, practices and behaviours which value and reflect SMEC’s Code of Conduct seeks to guide the actions and behaviour honesty, integrity and professionalism; of employees in a way that is consistent with SMEC’s company the identification and management values. It is management’s responsibility to demonstrate, through of risks, issues and opportunities their actions, the importance of this Code, and promote the highest at team, project, business unit, ethical standards across all areas of the business. subsidiary and corporate levels; alignment of controls with the SMEC governance and risk management policy and framework; and the application of policies, controls, and review processes to all business units and subsidiaries. 16 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Business Integrity formalised and structured approach to project quality management. The During the period, revisions were QMS ensures: development of project made to SMEC’s Business Integrity quality objectives incorporating Policy and related procedures. These client operability, maintainability and mechanisms work in conjunction delivery requirements; quantification with SMEC’s Code of Conduct, and of project risks through assessment; address areas of employee conduct, implementation of design including: bribery and corruption; management and review processes fraud; conflicts of interest; misleading to manage critical design quality conduct; collusion; engagement aspects; communication of risks with suppliers, joint venture partners and responsibilities through planning and third-party representatives; political donations, charitable workshops; and development of risk auditing regimes. ISO 9001 donations, gifts and entertainment; Quality and non-normal business. During the reporting period, SMEC Management maintained certification to ISO 9001 SMEC is serious about having (Quality Management), ISO 14001 a culture of compliance, and all (Environmental Management) and employees are required to adhere to AS/NZS 4801 (OHS Management) in the standards of behaviour outlined all major Australian offices from third in these policies, procedures and party certifier, Global-Mark. agreements. Should an employee wish to register a breach or suspected breach of these standards, a report In 2013, SMEC launched a ‘Safety in Design’ procedure and system ISO 31000 may be made anonymously through a in compliance with changes to Risk Business Integrity Reporting Portal. Australian Work, Health and Safety Management Guidelines. During the reporting period, ongoing training was held throughout Quality Management all Australian offices in the correct use SMEC is committed to implementing of this procedure and system. ‘Safety in quality management principles on Design’ workshops continue to be held all projects, and has developed a for clients, contractors and other key Quality Management System (QMS) to stakeholders involved in major projects. comply with the requirements of ISO In 2015, SMEC’s Project Management ISO 14001 9001:2008. System underwent further review to Environmental SMEC’s QMS provides systematic simplify and streamline procedures Management control of business activities to for minor projects. Improvements ensure client expectations are being were also made to the Opportunity met and, if possible, exceeded. Management System in order to The QMS includes processes for improve efficiency of proposal planning, documenting, managing management and increase and controlling everyday business information sharing across the needs and activities, as well as business. These updates include: review processes to monitor and improved risk registers; automated AS/NZS 4801 measure performance and identify alerts, prompts and instructions; a OHS improvements. streamlined approvals process; a more user-friendly interface; and a Management SMEC’s QMS covers all stages of comprehensive forms library. the project lifecycle, from inception through to handover, and provides a SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 17 18 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 World Environment Day In celebration of World Environment Day, held on 5 June 2015, SMEC joined the Carbon Neutral Plant-a-Tree Program. This Program specialises in biodiverse conservation plantings that help capture carbon, moderate soil salinity, combat wind and soil erosion, enhance biodiversity and restore habitat for native animals. Celebrated in over 100 countries, World Environment Day is a United Nations initiative that encourages global awareness and is a call to action for environmental sustainability. SMEC planted 414 trees through the Plant-a-Tree Program, representing each of SMEC’s global active projects at the time. The trees were planted in the Yarra Yarra Biodiversity Corridor of Western Australia; a globally recognised ‘biodiversity hotspot’ where more than 90% of the land has been cleared for agriculture. These trees will remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere through photosynthesis, storing carbon in the leaves, branches, bark and roots. Within 30 years, more than one tonne of carbon dioxide will have been captured for every seven trees planted. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 19 Stakeholders & Objectives Stakeholder Engagement SMEC’s stakeholders are identified Employees SMEC works with clients to understand as any person, group or organisation SMEC’s management has an their business objectives, drivers, that has an interest or concern in the ‘open door’ philosophy, whereby resources and processes in order Company. SMEC interacts with a all employees may feel comfortable to deliver the best possible project wide range of stakeholders, from local approaching management to discuss outcomes. SMEC is responsive and community members and contractors any issue or idea. flexible to clients’ changing needs, to employees, clients, shareholders, and strives to build sustainable client industry bodies and opinion leaders. Employees receive regular company relationships through integrity and trust. updates from the CEO and other senior SMEC stays up-to-date with management via email announcements SMEC utilises an in-house Client emerging trends and sensitive and SMEC’s intranet. The SMEC Relationship Management (CRM) issues through effective and regular News, an electronic internal monthly system, Client Connect, as the platform dialogue with stakeholders. This newsletter, provides information on for the Company’s client‑focused dialogue feeds directly into the SMEC’s projects, people, events, initiatives. Client Connect promotes ongoing development of SMEC’s achievements, community engagement the internal sharing of client intelligence business practices. SMEC recognises initiatives and company updates. and aims to drive stronger and more that it is important to engage with sustainable client relationships. During local stakeholders to develop a Employees are invited to join Lync Chat the reporting period, SMEC relaunched Corporate Social Responsibility Rooms. These topic-based discussion Client Connect to enable its use (CSR) framework that resonates with rooms enable instant communication, globally across the business. Updated employees, clients, communities and encourage employees to share features include: user-friendly training other affected parties. functional and business development modules; client feedback options; and information, ask questions relevant to expanded filters options for improved The diverse nature of stakeholder their functional groups, and collaborate searchability and reporting. groups means a variety of effectively on project solutions. methods are used to communicate Shareholders effectively at every level. The types In 2015, SMEC implemented a Chief The Board aims to ensure that of communication methods used Technical Principal (CTP) webinar all shareholders have accurate, depends on the situation and program to encourage knowledge equal and timely access to material the stakeholder, and may involve sharing across the business. CTPs are information concerning the Company. any combination of the following: leaders in their engineering fields, and This includes SMEC’s financial one‑on‑one meetings; industry each month deliver a specialised live position, performance, ownership and initiatives; corporate publications; webinar to participating employees. governance. SMEC communicates company announcements; media Employees are invited to attend the live with its shareholders through a releases; the website (www.smec. webinar (where they can ask questions dedicated shareholder website, an com); the intranet; the internal and engage in discussions on a chosen Annual General Meeting, a published company newsletter (SMEC News); topic), or download the recorded Annual Report and shareholder live and recorded webinars; or Lync webinar at a later date. announcements. The Board is Chat Rooms. responsible for ensuring compliance Clients SMEC’s three major stakeholder with the continuous disclosure Clients remain SMEC’s primary requirements of the Corporations groups are: employees; clients; and focus, and the Company is dedicated shareholders. SMEC’s policies and Act 2001. The Company Secretary to proactively responding to their is responsible for communicating procedures identify and manage issues requirements. SMEC works with key that may impact these stakeholders with the Australian Securities and client stakeholders to identify business Investments Commission (ASIC). improvements, and to develop and implement effective and sustainable project solutions 20 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Sustainability Objectives In 2013, SMEC set a number of five year objectives to help deliver on the commitments the Company has made in each of its three Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) categories: People; Community; and Sustainability and Environment. SMEC reports on progress against these objectives in the Company’s annual Sustainability Report. Sustainability People Community & Environment Our Commitment Our Commitment Our Commitment Create a rewarding, inclusive Support community and Eliminate or minimise any workplace for our people charitable programs that adverse impacts that SMEC’s by encouraging personal provide long-term solutions. office activities and projects development, recognising have on the environment. good performance, fostering Raise employee, client and Five Year Objectives equal opportunity and community awareness of the ensuring employee health, • To deliver the best possible importance of environmental social and development safety and wellbeing. outcomes for people in sustainability. need through small-scale grant support provided by Five Year Objectives the SMEC Foundation Five Year Objectives • To provide and maintain a • To protect and uphold • To operate energy efficient satisfying and rewarding internationally proclaimed offices and reduce work environment for all human rights, particularly in Greenhouse Gas (GHG) employees the areas of child abuse and emissions generated by forced compulsory labour SMEC’s operations • To achieve and maintain cultural and gender balance • To support and encourage • To provide long-term and increase awareness of employee participation environmentally sustainable the importance of diversity in their local community, project advice to clients • To provide employees particularly charity work • To implement an with personal and career Environmental Awareness development opportunities Program to educate and clear career paths employees, clients, partners and contractors about the • To eliminate or manage importance of environmental hazards and practices that sustainability could cause accidents, injuries or illness SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 21 Vision & Performance Vision and Values ENR Rankings Consult Australia Awards SMEC’s 2014–2016 Strategic Plan SMEC is consistently ranked among SMEC was awarded two High was developed with input from the world’s top engineering firms, Commendations at the 2015 Consult SMEC’s Board of Directors, Executive and in 2015 secured strong rankings Australia Awards for Excellence: the Committee and overall employee in Engineering News Record (ENR) Geebung Overpass (GO) Alliance’s base. This organisation-wide plan sets Magazine’s annual design lists. ENR’s Robinson Road Open Level Crossing the future direction of the Company, annual market analysis is based on Replacement Project (Collaborations ensuring SMEC’s business objectives global surveys of key construction category); and the Preliminary Condition are clear, realistic and relevant to segments. These design lists rank firms Assessment of Water Reservoirs the business. SMEC’s key priority on size and design-specific revenue for Queensland Urban Utilities areas are: Client Focus; People generated locally and internationally in (Technological Innovation category). Development; Organic Growth; and a range of market categories. Systems and Processes. The Collaborations Award recognises SMEC was ranked at number 51 in alliances between project partners The Strategic Plan has a strong focus ENR’s 2015 ‘Top 225 International that contribute to the outstanding on SMEC’s clients and people, and Design Firms’ list (an increase of six delivery of a project. SMEC was features a Vision and set of core positions from SMEC’s 2014 ranking engaged as part of the GO Alliance Values for the Company. These Vision at number 57). SMEC also maintained (in association with Brisbane City and Values are owned by SMEC’s its ranking at number 76 in ENR’s 2015 Council and BMD Constructions) to employees; they guide good decision ‘Top 150 Global Design Firms’ list. undertake the design of a new road making, foster genuine relationships bridge and pedestrian overpass at the and reflect what SMEC employees SMEC also secured strong rankings Robinson Road Open Level Crossing stand for. in ENR’s Global Sourcebook (released in Geebung, Queensland. Due to the in December 2015). This annual ingenuity and collaboration of the GO SMEC’s Vision ‘To deliver outstanding edition provides rankings of the Top Alliance, this A$199 million project infrastructure services for our clients International Design Firms across was delivered three months early and and communities’, coupled with nine regional markets and eight major significantly under budget. eight strong Values define the way industry sectors. SMEC secured SMEC operates. This Vision aligns a number seven ranking in Hydro The Technological Innovation with the Company’s ethos of ‘Local Plants; number eight in Transmission Award distinguishes firms that have People. Global Experience.’ and and Distribution; number 10 in both demonstrated outstanding leadership supports SMEC’s localisation model Highways and Dams & Reservoirs; in the innovative application of of developing local people and being and number 11 in Mining. new or existing technology. SMEC responsive to the needs of local clients. received a High Commendation in the category for the delivery of a SMEC’s Values are: preliminary condition assessment • Teamwork & Trust and asset renewal planning program #7 #8 for Queensland Urban Utilities’ • Diversity & Delivery Hydro Plants Transmission & Distribution (QUU) critical asset base. SMEC • Integrity & Innovation implemented radio operated vehicles • Safety & Sustainability and remote CCTV technology to reduce reservoir shutdowns across These Values underpin the way SMEC QUU’s 125 water reservoirs, improving operates, and define the way SMEC cost-efficiency and safety outcomes. works. Employees are encouraged #10 #10 to adopt these values in a meaningful Highways Dams & Reservoirs way. This will enable SMEC to continue to grow as a business and strengthen its reputation in the global market as a leading provider of high‑quality consultancy services. 22 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Company Memberships • Association of Consulting Engineers Malaysia • Association of Consulting Surveyors (Victoria Division) • Association of Land Development Engineers • Australasian Corrosion Association • Australian Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong • Australian Green Infrastructure Council • Australian National Committee on Large Dams (ANCOLD) • Australian Water Association • British Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong • Board of Engineers Malaysia • International Conference on Large High Voltage Electric Power Systems (CIGRE) • Consult Australia • Engineers Registration Board Tanzania • International Road Federation • Pakistan Engineering Council • Property Council of Australia (South Australia Division) • Property Council of Australia (Victoria Division) • Roads Australia • Urban Development Institute of Australia (Queensland Division) • Urban Development Institute of Australia (Victoria Division) • Waste Management Association of Australia • Water Industry Alliance SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 23 Vision & Performance (continued) Economic Performance Company Performance Economic Value Generated SMEC has policies in place to ensure and Distributed strong economic performance, During the reporting period, sustained long-term growth and revenue in Australia increased positive returns for all stakeholders. to A$210.2 million. SMEC’s net operating profit after tax in Australia While SMEC has grown substantially remained steady at A$12.2 million. (primarily through organic growth), SMEC’s operating costs decreased there are still ample opportunities by 2% to A$23.1 million, with to broaden the Company’s product employee compensation increasing offering and supply new markets. by 23% to A$161.4 million. The Strategic acquisitions may be generation and distribution of SMEC’s considered where there are strong economic value within Australia is synergies and sound financial returns displayed in Figures 2 and 3. for shareholders. In SMEC’s international operations, In the 2014-2015 financial year, SMEC’s solid financial results were revenue increased by 29% to A$371.2 million, with net operating # 51 underpinned by the Company’s profit after tax totalling A$15.6 million. ENR’s Top 225 renewed focus on growth as a SMEC’s operating costs increased by International strategic priority. SMEC continued to 54% to A$69.9 million, with employee infill its geographic footprint, and to Design Firms compensation increasing by 26% to invest in both its Resources and Asset A$275.3 million. The generation and Management businesses. distribution of SMEC’s economic value within its international operations is Throughout the period, SMEC displayed in Figures 4 and 5. improved its operating performance and achieved solid financial outcomes. This was the result of a number of factors, including: an internal focus Government Financial Assistance The Australian Government offers a # 76 ENR’s Top 150 from management on less profitable Research and Development (R&D) tax parts of the business; growth in incentive (40% tax offset) for activities Global Design infrastructure development within which are innovative or have high Firms SMEC’s countries of operation; and a levels of technical risk. Under the declining Australian dollar. R&D tax incentive, SMEC may claim a 40% non-refundable tax offset. At The outlook for the 2015-2016 the current 30% corporate tax rate, financial year is positive. SMEC this equates to a 10% net benefit. The has solid work-in-hand for the year ahead (and subsequent years), and 40% tax offset is broadly equivalent to a 133% tax concession. # 10 the Australian business is expected ENR’s Highways to perform particularly well with the During the reporting period, SMEC help of major transport infrastructure spent A$7.8 million on R&D activities Sector projects along Australia’s east coast. and received A$780,000 as a tax benefit, as displayed in Figure 6. 24 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Figure 2: Economic value generated in Australia (all figures are in A$’000) Generated VIC and SA NSW and ACT QLD and NT AUSTRALIA Revenue 40,951 118,033 51,217 210,201 Net Operating Profit After Tax – – – 12,212 Figure 3: Economic value distributed in Australia (all figures are in A$’000) Distributed VIC and SA NSW and ACT QLD and NT AUSTRALIA Operating Costs (4,509) (12,996) (5,639) (23,144) Employee Compensation (31,450) (90,648) (39,334) (161,432) Payments to Providers of Capital – Dividend – – – (8,178) Government (Tax) – – – (5,234) TOTAL (197,988) Figure 4: Economic value generated internationally (all figures are in A$’000) SOUTH ASIA Generated MIDDLE EAST ASIA PACIFIC AFRICA INTERNATIONAL Revenue 101,121 150,544 119,569 371,234 Net Operating Profit After Tax – – – 15,583 Figure 5: Economic value distributed internationally (all figures are in A$’000) SOUTH ASIA Distributed MIDDLE EAST ASIA PACIFIC AFRICA INTERNATIONAL Operating Costs (18,536) (27,595) (21,917) (68,048) Employee Compensation (74,987) (111,637) (88,667) (275,291) Payments to Providers of Capital – Dividend – – – – Government (Tax) – – – (12,314) TOTAL (355,653) Figure 6: Financial assistance received from the Australian Government (all figures are in A$) Claimed in 2015 Estimate Claim Tax Deduction at 133% Tax Deduction at 133% TOTAL (1/4/15–30/6/15) (1/7/15–31/3/16) (1/4/15–31/3/16) R&D Expenditure $1,952,257 $5,856,770 $7,809,027 Before Tax Cash Benefit $644,245 $1,932,734 $2,576,979 After Tax Cash Benefit $193,273 $579,820 $773,093 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 25 People Employee Demographics Key findings from the survey are: As at 31 December 2015, SMEC had more than 5,400 employees across • SMEC employees desire a highly 78 global offices. Of these employees, constructive organisational culture. 1,071 were based in the Australia and This places a strong value on New Zealand (ANZ) Division. service, product quality, goal attainment and professional The majority of employees from development. SMEC’s ANZ Division (77%) are • SMEC is driven by ‘achievement’. contracted on a full time basis, This characterises employees’ drive followed by casual (14%), part time to do things well, to attain high(6%), and fixed term (3%), as displayed quality results, and to accomplish in Figure 7. challenging yet realistic goals. SMEC’s ANZ employees are spread • Employee engagement in across the following regions: strengthening the company culture is Southern (South Australia, Victoria high, and management has shown a and Western Australia), Central (the keen interest in early action planning Australian Capital Territory and New for culture improvements. South Wales), Northern (Queensland Areas for improvement were also and the Northern Territory) and New identified, including: innovation, role Zealand. The majority of employees clarity and the delivery of superior work within the Central region (42%), client service. SMEC is working to followed by the Southern region develop Action Plans in each Division (29%), the Northern region (27%), and to address these areas. New Zealand (2%). Employee Culture Survey Remuneration SMEC has four levels of Consulting SMEC launched an Employee Culture Professionals: Principal, Senior, Survey in January 2016. The survey Experienced and Entry Level. was conducted in association with the Figure 8 provides a comparison Human Synergistics’ Organisational of actual remuneration at each Culture Inventory (OCI). The objectives professional level (with gender of the survey were: to define the actual breakdown) in comparison with company culture; establish a preferred the average industry benchmark. company culture; and develop Remuneration benchmarks are based individual and team programs to grow on Aon Hewitt’s Consult Australia and enhance this preferred culture. Remuneration Report. During the Approximately 180 employees reporting period, SMEC improved the completed the survey. This sample percentage difference in remuneration group included representatives for females at the Senior, Experienced from SMEC’s Executive Committee, and Entry Level (0-4 years) Level Two Managers, members of professional levels. the ANZ Future Leaders Program and senior technical employees. Participants were selected based on their influence on SMEC’s culture and impact on SMEC’s people and company performance. 26 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Turnover Figure 7: Employee numbers in Australia & New Zealand The overall turnover for ANZ Region Full Time Part Casual Fixed TOTAL employees during the reporting Time Term period was 7.0%. This is comprised of Southern 244 20 46 5 315 5.8% voluntary turnover (resignation Central 357 25 47 15 444 or retirement) and 1.2% involuntary turnover (dismissal, redundancy or Northern 212 12 58 7 289 demise). As displayed in Figure 9, New Zealand 18 2 3 0 23 the majority of employee turnover TOTAL 831 59 154 27 1071 was comprised of males in the 25-34 year age bracket (29%), followed by Figure 8: Remuneration at each professional level males in the 25-44 year bracket (22%) and males in the 45-54 year bracket Engineering % Difference % Difference (17%). A breakdown of the reason for Professionals Female to Male to employee turnover in ANZ is displayed Benchmark Benchmark in Figure 10. Principal 84% 96% Senior 92% 100% Experienced 99% 102% Entry Level (0–4 years) 96% 96% Figure 9: Employee turnover by gender and age in Australia & New Zealand 60 MALE 50 Number of Employees FEMALE 40 30 20 10 0 17–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + Age in Years Figure 10: Reason for employee turnover in Australia & New Zealand 1% 3% 13% Retirement Resignation Dismissal Redundancy 83% SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 27 People (continued) Employee Benefits Flexible Working Arrangements During the reporting period, 36 achieve qualifications ranging from SMEC’s Flexible Working employees commenced a period of Certificate IV to Masters in a broad Arrangements (FWA) procedure was paid parental leave. 10 employees range of study fields. introduced in 2012, and includes took advantage of the Parental Leave Top Up; 80% of whom were female. Employee Assistance Program options to vary work hours, work from home and job share. The objective of Of these 10 employees, 60% have SMEC’s Employee Assistance the procedure is to enable employees returned to work and 40% currently Program (EAP) is provided by to balance their work and personal remain on parental leave. 33% of those Davidson Trahaire Corpsych, a commitments. During the reporting employees who returned to work leading national provider of employee period, 20 new applications (90% are now utilising a Flexible Working assistance, corporate psychology, female) for a FWA were approved, Arrangement. In the period, 26 critical incident training, and health taking the total number of employees employees took advantage of SMEC’s and wellbeing services. on a FWA to 35 (83% female). Of the Paid Paternity Leave. 100% of these new applications received by female employees have returned to work. Through the EAP, SMEC employees employees, more than half (61%) were (and their families) can access Australian Defence Force Leave short-term confidential counselling aged between 25 and 34 years. 91% of FWA applicants cited ‘caring for a SMEC introduced an Australian and advice on a broad range of child under school age’ as the reason Defence Force (ADF) leave procedure personal, financial and work-related for the arrangement. in 2012. Under this procedure, SMEC issues. In 2015, SMEC had an EAP provides up to 10 days ADF leave utilisation rate of 3.8%, showing Purchased Additional Annual Leave annually (comprised of the Defence an increase of 0.5% from 2014. A SMEC is committed to helping its Reserve Service’s Payment Scheme comparison of SMEC’s utilisation employees balance work, family and and topped up to the normal salary rate against the industry average is lifestyle commitments. To assist with level by SMEC). The scheme provides displayed in Figure 13. this, SMEC introduced a Purchased a weekly payment based on Average Weekly Ordinary Time Earnings Corporate Health Plan Additional Annual Leave procedure in 2012. This procedure enables (AWOTE). During the reporting period, SMEC offers all employees a employees to salary package an no employees took ADF leave. Corporate Health Plan through one of additional four weeks of annual two healthcare providers: BUPA and Tertiary Education Assistance Choosewell. Benefits of the health leave per year, on top of their normal annual leave entitlement. In 2015, SMEC’s Tertiary Education Assistance plans include discounted health 143 employees took advantage of Program supports professional insurance, waived waiting periods and purchased additional annual leave. development, allowing employees access to free health checks. to continue their education and gain Parental Leave the skills and knowledge required to At the time of reporting, 241 excel in their roles. Continuing full-time employees had taken advantage of SMEC employees who are the primary SMEC’s Corporate Health Plan: 194 care giver of a child can apply for 52 and part-time employees, who have completed 12 months employment employees were BUPA members weeks of unpaid parental leave, and and 47 employees were members of are entitled to 18 weeks paid leave with SMEC, are eligible to apply for Tertiary Education Assistance. SMEC Choosewell. This in a 15% increase in (comprised of the statutory paid utilisation of Corporate Health Plans leave and topped up to the normal will reimburse participants 50% of course fees, up to a maximum of from the previous year. salary level by SMEC), capped at A$150,000 per annum. SMEC also A$10,000 per calendar year. provides employees with one week’s During the reporting period, five paid paternity leave, in addition to their employees took advantage of SMEC’s annual leave, long service leave and Tertiary Education Assistance government-funded Dad and Partner Program. Since the Program’s Pay entitlements. inception in 2009, SMEC has supported a total of 31 employees to 28 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Gender Diversity Figure 11: Employees by gender and age SMEC is committed to promoting 300 gender diversity, establishing an MALE 250 Number of Employees inclusive working environment and FEMALE promoting engineering to women 200 through active industry representation 150 and participation. 100 SMEC encourages a gender diverse workforce by: developing strategies 50 to attract and retain female employees; measuring progress 0 17–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + in gender diverse recruitment; Age in Years encouraging the development of high-potential employees to establish a pipeline of female managers and Figure 12: Employees by gender and employment type leaders; and providing training to raise 600 internal awareness of gender diversity MALE and equal employment opportunity in Number of Employees 500 FEMALE the workplace. 400 As at 31 December 2015, 21% of 300 SMEC’s employees globally were female (an increase of 1% from 2014). 200 In Australia and New Zealand, this 100 figure was higher, with 26% female employees across the Division. 0 Administration Prof Engineer Prof Non-Engineer Technical Employment Type These figures are significantly higher than the Australian industry standard. According to a report Figure 13: Utilisation of the Employee Assistance Program released by Engineers Australia, titled Women in Engineering: A Statistical SMEC Update, 10.7% of the total Australian 4.0% Percentage Utilisation INDUSTRY 3.9% engineering workforce and 16% of engineering graduates are female. 3.5% As displayed in Figure 11, the majority 3.1% of SMEC’s female employees in 3.0% Australia and New Zealand were 2.8% aged between 35-44 years (38%), 2.5% 2.4% followed by 25-34 years (33%). 63% 0 of female employees were classified Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 as professional (degree qualified Year engineers, scientists and corporate services), as outlined in Figure 12. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 29 Diversity & Inclusion SMEC is committed to the recruitment, development and engagement of a diverse and highperforming employee base. SMEC believes in equal opportunity for all, and respects differences in ethnicity, gender, age, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, education and religion. SMEC strives to promote a positive work environment for all employees and clients, and understands that the diverse perspectives, work experiences, lifestyles and cultures of its employees are a strength for the Company. SMEC’s Diversity and Inclusion Committee was established in December 2015 as a vehicle for driving SMEC’s Gender Diversity and Inclusion Strategy. The objectives of the Committee are: to oversee the implementation, investment and progress of diversity and inclusion initiatives; promote diversity as a key business focus area that demands leadership commitment; align diversity efforts across all of SMEC’s business groups and functions; and to identify and address local diversity and inclusion priorities and compliance requirements. The Committee is chaired by the CEO, and includes the Chief Operating Officer (COO) from each geographic Division, and representatives from Stakeholder Relations, Learning and Development and the Board. The Committee is currently developing and implementing a global Diversity and Inclusion Strategy, with specific Action Plans for each Division. 30 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 31 People (continued) Gender Diversity (cont.) In 2015, 22% of new starters in responded to a set of predetermined into personal unconscious bias, Australia and New Zealand were gender equality indicators, including: stereotypes and micro-inequalities in female; 73% of which were degree gender composition; equal order to promote more effective and qualified professionals. As displayed in remuneration between women inclusive leadership. Figure 14, the majority of female new and men; availability and uptake starters were aged between 25-34 of Flexible Working Arrangements; During the workshop, participants: years (30%), followed by both 35-44 and consultation with employees on established the business case for years (26%) and 17-24 years (26%). gender equality issues. Following a diverse, flexible and inclusive submission of the report, SMEC workplace; identified common In Australia, SMEC operates within received verification of compliance implicit biases and practical actions six technical areas: Transport; with the Australian Workplace Gender for challenging these biases; and Hydropower and Energy; Water Equality Act 2012. developed specific goals and action and Environment; Urban and Social plans to reduce bias and stereotyping. Development; Resources; and Asset In line with SMEC’s commitment 48 participants attended the Management. Of these areas, two to promote a gender diverse work workshop; 25% of whom were female. have a high proportion of female environment, a range of events were In 2016, unconscious bias workshops employees: Water and Environment held across the Company’s global will continue to be implemented for (31%); and Transport (20%). offices in recognition of International Level 2 Managers throughout Australia Women’s Day. Held on 8 March 2016, and New Zealand. Gender Diversity Initiatives International Women’s Day is a global In 2015, SMEC continued to celebration of the achievements Career Development implement a number of programs of women, and a platform for to increase awareness of gender encouraging greater gender equality. Career Pathways diversity. SMEC believes that in SMEC provides employees with clear order to achieve gender diversity, the In Bangladesh, SMEC recognised the career pathways within its global Company must create cultural change day with the launch of a Women in business. SMEC is committed to by aligning work practices, processes Engineering Network. The objectives employee development and workforce and systems with diversity initiatives. of this network are: to enhance sustainability, and provides a workplace The first step in creating cultural the professional growth of women with targeted learning and development change is raising awareness of the through clear career mapping, flexible programs and an equitable reward importance of gender diversity. working arrangements and mentoring and recognition framework. SMEC programs; to attract and retain a is looking to increase its investment During the reporting period, SMEC diverse range of professional female in training for the year ahead, as part continued to review the Company’s employees; and to cultivate leadership of its overall workforce planning and gender diversity practices, in line with capabilities in female managers. management strategy. the criteria outlined by the Australian Workplace Gender Equality Agency. Following the successful Talent Management This companywide review includes implementation of the Women in Engineering Network in Bangladesh, Talent management continues to be a the establishment of new strategies in the program will be progressively priority for SMEC, with the Company recruitment, retention and succession rolled-out to all of SMEC’s offices seeking to achieve strategic priorities planning. These strategies will throughout South Asia. by strengthening the pipeline of support gender diversity at SMEC job-ready leaders. and increase the representation of Unconscious Bias Workshop females at management and senior SMEC’s Talent Management System management levels. In June 2015, an unconscious bias combines talent identification workshop was held for members of (individuals identified for fast-tracked As in previous years, SMEC prepared SMEC’s Board, Executive Committee development) and succession planning an annual public report for submission and Australian Management (to establish a leadership pipeline). to the Australian Workplace Gender Committee. The objective of the This system is reinforced by open Equality Agency. This report workshop was to provide insights conversations between employees 32 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 and managers that foster trust, Figure 14: New starters by age and gender promote transparency, and support the 45 Company’s development decisions. MALE 40 FEMALE In 2015, SMEC completed a review 35 of the Succession Planning Program Number of Employees and commenced the development 30 of a global talent pool system. 25 Critical positions are being identified 20 at Management Level 1 (Executive Committee), Level 2 (direct reports to 15 the Executive Committee) and Level 3 10 (direct reports to Level 2). Succession Plans are being developed for each 5 of these critical positions, outlining: 0 17–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + individuals capable of stepping into Age in Years the role as a temporary caretaker; those capable of fulfilling the role immediately; individuals who may be Figure 15: New starters by gender and employment type ready for the position in 1-3 years; and potential candidates for the role 120 in 3+ years. MALE 100 Number of Employees FEMALE In 2016, SMEC will continue to 80 focus on supporting employees and managers to engage in career 60 coaching conversations in line with SMEC’s Career Coaching Guidelines. 40 Future Leaders Program 20 SMEC’s Future Leaders Program 0 was launched in 2015 with the Administration Prof Engineer Prof Non-Engineer Technical objective of enhancing the leadership Employment Type capability of employees, teams and the organisation as a whole. This tailored Program combines face-toface training, executive coaching, action-based learning techniques and the latest developments in leadership research and approaches. The Program seeks to: identify, develop, support and retain individuals with leadership potential; equip future leaders with the skills, tools and techniques to lead more effectively; improve team leadership, project outcomes and client relationships; and build new approaches, behaviours and mind-sets for doing business. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 33 People (continued) Career Development (cont.) Through the Program, participants Equal Employment Opportunity Professional Development Program will develop competencies across Training The Professional Development 11 modules: Self Leadership, People SMEC introduced an Equal Program (PDP) is one of four pathways Leadership, Culture of Accountability, Employment Opportunity (EEO) offered by Engineers Australia to assist Building Trust and Managing with framework in 2012 to promote a safe, members in achieving a Chartered Integrity, Business Leadership, inclusive and flexible work environment Engineer status. SMEC supports Communicating for Results, Building for all employees and clients. This employees in their professional Relationships, Client Relationship comprehensive framework covers development through sponsorship Leadership, Innovation, Visionary training, policy development and of this Program, including funding Leadership and Actioning review, and is designed to encourage the cost of registration and ongoing Strategic Change. mutual respect in the workplace and assessment fees. reinforce SMEC’s company values. During the reporting period, Managers play a key role in assisting 34 participants were enrolled in the In 2015, EEO training became a employees with the completion of Future Leaders Program; 26% of compulsory element of SMEC’s their PDP. Managers are required whom were female. The Program has online induction compliance module to monitor employees’ progress, been successfully piloted in Australia in Australia and New Zealand. provide development opportunities, and New Zealand and is currently Internationally, all employees are offer mentoring and guidance, being reviewed for roll-out across required to read and understand and encourage the submission of SMEC’s global operations. SMEC’s Code of Conduct, including Engineering Competency Claims. Project Management Training the Company’s Equal Employment During the reporting period, 14 Opportunity Procedure. employees were enrolled in the PDP SMEC recognises the importance through Engineers Australia; 29% of of project management skills for the Performance and Development whom were female. organisation and its clients. SMEC’s Review 2014–2016 Strategic Plan outlines the SMEC conducts annual Performance Graduate Development Program Company’s commitment to increasing and Development Reviews (PDR) for In 2014, SMEC launched an capability and leadership in the area of all employees through the in-house Australia-wide Graduate Development project management. appraisal system, CareerTrac. Program (GDP) to assist graduates in During the reporting period, SMEC achieving their industry accreditation The objective of CareerTrac is to or ‘license to work’. The Program completed a review of all project review employee performance and set management training modules and aims to provide graduates with a future objectives by aligning individual diverse range of experience and a materials. As a result, a new suite of performance, development needs training programs has been developed solid professional grounding through and aspirations with SMEC’s business a combination of workshops, and will be implemented in 2016. plan. The training and development presentations, hands-on project work needs of employees are also reviewed and mentoring. New training modules will annually as part of CareerTrac. This incorporate e-learning, face-to-face review considers the needs of the Through the GDP, graduates are communication and hands-on employee, their manager and the provided with a comprehensive practical experience. Training material needs of SMEC as a whole. development program designed to will focus on the fundamentals of project management for graduate achieve industry accreditation within In 2015, 73% of employees who four years. engineers and the advanced participated in CareerTrac were male principals of project management for and 27% were female (this aligns This program includes: rotational experienced project managers. with SMEC’s gender workforce opportunities through a range of composition). The majority of disciplines; experience across employees (77%) received a ‘Meets broad technical and non technical Expectations’ rating, followed by assignments; networking ‘Exceeds Expectations’ (17%). opportunities; and mentoring and 34 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 SMEC recognises the outstanding technical excellence of its employees through the annual SMEC Awards support from local regional leadership teams. During the reporting period, 103 graduates were enrolled in the GDP; 20% of whom were female. Career Recognition SMEC values its employees’ commitment to the Company and believes it is important to acknowledge career milestones. SMEC’s Career Recognition Program formalises this process. Each year, employees who achieve a career milestone of between five and 50 years (at five year intervals) are acknowledged for their commitment to the Company. In 2014, a review of the Program was undertaken in response to SMEC’s Employee Engagement Survey, whereby employees identified that improved recognition practices were needed. As a result, SMEC introduced a new Global Career Recognition Program in January 2015 to improve the consistency and timeliness of milestone recognition. During the reporting period, 70 employees achieved a career milestone; 17% of whom were female. SMEC recognises the outstanding technical excellence of its employees, as well as their contribution to the Company, the wider industry and the community, through the annual SMEC Awards. Award categories include: the SMEC Medal, Project of the Year (for each geographic Division), and Young Professional of the Year (female and male categories). In 2015, a Company Culture Award was also introduced. This award recognises one employee’s commitment to demonstrating all eight of SMEC’s Values: Teamwork & Trust, Diversity & Delivery, Integrity & Innovation, and Safety & Sustainability. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 35 People (continued) Workplace Health and Safety Health and Safety Commitment Zero Harm Culture Effective consultation: involve SMEC is committed to promoting SMEC aims to develop a workplace that stakeholders in workplace safety and maintaining a culture and eliminates the risk of serious harm to any decisions. working environment in which risk to person affected by SMEC’s business Safety in Design health and safety is unacceptable. activities. To achieve this, SMEC has This commitment is demonstrated implemented policies, procedures, SMEC invests in its people to enhance through a fully-integrated Health and guidelines, work instructions and their knowledge and encourage the Safety Management System, and a reporting tools to measure progress implementation of safety principles in companywide Strategic Plan which towards Zero Harm objectives. the design and delivery of projects. features safety as one of SMEC’s SMEC works closely with clients company values. SMEC’s Zero Harm objectives are: to ensure that the safety needs of their projects are well documented To meet this commitment, SMEC • zero incidents that cause a fatality within Scope of Works and Project (in so far as reasonably practicable) • zero incidents that cause a Management Plans. SMEC facilitates provides safe and healthy working permanent disability Safety in Design training and conditions for all people associated • zero incidents that cause awareness programs to educate with the Company, including permanent health issues employees and clients in regards to: employees, contractors, visitors and • zero long-term psychological injury local legislation requirements; potential the general public. due to the work environment cost savings; and the ability to eliminate or reduce hazards. In order to meet these responsibilities, • zero long-term detrimental impact SMEC: on the environment 2015 Year in Review – Australia and • Maintains a safe work environment • year-on-year reductions in New Zealand Division (including work conditions, workplace injuries In 2015, SMEC continued to improve practices and procedures) proactive health and safety initiatives, SMEC Zero Harm objectives are • Ensures full compliance with all including regular Safety Talks in all embedded in SMEC’s company applicable statutory and licensing Australian and New Zealand offices. culture through: requirements SMEC surpassed its ‘proactive Training and development: all SMEC alerts’ reporting targets for the fifth • Undertakes proactive reporting employees complete a mandatory consecutive year. Proactive alerts of near misses, hazards, drills company induction, which includes involve regular and planned testing, and inspections to ensure that all a Health and Safety module. All inspection and identification of potential incidents are accurately reported, employees receive ongoing training hazards before an incident occurs. recorded and lessons learnt are shared as required. This ensures SMEC In 2015, SMEC recorded 193 employees are fully equipped to • Involves all employees and proactive alerts, an increase of 95% achieve SMEC’s Zero Harm objectives. management in health and safety from the previous year. Proactive management through consultation Management commitment: lead reporting accounted for 63% of • Develops safety awareness by example, eliminate unsafe work all Workplace Health and Safety throughout the Company via formal practices, and recognise that healthy reporting during the period, followed and informal training workers are productive workers. by reactive reporting (15%) and injury reporting (15%). • Minimises or eliminates hazards Monitoring and evaluating within the workplace through risk performance: encourage a culture SMEC had a total of 302 reported identification, assessment, control of openness and proactive reporting incidents in 2015. ‘Drills and and monitoring amongst all employees. Inspections’ accounted for the greatest number of reports (26%), Rehabilitation and return to work with 81 recorded. This was followed services: ensure employees are able by ‘Hazards’ (63 reported) and ‘Near to return to work as soon as possible. Misses’ (49 reported). Figures 16 and 36 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 17 display a breakdown of reported Figure 16: Reported incidents by region: Australia and New Zealand Division incidents by region and activity. In the 45 Australia and New Zealand Division, 40 the Lost Time Injury (LTI) frequency rate per million hours worked decreased 35 Number of Incidents from 1.9 in 2014 to 1.8 in 2015. 30 25 Health and Safety in 2016 20 In 2016, SMEC will continue its commitment to safety as a core value 15 of the Company. SMEC will work to 10 maintain a Zero Harm environment 5 for its employees, contractors, visitors 0 and the general public. To achieve Northern Central Southern New Zealand this goal, SMEC has set a number of Region objectives and targets for 2016, as Lost Time Injury Property Damage Drill or Inspection outlined in ‘Zero Harm Culture’ on Medical Treatment Motor Vehicle Accident Near Miss page 36. Hazard External Event First Aid Reporting: SMEC will encourage all international Divisions to proactively report ‘Near Misses’, ‘Hazards’ and Figure 17: Reported incidents by activity: Australia and New Zealand Division ‘Drills and Inspections’. 12 Review of Sub-contractors/ Supplier 10 Register: SMEC will undertake a Number of Incidents review of its current Sub-contractors/ 8 Supplier Register and implement a new accreditation process to ensure 6 compliance with regulatory, legislative and standard requirements in the areas 4 of Health and Safety, Environment, Quality and Risk Management. 2 Tiered Risk Approach to Safety: 0 External Event Office Project Site Travel SMEC will continue working towards Activity a goal of Zero Harm to any person for whom SMEC is responsible during Northern Central Southern NZ project delivery. This will be aided by: ongoing Safety Talks; regular alerts and updates; monthly safety features in the internal company newsletter; Safety Moments during team and management meetings; and office and site-related safety inspections. The SMEC Safety Handbook will be revised to allow the publication to be viewed on multiple platforms and devices. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 37 Community Human Rights SMEC supports and respects In 2015, SMEC’s Child Protection In 2015, SMEC commenced work on the protection of internationally Policy continued to undergo a review to the development of a Reconciliation proclaimed human rights. SMEC ensure recruitment practices, training Action Plan in conjunction with ensures it is not complicit in human content and reporting procedures Reconciliation Australia. Reconciliation rights abuses through a broad range remain as effective as possible in Australia is an independent, of policies and frameworks. preventing any form of unacceptable not-for-profit organisation that behaviour towards children. partners with workplaces to Corruption and Bribery promote indigenous reconciliation. SMEC is serious about having Following this review, a series of policy This is achieved by strengthening a culture of compliance, and is updates have been put forward. These relationships and fostering trust committed to ensuring ethical and safe include mandatory police checks for between businesses, the wider working conditions for all employees. all employees working with children, Australian community SMEC’s Code of Conduct prohibits and a strengthening of SMEC’s child and Aboriginal and Torres Strait bribery and corruption by employees, protection reporting procedures. In Islander peoples. consultants and third parties who 2016, these changes will be reviewed act on SMEC’s behalf. All of SMEC’s for approval by the Australian In 2016, SMEC will continue to develop standard commercial agreement Department of Foreign Affairs and a Reconciliation Action Plan that templates include anti-corruption and Trade (DFAT) and SMEC’s Board outlines the Company’s commitment anti-bribery protection provisions. of Directors. to the implementation of practical and measurable actions that build In 2015, SMEC strengthened its Forced and Compulsory Labour respectful relationships and create company compliance with the SMEC is committed to the elimination opportunities for indigenous individuals, introduction of compulsory of all forced and compulsory labour, both within SMEC and externally. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Training. and believes that working relationships This training is mandatory for all should be freely chosen and free from As a global corporate citizen, SMEC SMEC employees, managers and threat. SMEC’s Code of Conduct recognizes the role the Company can directors, and covers the following ensures that ethical employment and play in supporting local communities. topics: bribery; collusive practices; labour practices are implemented This includes sharing in the collective internal corruption; conflicts of interest; across the Company. SMEC is responsibility to prevent human gifts, hospitality and entertainment; compliant with all national employment rights abuses. SMEC maintains a donations; partner evaluations; and legislation, and seeks to ensure the zero-tolerance policy in relation reporting procedures. highest standards of protection for all to corruption and bribery, child of the Company’s employees. During the reporting period, 66% of exploitation, forced and compulsory SMEC’s employees globally completed Indigenous Rights labour and discrimination. the training. Training will continue to take place throughout 2016. SMEC works closely with clients to ensure the rights and heritage of Child Protection Policy Australia’s indigenous population SMEC maintains a zero-tolerance are protected. This includes the policy in relation to child exploitation completion of Indigenous Heritage and abuse. Child abuse includes Assessments and Management Plans unacceptable behaviour directly as a component of Environmental involving children or observed by Impact Assessments. SMEC children. Child Protection Policy encourages active participation, training is a mandatory element in skill development and long-term SMEC’s induction process. During employment opportunities for the reporting period, 236 new starters indigenous people wherever possible. completed the training. 38 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Community Development The SMEC Foundation is a core Program in Vanuatu; A$10,000 to part of SMEC’s Corporate Social Habitat’s Emergency Relief Program Responsibility (CSR) Program, and in Fiji; and A$30,000 to So They helps fulfil the Company’s commitment Can Holding Hands Children’s to community development and Home in Kenya. Both Habitat and sustainable poverty reduction. So They Can have a long-standing history of effective project delivery, Established in 2001, the SMEC local community engagement and Foundation provides small-scale measurable social benefits and grant support for people in need and tangible results. strengthens SMEC’s links with the communities in which it operates. The In addition to donations made SMEC Foundation is committed to directly through the SMEC the philosophy that a small amount of Foundation Australia Fund, SMEC money, spent wisely, can produce faralso engages in health, education, reaching social and economic benefits. community development, emergency relief and environmental The SMEC Foundation aims to projects through local Corporate improve the quality of life for people Social Responsibility (CSR) who live in geographic regions where programs. These programs are SMEC has a presence, by addressing developed, implemented and the root causes of poverty and monitored by SMEC’s local offices, assisting communities (and individuals) utilising a combination of funding from to become more self-sufficient. the SMEC Group, SMEC subsidiaries and employee contributions. Operating with financial support from SMEC employees, the SMEC In 2015, a number of CSR initiatives Foundation focuses on projects in the were implemented by SMEC’s areas of community development, offices throughout Australia and emergency relief, health, education New Zealand, Asia Pacific, South and the environment. Since its Asia and the Middle East, Africa, inception, the SMEC Foundation has and North and South America. donated nearly $1,000,000 to over 200 These included major donations projects in more than 30 countries. of A$28,000 to the victims of the Nepal earthquakes, and A$13,000 The SMEC Foundation is committed to the South Africa Medical and to providing on-the-ground support to Education Foundation for the the people and communities who need much-needed refurbishment of the it most. For this reason, donations Tirisano-Mmogo Primary School in made through the SMEC Foundation Johannesburg, South Africa. in 2015 focused on emergency relief and the delivery of tangible community development outcomes. During the reporting period, the SMEC Foundation donated over A$70,000 to support communities in which the Company operates. These funds were distributed through three grants: A$30,000 to the Habitat for Humanity Australia (Habitat) Building Back Better SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 39 40 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Building Back Better In March 2015, a category five cyclone (Cyclone Pam) tore through the southern islands of Vanuatu, leaving more than half the country in a state of devastation. With over 3,500 residents left homeless and more than 75,000 individuals in need of emergency assistance, Cyclone Pam has been named one of the worst natural disasters in the history of Vanuatu. Habitat for Humanity Australia (Habitat) is an international not-for-profit organisation dedicated to transforming lives through the provision of safe, quality and affordable housing for those in need. Habitat is currently working to repair shelters in four communities throughout Vanuatu that were among the worst affected by the cyclone. A SMEC Foundation grant of A$30,000 has enabled the purchase of 45 shelter kits for the Teouma Ranotapoa community. These kits include galvanised iron sheets, wood, cyclonestrapping materials, nails and communal tools. Habitat is also providing construction skills training in sustainable building techniques, to help community members ‘build back better’. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 41 Community (continued) SMEC Community Projects So They Can Holding Hands Children’s Home SMEC Community Projects Location: Kenya So They Can (STC) is a charity registered in Australia that works with local communities in Kenya to permanently break the poverty cycle through education. The SMEC Foundation has supported STC since 2012, providing ongoing grant support and technical assistance on a range of community projects. In 2015, the SMEC Foundation donated A$30,000 to support the development of a new STC Holding Hands Children’s Home in Miti Mingi Village. Founded in 2011, this project seeks to provide a safe home and quality education for more than 120 orphaned and vulnerable children. As one of 10 dedicated STC family homes in the village, ‘SMEC House’ will provide family care, education and support for eight orphaned children. Earthquake Appeal Location: Nepal In April and May 2015, Nepal was struck by two devastating earthquakes registering at 7.8 and 7.3 on the Richter scale, respectively. These earthquakes claimed the lives of more than 9,000 people, injured over 23,000 people, left hundreds of thousands of residents homeless, and caused irreparable damage to countless family homes, villages and heritage buildings. To help victims of the earthquakes, SMEC Bangladesh employees raised A$28,000 through personal contributions. These funds were distributed to individuals in the worst affected areas of Dolakha, Sindhupalchowk, Kavrepalanchowk, Nuwakot and Dhading, whose homes had been damaged or destroyed in the earthquakes. Amadea Safe House Location: South Africa Employees from SMEC’s Pretoria office volunteered their time and skills to help with the much-needed renovation of Amadea Safe House. The House was established in 2000 to: offer a safe and secure home for local disadvantaged children; provide food, shelter and clothing to underprivileged community members; and encourage the empowerment of women through education and the development of income-generating skills. SMEC’s employees assisted with a range of maintenance and upgrade activities at the House, including: electrical rewiring; repainting the outdoor playground; replacing a broken trampoline; resurfacing the concrete cycle track; repairing the cubby-house and play equipment; and refilling the sandpit. 42 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Cyclone Disaster Relief Location: Fiji In February 2016, Tropical Cyclone Winston tore through the Fijian Islands, devastating villages, townships and national infrastructure. With wind speeds reaching 175 km/h, this was the strongest cyclone in Fiji’s history. The SMEC Foundation provided an emergency relief donation of A$10,000 to support residents whose homes were damaged or destroyed in the chaos. These funds were distributed through Habitat for Humanity Australia, a not-for-profit organisation committed to providing emergency shelter to disadvantaged communities. The SMEC Foundation grant enabled the purchase of post-disaster construction materials and community tool kits to assist villagers in the worst affected areas of Rakiraki, Ba and Lautoka. Kopano Workshop Location: South Africa In June 2015, employees from SMEC’s Bloemfontein office volunteered their support on the Kopano Workshop Project. Kopano provides a secure home, care facilities, transport services, recreation programs and skills development for adults living with mental and physical disabilities. The objective of Kopano is to provide educational resources and skills training to help improve the quality of life for these individuals, and assist in the development of income-generating skills such as leatherwork, wirework and needlework. Employees contributed their time and skills to help upgrade the Kopano facility, purchased new furniture, and restocked the craft supplies used by residents to produce goods sold at local craft markets. Winter Blanket Drive Location: Bangladesh In December 2014, Bangladesh experienced one of the coldest winters on record. Disadvantaged residents of Dhaka and Khulna were among the worst affected, with exposure to freezing conditions worsening the prevalence of disease. In response to the suffering and hardship of local residents, employees from SMEC’s Bangladesh office organised a winter blanket drive. SMEC donated A$2,500 for the purchase of thick, woollen blankets for distribution to elderly, widowed and poor residents living in the local urban slum areas of Dhaka and in rural Khulna. More than 400 blankets were hand-delivered by employees to needy people, providing some much-needed winter relief. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 43 Sustainability & Environment Sustainability Principles SMEC continues to improve its • Implementing and improving Where a risk rating is identified as understanding of the sources, environmental management above 15, the hazard is assigned to scope and extent of its resource systems, in accordance with senior management for review. Where use, and is committed to improving ISO 14001 a risk rating is identified as 20 or above, the energy efficiency of its offices, • Complying with legal requirements the hazard is assigned to executive and reducing the Greenhouse Gas management. It is management’s • Implementing environmental (GHG) emissions generated by the responsibility to ensure the risk is management programs to achieve Company’s operations. managed in an appropriate manner environmental objectives and across the Company’s operations. Since 1999, SMEC has operated targets under a companywide Environmental • Conducting all activities in an Project Managers must develop and Management Policy and an environmentally responsible manner document environmental objectives Environmental Management System to minimise the potential for adverse and targets for each project during the (EMS), formalising the Company’s environmental impacts planning stage. Achievements against commitment to environmental • Enhancing the beneficial these set objectives and targets are responsibility. SMEC’s EMS complies environmental effects of any measured annually for long-term with the requirements of ISO 14001 activities to improve the quality of projects, and upon project completion (Environmental Management), the environment for current and for short-term projects. and is designed to ensure the future generations implementation of sustainable • Preventing pollution associated with SMEC invests in sustainable business systems, procedures and SMEC’s activities business practices to achieve longpractices. In 2015, all Australian and • Providing environmentally term prosperity, and is committed to New Zealand offices maintained responsible, sustainable and embedding a culture of sustainability certification with ISO 14001. practical solutions to clients and environmental awareness in all SMEC’s EMS provides a systematic • Monitoring, reviewing and auditing functional, operational and regional and methodical approach to planning, SMEC’s environmental performance areas of the business. implementing and reviewing SMEC’s environmental performance. The Environmental Impact Assessment SMEC strives to undertake all objective of the EMS is to avoid (or SMEC has controls in place to project and office activities in an minimise) environmental impact, while manage and (wherever possible) environmentally responsible manner, contributing lasting environmental reduce potential environmental and to identify, manage and mitigate benefits to local communities in impacts resulting from project and any risks that may impact negatively which SMEC operates. Effective office activities. Project Managers and on the environment. implementation of the EMS has Regional Managers are responsible assisted SMEC in creating a for determining the potential company culture that is focused on consequences of environmental incorporating sustainable practices impacts, using SMEC’s Environmental into everyday business decisions. Impact Assessment Scale (as Environmental Management Policy displayed in Appendix B). SMEC operates under a detailed Where the environmental impact rating Environmental Management Policy is above eight, SMEC employees are which is reviewed and reaffirmed required to develop an Environmental annually by SMEC’s Chief Executive Management Plan (EMP), outlining Officer. SMEC is committed to appropriate risk treatments, targets, operating in an environmentally objectives, controls and responsibilities. responsible manner by: 44 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Sustainable Offices Environmental Management Plans • Enabling the ‘power saver’ All of SMEC’s major Australian function on printers and faxes and New Zealand offices have • Introducing a ‘Swipe and Print’ Environmental Management Plans printer system (EMPs) in place. These plans provide • Defaulting printers to doublean assessment of environmental sided printing impacts associated with each office • Recycling printer toner cartridges in the areas of procurement, waste generation, electricity, transport and • Recycling paper, glass and water. Objectives, targets, actions, plastics procedures and processes are • Providing reusable envelopes for then outlined for each aspect, with inter-office mail timelines and responsibilities identified Sustainable Procurement to ensure accountability. Procedure The objective of these EMPs is: to In 2015, SMEC continued the minimise harm to the environment; implementation of its Sustainable ensure compliance with ISO 14001 Procurement Procedure. (Environmental Management) Employees who undertake requirements; improve environmental procurement of items valued over performance; increase reporting A$150,000 (capital works, fleet transparency; and assist in mapping and office supplies) must complete SMEC’s progress towards its an Environmental Sustainability sustainability objectives. and Social Equity Questionnaire. This Questionnaire determines Office initiatives implemented during whether purchases: minimise waste the reporting period via the EMPs, disposal; reduce greenhouse gas include: emissions; maximise resource • Installing Video Conferencing (VC) efficiency; conserve and improve equipment to reduce non-essential biodiversity; incorporate ethical travel considerations; or have a low • Implementing online training to carbon footprint. reduce travel and training materials • De-lamping and upgrading lighting where possible • Encouraging public transport use (by making train, bus or tram tickets available for employee use) • Purchasing paper from sustainable forestry operations (with green manufacturing processes) • Encouraging the use of cloud‑based technology to share information (such as reports, plans and contracts) between external and internal project teams, in lieu of hardcopies SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 45 Sustainabilit Sustainable Offices (cont.) Think Green. Take Action SMEC’s ‘Think Green. Take Action’ program continued in 2015. The program is designed to: raise employee awareness about the importance of environmental sustainability; encourage proactive participation in SMEC’s sustainability initiatives; and communicate the Company’s progress towards its environmental objectives. The program includes a dedicated intranet site containing a range of sustainability resources for employees, including: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) announcements and updates; tips for being green in the home and office; corporate sustainability policies, procedures and guidelines; relevant supplementary publications and materials; and a ‘Submit Your Green Idea’ suggestion box. The ‘Think Green. Take Action’ program also incorporates a monthly sustainability update in the Company’s internal employee newsletter. This update includes relevant information for employees on new green programs, results and progress of existing initiatives, and tips on incorporating sustainability into day-to-day activities. Localised induction modules and orientation booklets contain tailored information on ‘Think Green. Take Action’ initiatives in each Australian office. These materials provide new employees with: an overview of the Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Program; an outline of SMEC’s sustainability objectives; contact details for their local office’s CSR Coordinator; locations of recycling stations and collection points; details on SMEC’s dedicated ‘Think Green. Take Action’ intranet site; and suggested ways in which employees can become more involved in SMEC’s CSR Program. 46 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 y & Environment (cont.) CDP Water Management Program City Switch In order to complete these audits, In February 2015, SMEC joined In March 2014, SMEC committed all SMEC collected water usage and the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Australian offices to the CitySwitch billing data for each office over (CDP) Water Management Program. Green Office Program. CitySwitch is a 12-month period. This data This Program forms part of CDP’s a national tenancy energy efficiency comprised all externally supplied global standardised climate change program that supports organisations water consumed by each office, reporting framework, and is currently in improving their National Australian including occupant usage, and water the world’s leading platform for Built Environmental Rating System used for central services, landscaping corporate water disclosure. (NABERS) office energy ratings. and common areas. The CDP Water Management NABERS is an Australian rating system All of SMEC’s Australian offices Program supports SMEC’s that measures the environmental are working towards achieving an commitment to eliminate (or minimise) performance (energy efficiency, accredited four star NABERS water adverse environmental impacts water usage, waste management rating. Following the completion of resulting from SMEC’s office and and indoor environmental quality) CitySwitch Water Audits, SMEC’s project activities. The objective of the of buildings, tenancies, offices and Traralgon office achieved a six star Program is to assist SMEC in taking homes. NABERS utilises a zero to NABERS water rating, followed a proactive approach to sustainable six star rating scale (with one star Brisbane (four and a half stars) and water stewardship, through a better indicating very poor performance Melbourne (three and a half stars). understanding of the risks and and six stars representing market In total, this pilot group of offices opportunities associated with water leading performance) to measure consumed more than 3,920 kL of resource management. the environmental performance of a water during the reporting period. building against other comparable The findings from these Water Audits As a signatory to the program, buildings in a similar location. SMEC completed an annual water will be used to assist in the completion assessment for submission to CDP All of SMEC’s Australian offices of the CDP Water Management in June 2015. This assessment are working towards achieving Program 2016 annual water included: water consumption; an accredited four star NABERS assessments. SMEC will continue to recycling and reuse volumes; review energy rating by reducing energy progressively complete CitySwitch and management of risks; and consumption, lowering carbon Water Audits for all Australian and New identification of strategic, operational impacts, and improving the Zealand offices throughout 2016. and market water opportunities. sustainability of operations. Figure 18 SMEC is committed to reducing provides a breakdown of the energy the environmental footprint of each This assessment was completed for performance of each Australian office SMEC’s Melbourne office, as a pilot of its offices. SMEC engages in during the reporting period. location for the Program. In 2015, energy efficiency, water usage and SMEC’s Melbourne office consumed NABERS Water Ratings waste management programs in approximately 2,865 kL of water. This order to improve the green office In February 2016, a pilot group of equates to approximately 12.2 kL of performance of its Australia and New SMEC’s Australian offices underwent water per person. Zealand operations. a CitySwitch Water Audit. These Following the success of this baseline offices included Melbourne, Brisbane reporting in Melbourne, SMEC will and Traralgon. The purposes of this continue to progressively implement audit were: to establish an indicative the CDP Water Management NABERS water rating for each office; Program throughout Australian and assess total water consumption relative New Zealand offices in 2016. to the industry average; and identify potential water efficiency opportunities. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 47 Sustainability & Environment (cont.) Sustainable Offices (continued) Figure 18: Energy performance by office NABERS Energy Ratings In October 2015, all Australian offices underwent a CitySwitch Energy Audit. The objective of these audits was to identify revised indicative NABERS energy ratings, total electricity used per annum, and current Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions for each office. A gap analysis was then completed to compare the 2015 energy performance of each office against data collected during baseline energy audits in 2014. In 2015, SMEC’s Australian offices averaged a NABERS energy rating of four stars, an improvement of half a star on 2014 energy ratings. 55% of SMEC’s offices have already achieved the target energy rating of four stars and are now working to achieve a five star rating. This is an increase of 15% from 2014, with three additional offices achieving the targeted four star rating in 2015. To complete these audits, SMEC collected data for electricity and GHG emissions across all Australian offices for the year. During the reporting period, SMEC’s offices reduced their total energy consumption by more than 185,000 kWh of electricity. This Adelaide equates to a saving of approximately 205 tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) 2015 per annum. SMEC’s office energy 2014 consumption during the reporting 22 28,900 period totalled 1.4 million kWh. This TONNES SAVED CO 2 equates to 1,300 kWh per employee, EMISSIONS kWh SAVED per annum; 30% less than the industry standard as reported in the Australian Government Annual Report 2013–2014. Geelong 2015 2014 3 3,060 TONNES SAVED CO 2 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED 48 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Townsville Sunshine Coast 2015 2015 2014 2014 10 10,670 12 11,540 TONNES TONNES SAVED CO 2 SAVED CO 2 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED EMISSIONS kWh SAVED Brisbane 2015 2014 6 2,450 TONNES SAVED CO 2 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED Gold Coast 2015 2014 8 5,450 TONNES SAVED CO 2 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED Western Sydney 2015 2014 22 20,140 TONNES SAVED CO 2 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED Cooma 2015 2014 25 30,000 TONNES SAVED CO 2 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED Melbourne Traralgon 2015 2015 2014 2014 45 39,740 12 9,360 TONNES TONNES SAVED CO 2 SAVED CO 2 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED EMISSIONS kWh SAVED SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 49 Sustainability & Environment (cont.) Sustainable Offices (cont.) Swipe and Print Video Conferencing Spotlight on South Africa In May 2015, SMEC introduced a SMEC commenced the roll-out of SMEC South Africa is committed ‘Swipe and Print’ printer system in Lync Enterprise Voice (Lync) as the to environmental excellence, and selected offices in Melbourne, Sydney primary communication method believes that sustainable business and Brisbane. The purpose of this across all Australian and New practices are vital in ensuring business system is to limit print wastage, reduce Zealand offices in May 2015. success, market leadership and value printing costs, improve document creation for its clients. SMEC currently security, increase printing location Lync is an all-in-one communication has 11 permanent offices operating flexibility and enhance the efficiency of tool providing phone, instant in South Africa. During the reporting SMEC’s printing environment. messaging, content sharing and video period, these offices implemented a conferencing capabilities. The purpose number of sustainability and green The system utilises swipe card of Lync is: to improve and integrate office initiatives. technology, which enables users to communication within SMEC; enhance retrieve their individual printing jobs collaboration, mobility, efficiency and ISO 14001 Certification using a personal swipe card. Print jobs productivity across the business; and In 2015, SMEC South Africa remain in a print queue until a user significantly reduce telephony and submitted an application for ISO personally retrieves their printouts. travel costs. 14001 Environmental Management Should a print job not be retrieved certification for six of its regional within 24-hours, it is automatically Lync serves as a complete replacement for SMEC’s existing offices. A two-stage certification audit deleted from the print server. was conducted by the South African telephony system, and provides Since the introduction of the ‘Swipe inbound and outbound calling to Bureau of Standards (SABS), and all and Print’ system, the average both landlines and mobile phones, non-conformances were identified monthly pages printed has reduced as well as an integrated voicemail and resolved. Award of the ISO 14001 by approximately 12%. Averaged out system. Lync promotes collaboration certification is anticipated in mid-2016. across a 12-month period, this totals across regional and functional groups, Environmental Management System a saving of more than 440,000 printed and enables real-time desktop and pages per annum. The environmental application sharing with video, audio In 2016, SMEC South Africa’s impact of this is a reduction in paper, and text capabilities. Environmental Management System toner, ink and electricity from a (EMS) will be expanded to include all reduced number of print jobs. In conjunction with the roll-out of Lync, national offices. The EMS provides SMEC also established state-of-thea structured framework that seeks In 2016, SMEC will look to art Video Conferencing (VC) facilities to: reduce environmental impacts progressively implement the ‘Swipe in its Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane associated with SMEC’s business and Print’ system on an as-needed offices. These VC facilities promote activities; ensure compliance with basis throughout all Australian and universal conferencing, allowing environmental regulations; and New Zealand offices. users to join from any PC, tablet, integrate environmental responsibility smartphone or telephone in the world. into day-to-day activities and decision making considerations. During the reporting period, more than 24,100 Lync conferences A key focus area of the EMS is and 534 VC conferences have been held across SMEC’s global the promotion of sustainable and operations. This has translated into substantial financial, travel efficient office activities. This includes and environmental savings. the minimisation of office energy consumption, paper usage and general waste disposal. 50 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Progress towards EMS objectives is people with intellectual disabilities); measured through monthly monitoring and Little Eden (a residential home for of key sustainability metrics. These people living with a disability). metrics are compiled on a yearly basis to form SMEC South Africa’s EMS Eco-Mobility Month National Annual Report. Significant In October 2015, SMEC’s findings outlined in this report include: Johannesburg office participated a 5% average reduction in office in Eco-Mobility Month, an initiative energy usage in 2015 (compared with designed by the City of Johannesburg baseline data collected in 2014); and a to help reduce traffic congestion and 13% reduction in paper usage across environmental pollution. This citywide all offices. event forms part of South Africa’s ‘Month of Transport’, and aims to During the reporting period, recycling create a car-free central business programs were implemented in all district by: promoting public transport regional South African offices. These services; establishing dedicated programs aim to reduce the amount bicycle and car pool lanes; and of office waste contributing to landfill reducing commuter road traffic. through paper, cardboard, glass and metal recycling. In 2015, audits ‘Travel Influenced by Business’ were also undertaken to improve is a key priority outlined in SMEC environmental legal compliance. This South Africa’s EMS. The objective resulted in an assessment of water, of Eco-Mobility Month was to help electricity and waste service providers, reduce the negative environmental and a change to providers who impact of SMEC’s business related demonstrate best practice compliance travel, by encouraging employees to with environmental regulations. adopt green modes of transport when travelling to and from work. E-Waste Recycling During the reporting period, SMEC’s During the month-long event, Johannesburg office recycled more employees swapped their daily than 445 kg of electronic waste commutes by car for more eco(e-waste) through Effortless Recycling, friendly travel, including: walking, an e-waste specialist company. This cycling, carpooling and public e-waste was comprised of disused transport. Several employees also office equipment and electronic participated in the ‘Critical Mass’ items brought from home, including: cycling event, which brought together computers, keyboards and mice, more than 1,000 cyclists in support of laptops, monitors, printers and faxes. a cycle-friendly city. All donated items were sorted into waste to be recycled and items for repair. Electronics that could be restored to full operation were donated to selected local charities, including: the Linbro Park Leap School (a school for disadvantaged children); the Avril Elizabeth Home (a facility caring for SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 51 Sustainability & Environment (cont.) Sustainability Services Natural Resources and Environment SMEC’s services include: climate groundwater and air; human health SMEC has extensive experience risk, vulnerability and adaptation and environmental risk assessments; in the provision of environmentally assessments; land use planning preparation of remediation options sustainable services for infrastructure and management; habitat and designs; technology reviews and projects, balancing the competing connectivity and pest species optimisation; remediation action plans; demands of the community, the management; wetland and waterway and preparation of environmental environment and economic viability. rehabilitation; coastal erosion risk management plans. assessment and management; SMEC’s services include: managing compliance assessment; and Coastal Management environmental resources, impacts, sustainable contamination and SMEC has a thorough understanding risks and liabilities; permit applications waste management. of climate change impacts, including (in accordance with environmental high sea levels, frequency of cyclones planning frameworks); social studies Waste Management and coastal flooding. SMEC’s and resettlement plans; compliance SMEC considers waste a resource, knowledge of coastal processes, monitoring and due diligence and seeks to achieve sustainable and use of broad‑based modelling investigations; strategic planning; development through avoidance, and engineering skills, is the key to ecological and heritage assessments; recovery and reuse. SMEC’s waste designing infrastructure that can contamination and remediation studies; management projects incorporate withstand and adapt to predicted and surface water, ground water and the technical, economic and risk climate changes. water quality management. aspects of waste, and integrate the latest engineering processes and SMEC’s services include: marine Renewable Energy technologies with sustainable and infrastructure development; coastal SMEC works closely with clients to cost-effective outcomes. and estuarine processes analysis; reduce carbon emissions and deliver coastal zone management; beach efficient and cost-effective renewable SMEC’s services include: strategic erosion and water quality studies; energy systems for a broad range of planning and policy development; climate change analysis; design and renewable technologies, including: waste to energy conversion; site contract documentation; community solar photovoltaic, solar thermal rehabilitation and remediation; consultation; and environmental and hybrid systems; wind energy; geotechnical investigations; landfill planning and engineering. geothermal; hydropower; biomass; monitoring; hydrogeological and hydrological investigations; waste Land Use Management landfill gas; and biofuel production. audits; landfill and transfer station SMEC is committed to sustainable SMEC’s services include: sustainable design; and contaminated site land management, the development energy policy and sector planning; assessment and management. of engineering solutions that cause carbon services; site evaluations and minimal damage to ecological feasibility studies; load forecasting Contamination processes, and the maintenance of models; long-term generation planning SMEC is experienced in a range of biodiversity, ecological integrity and using simulation and dynamic contamination projects and recognises natural capital. programming techniques; and that the assessment and management stakeholder communications. of contaminated natural resources SMEC’s services include: requires a thorough understanding of environmental and land capability Climate Change Adaptation land properties, exposure scenarios, assessments; environmental SMEC has undertaken numerous toxicology, carbon footprints, management of land, air and water; sustainability and climate change biodiversity, regulatory compliance, environmental impact assessments; adaptation projects worldwide, and economic costs and community flora and fauna surveys; ecological has assisted both government and perceptions. assessments; water quality monitoring industry clients with the development (ground, surface and drinking water); of frameworks, tools and indicators SMEC’s services include: due acid sulphate soils assessment; and for sustainable and environmentally diligence audits; investigation and investigations into indigenous and sensitive change solutions. assessment of land, sediments, water, non‑indigenous heritage. 52 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 SMEC invests in sustainable business practices to achieve long-term prosperity, and is committed to embedding a culture of sustainability and environmental awareness in all functional, operational and regional areas of the business. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 53 Sustainability & Environment (cont.) Sustainability & Environment Projects Waste-to-Energy Assessment SMEC Community Projects Location: The Philippines SMEC is conducting a feasibility study to determine the most appropriate waste-to-energy technologies for 178 local government units in the Manila Bay region of the Philippines. The project forms part of the Government of the Philippines’ commitment to develop strategic policies for improved solid waste management. Waste in Manila Bay has dramatically worsened over recent years, due to increased pollution carried by rivers and inadequate treatment of solid waste. This project will provide a comprehensive basis for the establishment, development, implementation and monitoring of waste-to-energy technologies, taking into consideration all technical, financial, socio-political, legal and institutional factors. Ocean Drive Upgrade Location: Australia SMEC has been engaged by Port Macquarie-Hastings Council to undertake the investigation, concept design and detailed design of the Ocean Drive Upgrade in New South Wales, Australia. The objective of the project is to improve road safety, traffic efficiency and residential amenity (including noise) along the Matthew Flinders Drive to Greenmeadows Drive section. SMEC will deliver the concept and detailed design of the roadway duplication. This will include an investigation and review of environmental factors, including environmental impacts related to endangered native tree species and koala habitats. SMEC will also undertake geotechnical field investigations and community consultation workshops. Wetland Restoration Location: Rwanda SMEC is developing detailed sub-catchment management plans for the restoration of the Gikondo and Nyabugogo wetlands in Rwanda. This project forms part of the Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project. These wetlands are currently under threat from land, vegetation, and water resource degradation caused by severe soil erosion, human interference, increased industrial activities and deforestation. These activities are significantly impacting the wetlands’ functions and the local communities who depend on their resources. SMEC’s services on the project will include: examination of wetland restoration options; and the development of detailed wetland restoration plans to help restore ecological functioning. 54 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Toll Plaza Efficiency Location: South Africa Trans Africa Concessions (TRAC) initiated an energy efficiency retrofit program and Photovoltaic (PV) systems installation focused on improving facility lighting, heating and cooling at six of its highway toll plaza operations between South Africa and Mozambique. The new PV system integrates within the existing plaza electrical installation system in a grid-tied configuration so that no battery storage is required. To date, SMEC has been responsible for energy efficiency retrofit and PV system installation projects at five of the TRAC toll plazas. The power producing capacity of each system ranges between 30 kVA and 35 kVA. It is expected that the combined PV capacity at the TRAC toll plazas will produce more than 250 MWh per year. Catchwater System Upgrades Location: Hong Kong SMEC is undertaking a feasibility study of eight catchwater systems in Hong Kong. Catchwater systems are large-scale devices that catch surface runoff water, channelling it to reservoirs for future commercial and domestic use. Following an increase in catchwater-related incidents (caused by slope failure and erosion), the Government of Hong Kong initiated studies to assess potential catchwater system hazards and identify relevant improvement works. From these studies, eight catchwater systems were classified as medium to high-risk. SMEC recommend preliminary design solutions and improvement works for each of these catchwater systems, and determined the overall feasibility of the project. Climate Smart Irrigation Location: Pakistan Pakistan’s Punjab Province suffers from severe water shortages due to a lack of irrigation facilities and frequent droughts. Engineering General Consultants (EGC), a SMEC subsidiary, was engaged to provide consultancy services on the Pothohar Climate Smart Irrigated Agriculture Project. The objective of the project was to improve irrigation and water management systems in the Punjab Province, which would in turn enhance agricultural productivity in the region. EGC’s services included: identification of rehabilitation works for existing water storage systems; feasibility designs; Environmental Impact Assessments; Environmental Management Plans; Social Impact Assessments; economic and financial analysis; and construction supervision. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 55 GRI Index This report applies the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines to a self-assessed Level B. GRI Page Description Comments Indicator Number 1.1/G4-1 Statement from the CEO. 4-5 Strategy 1.2/G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and 4-7, 24 opportunities. 2.1/G4-3 Name of the organisation. SMEC Holdings Limited 2.2 /G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. Feasibility studies, detailed design, 11 tender and contract management, construction supervision, operation and maintenance, training and project management. 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. 14-16 Organisational Profile 2.4/G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Level 10, 71 Queens Road, Melbourne, VIC 3004, Australia. 2.5/G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation 40+ 11-13 operates. 2.6/G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 14-16 2.7/G4-8 Markets served. Transport, Hydropower and Energy, 11-13 Water and Environment, Urban and Social Development, Resources, Industrial and Manufacturing. 2.8/G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation. 11, 24-25 2.9/G4-13 Significant changes to size, structure or 4-7 ownership during the reporting period. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 22 3.1/G4-28 Reporting period. 1 April 2015 – 31 March 2016. 3 3.2/G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. April 2015. 3 3.3/G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual. 3 3.4/G4-31 Contact point for report. sustainabilityreport@smec.com 3 3.5 Process for defining report content. 10 Report Parameters 3.6 Boundary of the report. 10 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the 10 report. 3.8/G4-17 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and other 10 entities. 3.9 Data measurement techniques. 3, 10 3.10/G4-22 Explanation of restatements. Nil. 3.11/G4-23 Significant changes in scope and boundary Nil. during the reporting period. 3.12/G4-32 Table identifying location of Standard GRI Index. 56-58 Disclosures. 3.13/G4-33 External assurance. Not used for this report. 56 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 GRI Page Description Comments Indicator Number 4.1/G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation. 14-16 4.2 Chair of the highest governing body. 8-9, 14-16 4.3 Independent and non-executive board members. 8–9, 14-16 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations to the 14-16 highest governing body. 4.5 Compensation and performance. 14-16 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interests. 14-16 Governance, Commitments and Engagements 4.7 Process for determining qualifications and expertise. 14-16 4.8/G4-56 Mission, values and code of conduct. 16-17, 22 4.9 Processes for management of company 14-16 performance. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of the 14-16 highest governing body. 4.11/G4-14 Precautionary principle addressed. 4-5, 14 4.12/G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental 23 and social charters. 4.13/G4-16 Memberships in associations. 23 4.14/G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 20 organisation. 4.15/G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of 10, 20 stakeholders. 4.16/G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 10, 20 4.17/G4-27 Key stakeholder topics and concerns. 10, 20 G4-38 Composition of the highest governing body. 6-9 G4-39 Explain whether the Chair of the highest 6-9 governing body is also an executive officer. G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governing 14 body. G4-10 Breakdown of employee demographics. 12-13, 26-37 Additional General Disclosures G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by bargaining Nil. agreements. G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain. 11 G4-18 Explain the process for defining report content 10 and Aspect Boundaries. G4-19 List all Material Aspects identified for defining 10 report content. G4-20 For each Material Aspect, report the Aspect 10 Boundary within the organisation. G4-21 For each Material Aspect, report the Aspect 10 Boundary outside the organisation. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 57 GRI Index (continued) GRI Page Description Comments Indicator Number G4-56 Values, principles, standards and behaviour 16-17, 22 Internal mechanisms for advice on unlawful G4-57 16-17 Ethics behaviour Internal mechanisms for reporting concerns on G4-58 16-17 unlawful behaviour G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 24-25 Economic G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government. 24-25 G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts. 38-43 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. 46-51 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation. 46-51 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 46-51 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 46-47 G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused. 47 Environmental G4-EN12 Impact on areas of high biodiversity value. 52, 54-55 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 52, 54-55 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. 46-49 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. Nil. G4-EN25 Weight of transported waste. Nil. G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 44-51 G4-EN29 Non-compliance with environmental laws. Nil. New hires and turnover by age, gender and G4-LA1 26-33 Labour Practices and Decent Work region. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full time employees. 28-29 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental 26-33 leave, by gender. G4-LA6 Rates of injury and lost days. 36-37 G4-LA10 Skills management and lifelong learning programs. 32-35 G4-LA11 Regular performance reviews. 34-35 G4-LA12 Workforce diversity. 26-35 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of women to men. 26-27 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination. Nil. Human Rights G4-HR4 Rights to freedom of association. All employees are entitled to join unions. G4-HR5 Risks to child labour. 30 G4-HR8 Incidents involving indigenous people. Nil. 58 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 GRI Page Description Comments Indicator Number G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour. Nil. Society G4-SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations. Nil. G4-PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety laws. Nil. Product Responsibility G4-PR4 Non-compliance with information laws. Nil. G4-PR7 Non-compliance with marketing laws. Nil. G4-PR8 Breaches of client privacy. Nil. G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance. Nil. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 59 Appendix A Associated Entities Country of Name of entity Incorporation PT SMEC Denka Indonesia Indonesia SMEC Energy SDN Berhad Malaysia SMEC (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia Controlled Entities Country of Name of entity Incorporation SMEC Australia Pty Ltd Australia SMEC International Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Services Pty Ltd Australia Brisbane City Enterprises Pty Ltd Australia Global Maintenance Consulting Pty Ltd Australia Lean and Hayward Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Testing Services Pty Ltd Australia SMECTS Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Pty Ltd 1 Australia SM Urban Pty Ltd 2 Australia STS Geoenvironmental Pty Ltd Australia ACE Consultants Limited Bangladesh SMEC Bangladesh Ltd Bangladesh Engineering Consultants Underwriters Ltd Bermuda VKE Botswana Pty Ltd Botswana Global Maintenance Consulting (Canada) Inc Canada Global Maintenance Consulting Chile Limitada Chile SMEC China Engineering and Management Consultancy Co Ltd China SMEC Beijing Co Ltd China Frontier Energy Ltd Dubai Frontier Hydro Ltd Dubai SMEC Asia Ltd Hong Kong Leadrail Infra Solutions Private Ltd 3 India SMEC India (Pvt) Ltd India SMEC Central Asia LLP Kazakhstan SMEC Kenya Limited Kenya SMEC Macau Engineering Consulting Limited 4 Macau SMEC International (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 60 Appendix A (continued) Country of Name of entity Incorporation Energy Holdings Limited Mauritius SMEC International (Africa) Ltd 5 Mauritius SMEC Servicios De Ingenieria De Mexico 6 Mexico SMEC Mongolia LLC Mongolia SMEC Myanmar Company Limited 7 Myanmar VKE Namibia Consulting Engineers Pty Ltd Namibia Vincpro (Pty) Ltd Namibia SMEC New Zealand Ltd New Zealand SMEC Nigeria Limited Nigeria South Asia Middle East Management Company LLC 8 Oman SMEC Oil and Gas (Private) Limited Pakistan Engineering General Consultants (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan SMEC Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan SMEC PNG Ltd Papua New Guinea SMEC Philippines Inc Philippines ECCL Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore Global Maintenance Consulting Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore GMC Global Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa SMEC South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Soillab Pty Ltd South Africa SMEC International (Africa) (Pty) Ltd 9 South Africa ZMCK Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Ocyana Consultants Pvt Ltd Sri Lanka ZMCK–Swaziland Property Holdings Pty Ltd Swaziland SMEC (Tanzania) Limited Tanzania SMEC Uganda Limited Uganda GMC Global UK Limited United Kingdom Global Maintenance Consulting – America, Inc. United States of America SMEC Vietnam JSC Vietnam 1. Deregistered on 8 September 2014 2. Deregistered on 3 December 2014 3. Purchased on 1 September 2014 4. Incorporated on 16 February 2015 5. Incorporated on 22 August 2014 6. Incorporated on 23 June 2015 7. Incorporated on 24 September 2014 8. Incorporated on 4 May 2015 9. Formerly known as VKE International Consulting Engineers Pty Ltd 61 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Appendix B Environmental Impact Assessment Scale Impact 1 2 3 4 5 Major, Insignificant Minor Moderate but reversible Catastrophic 5 Almost Certain 5 10 15 20 25 4 Above Average 4 8 12 16 20 Likelihood 3 Moderate 3 6 9 12 15 2 Rare 2 4 6 8 10 1 Very Rare 1 2 3 4 5 Rating Treatment 1–6 Manage aspects via safe operating procedure. 8–12 Process decisions and treatments or controls are assigned specific responsibilities within the process. 15–16 Process decisions and treatments or controls are escalated to senior management for review. 20–25 Process decisions and treatments or controls are escalated to executive level management for review. SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2016 62 www.smec.com
