2015–2016 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y REPORT a b PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 1 A word from our CEO 2 Who we are and what we do 3 Key sustainability issues 6 Stakeholders 7 People 18 Environment 21 Society 31 Ethics and governance 34 About this report 35 GRI Index A WORD FROM OUR CHIEF E XECUTIVE OFFICER Pact’s Sustainability Report is our opportunity to demonstrate how we address the responsibilities we have to all of our stakeholders (our people, customers, suppliers, shareholders and the wider community) and to the environment in which we operate. As a manufacturer we understand that satisfying We are proud that during FY16 we successfully the needs of the current generation should not re-inducted our entire workforce to refresh its compromise future generations and we are knowledge of Pact’s standards of safety and conscious of making decisions today that ensure environment, the roles and responsibilities of business resilience and create long-term value for employees and management, and the key hazards Pact and our stakeholders. in our workplaces. At Pact, sustainability shapes our daily decisions and Creating opportunities to promote diversity is engrained into our corporate vision; to enrich lives and inclusion is also ongoing focus. This year an everyday though sustainable packaging solutions. Executive Sub-committee was formed to provide Our FY16 Sustainability Report encompasses four a more robust structure to our gender diversity in themes: People, Environment, Society and, Ethics senior leadership targets. In the coming year we will and Governance. accelerate our progress in this area. People In June 2016, senior leaders from across Australia, The safety of our people will always be our key New Zealand and Asia gathered for a leadership priority. Our Towards Zero Harm (TZH) strategy conference. The conference provided Senior focuses on the ongoing improvement of safety Managers with an insight into Pact’s growth strategy systems and processes. It is designed to ensure we which consists of three pillars; Organic Growth, have an incident and injury free workplace, with the Operational Excellence and Efficiency through the ultimate goal of achieving zero harm to people and application of lean manufacturing techniques and the planet. Consultation and collaboration on key growth through a disciplined approach to mergers safety and environmental issues with employees and acquisitions; underpinned by a culture of from across the Group remains an unwavering focus. innovation and accountability. PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 1 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Environment KE Y A significant milestone in our journey Towards Zero Harm was achieved in FY16, with the integration of SUS TAINABILIT Y the Health & Safety and Environmental Management ISSUES Systems. An integrated WHSE System has enabled greater management of each of these critical risk areas. Additionally, it has driven greater efficiency at S TAKEHOLDER S Sites and reinforced our commitment to health, safety and environment. Society Pact is committed to having effective and targeted engagement with the communities in which we operate and we remain committed to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. This year we were delighted to announce a brand new partnership PEOPLE with Ronald McDonald House Charities (RMHC) that complements our existing portfolio of not-for-profit relationships. Pact has been searching for a suitable partner that focusses on child and family welfare ENVIRONMENT support after receiving feedback from our annual Employee Engagement Survey, and believe we have found a wonderful organisation to support. We will be In recognition that the talent and passion of our sharing more regarding our partnership in FY17. employees is directly correlated to the Group’s ongoing success, we continue to offer a dynamic Ethics and Governance reward and recognition program: Applause. Applause Pact has reported strong growth in all key financial drives Pact’s culture of engagement and inclusion metrics in the financial year and has achieved this SOCIE T Y by placing innovation in the hands of everyone by remaining committed to conducting the Group’s in the business. It also motivates employees by business ethically and in accordance with the highest rewarding ideas, behaviours and performance that standards of corporate governance. In FY16 we demonstrates ingenuity, passion, resourcefulness and published a report Tax Transparency Report that dedication. The categories for reward are aligned with outlined our approach to taxation and details about Pact’s values. the taxes we paid in FY15 to help our stakeholders E THICS & In February 2016 Applause moved to a digital platform; understand our tax paying position. GOVERNANCE Applause Central. Applause Central enables all Pact employees to submit their innovative ideas and also Looking forward comment, share and vote for the ideas of their peers. FY17 will be an exciting year for the company. Pact is Building a digital platform to house the innovation strategically well positioned for the future, with solid conversation has re-energised the program and foundations and a clear strategy for growth. We are resulted in hundreds of fresh ideas submitted. committed to delivering this growth through living our values, remaining focussed on the health, safety and ABOUT THIS REPORT A relentless pursuit of embedding a culture of development of our people, and by further fostering continuous innovation into the company’s culture has a high performing culture which rewards continuous also seen Pact recognised for the fourth time on the innovation and ethical behaviour. AFR’s Top 50 Most Innovative Companies List. Pact is Malcolm Bundey the only packaging company to make the list in 2016 Our customer centric nature will support us to Chief Executive Officer and one of only 6 companies to make the list for four improve Pact’s resilience and deliver sustainable value GRI INDE X and Managing Director consecutive years. to all of our shareholders and other key stakeholders. 2 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 WHO WE ARE 70 operating AND WHAT WE DO sites Pact Group is one of Australasia’s largest 7 manufacturers of packaging and other products, serving the world’s biggest and most trusted brands. Our cutting edge technology allows us to cater to a diverse range of industry sectors including the food, dairy, beverage, chemical, agricultural, industrial and many more. Countries A market leader Our full breadth of products and services includes in Australia and New Zealand in packaging products, materials handling, contract filling rigid plastics packaging and sustainability services. Headquartered in Melbourne, Australia, we have 70 manufacturing plants across seven countries and over >4,000 4,000 workers. Pact’s growth strategy is comprised of three core pillars: Organic Growth, Operational Excellence and Efficiency through the application of lean Employees Large, diversified manufacturing techniques; and growth through a customer base disciplined approach to mergers and acquisitions. Our of >6,000 vision is to enrich lives everyday through sustainable packaging solutions. Listed on Operating in the ASX more than 100 on 17 December 2013 market segments across 22,000 product variants * 7 countries = Australia, New Zealand, China, Philippines, Thailand (50/50 joint venture with Weener Plastics), Indonesia, Singapore PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 3 A WORD FROM OUR CEO KEY SUSTAINABILIT Y WHO WE ARE AND ISSUES WHAT WE DO Pact recognises that our business activities have a KE Y direct impact on a wide range of stakeholders including SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. S TAKEHOLDER S Material risks and impacts across all areas of the The issues we consider most material to our Group have been identified and assessed, including business were prioritised through a weighting those within the categories of economic, social and process. A combination of internal and external environmental sustainability. This was completed in factors were used to determine whether an issue line with the ASX Corporate Governance Principles is material, including factors such as our Vision and and Recommendations (Third edition). Values, interest and concerns expressed directly by stakeholders and the global community, as well as Materiality process the influence on upstream (such as supply chain) and The material issues addressed in this report directly downstream (such as customers) entities. PEOPLE reflect priorities identified for Pact Group and its Our key materiality issues are listed on pages 4 and 5. stakeholders, in line with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 requirements. We continually seek to improve the information we report on and this ENVIRONMENT includes reviewing material issues for relevance to future reports. SOCIE T Y E THICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDE X 4 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 KE Y SUSTAINABILIT Y ISSUES The material issues have been categorised into the following sections that form the structure for this report. PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT Talent Equality Health Energy and Waste management and diversity and safety emissions • Employee • Diversity and inclusion • Worker health, safety • Greenhouse gas • Materials usage KE Y ISSUES engagement • Fair and equitable and wellbeing emissions • Waste to landfill • Talent development labour relations • Energy efficiency • Employee recognition • Employee Engagement • Pact women’s • Integration of • Energy efficiency • War on Waste Survey completed network expanded health and safety programs • Product design KE Y INITIATIVES FOR F Y16 • Top 100 leadership • Diversity suband environmental • Regulatory projects conference committee formed systems compliance reporting • Refreshed corporate • Flexible work • WHSE re-induction including National induction practices for all workers Greenhouse and Energy Reporting – • Performance NGER, and National appraisal process Pollutant Inventory – for all salaried NPI in Australia employees • Reward and recognition programApplause PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 5 UNITED NATIONS A WORD FROM SUSTAINABLE OUR CEO DEVELOPMENT GOALS WHO WE ARE AND During FY16 we mapped our material issues to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to align our WHAT WE DO activities with these globally strategic priorities. Where appropriate the SDG logo features on the relevant section of the report to indicate this linkage. We continue to monitor external trends and priorities and address these where appropriate. KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES SOCIE T Y E THICS AND GOVERNANCE S TAKEHOLDER S Community Product stewardship Governance PEOPLE • Investing in community initiatives and • Sustainable packaging design • Ethical conduct activities • Recycling and reconditioning of • Tax transparency ENVIRONMENT • Human rights products • Corporate governance • Responsible supply chain • Community giving program • Product life cycle assessments • Legislative compliance training • Continued signatory status of United • Innovation model delivered to Executive and Senior Nations Global Compact Leaders SOCIE T Y • Investment in Sustainability Services • Site based SEDEX memberships division to enhance offerings and • Tax Transparency Report published programs E THICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDE X 6 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder engagement Our stakeholders are groups of people who impact Our engagement with stakeholders is continuous and and/or are impacted by Pact and our activities, and takes various forms. in turn, they inform our organisation’s governance. Pact’s main stakeholder groups are those that are Stakeholder engagement assists us in understanding relevant to the social, economic and environmental the issues that matter to our shareholders, customers, impacts of our operations, and those that influence or employees, suppliers and communities in order to are influenced by the culture, performance and longbetter understand what they expect of us. term strategy of the Company. As our stakeholders grow increasingly invested in Our stakeholders and our methods of engagement issues relating to sustainability, engagement with them with them are outlined below: facilitates open, collaborative dialogue. Stakeholder Methods of engagement Employees and contractors • Survey and feedback processes Our workers are spread over seven countries and total • Performance appraisals more than 4,000, predominantly located in Australia and • Company intranet and websites New Zealand. • Site noticeboards and toolbox talks • Site and corporate induction • Yammer Customers and retailers • Customer presentations Our customers are organisations who provide consumers • Newsletters and other communications with a range of consumer, industrial / agricultural and • Preliminary stakeholder interviews materials handling components for whom we provide a • Regular customer business review meetings and audits portion of their end product. • Conferences and trade shows Consumers • Website and external communications Through our customers, we try to stay in touch with the • Market research end-users of our products wherever feasible. Shareholders • Website and external ASX communications Our investment community comprises of institutional • Mailed communication investors, individuals and retail shareholders. • Face-to-face meetings Suppliers and business partners • Supplier assessments We engage with a broad range of suppliers, joint venture • Newsletters and other communications and other business partners across the world. • Regular review meetings Government and regulators • Selective participation in policy debate As required, we engage with local, State and Federal • Collaboration with regulators government, primarily regrading regulatory compliance. Community groups • Local, national and international community involvement Wherever possible, we engage with non-profit groups, • Sponsorships and charity donations program partners and communities local to our site • Website and external communications operations to address operational impacts, employment • Preliminary stakeholder interviews opportunities and donation and sponsorship opportunities. • Regular review meetings Third party employee organisations • Enterprise negotiation processes We respect freedom of association and work collaboratively • Employee representation matters with employees and their Representatives. • Resolution of employee grievances and concerns PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 7 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y PEOPLE ISSUES AT PAC T, WE RECOGNISE THAT THE S TAKEHOLDER S SUCCESS OF OUR PEOPLE IS KE Y TO ACHIE VING THE BEST RESULTS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS. PEOPLE To that end, we are committed to creating a high performance workplace culture centred on collaboration, inclusion, recognition and professional development. ENVIRONMENT SOCIE T Y E THICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN SDGs GRI INDE X 8 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 Workforce breakdown We value the benefits of a diverse and inclusive workforce, where the skills and ideas of many different types of people can be drawn upon to create value for our all stakeholders. This means we maintain a zero tolerance approach to discrimination and actively seek to create working arrangements that meet the unique 1,025 + 2,309 = 3,334 Full time 45 + 5 = 50 needs of our people. In FY16, women made up 34% Part of our workforce, and more than 90% of our people time were employed on a permanent basis. Our priority for FY17 is to continue our focus on 207 + 163 = 370 Casual diversity in the workplace with particular emphasis on engagement opportunities for women. 1,277 + 2,477 = 3,754 Direct employees Employee engagement, development and recognition + < 500 Contractors We believe that people perform at their best when they feel engaged, supported and valued. This is particularly important during challenging economic times when sustainable employment opportunities are in focus. In line with this, Pact is proud to invest in the training and development of its people and offer a sophisticated reward and recognition program called Applause (refer to page 13). PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 9 A WORD FROM ENCOUR AGING OUR CEO DIVERSIT Y WHO WE ARE AND DRIVES OUR ABILIT Y TO AT TR AC T, RETAIN AND DE VELOP THE WHAT WE DO BEST TALENT KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES S TAKEHOLDER S Diversity Since setting the measurable objectives in April 2014, PEOPLE we continue to focus on establishing the systems and To continue to attract and retain the best people in processes required to ensure that the Group is able to the industry, we are committed to maintaining our manage, monitor and achieve them. Progress towards diverse workforce. At Pact our people are valued as reaching our goals has been made as follows: individuals, for their unique skills, background and experience. • External recruiters have been requested to source female candidates for all salaried staff vacancies. ENVIRONMENT The Company’s Diversity Policy can be accessed under Corporate Governance section of our website. • It is recommended that upon implementation Pact’s vision for diversity incorporates a number of of Pact’s Human Resources Information System different factors, including gender, ethnicity, disability, Recruitment Module in 2016, no salaried age and educational experience. appointment can be made unless a minimum of one female candidate has been made job-ready for During FY16 an Executive Sub-committee was the role. formed to provide greater focus and structure in SOCIE T Y relation the diversity program. • The annual salary review now includes gender detail to enable the identification of any gender pay equity Diversity targets imbalance, with a view to correcting/minimising any Our Board approved the following gender diversity such imbalance as part of the final approval process measurable objectives: with the CEO. 1. Require at least one female candidate to be • The Group lodged its annual public report with E THICS & recommended for interview and/or job-ready the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) GOVERNANCE process for each salaried employee recruitment including detail on gender pay equity for the third assignment. time in FY16. It has been confirmed by the WGEA 2. Monitor the annual salary review outcomes for that it achieved compliance status. salaried employees to ensure females receive, • The FY16 Employee Engagement Survey completed on average, not less than the same percentage in October 2015 asked nine questions regarding ABOUT THIS increase in their remuneration as males across the diversity and non-discrimination which received Group. REPORT positive feedback. 3. Include specific questions in the next Employee More detail on gender diversity at Pact is available in Engagement Survey to quantify gender as an issue in our Corporate Governance Statement which can be the workplace across the Group. accessed on the Corporate Governance section of the investor website. GRI INDE X 10 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 Diversity composition across our business (workforce and governance bodies) Across our business, we are committed to providing a range of diverse employment opportunities for both men and women, and across roles and age groups. Board CEO and GMs 1 4 1 7 3 Under 30 Female 30 to 50 Female Over 50 Female 5 11 Managers Professionals, Sales and Admin Under 30 Male 30 to 50 Male Over 50 Male 8 30 18 142 80 179 157 60 69 621 7 2 183 Operations All 30 18 countries F M Total 142 Under 30 133 233 366 30–50 652 1,254 1,906 179 Over 50 492 990 1,482 2,954 Total 1,277 2,477 3,754 69 183 PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 11 THROUGH THE DIVERSIT Y OF OUR TE AMS, SITES AND A WORD FROM OPER ATIONS, PAC T IS COMMIT TED OUR CEO TO THE PRINCIPLES OF FAIR AND EQUITABLE L ABOUR REL ATIONS. WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Parental leave Industrial relations During FY16 almost 30,000 hours in parental leave Pact is committed to the principles of fair and was taken across the business. KE Y equitable labour relations. This is demonstrated in All permanent employees, both male and female, our respect for the right to freedom of association SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES are entitled to take parental leave once they have and collective bargaining, which we recognise as being completed one year of service with Pact. essential to the protection against discrimination and harassment. Across our Australian and New Zealand Return to work and retention rates of employees who operations 53% of our permanent workforce is took parental leave, by gender: S TAKEHOLDER S covered by these agreements. Male Female Most of our front line people are covered by awards Total on Parental leave FY16 8 28 and/or collective bargaining agreements, negotiated with third party agents such as unions. Those in Returned from parental leave 100% 97% support services fall under a common law contract Hours on parental leave 342 29,437 of employment, stipulating strict entitlements and conditions of work. PEOPLE Professional networking Contractual agreements at Pact observe statutory Several years ago, Pact established a women’s minimums in relation to termination and redundancy networking group to provide a forum for Pact processes, and in some cases exceed these professional women to meet and inform our gender provisions. diversity development. Administered across key In an effort to keep employee satisfaction and centres for the business (Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane ENVIRONMENT motivation in sharp focus, Pact measures and reports and Auckland) and targeting the professional women on several facets of labour relations over the course of in the Group, the group hosts a range of events the year. In FY16, we reported the following: throughout the year in each location with inspirational women speaking at each occasion. As gender diversity • Four weeks’ notice is typically provided to has become a focus of our growing business, we Group employees prior to the implementation recently renamed the group Pac Network. of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them. SOCIE T Y • For Group partners with collective bargaining agreements, notice periods and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. E THICS & Country % Employees covered by Collective Bargaining Australia 74% New Zealand 69% GOVERNANCE Singapore, Thailand, China, Philippines, Indonesia 0% ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDE X 12 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 Employee engagement Overall Group results from our most recent Employee Employee engagement addresses the relationship Engagement Survey held in October 2015: between an employee and an organisation. The Employee Engagement Survey helps to inform the programs and activities run throughout the Group. Employee Engagement Survey PARTICIPATION ENGAGEMENT JOB SECURITY Participation in our voluntary Employee Engagement Survey gives Pact employees the opportunity to have their say on everything from their workplace, Participation for the Group Pact engagement score Greatest KPI improvements: colleagues and managers to broader business issues. was 59% in 2015 vs 55% was 70% vs 68% in 2014 • Job Security (How secure Feedback is then integrated into our internal projects in 2014 and 65% in 2013 employees feel in their job) and programs. (+8%) • Market Growth (Extent In our 2015 survey, 26 of 30 Group Key Performance to which the business Indicators (KPIs) recorded improvements and only one identifies and follows up KPI decreased compared to 2014 results. on growth opportunities) (+6%) In FY16 we re-introduced Exit Surveys for employees Only KPI to decline: leaving the business. These voluntary surveys also • IT Effectiveness was the provide insight into trends and potential employee only KPI to decline (-3%) engagement concerns. PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 13 WE ARE FOCUSED ON ENSURING OUR PEOPLE FEEL EMPOWERED TO SUCCEED AND RE ALISE A WORD FROM THEIR C AREER AMBITIONS. A S SUCH, PAC T OUR CEO PROVIDES A WIDE R ANGE OF RESOURCES AND PROGR AMS TO SUPPORT THE PROFESSIONAL WHO WE ARE AND AND PERSONAL GROW TH OF OUR EMPLOYEES. WHAT WE DO Employee development Performance appraisals Leadership conference All salaried employees are expected to complete a In June 2016, 100 of our Senior Leaders from across performance review twice per year. Objectives are KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y Australia, New Zealand and Asia gathered for a established between the manager and employee and measured formally in mid-year and end of year ISSUES leadership conference. The conference provided Senior Managers with an insight into Pact’s growth appraisals. In FY16, 96% of employees completed their strategy which consists of three pillars; Organic end of year appraisals. Growth, Operational Excellence and Efficiency through Employee recognition S TAKEHOLDER S the application of lean manufacturing techniques and, Applause reward and recognition program growth through a disciplined approach to mergers and Pact’s reward and recognition program Applause acquisitions. was designed to place innovation in the hands of The leaders were inspired by Mark Donaldson VC who all employees and foster a culture of engagement shared his thought provoking views on leadership throughout the organisation. based on his heroic acts in Afghanistan leading to him Applause motivates employees by rewarding ideas, being awarded the Victoria Cross Medal in 2009. behaviour and performance that demonstrates Our leaders were challenged to think about how PEOPLE ingenuity, passion, resourcefulness and dedication. visible, encouraging and collaborative their leadership The categories for reward are aligned with Pact’s was on a day-to-day basis and how their leadership Vision and Values (refer ‘A word from our CEO’). will help the organisation grow. The 2015 Applause program received 261 Training and skills development nominations. Of these, 168 made it to Silver level and Pact employee training and development is led ENVIRONMENT received a cash prize for their submission. by direct managers at site level, with corporate compliance programs managed by head office. Applause goes digital In February 2016 Applause moved to a digital platform In FY16, a refreshed corporate induction e-learning called Applause Central. Applause Central is a content offering was launched. We recognise that the first rich digital platform that creates a community to weeks of a new starter are important in establishing knowledge share and innovate through peer-to-peer their long-term future. exchange. SOCIE T Y Our online learning portal provides employees with Applause Central enables all Pact employees to submit important compliance training, behavioural safety their innovative ideas and also comment, share and training and skill building opportunities. Our portal vote for the ideas of their peers. Building a digital has more than 50 programs available to staff that platform to house the innovation conversation has are accessible at any time the employee needs them. re-energised the program and resulted in hundreds of Compliance training is an important governance fresh and original ideas being submitted, shared and E THICS & measure in our business. The compliance training voted for. at Pact covers obligations to ensure a workplace GOVERNANCE that is fair and free from bullying, harassment and Applause Central creates a transparent central discrimination and important programs such as repository for ideas that is open to all employees, competition and consumer act compliance. The portal enables real time communication updates and provides employees with technical education such streamlines the formerly manual administration of the as computing and project management as well as program. It places voting in the hands of the entire ABOUT THIS training in areas such as customer service and time business and culturally empowers Pact’s vision of comanagement. creation innovation. REPORT GRI INDE X 14 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 ONGOING FOCUS ON IMPROVING SAFET Y CULTURE AND PROCESS, PARTICUL ARLY IN THE NEWLY ACQUIRED BUSINESSES Health, safety and wellbeing As we strive to achieve zero harm, effective risk management continues to be a critical component of The health, safety and overall wellbeing of our people our approach. During FY16 we continued to focus on will always be our key priority. Our Towards Zero Harm hazard and risk identification, assessment and control strategy is focused on the ongoing improvement of as key activities to make our workplaces safer. safety systems and processes across the business. It works to ensure an incident and injury free workplace, With a refreshed risk identification program we with the ultimate goal of achieving zero harm to continue to investigate and eliminate hazards across people and the planet. all of our workplaces. Plant Safety Risk Management training was delivered to our sites in New Zealand Safety performance and Australia, to complete the training program Safety performance is primarily measured by Lost Time commenced in the FY15 in partnership with the Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR). LTIFR represents the National Safety Council of Australia (NSCA). number of lost time injuries recorded for every one million hours worked over a rolling 12 month period. Training on the new Health and Safety at Work Act (NZ) which came into force in April 2016 was provided to Any injury is unacceptable at Pact and to prevent rethe sites in New Zealand by Safety ‘N’ Action. Manual occurrence of incidents we investigate to determine Handling training delivered throughout sites in root cause. We record incidents that occur within Australia highlighted correct lifting technique with the Pact workplaces in our online incident management aim of eliminating sprain and strain injuries. system, which allows immediate escalation where required, visibility and management involving Workers at our sites are not exposed to occupational corrective actions. activities that have a high incidence or risk of specific diseases. Our statistics include incidents occurring to permanent, casual and contractors (including all As we focus our recording and reporting of data on acquisitions), regardless of time since acquisition. our total exposure at sites, we do not break our data Although we experienced a slight increase in the into gender, region or LTIFR specifically for contractors. LTIFR the majority of sites were LTI free for the year. We also do not currently collate lost day rate; absentee rate; or occupational disease rate (ODR). The collation of data runs deeper than the LTIFR and we improved in broader areas like our internal auditing and other incidents overall. Group LTIFR 7.2 4.9 5.8 4.5 4.0 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 15 A WORD FROM OUR CEO THE HE ALTH OF WHO WE ARE AND OUR EMPLOYEES MENTALLY, WHAT WE DO PHYSIC ALLY AND EMOTIONALLY IS CENTR AL TO OUR KE Y HIGH PERFORMANCE SUS TAINABILIT Y CULTURE. ISSUES S TAKEHOLDER S Employee wellbeing Employee Assistance Program We understand that work can often impact on all The Pact Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a areas of our lives, including the quality of our family service offered to employees across Australia and life and overall lifestyle. The health of our employees New Zealand designed to provide emotional, mental mentally, physically and emotionally is central to and general psychological support through access to our high performance culture and to that end we counselling services. have invested in several key programs to promote The service aims to provide preventative and PEOPLE employee wellbeing. proactive interventions for the early detection, Global Corporate Challenge identification and/or resolution of problems and To promote healthy living we have provided concerns that may adversely affect an employee’s employees with the opportunity to participate in mental health wellbeing. the Global Corporate Challenge (GCC) in both 2015 Occupational physiotherapy ENVIRONMENT and 2016. The GCC is a 100 day virtual journey that Sites at VIP Laverton North, VIP Truganina, VIP involves 370,000 people from around the world Moorabbin, Alto Mulgrave and VIP Brendale have competing in teams on a journey that improves both implemented an onsite occupational physiotherapy their physical and psychological health through a program which focusses on musculoskeletal issues range of activities including walking, swimming and and preventing and reducing injuries to workers. Our biking. Participants move towards different locations onsite physiotherapists offer services that combine around the world as they become more and more knowledge of our organisation’s work environment, active throughout the journey. The GCC also provides SOCIE T Y expert physiotherapy and occupational rehabilitation participants with a 12 month online platform to and a strong focus on injury prevention. ensure that awareness, education and motivation continue throughout the year. In the case of a work related injury at all Pact sites, the aim is for the employee to remain at work, be In 2015, Pact fielded 39 teams with seven employees productive and rehabilitate in a safe manner. in each to participate with more than 1,200 companies E THICS & across 185 countries. Pact returned a fantastic result, For non-work-related injuries, the aim is to ensure that achieving second place in the Manufacturing and employees do not aggravate their injury at work and GOVERNANCE Operations category for the Asia-Pacific region. The are safe to carry out their normal duties. 2016 event began in May with Pact fielding 60 teams. The event finished in September 2016 and results will be announced in late 2016. ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDE X 16 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 WORKPL ACE HEALTH, SAFET Y AND ENVIRONMENT SYSTEM A significant milestone in our journey towards zero harm Engaging our workers was achieved in FY16, with the integration of the Health & Discussion and consultation on key safety and Safety and the Environmental Management Systems. environmental issues with workers across all areas of the An integrated WHSE System has enabled greater Group is a priority. We are proud that during FY16 we remanagement of each of these critical risk areas. Additionally, inducted our entire workforce to refresh all our workers it has driven greater efficiency at sites, consolidated related knowledge of Pact’s commitment and standards of safety IT systems, removed duplication and enabled consistency of and environment, the roles and responsibilities of workers all related activities. and management, and the key hazards in our workplaces. The System reinforces our commitment to health, safety We continued to deliver awareness campaigns to each site and environment as outlined within the Workplace Health comprising of webinars, posters and Tool Box Talks on and Safety Policy and the Environmental Policy. Both policies specific safety and environmental topics. These campaigns provide a clear direction for Pact to achieve zero harm to support broader engagement of workers and aim to people and the planet. influence behavioural change. The System defines the minimum standards and is Each of our workplaces has consultation arrangements in applicable to all operations across the Group. Along with place. These arrangements help workers at all levels to raise the Manual, Procedures and Forms, we have also integrated questions, make suggestions and to contribute to decisionthe WHS and EMS Group Audits and have embarked on making. Consultation arrangements generally include a site auditing all sites within the Group to the new standard. We based HSE Committee, which brings together management will continue to complete the Group WHSE Audit program in and workers and helps to drive a positive workplace culture. FY17 to ensure all sites are audited to the same standard. During the reporting period we have had no material The effectiveness of our WHSE approach is measured by both incidents of non-compliance with safety and/or lead and lag indicators, with Group and site targets in place. environmental management legislation and received no Targets for safety at sites are based on a benchmarking community complaints relating to environmental issues. activity against the ASX100 Safety Performance Report. Incidents are reported by sites to the Group in 'real-time' via telephone and our online incident reporting tool. CLEAN WHSE UP SPILLS BEFORE INDUCTION Each site has a consolidated Safety and Environment Action YOU SLIP, WORKER FALL, TRIP Plan and progress is reported throughout the year as well HANDBOOK MARCH 2015 as monitored at site level. These Plans set out to achieve the WORKPLACE HAZARDS; REPORT, sites targets, and ultimately achieve our strategic ambition RESPOND, REVIEW of zero harm to people and planet. We track and report on WHSE performance internally on a monthly basis, and externally, along with our financial DO YOU KNOW results at both half and full year. Further information of WHAT IT TAKES TO BE A respective safety and environmental performance indicators LEADER IN SAFETY? can be found on pages 14, 18 and 19 of this Report. KNOW YOUR TEAM; KNOW YOUR SAFETY RESPONSIBILITIES WHSE WHSE MANUAL AUDIT OCTOBER 2015 PROGRAM MANUAL APRIL 2014 PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 17 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ENVIRONMENT ISSUES OUR TOWARDS ZERO HARM S TAKEHOLDER S STR ATEGY ENCOMPA SSES OUR COMMITMENT TO ZERO HARM TO OUR PL ANET. Across all our operations and at every level PEOPLE within the Group, our environmental impact is considered; from the design and life cycle of our products through to the minimisation of manufacturing waste. ENVIRONMENT We are specifically focused on conserving energy, minimising waste, preventing pollution, saving water and using raw materials wisely. SOCIE T Y Pact is committed to ensuring all our products and services meet the requirements of our stakeholders without compromising the needs of future generations. E THICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN SDGs GRI INDE X 18 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 Energy and emissions Energy efficiency At Pact, we use electricity and natural gas in our Pact runs a number of programs to target energy product manufacture. We also use fuels including LPG, efficiency at our sites. These include: diesel and butane. We report on our Greenhouse • Improving our operations by streamlining our Gas (GHG) emissions and energy use within Australia processes and eliminating unnecessary steps through the National Greenhouse and Energy wherever possible. Reporting (NGER) Scheme. Pact began NGER reporting • Upgrading our equipment, for example, our in the FY14 as Pact Group Holdings Ltd. compressors, chillers and machines. In FY16 Pact (Australia and New Zealand only) • Compressed air leak management. consumed 1,566,029 GJ of energy which was • Improving our lighting systems. equivalent to 277,401 tCO2e GHG emissions. The • Using thermal imaging for detection of hot spots breakdown of this result is as follows: for maintenance. • Scope 1: 14,858 tCO2e • Monitoring our energy consumption through the • Scope 2: 262,883 tCO2e use of our smart metres at the majority of sites. PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 19 ACROSS ALL OUR A WORD FROM SITES, WE USE OUR CEO INTERNAL REC YCLING PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS. WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Materials and waste Materials KE Y At Pact, we are committed to creating environmentally Across all of our sites, we use internal recycling SUS TAINABILIT Y sustainable products. This is underpinned by a processes and systems. For example, we have installed number of key initiatives centred on minimising the standardised waste bin labels for easy segregation of ISSUES use of raw materials. Recycled materials are used waste. Our waste management provider works with wherever possible. For example industrial products us to minimise waste and recycle as much as possible. like mobile garbage bins have up to 30% recycled Materials we most commonly recycle include paper, S TAKEHOLDER S content. cardboard, steel, plastic, used oil, steel drums and intermediate bulk containers (IBCs). Our raw materials include resin, recycled resin and steel. In FY16 we consumed approximately HDPE and PP are recycled by Pact subsidiary, Astron. 190,000 tonnes. In return, Astron makes recycled resin, cable covers and slip sheets from the scrap plastic. Waste We are focused on reducing and eliminating waste Together with our waste provider, waste assessments from our operations. The Group has implemented on have been undertaken on all of our sites in Australia, site recycling systems for all recyclable materials at all and are reviewed approximately every two years. PEOPLE of our sites. We aim to eliminate waste production at Opportunities identified are then shared with the our factories altogether by producing packaging that is waste provider. 100% recyclable. We saved 17% from landfill in Australia and 58% ENVIRONMENT in NZ in FY16. SOCIE T Y E THICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDE X 20 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 Case Study rPET MoistureLock Meat Trays PACT'S rPET (RECYCLED POLYETHYLENE Polystyrene saved from landfill every year 14 TEREPHTHALATE) MOISTURELOCK TRAY equivalent to COMPRISES 50% RECYCLED MATERIAL OLYMPIC AND IS ACCEPTED BY EVERY KERBSIDE SWIMMING RECYCLING SCHEME. IT IS MADE POOLS FROM CLEAR PLASTIC NOT BLACK SO IT CAN BE EASILY SEPARATED IN THE RECYCLING CENTRES. Creating a suitable alternative to expanded polystyrene (EPS) meat trays has been a long running global environmental challenge due to their inability to be recycled via kerbside schemes. To address this, Pact developed, designed and manufactured the rPET Moisturelock Tray. The real innovation however lies in the tray's ability to capture fluid in the base. The little ‘dimples’ in the bottom of the tray hold the fluid in even when the trays are tilted or turned upside down, meaning customers don’t have to worry about any meat fluids sullying their shopping or having to remove and dispose of the unsightly blood soaked pad prior to preparing their meat. In FY16, the trays were rolled out nationally across New Zealand by a major retailer. By moving from EPS trays to rPET Moisturelock, the equivalent of 14 Olympic size swimming pools full of polystyrene are saved from landfill every year. The Accolades THE GREEN RIBBON AWARDS RECOGNISE THE OUTSTANDING In June 2016, Pact rPET Moisturelock meat tray won a prestigious Green Ribbon Award for environmental waste CONTRIBUTIONS MADE minimisation. New Zealand’s Minister for the Environment, the Hon Dr Nick Smith, and the Minister of Conservation, the Hon Maggie Barry, announced the 2016 winners at a ceremony at Parliament. BY INDIVIDUALS, ORGANISATIONS, BUSINESSES AND COMMUNITIES TO PROTECT AND ENHANCE NEW ZE AL AND’S ENVIRONMENT. PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 21 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO KE Y SOCIET Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES WE BELIE VE THAT HAVING A POSITIVE IMPAC T ON THE S TAKEHOLDER S COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE OPER ATE IS CRUCIAL TO OUR SUCCESS A S A COMPANY. PEOPLE This has become central to the way Pact operates and we actively encourage a spirit of generosity within our employees and broader ENVIRONMENT stakeholder groups. This is demonstrated through our many community based initiatives. SOCIE T Y E THICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN SDGs GRI INDE X 22 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 AT PAC T, WE VALUE E VERY OPPORTUNIT Y TO ENGAGE WITH THE COMMUNIT Y AND SUPPORT THE C AUSES THAT MAT TER TO OUR SITES AND EMPLOYEES. Community Community Giving Program Pact acknowledges the link between a healthy At Pact, we value every opportunity to engage community, a growing economy and the success with the community and support the causes that of our business. In line with this we support several matter to our sites, employees and customers. We community initiatives that are aligned with our product actively participate in our local communities through and service offering, geographic location and core corporate investment and fundraising and we are stakeholder groups. always on the lookout for new ways to contribute. We continue to make progress in identifying the social In FY16 we re-launched our community giving impacts of our business and finding new ways to program. This program enables Pact employees to support the relevant communities. nominate a chosen charity that they are passionate about to receive either: Given the breadth of Pact's community programs and initiatives already in place, we do not quantify the • product donation percentage of Group operations with implemented • fundraising contribution community engagement, impact assessments and • monetary donation matching, or development programs. We do acknowledge this • direct sponsorship position may change in future years as Group projects Our monetary donation matching scheme allows evolve. empoyees to request Pact match their personal donation to their chosen charity – doubling the contribution made. Following are some of the initiatives we have supported in FY16. Cancer Council’s ‘Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea’ Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea Ongoing support to WasteAid Ronald McDonald House Charities – has been an annual feature Pact subsidiary, Sulo, is proud Australia and New Zealand of the Pact calendar for the to be involved with non-profit We were delighted to announce a brand new partnership organisation WasteAid, which last nine years, providing an with Ronald McDonald House Charities (RMHC) in FY16 has been established to opportunity for workmates that complements our existing portfolio of not-for-profit provide basic waste services to come together, share a relationships. Pact has been searching for a suitable to disadvantaged areas of cup of tea and help those partner that focusses on child and family welfare support Australia, predominantly affected by cancer. after receiving feedback from our annual Employee assisting Aboriginal and Torres We are proud to have raised Engagement Survey, and believe we have found a Strait Islander populations. more than $70,000 since wonderful organisation to support. Sulo has provided the waste hosting our first Morning Tea With 16 locations around Australia and three in New bins for various projects and event, helping provide funds Zealand, Ronald McDonald Houses offer a home-awayPact are also proud to further for vital cancer research, from-home, giving families somewhere more comfortable support WasteAid as they prevention and support to stay than a waiting room, chair on a ward or in their further implement their waste services across Australia. car whilst their seriously ill children are being cared for services throughout remote This year we donated more in hospital. communities. than $13,000. PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 23 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Australian Marine Conservation Society The Australian Marine Conservation Society (AMCS) is Australia's only national charity dedicated exclusively KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y to protecting ocean wildlife. We see AMCS as a worthy association for Pact and are thrilled to have been able ISSUES to support them in 2016. New Zealand’s Forest & Bird Pact are proud to have supported Forest & Bird S TAKEHOLDER S in FY16. Forest & Bird is New Zealand’s leading independent conservation organisation protecting and restoring wildlife and wild places. Since 1923, Forest & Bird has played a great and important role in preserving New Zealand’s environment and Supporting local children in the Philippines native species. The organisation has helped establish Pact subsidiary Plastop in the Philippines continues protection for a third of our country’s land in parks to provide educational support to the children of and reserves, put an end to logging of our native PEOPLE employees from kinder all the way through to year 12. forests and helped bring species such as the kakapo Each child receives sponsorship to help cover the cost and kokako back from the brink of extinction. of books, shoes, uniforms, transport, field trips and Royal Flying Doctor Service’s Outback Car Trek school supplies. The Outback Car Trek is an annual motoring event This ongoing support helps parents provide quality organised to raise money for Australia’s Royal Flying education to their children. Many families are now ENVIRONMENT Doctor Service (RFDS). Delivering primary health able to send their kids to better schools, resulting in a care and emergency services to those who live and higher overall outcome for the community. work in remote and rural Australia, the RFDS is one of the largest and most comprehensive aeromedical Plastop also: organisations in the world. Pact has participated in • provides the local community village with monthly and helped sponsor the Trek for the last six years. food parcels for village orphans; Sponsoring the Trek entry of our customer Lion, we • financially supports 10 orphans between three and SOCIE T Y contributed significantly to help fund the purchase of 10 years of age to the value of IDR1million (about medical equipment and the rollout of the RFDS TOOTH $100) in total per month; and program which delivers dental service to regional • has a monthly celebration function in the communities. Our Salient site also provides partboardroom for the orphans to hand over the sponsorship of customer PAX’s entry in the event. food parcels. E THICS & Tandum supporting communities in Kenya Tongan cyclone recovery Pact has supported Tandum over many years as it In FY16 Pact donated 120 steel drums for storing and GOVERNANCE works towards eradicating hunger in Kenya. Tandum transporting cyclone relief packs to islands impacted is a non-profit organisation that partners with by severe tropical Cyclone Winston in Tonga. The communities by creating lasting and sustainable cyclone was the strongest ever to make landfall in Fiji change through greenhouse development, and the South Pacific Basin in recorded history and sustainable business development, small project caused substantial damage throughout the area in ABOUT THIS funding and working with communities. February 2016. REPORT GRI INDE X 24 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 Human rights United Nations Global Compact Pact upholds the principles of universal human The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a rights, including accessibility, non-discrimination strategic policy initiative for businesses committed and labour rights across all of our operations. This is to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 demonstrated through our commitment to the United universally accepted principles in the areas of human Nations Global Compact as detailed below, which rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. includes human rights principles derived from the As business is a primary driver of globalisation, UNGC Universal Declaration of Human Rights. signatories can help ensure that markets, commerce, Our Code of Conduct requires the fair and equitable technology and finance advance in ways that benefit treatment of all Pact stakeholders and outlines the economies and societies everywhere. responsibilities of all employees in accordance with this. We lodged our annual UNGC Communications on Pact is committed to being an equal opportunity Progress in December 2015 which can be downloaded employer and to ensuring our workplace is free of from the UNGC website: www.unglobalcompact.org. unlawful discrimination, harassment and bullying. Our Sedex Equal Opportunity, Harassment and Bullying Policy A number of our sites have undergone a Sedex details this commitment and can be viewed on the Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA). Sedex is a simple Pact website at www.pactgroup.com.au. and effective way of managing ethical and responsible We note that there has been one incident of practices across the supply chain. The secure online discrimination during the reporting period. There have database allows members to store, share and report been no grievances about human rights impacts filed on four key areas: Labour Standards, Health and through formal grievance mechanisms during the Safety, the Environment and Business Ethics. reporting period. Sedex is currently a tender requirement for some In this reporting period, we have not held any specific of our customers, as they review and track the training addressing human rights, however this does sustainability credentials of their supply chain. form part of our corporate induction which all new salaried employees complete. Child and forced labour As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are committed to supporting and respecting internationally proclaimed human rights, and as part of this, the abolition of child labour and forced labour worldwide. As a business, our Code of Conduct and other Group policies condemn and resolutely prohibit child and forced labour. There have been no incidents of child or forced labour within the Group that we are aware of during the reporting period. PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 25 WE WORK WITH SOME OF THE WORLD’S A WORD FROM OUR CEO BIGGEST BR ANDS; BUILDING, DESIGNING AND ENGINEERING WHO WE ARE AND PACK AGING SOLUTIONS THAT ARE WHAT WE DO FIT FOR PURPOSE. Product stewardship THROUGH INNOVATION Our vision is to enrich lives through sustainable packaging solutions and this vision informs everything AND RESPONSIBLE KE Y we do. Packaging plays a key role in all of our lives, PRODUC T SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES STEWARDSHIP WE allowing us to store, transport, consume and preserve a diverse range of products at our convenience. It also informs consumers of important product information, AIM TO ENSURE allowing them to choose one product over another. THE LIFE C YCLE OF S TAKEHOLDER S At Pact we look at the entire life cycle of our packaging. This means recognising that it has a life after the E ACH PRODUC T IS contents are consumed and can be repurposed, reconditioned or recycled. Although great packaging MANAGED IN THE may be ‘single use’ in terms of its primary purpose, MOST SUSTAINABLE smart design and manufacturing helps us ensure it can be repurposed and continue onto the next phase WAY, MINIMISING of its life cycle without negatively impacting upon the environment. ANY NEGATIVE PEOPLE We provide a range of sustainability, recycling and ENVIRONMENTAL, environmental services to help our customers reduce SOCIAL AND HE ALTH the environmental impact of their product packaging and related processes. IMPAC TS. ENVIRONMENT We try to design our packaging not only to suit the product, but to ensure that its end-of-life management suits existing recycling systems, collection programs Life cycle assessments and kerbside recycling. We utilise the most A life cycle assessment (LCA) is an internationally appropriate materials, eliminating harmful substances recognised approach in the assessment of the wherever possible, and label our products with advice environmental impact of products and services for appropriate end-of-life disposal so they do not across all phases of their life cycle, from raw material SOCIE T Y become an environmental challenge in the future. extraction and processing, product manufacture, component manufacture, transport and end-of-life A commitment to product stewardship and disposal. sustainability Pact is a signatory to the Australian Packaging Pact measures the environmental impact of Covenant (APC). An agreement between government, each stage of the package life cycle with a range E THICS & industry and community groups, the APC represents of evaluations including Sustainable Packaging an opportunity for business to voluntarily demonstrate Guidelines’ assessments, PIQET® assessments, and GOVERNANCE leadership in sustainable packaging design, material short and full LCAs in order to respond to consumer recycling and reuse, and product stewardship. concerns and supply chain pressure. As a signatory, Pact lodges an Annual Report with the APC which is completed for the reporting period. ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDE X 26 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 FROM CONCEPT TO COMMERCIALISATION Inpact Innovation is Pact’s internal innovation division. Inpact’s creative consultants work collabroatively with technical, engineering, design and sustainability experts to challenge conventional thinking and identify new opportunities through insight led innovation. Inpact’s Innovation Model 01 CRE ATE The creative process starts with category mapping to gain an insight into the competitive environments in which our customers operate. We identify the key influences of brand, product, packaging design and retail navigation. Throughout the process, the consumer remains the central focus so we can better understand their behaviour and improve their experience. The insights extracted during this process guide our strategic innovation. 02 SOURCE Pact searches the world to find and secure the latest technological innovations so we can deliver world-class packaging solutions and designs. Our innovation and technical teams work collaboratively to ensure each design challenge is considered from all angles. If we do not already hold the solution, we will find a way to make it happen. 03 ENGINEER Concepts are transitioned from sketched illustrations on a page to full 3D rendering and tool design. Our engineers manage each step of the process, taking the project from the conceptual phase through to implementation. All aspects of making the concept more environmentally sustainable are considered from lightweighting via material reduction, material switching and use of recycled content. 04 MANUFAC TURE Pact has the manufacturing capabilities and technological know-how to take Inpact’s creative concepts to the commercial world. PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 27 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES S TAKEHOLDER S PEOPLE Case Study Pact’s Swingbar Meat Crate ENVIRONMENT THE SWINGBAR CR ATE SYSTEM IS WASHED AND REUSED 13 TIMES PER ANNUM AS OPPOSED TO THE SINGLE USE CORRUG ATED CARDBOARD. To save one of Australia’s major supermarket chains using more than SOCIE T Y Annual Environmental Savings in the first year 23,718 6.8 million ‘single use’ corrugated boxes per annum for their primal cut meat, Pact developed a returnable transport packaging (RTP) Swingbar equivalent to planting: crate solution. The Swingbar crate system is washed and reused 13 times per annum as opposed to the single use corrugated cardboard. The crates have a E THICS & lifespan expectancy of approximately seven to 10 years after which time TREES the crate can be reprocessed and the material can be re-used and put into products which are made for non-food contact industrial applications GOVERNANCE ensuring a full cradle to grave solution eliminating waste to landfill. Pact’s Swingbar crate pool system was the first installation of its type in Australia for the retail meat industry. A PIQET (Packaging Impact Quick Evaluation Tool) Analysis was performed to assess the environmental impact of the substrate conversion and reduced ‘pool’ initiative. ABOUT THIS The environmental benefits achieved in the first year alone are the REPORT equivalent to planting more than 23,718 trees (that is more than 200,000 trees over the 10 year lifespan expectancy), powering more than 7,607 homes per annum, and saving more than 39,238 wheelie bins full of rubbish from going into landfill per annum. GRI INDE X 28 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 Recycling resin Industry and customer programs Recycling plastic makes both environmental and Pact’s industry and customer programs include economic sense. Sustainability Services is a growing dedicated collection and recycling services that facet of the Pact business. We are proud to be one recover waste that is hard to dispose of or recycle, of the largest recyclers of resin in Australia and such as motor oil containers. New Zealand. We commonly recycle high density Australian Institute of Petroleum (AIP) polyethylene (HDPE) and polypropylene (PP), and we The AIP Oil Container Recycling Program is an also handle other grades of plastic. industry-led product stewardship program We collect and clean industrial plastic scrap in developed to recover domestic plastic oil containers Australia and in New Zealand, break it down, granulate that are less than 10 litres in size. The general public and extrude it. Once we have processed it we either can dispose of used motor oil containers and oil return the reprocessed plastic to the original source residues at selected transfer stations. Prior to this (tolling); sell it as graded plastic resin; or convert it into program, all plastic oil containers were sent to landfill second generation products including underground as they were not accepted via household kerbside cable covers, piping and slip sheets. recycling. Pact Packaging has steadily rolled out the program since 2004 and now has more than 200 Reconditioning pickup locations, and services approximately 60% of Steel drums the Australian population. Over the last 12 months, Pact is one of the leading drum reconditioners in we have collected more than 400 tonnes of plastic oil Australia and New Zealand, supplying and collecting containers and granulated them for further recycling. both steel and plastic drums for reconditioning. This extends the life cycle of the drums without drumMUSTER compromising their quality and also provides a Every year, the Group collects more than 400,000 cost-effective and complementary alternative to new plastic drums (approximately 410 tonnes of material) packaging. as a participant in the national drumMUSTER recycling program. drumMUSTER is a national In the past 12 months, Pact has collected almost one product stewardship program that is supported by million used steel drums for reconditioning with 80% of chemical manufacturers and industry stakeholders, these reconditioned into good-as-new drums for reuse to collect and recycle eligible containers. Prior to and the remaining 20% sent to steel recyclers. the program, these containers were typically sent to Both open head and closed head drums are landfill or burned/buried on farms. Since its inception collected, cleaned, reshaped and repainted in 1998, drumMUSTER has recycled more than 20 into drums that have the majority of functional million containers. characteristics of new drums. Reconditioning drums These hard to recycle products are either impractical in this manner replaces the need to manufacture or too expensive to collect via traditional networks. new drums (which are made from new steel), By diverting this waste from landfill and reprocessing which greatly reduces the overall impact on the it, Pact can minimise the loss of valuable resources. environment. Intermediate bulk containers The Group is also a leading intermediate bulk container (IBC) service provider in Australia and New Zealand. In FY16 Pact has collected more than 115,000 used IBCs for reconditioning. IBCs are collected and cleaned using specially designed equipment, and as a result, are able to be used again multiple more times. In some circumstances where the inner bottle cannot be cleaned, it can be removed from the steel cage and replaced with a new bottle. PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 29 THIS YEAR WE WORKED WITH A WORD FROM ALMOST 5,000 SUPPLIERS OUR CEO FROM A BROAD R ANGE OF COUNTRIES INCLUDING AUSTR ALIA; BELGIUM; C ANADA; WHO WE ARE AND CHINA; DENMARK; FR ANCE; GERMANY; HONG KONG; ITALY; JAPAN; MAL AYSIA; ME XICO; WHAT WE DO NETHERL ANDS; SINGAPORE; SWITZERL AND; TAIWAN; THAIL AND; UNITED KINGDOM; AND USA . KE Y Responsible procurement SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES Raw material Manufacturing Due to the nature of our business and our key raw materials making up approximately 50% of our total manufacturing costs, our supply chain is relatively streamlined and as a result, represents low risk. S TAKEHOLDER S However, as a global business, and in line with Processor Customer the supply chain requirements of our customers, our Quality Policy plays the role of ensuring we Industrial consistently meet and surpass international standards packaging across all our operations. supply chain This includes providing our suppliers with a Supplier Code of Conduct where applicable. The Code requires PEOPLE that our suppliers uphold strict ethical, social and environmental principles. The supplier Code of Conduct can be viewed on the Pact website Industrial Farm/mines etc. www.pactgroup.com.au/responsibilities/group-policies. collection/recycling We assess the suitability of new suppliers based on ENVIRONMENT their ability to meet the requirements of our Code. Retrospective assessments of existing suppliers are also regularly carried out. Raw material Manufacturing Recycle SOCIE T Y Customer Retail packaging Kerbside supply chain E THICS & Distribution recycle centre GOVERNANCE Landfill Consumer ABOUT THIS Retail REPORT GRI INDE X 30 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 Case Study Lightweighting of products In FY16, Pact’s exclusive license with Nampak’s Infini technology enabled the Group to launch the lightest weight two litre milk bottle in New Zealand. The new Infini bottle represents a weight reduction of 17% from the former bottle. 17% THE ENVIRONMENTAL 17% lighter than the former milk bottle SAVINGS GENER ATED BY THIS REPL ACEMENT ARE EQUIVALENT TO 562 TREES PL ANTED PER ANNUM. LIGHTER Case Study Water usage reduction PACT GROUP’S SUSTAINABILIT Y SERV ICES DIV ISION COLLECT MORE THAN 116,000 USED INTERMEDIATE BULK CONTAINERS (IBCS) FOR RECONDITIONING PER ANNUM. Automating the wash line has reduced water 70% usage by 70% Used IBCs are re-used by industry for safe liquid storage. Reconditioning IBCs replaces REDUCED the need for new IBCs and therefore, the impacts on the environment are minimised. WATER USAGE In FY16, Pact has invested more than $1 million in a state-of-the-art wash line; the only fully automated facility in Australasia. Automating the wash line has reduced water usage by 70%. PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 31 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND ETHICS AND WHAT WE DO GOVERNANCE KE Y PAC T IS COMMIT TED TO HIGH SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES STANDARDS OF BUSINESS ETHICS, WHICH HINGE ON THE CENTR AL PREMISE OF S TAKEHOLDER S AC TING WITH INTEGRIT Y IN THE WAY WE INTER AC T WITH ALL STAKEHOLDERS. PEOPLE We are subject to a range of regulatory and legal governance requirements and continue to dedicate ourselves to leading the ENVIRONMENT way in corporate governance best practice. As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact we continuously work to align our operations and SOCIE T Y business strategy to its 10 principles. E THICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN SDGs GRI INDE X 32 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 Ethical conduct topic. We are continuing to focus on this risk and to develop and enhance tools and procedures to further Code of Conduct mitigate this risk. Our Code of Conduct is designed to ensure Pact delivers on its commitment to corporate responsibility, Training on the applicable laws and policy has sustainable business practice and supports the been provided to the Executive and relevant Senior reputation and corporate image of the Group Managers. within the community. It covers key topics including During the reporting period, we have not had conflicts of interest; anti-bribery and corruption; gifts any incidents in which employees or contracts and commissions; facilitation payments; political with business partners have been investigated or contributions; and securities trading. terminated due to corruption. The Code outlines how we expect our representatives The Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy is available on to behave and conduct business in the workplace. It the website. includes legal compliance and guidelines on Competition and Consumer Act Compliance appropriate ethical standards and provides a benchmark for professional behaviour. Our Competition and Consumer Act Compliance Policy states Pact’s commitment to acting in accordance with SUPPORTING THE the obligations under the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (CCA) and Commerce Act 1986. Pact places CODE IS A SUITE OF great importance on compliance with this key area GROUP POLICIES as it impacts how we deal with our competitors, suppliers, and customers. WHICH HAVE BEEN All of our Executives, Senior Managers, sales team DESIGNED TO and other relevant employees have completed online Self-Administered Legal Training (SALT). This ENSURE COMPLIANCE training highlights the importance of CCA and related WITH L AWS AND legislation compliance. It is intended for refresher training to be delivered in FY17. REGUL ATIONS. A breach of the CCA can result in significant penalties The Code encourages reporting of unethical (to both the Company and individuals) and significant behaviour, breaches of policy or company values. damage to the Company’s goodwill and reputation These expectations and the related process are in the marketplace. During the reporting period, we further defined in the Whistleblower Policy. have not had any legal action pending or completed regarding anti-competitive behaviour in which the This Policy encourages raising of concerns about Group has been identified as a participant. There have misconduct, malpractice, irregularities or any other been no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions behaviour which is dishonest, corrupt, illegal or for non-compliance with laws and regulations in inconsistent with any of the Company’s standards. relation to competition law. The policy also sets out how Pact intends to make sure that whistleblowers are not being personally Financial transparency disadvantaged or discriminated against for reporting Political contributions and activities unacceptable behaviour. Our Code of Conduct prohibits the use of corporate The Code and related Policies are available on the funds for political purposes. Political activity by any Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/responsibilities/ employee in his or her individual, private capacity is group-polidcies. not prohibited, however, to eliminate any appearance of coercion in such political activities, it is prohibited Anti-bribery and corruption for any supervisor to solicit funds from a subordinate Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy outlines the for political purposes. standard of appropriate behaviours in respect to this PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 33 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Pact supports the involvement of its employees in With responsibility for overall corporate governance community activities and professional organisations. of Pact, the Board seeks to ensure that the Group is However, outside activity must not create a conflict (or properly managed to protect and enhance shareholder KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y the appearance of a conflict) of interest. interests, and that it operates in an appropriate environment of control and corporate governance. ISSUES Pact does not contribute any monies to any candidate for election to a political party. Further information and biographies of the Board members are available in the Annual Report which is Tax transparency located on the Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/ Pact Group’s approach to tax is governed by the S TAKEHOLDER S investors/investor relations/reports. following three key principles: The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to • Pact pays tax where the underlying economic two governance sub-committees, which are chaired activity occurs. by independent Directors. The Nomination and • Pact does not hide assets or income through Remuneration Committee and the Audit, Business secrecy provisions. Risk and Compliance Committee have defined • Pact does not shift profits to lowor zero-tax responsibilities detailed in their respective charters. jurisdictions. PEOPLE These charters can be viewed on the Pact website: These principles are enforced through a tax www.pactgroup.com.au/investors/corporategovernance policy that ensures the Board reviews and governance/board-and-committees. signs off on all significant tax decisions, and a tax risk Risk management management framework that guides management in the day-to-day management of tax issues. Pact promotes a risk-aware culture across all areas ENVIRONMENT of our operations including, but not limited to, A report outlining our approach to taxation and operational; environmental; sustainability; compliance; providing details about the taxes we paid in 2014 strategic; ethical conduct; reputation or brand; was published during FY16 to help our stakeholders technological product or service quality; human understand our tax paying position. The report capital; financial reporting and market related risks. includes information on income and other taxes we have paid, to provide a clearer picture of our Our Risk Management Policy sets out Pact’s contribution to the Australian community. It is commitment to managing all risks in a proactive and SOCIE T Y intended that a similar report will be prepared for effective manner. The Policy is complemented by future years. the Risk Management Framework, which requires the identification and mitigation of risk in a way that Further information and a copy of Pact’s 2014 Tax protects business continuity and reputation, informs Transparency Report can be found on the website management decisions and drives competitive here: http://pactgroup.com.au/wp-content/uploads/ advantage. The Framework is based on ISO31000 Risk E THICS & Pact_Tax_Transparency_Report_Final.pdf Management Principles. By encouraging reporting of newly identified risks that may impact our operations, GOVERNANCE Corporate governance the Framework sets out the principles and approach Board for risk analysis including identifying, assessing, The Board of Directors has been appointed to ensure responding to and monitoring risks. a highly experienced and complementary skill set exists The Risk Management Policy is available on the for the benefit of the Group. Board members have website. ww.pactgroup.com.au/investors/corporateextensive relevant experience in a range of industries, governance/policies. ABOUT THIS REPORT including manufacturing, finance, information technology, operations and public company experience. Further information on our corporate governance practices can be found in the Corporate Governance The Board is comprised of a Non-executive Chairman, Statement on the website. www.pactgroup.com. four independent Non-executive Directors, and an au/investors/corporate-governance/corporateExecutive Director. governance-statement. GRI INDE X 34 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 ABOUT THE REPORT This Sustainability Report for Pact Group Holdings Further information Ltd has been prepared in accordance with the Further information regarding Pact’s sustainability Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability performance is communicated through various Reporting Guidelines (G4 version). This Report channels including: is in accordance with “core” GRI guidelines and no information is restated and no changes have • www.pactgroup.com.au been identified. • The Annual Report The information contained in this Report relates to • The Annual General Meeting sites wholly owned and operated by Pact Group • Disclosures to the Australian Securities Exchange Holdings Ltd (“Pact” or “the Company”) and its (ASX), company code (PGH). wholly owned subsidiaries (“the Group”). All data Previous Sustainability and Annual Reports can be relates to the 12 month period or the status as at 30 downloaded from the Investor section of our June 2016 (FY16), unless otherwise stated. website: www.pactgroup.com.au/investors.investorData for specific areas of environmental impact relations/reports. is reported only for operations owned and wholly If you have any questions or feedback, please email: operated by the Group within Australia. It is the info@pactgroup.com.au Company’s intent to expand this reporting across all regions in the future. Pact Group Holdings Ltd ABN 55 145 989 644 All monetary amounts in the Report are stated in Australian dollars unless otherwise stated. Information integrity and verification Pact’s Executive and Senior Management are responsible for the preparation and integrity of the information in this Report. We believe this Report fairly represents our sustainability performance during FY16. PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 35 GLOBAL REPORTING A WORD FROM INITIATIVE OUR CEO SUMMARY INDE X WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Pact’s 2015-2016 Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 version). The following table summarises Pact’s performance against “core” GRI guidelines. General Standard Disclosures Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page KE Y Disclosure status Strategy and Analysis SUS TAINABILIT Y G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker in the organisation Fully A word from our CEO 1 G4-2 Impacts and Risks summary Fully Key sustainability issues, Risk Management 3, 33 ISSUES Organisational profile G4-3 Organisation name Fully About this report 34 G4-4 Primary products, services Fully Who we are and what we do 2 G4-5 Head office location Fully Who we are and what we do 2 G4-6 Countries of operation Fully Who we are and what we do 2 G4-7 Ownership and legal form Fully About this report 34 S TAKEHOLDER S G4-8 Markets served Fully Who we are and what we do 2 G4-9 Scale of organisation Fully Who we are and what we do 2 G4-10 Employee structure / breakdown Fully Diversity 10 G4-11 Employees covered by bargaining power Fully Industrial relations 11 G4-12 Supply chain description Fully Responsible Procurement 29 G4-13 Significant changes to organisation Fully About this report 34 G4-14 Overall approach to managing operational risk Fully Risk Management 33 G4-15 External charters, principles, initiatives subscribed to Fully Human rights, product stewardship 24, 25 G4-16 Active in external memberships Fully Human rights, product stewardship 24, 25 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Who is covered by this report Fully About this report 34 PEOPLE G4-18 Boundaries of this report Fully About this report 34 G4-19 Material aspects identified Fully GRI Index Specific Standard Disclosures 35 G4-20 Aspect boundaries relevancy to entities inside organisation Fully Key Sustainability issues 3 G4-21 Aspect boundaries relevancy to entities outside organisation Fully Key Sustainability issues 3 G4-22 Any restatements of previously reported information Fully About this report 34 G4-23 Any significant changes since last report Fully About this report 34 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders Fully Stakeholders 6 ENVIRONMENT G4-25 Reason stakeholders chosen Fully Stakeholders 6 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Fully Stakeholders 6 G4-27 Issues raised by stakeholder groups Fully Key sustainability issues 4, 5 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period Fully About this report 34 G4-29 Date of previous report (if any) Fully About this report 34 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Fully About this report 34 G4-31 Contact for any questions regarding this report Fully About this report 34 G4-32 In accordance with Fully About this report 34 G4-33 Approach to external assurance Fully About this report 34 SOCIE T Y Governance G4-34 Governance structure Fully Corporate governance 33 G4-35 Process for delegating authority economic, environmental & social Fully Corporate governance 33 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles and standards e.g. code of conduct Fully Ethical conduct 32 Specific Standard Disclosures E THICS & Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page Disclosure status GOVERNANCE Category: Economic Material Aspect: Economic performance G4-DMA Why economic performance is material Fully Materiality 3 G4-EC1 Local economic value revenue, employees, community Fully 2016 Annual Report Category: Environmental Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA Materials policy Fully Materials and waste 19 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight non-renewable, renewable Partially Materials and waste 19 ABOUT THIS Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Energy policy Fully Energy and emissions 18 REPORT G4-EN3 Energy consumption within organisation Partially Energy and emissions 18 Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Emissions policy Fully Energy and emissions 18 G4-EN15 Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions Partially Energy and emissions 18 G4-EN16 Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions Partially Energy and emissions 18 GRI INDE X 36 PACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015–2016 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE SUMMARY INDE X Specific Standard Disclosures (continued) Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page Disclosure status Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Effluents and waste policy Fully Materials and waste 19 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Partially Materials and waste 19 Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Environmental impacts policy from product & services Fully Product stewardship 25 G4-EN27 Impacts and mitigation of impacts from product & services Partially Product stewardship 25 Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Environmental compliance policy Fully Managing our potential impacts 16 G4-EN29 Non-compliance fines value Fully Managing our potential impacts 16 Material Aspect: Environmental grievance mechanisms Category: Social Sub-category: Labour practices and decent work Material Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Workforce & labour practices and policies Fully Workforce breakdown 8 G4-LA3 Return to work after parental leave and retention rates Partially Parental leave 11 Material Aspect: Labour/Management relations G4-DMA Labour / management relations policy Fully Industrial relations 11 G4-LA4 Notice periods for significant operational changes Fully Industrial relations 11 Material Aspect: Occupational Health & Safety G4-DMA OHS policy Fully Health, safety and wellbeing 14 G4-LA6 Injuries, rates, days lost Fully Health, safety and wellbeing 14 G4-LA7 Workers with high risk jobs Fully Health, safety and wellbeing 14 Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal opportunity G4-DMA Diversity & equal opportunity policy Fully Diversity 9 G4-LA12 Governance and workforce breakdown Fully Diversity 10 Material Aspect: Equal remuneration G4-DMA Equal remuneration policy Fully Diversity 9 G4-LA13 Gender remuneration breakdown by job category Partially Diversity 9 Material Aspect: Labour practices grievance mechanisms Sub-category: Human Rights Material Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Human rights policy Fully Human rights 24 G4-HR2 Percentage and number of hours employees trained in human rights Partially Human rights 24 Material Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-DMA Non-discrimination policy Fully Human rights 24 G4-HR3 Number of discrimination incidents, resolutions Fully Human rights 24 Material Aspect: Freedom of association and Collective bargaining G4-DMA Freedom of association & collective bargaining policy Fully Industrial relations 11 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers violating this right Partially Industrial relations 17 Material Aspect: Child labour G4-DMA Child labour policy Fully Human rights 24 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers with incidents of child labour Fully Human rights 24 Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory labour G4-DMA Forced or compulsory labour policy Fully Human rights 24 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers with incidents of forced labour Fully Human rights 24 Material Aspect: Supplier human rights grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Policy for human rights grievance mechanism Fully Human rights 24 G4-HR12 Percentage and number of supplier human rights grievances Fully Human rights 24 Sub-category: Society Material Aspect: Local communities G4-DMA Community investment and engagement policy Fully Community 22 G4-SO1 Percentage operations with community engagement & development Partially Human rights 22 Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Anti-corruption policy Fully Ethical conduct 32 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Fully Ethical conduct 32 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption, resolution Fully Ethical conduct 32 Material Aspect: Public policy G4-DMA Political contribution policy Fully Financial Transparwency 32 G4-SO6 Value of political contributions, broken down Fully Ethics & compliance 32 Material Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour G4-DMA Anti-competitive behaviour policy Fully Ethical conduct 32 G4-SO7 Number of legal actions from anti-competitive behaviour Fully Ethical conduct 32 Material Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 Value of fines from non-compliance Fully Ethical conduct 32 37 A WORD FROM WHO WE ARE AND KE Y S TAKEHOLDER S PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT SOCIE T Y E THICS & ABOUT THIS GRI INDE X OUR CEO WHAT WE DO SUS TAINABILIT Y GOVERNANCE REPORT ISSUES PAC T SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 –2016 www.pactgroup.com.au 6/650 Church Street, Richmond VIC 3121 Australia Telephone +61 3 8825 4100
