A strategic direction Engaging the next Going digital to make based on our stakeholders’ generation in conversations money transfer easy input page 10 about money page 26 and secure page 32 Corporate Responsibility 2015 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Five things you should know about this report In this report, we describe our approach to corporate responsibility and our performance. When you read the report, please note the following: 1. It is our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact for the 2015 financial reporting year. With this document, we fulfil the requirements of section 135 and subsection 135a of the Danish Executive Order on Financial Reports for Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, etc. See our compliance overview on page 34. 2. We assess and report on material issues in order to give a balanced overview of corporate responsibility matters related to our business. Material issues are those that either represent a significant risk or opportunity for us in our business operations or could possibly affect our stakeholders’ views of Danske Bank. We assess materiality periodically as part of our reporting process. See the results of the assessment that shaped the contents of this report at danskebank.com/CR/reporting. 3. Our reporting is systematic in its scope and treatment of information. The report covers the Group’s five main business units and activities in our core markets. We prepare performance data according to our Corporate Responsibility Reporting Principles, which you can find at danskebank.com/CR/reporting. Selected performance data have been verified by Deloitte according to the ISAE 3000 assurance standard. 4. The report constitutes part of Danske Bank Group’s annual reporting, along with Annual Report 2015 and Risk Management 2015, which present detailed information about our financial results and risk management practices. You can find the reports at danskebank.com/reports. You can also find more detailed and segmented data on corporate responsibility issues in the Corporate Responsibility Fact Book 2015 and in the Statement of Carbon Neutrality 2015. Both documents are available at danskebank.com/CR/reporting. 5. We welcome and value your feedback and suggestions, which help us improve our reporting. Please contact Dorte Eckhoff, Head of Corporate Responsibility, at deck@danskebank.com. Contents Foreword from Strategic themes CEO Thomas F. Borgen We aim to make a difference to our stakeholders and society in two strategic areas: 04 At the forefront of the transformation FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE Our business and CR Strategy 26 Engaging the next generation in conversations about money Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy responds to 28 Contributing to growth at startups and SMEs stakeholder expectations and supports our vision and core values: ACCESSIBILITY 06 The Essence of Danske Bank 30 Accessibility for everyone 08 Our role in society 32 Making money transfer easy and secure 10 Strategic direction 34 Compliance overview and 2015 key Core business performance indicators We integrate corporate responsibility in our core 35 Assurance statement business in five focus areas: CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY 12 Creating long-term value 14 We welcome dialogue with all stakeholders RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS 16 The best possible advice RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER 20 Fostering an engaging and diverse workplace ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 22 Towards a low-carbon economy RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS 24 Revitalising responsible procurement 04 Corporate Responsibility 2015 At the forefront of the transformation Corporate Responsibility 2015 05 The societies, markets and economies we are part of are all changing. We want to be at the forefront of the transformation by constantly challenging ourselves and running a sound and proﬁtable business based on strong core values. As a leading financial institution in the Nordic countries, Danske Bank plays an important role in ensuring financial stability and contributing to the prosperity of our customers and the communities we are part of. We do this by providing capital for investments, absorbing risks, innovating the financial infrastructure, and helping people and businesses realise their ambitions. While our fundamental role is the same today as it has always been, and access to financial services the societies and markets where among our customers and in sociwe operate are changing rapidly, ety as a whole. and banking must adapt to them. Driven by powerful forces such As CEO and chairman of the as digitalisation and shifting Business Integrity Board, it is imcustomer expectations, the finanportant to me that we execute our cial sector is undergoing radical Corporate Responsibility Strategy changes. We want to be at the throughout the organisation. We forefront of this transformation. maintain our commitment to the We want to constantly challenge ten principles in the UN Global ourselves and our competitors to Compact, which provides a frameimprove our products and servwork for our responsibility efforts. ices and to provide the best possible experience for customers. To play an important role in the lives of our customers and the We can do that only if we are communities we are part of is a trusted, and we are on a journey huge privilege. It also comes with to rebuild the trust that was lost an equally large responsibility during the financial crisis and the that we are fully committed to following years. We have taken honouring. We made progress on firm steps in the right direction, our path to becoming the most but there is more work to be done. trusted financial partner in 2015, and the journey will continue in Bringing responsibility to the 2016 as we maintain our ambicore of our business tion of running a sound business In 2015, we updated our Corpothat creates long-term value for rate Responsibility Strategy. In the all stakeholders for many years to next three years, we will integrate come. corporate responsibility further in our core activities. We want to ensure that we conduct our business in a responsible manner and that we use our expertise Thomas F. Borgen to increase financial confidence Chief Executive Officer 06 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Our business and CR Strategy The Essence of Danske Bank Danske Bank Group is a Nordic universal bank with a history that goes back more than 140 years. We serve some 3.5 million personal customers, businesses and institutions, and we are driven by an ambition to create long-term value for all our stakeholders. Our Essence is the foundation on which we develop our business, execute our strategies and build relationships. The Essence of Danske Bank Vision To be recognised as the most trusted financial partner Strategic core We are a modern bank for people and businesses across the Nordics with deep financial competence and leading, innovative solutions Customer promise We help customers be financially confident and achieve their ambitions by making daily banking and important financial decisions easy Core values Expertise, Integrity, Value creation, Agility, Collaboration Serving our customers through ﬁve main business units... We serve customers in five main Business Banking serves small Wealth Management serves the business units: Personal Banking, and medium-sized businesses Group’s entire customer base and Business Banking, Corporates & through a large network of national encompasses expertise within Institutions, Wealth Management finance centres, branches, contact pension savings, private banking, and Northern Ireland. We also centres and online channels. The and wealth and asset manageoffer mortgage finance through unit offers leading solutions within ment. The unit includes Danica Realkredit Danmark, real estate financing, investing, cash managePension, Danske Capital and brokerage through ”home”, and ment and risk management. Private Banking customers with leasing through Nordania Leasing. complex finances and will begin 2,943 employees operating from 1 April 2016. Total income DKK 12.5 billion Profit before tax DKK 6.3 billion Personal Banking serves personal Corporates & Institutions serves Northern Ireland serves personal and private banking customers. large Nordic corporate and instiand business customers through The unit focuses on providing protutional customers in the Nordic a network of branches in Northactive advice to customers and countries and beyond. This wholeern Ireland and leading digital making day-to-day banking simple sale division of the Bank provides channels. Since 1 January 2016, and effi cient through innovative strategic advice, financial solutions Northern Ireland has operated as digital solutions. and products within Capital Mara separate business unit. kets; Fixed Income, Currencies and Commodities; and Transaction Banking. 6,491 employees 1,832 employees Total income DKK 15.9 billion Total income DKK 9.9 billion Profit before tax DKK 1.8 billion Profit before tax DKK 5.4 billion Our business and CR Strategy Corporate Responsibility 2015 07 We operate in 15 countries, and our core markets are Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland. In these countries, we serve all types of customer, from personal customers and businesses to large institutional clients. We also operate in Northern Ireland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. We have additional offices in several other European countries, where our main offerings are solutions for Nordic and local businesses as well as private banking clients. We also have offices in the US and Russia and support functions in India. DKK 44.2 billion Total income in 2015 Norway DKK 17.8 billion Finland Profit before tax in 2015 11.6% Sweden Return on equity before goodwill impairments in 2015 3.5 million Customers* Denmark 19,049 Full-time employees, end-2015 * In Personal Banking, Business Banking and Corporates & Institutions, end-2015. ... and multiple channels in 2015** 300 10 million BRANCHES CALLS TO OUR 24/7 TELEPHONE SERVICE 17.7 million 43 million SELF-SERVICE eBANKING TRANSACTIONS ATM TRANSACTIONS 10.8 million 80 million SELF-SERVICE MOBILE MOBILEPAY & TABLET BANKING TRANSACTIONS TRANSACTIONS ** Calls and transactions are from 2015; the number of branches is from the end of 2015. More insights You can find more details on our financial performance, market positions, business model and corporate governance in Annual Report 2015, Corporate Governance Report 2015 and our quarterly financial fact books. 08 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Our business and CR Strategy Our role in society Financial institutions play a key role in maintaining ﬁnancial stability and contributing to economic growth. It is our responsibility to conduct our business in a manner that deserves the trust of society and creates long-term value for all our stakeholders. Our business and CR Strategy Corporate Responsibility 2015 09 Our international commitments We recognise the importance of supporting international commitments that assist businesses in operating We want to be recognised as ture and making banking easy and responsibly. The initiatives that the a trusted financial partner that secure. Group endorses include the following: acts in accordance with our core values while creating long-term We will conduct our business in • UN Global Compact value for all stakeholders. We supa responsible and transparent port financial stability by running manner, engage our stakehold• OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises a sound and profitable business ers in a dialogue, and make our in which we reallocate capital expertise available for the benefit • UN Guiding Principles on Business from savers to borrowers, thus of the societies where we operate. and Human Rights enabling businesses and families We have a formal governance to make investments and thrive. framework, and we coordinate • UN-supported Principles for We also play an important role by corporate responsibility initiatives Responsible Investment innovating the financial infrastructhroughout the business. • UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative Governing corporate responsibility CEO Thomas F. Borgen chairs the Integrity Board approved the Corporate Responsibility Strategy Business Integrity Board, which updated Corporate Responsibility in April 2015 and Corporate consists of Executive Board memStrategy, implementation plans Responsibility Policy in late 2015. bers and heads of the Group’s across the organisation, and a business units and support new Responsible Investment The Corporate Responsibility functions. The board plays an imStrategy. department coordinates the portant role by making recommenimplementation of the Corporate dations to the Executive Board on The Board of Directors receives Responsibility Strategy and busistrategic directions and policies annual updates on our corporate ness integration throughout the and by overseeing the implemenresponsibility performance and organisation. The department also tation of corporate responsibility activities and has final policy prepares progress reports and decisions. In 2015, the Business ownership. It approved our updated implements selected initiatives. Board of Directors Decision making Executive Board Business Integrity Board Implementation Business units and support functions 10 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Our business and CR Strategy Jeanette Fangel Løgstrup Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Group Marketing & Communications Strategic direction Our updated Corporate Responsibility Strategy for the period 2015 to 2018 focuses on integrating corporate responsibility further in our core business. We also want to engage with stakeholders more closely and use our expertise and competencies to address challenges in the societies where we operate. We have a clear ambition to partnerships to stimulate innovaperspective when we give advice integrate corporate responsibility tion and progress.” and offer services.” in our core business. That applies to the products and services we Corporate responsibility in our Making a difference for society deliver, the customer experience core business We also believe that we have a we create, and the way we conWe will continue the work of responsibility to use our expertise duct our business. In 2015, we integrating corporate responsiand competencies for the benefit updated our Corporate Responsibility in our core business. We of society. We have identified two bility Strategy to ensure that we have defined five areas for this strategic themes in areas where have a clear strategic direction effort: contributing to society, we can add value: financial confor achieving that ambition. fostering responsible customer fidence, which is about enabling relationships, being a responsible people to make sound financial Involving stakeholders employer, reducing our environdecisions, and accessibility, which As part of the process of updating mental footprint, and ensuring is about a responsible transition the strategy, we collected input responsible supplier relationships. to future financial services. On from various stakeholders for For Jeanette Fangel Løgstrup, the basis of the strategy, the next our analysis. For Jeanette Fangel these objectives are fundamental steps are clear: “We are already Løgstrup, Senior Executive Vice to how we conduct our business: developing corporate responsibiliPresident and Head of Group “It’s about living our values, always ty programmes in child and youth Marketing & Communications, the acting with integrity, and taking education and to support SMEs, strategy reflects the way we want into consideration how our decifor example,” says Jeanette Fangel to engage with stakeholders: “We sions and activities can affect soLøgstrup. “We are also looking at strive to take stakeholder input ciety and customers. Customers how we can measure the societal into account when we develop our should feel confident that we take impact of our initiatives.” business, and we participate in proper care and have a long-term Our business and CR Strategy Corporate Responsibility 2015 11 Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2015-18 Foundation The Essence of Danske Bank Our vision, strategic core, customer promise and core values Contributing to Our role financial stability and economic growth Strategic Financial confidence Accessibility themes Responsible Responsible CR in core Contributing Responsible Environmental customer supplier business to society employer footprint relationships relationships Corporate responsibility governance, policies and reporting Listening to stakeholders while updating the strategy As part of the process of updating the An analysis of the surveys indicated economic growth and a special role Corporate Responsibility Strategy, that helping entrepreneurs is high on in Denmark because of our history we consulted a number of stakeholdour business customers’ agenda and and size. The strategy is flexible so ers, including customers. We used that the education of children and that it can accommodate the needs surveys, interviews and workshops, young people is central for our employof the various business units and asking customers and employees ees. IT security is important for both local markets, and it will be implewhat they expect from Danske Bank in personal and business customers, and mented throughout the Group. For terms of corporate responsibility. We equal access to financial services is example, in order to meet its stakealso analysed market trends, regulatocrucial for personal customers. holders’ expectations, Danica Pension ry requirements, and business needs has added health as a third strategic and opportunities. Danske Bank has an important role in theme. contributing to financial stability and Extract of stakeholder expectations and market trends Personal Banking Business Banking Employees Market trends • Financial stability • Financial stability • Equal opportunities for • Less customer loyalty • Equal access to products • High IT security all employees and trust in the financial and services • Economic growth • Healthy working environsystem • High IT security • Development of digital ment • Increasing demands on • Reduction of enviromental solutions • Financial stability corporate responsibility impact (resources and • Support for entrepreneurs • Education of children and transparency waste) • Equal access to products and youth • Integration of corporate • Economic growth and services • Limiting own CO2 responsibility in core • Prevention of economic emissions business crime • High IT security Source: Danske Bank customer and employee serveys and market research in December 2014. 12 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Core business CORE BUSINESS: CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY Creating long-term value We play a vital role in creating growth and prosperity by providing capital for investments, by absorbing risks, by helping customers achieve their ambitions and by innovating the ﬁnancial infrastructure. For that reason, we take a broad view on value creation. VALUE CREATION Banking customers Asset management Suppliers DKK 1,609 billion DKK 714 billion DKK 8.8 billion Loans issued for banking Assets under management at Payments for products and customers in 2015. Danske Capital at the end of 2015, services delivered by our including assets managed on behalf 13,000 suppliers in 2015. Loans to Personal Banking customers of mutual funds, households, penrepresent 50% of all loans and loans sion funds and NGOs. Most of our suppliers are in the to Business Banking customers 41%. IT and banking, premises and facilities management, and professional services fields. Shareholders DKK 10.5 billion Employees Distributed in 2015 to our 279,000 shareholders, including a DKK 5 billion share buy-back. This represents a total yield of 6.3%. DKK 13.9 billion Salaries, bonuses and social security 47% of our shareholders are costs paid in 2015 for our 19,000 based in Denmark, 16% in the UK, employees in the 15 countries where and 18% in the US and Canada. we operate. At the end of 2015, some 51% of our employees were women and 49% were men. Did you know that in 2015... • Moody’s raised our long-term credit rating to A2, and Standards & Poor’s changed its outlook for our A rating to Stable • We scored 75 on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (scale of 0-100) • We made 32 donations totalling DKK 1.2 million through the Danske Bank Fund • Our employees spent more than 15,000 hours on corporate volunteering Core business Corporate Responsibility 2015 13 CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY Policy commitment We want to contribute to growth and prosperity through the services we deliver and by innovating the financial infrastructure. We are committed to conducting our business in T5 T4 a responsible and transparent manner and to making our T3 T2 expertise available for the benefit of the societies in which we operate, for example through education, corporate volunteerT1 ing and supporting growth initiatives.* C1 B1 B2 Tax authorities B3 Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 Create value for all our stakeholders DKK 4.6 billion Contribute to financial stability Contribute to economic growth Tax on the profit for 2015 in the Transparent tax payments 15 countries where we operate. Transparency, contributing to communities and stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Performance target 2015 2015 Transparency on tax 9.5% ROE 11.6% ROE Create value for all our We created value for all our The Group’s policy is to maintain a responsible stakeholders, including a stakeholders,** including approach to tax by complying with applicable tax return on equity above an 11.6% return on equity regulations, having an open dialogue with the rele12.5% by 2018 at before goodwill impairments vant tax authorities, and paying taxes as required the latest in 2015 by law in the countries where we operate. Key actions 2015 Contributed to economic growth and financial stability Corporate volunteering and donations through our services and innovation of the financial Our employees have participated in corporate volinfrastructure unteering and donations in various ways for many Updated Stakeholder Engagement Policy and Strategy and engaged in dialogue with a number of stakeholders years. One example is the debt counselling proEngaged in dialogue with tax authorities and other gramme arranged by the Danish Bankers Associarelevant organisations and transparent tax reporting tion. The programme, which began in 2008, helps Updated the Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Group people with debt problems manage their finances. Responsibility Policy Some 27 employees took part in 2015. Read more Engaged in activities and partnerships to support our about our corporate volunteering activities on communities in the areas of financial confidence and page 21. accessibility In Estonia, we fund the Educational Awards of the President of the Republic’s Cultural Foundation, Outlook for 2016 which are given to people who have achieved excepContinue implementation of the Corporate Responsibility tional results in education. Strategy and Stakeholder Engagement Strategy Further development of corporate responsibility programmes in financial confidence and accessibility Another example is the Christmas donations that Continue dialogue with tax authorities and other relevant we established in the Nordic countries and Northorganisations and transparent tax reporting ern Ireland in 2015. In Denmark and Northern Develop monitoring and reporting on stakeholder Ireland, employees voted on the charity that would engagement receive the annual donation. Employees in Denmark Develop process for aligning donations with corporate selected the Danish Hospital Clowns, who visit chilresponsibility areas and monitoring corporate dren’s departments at hospitals spreading cheer at volunteering times of difficulty. * From Danske Bank’s Responsibility Policy. Other policies supporting this strategic area include our Stakeholder Engagement Policy. ** See page 12. 14 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Core business CORE BUSINESS: CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY We welcome dialogue with all stakeholders We have a wide range of stakeholders who are important In 2015, we updated our Stakeholder Engagement Policy to our success. We welcome dialogue with all stakeholdand principles to clarify our aspirations in this area. ers, whatever their views, and we want to engage with Although we are still in the process of developing our rethem in a constructive manner and from a long-term porting on stakeholder engagement, we can summarise perspective. the various ways in which we engage with stakeholders. Our principles for engagement build on our core values Expertise We want to share our knowledge and expertise with our stakeholders. Integrity We act and operate with transparency and integrity. Value creation We want to create value for all our stakeholders and to form long-term partnerships of mutual value. Agility & accessibility We make ourselves available for dialogue and respond to input and feedback in a timely and agile manner. Collaboration We believe in collaboration and base our engagement on genuine dialogue – we engage, listen and act. A snapshot of stakeholder engagement in 2015 Employees and their representatives Our employees and their skills, expertise and dedication are our greatest assets. Management is committed to maintaining a good, honest and collaborative dialogue with employees and their representatives. Examples: Our Employee Opinion Survey, on which we had an overall index score of 76 in 2015, and our whistleblower system. A small number of whistleblower reports were received, and they were all reviewed and settled by Group Compliance. Customers We strive to be accessible and to act from a long-term perspective for our customers’ benefit in a transparent manner. Example: Any dissatisfied customer is one too many. If a customer takes the time to file a complaint, we treat the complaint as a valuable source of insight into areas in which we can improve. Core business Corporate Responsibility 2015 15 Investors We want to inform investors, analysts and shareholders openly and adequately about Danske Bank Group. Example: In 2015, we conducted more than 20 road shows across Europe and the US. The media, interest groups, local communities and the general public We want to use and share our expertise and knowledge proactively in a manner that creates real value, and we always strive to make relevant experts available. Examples: Participation in numerous conferences and meetings on the future of banking, cyber security and digitalisation as well as participation in the People’s Political Festival in Denmark and Almedalsveckan in Sweden. Local, national and international regulators and legislators We want to be a trustworthy partner that provides reliable information about Danske Bank, the financial sector and the economy in general. Dialogue on fair ﬁnancing Example: Dialogue with Danish Every year, Fair Finance Guide, an organisation that legislators and other public officials is supported by a number of NGOs, publishes severon revitalising rural areas. al analyses of banks’ positions on integrating social, environmental and human rights standards in their investment practices. In 2015, we held an ongoing dialogue with the organisation in Sweden regarding our responsible investment practices. Feedback from Fair Finance Guide prompted us to look more closely at our communications on responsible investments and ways in which we can improve them. This contributed to our new Responsible Investment Strategy, with a stronger emphasis on active ownership and communication activities. Invitation to dialogue: Danske Bank Business partners, suppliers and market participants – now and in the future We want to establish lasting professional relationships In 2015, Thomas F. Borgen, CEO, and Thomas based on innovation with our business partners and Mitchell, Head of Personal Banking Denmark, went suppliers. on a road trip across Denmark, hosting five diaExample: The development of the Hub in collaboration with logues with more than 1,700 customers and others. Rainmaking, an experienced player in the startup community, At the meetings, the two executives shared their to support growth businesses. The Hub is currently a views on where the bank has been and, more imporrecruitment platform, and in 2016 it will offer fundraising tantly, where it is going. The meetings gave them the and best-practices tools as well. opportunity to answer some tough questions from the audience, for instance on fees and responsible investments, and also allowed us to gather much inMore insights formation that will help us live up to our customers’ You can find more details on our financial performance and local communities’ expectations. and tax disclosures in Annual Report 2015 and our quarterly financial fact books. 16 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Core business CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS The best possible advice Lending money to individuals and businesses is a fundamental activity for banks. To an increasing degree, banks are expected to share accountability for customers’ use of the funds. That is why we integrate responsibility parameters in our investing and lending practices and offer proactive advice. Many customers rely on us when transparent and easy to underreturns and generating value over they invest their savings and penstand – an effort that earned us the long term. sions or when they buy a home. It recognition as Bank of the Year for is fundamental to our relationship personal customers in Sweden. In 2015, we developed a new with customers that they can deWe also continued our focus on strategy for responsible investing pend on our integrity and that the improving the customer experithat encourages better manageadvice they receive is customised ence and delivering the best posment of environmental, social and for them and in their best interest. sible advice to our customers. governance (ESG) risks. Screening For example, we are required to and company exclusion remain the advise customers on tax matters Increased commitment to foundation of our responsible inas stipulated in the Danish Execuresponsible investing vesting process, but we increased tive Order on Good Business When we invest on behalf of our our commitment to engaging with Practice for Financial Institutions, customers, we take our customcompanies that may be in violaand if individual tax issues are ers’ risk tolerance into account tion of international principles of complex, we refer customers to an and we make a clear promise to corporate responsibility. accountant or lawyer. attain the best possible returns in a responsible way. We believe that Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning, In 2015, we continued our focus the ability to manage both financial a Swedish customer of ours, on simplifying our products and and non-financial risks is the key evaluates ESG procedures when services, making them more to achieving the best risk-adjusted selecting its asset managers: Core business Corporate Responsibility 2015 17 T5 T4 T3 RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER T2 T1 C1 RELATIONSHIPS B1 “When we work with Danske Capital, it is our B2 B3 clear expectation that they constantly strive to improve their efforts both as active owners and Policy commitment by incorporating ESG factors in their investment We want to build responsible customer relationships through advice decisions,” says Sofia Aulin, Head of Responsible with a high level of integrity, easy access to financial products and Investments at Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning. services, responsible investment and lending practices, and high information security. We integrate environmental, social and governance considerations In 2014, we arranged for Sustainalytics, a Dutch in our investment practices, and will, when necessary, act as active company, to deliver ESG research at the compaowners. In addition, we invest with respect for international princiny level, and in 2015 we started to integrate the ples for human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corresearch in our investment practices. We prefer ruption, and we strive to mitigate the potential adverse impact of our to address systemic risk and societal concerns investment practices. such as climate change by participating in invesWe want to ensure that loans and credit facilities are granted on the basis of a professional credit assessment, making sure our tor coalitions and other joint initiatives. customers fully understand the implications of taking out loans. In collaboration with our customers, we include environmental, social In 2015, we demonstrated our commitment to and governance aspects in our lending activities.* active ownership by taking part in almost 200 annual general meetings, primarily of Nordic and other European companies where we have Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 a significant ownership share and influence. The Provide responsible customer advice Prevent financial exclusion by offering access to financial prodinstances in which we voted against or refrained ucts and services from supporting company management proposals Improve the customer experience concerned mainly the issuance of new debt, the Offer responsible investment opportunities for customers remuneration of directors and board composition. Integrate responsible lending principles in credit practices Build customer trust through reliable IT security We are signatories to the UN-backed Principles for Responsible Investment and local social investment forums. Customer satisfaction target Performance 2015** Number 1 or 2 Personal Banking On target in 1 of 5 Responsible lending in our focus segments in all our countries For private individuals, we grant loans and other countries for Personal Banking Business Banking facilities on the basis of a professional credit and Business Banking. Top three On target in 3 of 5 in two-thirds of all relevant surassessment of the customer’s needs and ficountries veys for Corporates & Institutions nancial situation. It is in the interest of both the Corporate & Institutions Group and the customer that credit facilities are Fully on target granted only when the customer understands the associated obligations and risks. For business Key actions 2015 customers, we not only assess the customer’s Launched new initiatives to improve 24/7 availability of needs and repayment ability but also consider products and services, including new website for personal the purpose for which the funds will be used and customers that facilitates dialogue Launched innovative digital solution that enables corporate cusassess possible environmental, social and ethical tomers to improve their liquidity and risk management (ESE) risks. Launched a new digital procedure for onboarding customers, reducing processing to 36 hours In 2014, we incorporated ESE principles in the Continued customer-focused training programmes Group’s general Credit Policy, and all business Increased simplicity and transparency in products and services customers are expected to adhere to these princiDeveloped new Responsible Investment Strategy Evaluated need for industry-specific position statements on ples. For Danske Bank, responsible lending means responsible investing and lending ensuring that customers are offered credit servIncreased communications to customers on IT security ices matching their financial needs and capacity, that they understand their financial obligations now and in the future, and that they follow ESE Outlook for 2016 principles in their own business activities as Continue to simplify products and services well. If we see that a customer is not in compliContinue customer-focused training programmes ance with the Credit Policy, we seek a solution in Conduct human rights risk assessment in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights collaboration with the customer. If the only option Implement Responsible Investment Strategy, including available is terminating the credit relationship, we increasing active ownership activities do it in a controlled process. For us, responsible Develop position statements on responsible investing and lending lending means ensuring a good customer expeImplement action plan to expand communications and education rience and a long-lasting financial partnership on IT security based on mutual understanding and trust. * From Danske Bank’s Responsibility Policy. ** For more detailed information, see Annual Report 2015. 18 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Core business CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Armed with good habits against cyber crime As we digitalise our business, So far, our efforts to promote good about how to prevent hacking and our responsibility for educating online behaviour and inform peoavoiding the typical traps. customers, employees and ple about IT security include an consumers in general about IT eLearning module for employees We also use social media to issue security becomes clearer. For our and information on our website warnings about new cyber crime stakeholders and others, greater about all security issues, from threats. We offer business cusawareness reduces the risk of enabling firewalls and identifying tomers individual advice on IT sebecoming victims of IT security phishing e-mail to the safe use of curity, and we also see a growing threats and helps them to deal social media and online shopping. interest in this area from personal with an incident promptly. Cuscustomers who want more direct tomers and employees who exhibit In 2015, we also distributed a help and support. secure online behaviour protect newsletter to more than 10,000 not only themselves but also our SME customers and non-custombusiness. ers informing amongst others More insights Read about our initiatives to build financial confidence and ensure accessibility for everyone on pages 26-33. Read more about our customer satisfaction performance in Annual Report 2015. Core business Corporate Responsibility 2015 19 Preventing money laundering A key element in establishing Advising about green bonds and maintaining customer relationships and providing the best possible advice We have seen a strong investor demand for green, social and sustainability is knowing our customers. bonds in Sweden. To strengthen our advice to customers on issuing green Knowing our customers is bonds to finance their sustainability projects, we initiated a Sustainable also important in preventing Products function in 2015: “We offer customers hands-on support in setmoney laundering and the ting up their platform to issue sustainable bonds,” says Lars Mac Key, Head financing of terrorism. We of Sustainable Products at Danske Bank Markets. “We also offer to carry must prevent criminals and the costs related to obtaining a second opinion from an independent exterterrorists from using our nal party on the relevance of the platform and whether it is aligned with the products and services for company’s strategies.” illicit fund flows, and to do so, we keep abreast of the regulations and frequent developments in the area and work continually to improve Credit policy for arms and our safeguards. defence industry We are implementing measures to prevent money laundering and the financing In 2014, we adopted a credit policy weapons. Moreover, we consider the of terrorism. Our Policy on for the arms and defence industry use of nuclear weapons a violation Anti–Money Laundering and that reflects our commitment to of human rights, and we therefore Countering Terrorist Financinternational conventions on controdo not finance the production of ing includes procedures versial weapons. We recognise that nuclear warheads, missiles carryfor customer due diligence, special factors must be considered ing nuclear warheads, or activities reporting, recordkeeping, when we deal with customers that directly associated with them. In internal controls and risk operate in this industry. Specifi2015, we communicated this policy management. In 2014, we cally, we do not support or finance to all relevant employees, updated installed a blocking system controversial weapons such as our procedures so that they are that improved the verification anti-personnel mines, cluster mualigned with the policy, and checked of customer identity and risk nitions, and biological and chemical compliance with the policy regularly. management. In 2015, we continued to allocate more resources to Did you know that in 2015... the area, and we reorganised the Compliance organisation • As part of the Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change, we urged to make the governance of political decision makers to make a commitment in the run-up to COP 21 • We joined the Paris Pledge for Action, committing ourselves to taking these activities more effecconcrete steps to limit an increase in temperature to two degrees Celsius tive. We also aligned require• We were ranked number one in the Nordics by corporate customers in 2015, ments across business units according to Prospera, the independent customer satisfaction benchmarking and market areas. company 20 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Core business Henriette Fenger Ellekrog, Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Group Human Resources CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Fostering an engaging and diverse workplace Businesses play an imThe skills, expertise and dedicadigital banking, the role and value tion of our more than 19,000 of our employees and culture beportant role in ensuring employees are our greatest come even more evident. To stay the future employabiliassets. It is the employees who competitive, we need to be able ty of their staff as well create value for our customers. to continue to attract and retain as promoting diversity Our core values lay the foundation competent, committed employees for how we train and develop our globally and nurture a culture of in the workforce. That employees, foster a culture of collaboration, agility and empowis why we develop our diversity, and maintain a safe and erment. We also need a diverse employees’ skills and healthy working environment. workforce. support diversity and To Henriette Fenger Ellekrog, Sen“The changing needs for skills inclusion initiatives ior Executive Vice President and calls for more attention to diwhile providing employHead of Group Human Resources, versity,” says Henriette Fenger ees a safe and healthy the task is clear: “Fostering an Ellekrog. “It is not enough to look engaging workplace and culture is at gender equality and women workplace. essential if we are to deliver the in management positions. We customer experience and busineed a workforce with a variety of ness results we are aiming for. backgrounds that mirrors society We draw upon our core values in and our customers. Diversity of our efforts to do this – from annuopinion, thinking, personality and al performance reviews to training education will also be important and development and the way we for us. Having said that, we still engage employees. For example, need to give attention to gender at Did you know that in 2015... in a pilot project in Corporates & all management levels to achieve • We onboarded 2,742 new Institutions, we conducted a 360 our 2017 targets. full-time employees degree performance review based • Some 16% of employees are on the core values. We also intro”In 2016, we will continue our below the age of 30, and 5% duced a new leadership model and initiatives to address the root cauare above the age of 60 leadership training to support our ses of imbalances in the financial • Some 26% of our employees aims.” sector, including expanding initiahave been with us for more tives to take gender into account than 20 years Increased attention to diversity in recruitment and succession In our transition to widespread planning.” Core business Corporate Responsibility 2015 21 RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER An inclusive workforce Policy commitment We want to be a responsible employer through our core values, focus on training and development, embracing diversity and Having a diverse and inclusive workforce is essena global culture, and by sustaining a healthy and safe working tial in delivering the best customer experience. In environment. We want to ensure that our employees feel valued, Sweden in 2015, we ran a preliminary study entiengaged and employable, while maintaining a healthy working tled “Danske Inclusion” in order to understand the environment.* elements that go into developing an inclusive work The Danske Bank Group is committed to working towards increasing the share of the underrepresented gender (women) in culture. executive and managerial positions. The goal is to increase the number of female managers at all levels.** On the basis of the insights gained from the study, we changed our internal and external communications and trained both current and potential leaders in culAmbitions and strategy 2015-18 tural sensitivity. The initiatives have shown positive Integrate core values in people practices results, so we are planning to roll out the programme Develop a culture of continual learning for all leaders and employees in Sweden. Broaden the diversity and inclusion agenda Ensure a healthy and safe working environment Engage employees in corporate volunteering activities The ethical foundation Gender targets 2017 Performance 2015 for our business decisions 12.5% 0% women on the women on the All employees must comIn 2015, we developed Executive Board Executive Board ply with our Code of Conclear guidelines for duct and are expected to employees on giving and 25% 12.5% live our core values. The receiving gifts and regAnnual General MeetingAnnual General MeetingCode helps employees istering them. We also elected women on the elected women on the in their daily decision improved our internal Board of Directors Board of Directors making in situations communications on the that involve confidential whistleblower system, 38% 35% women in women in or inside information or and in 2016 we will management positions management positions conflicts of interest. We further strengthen our have an eLearning Code training and eLearning. of Conduct programme Key actions 2015 that all employees must Developed HR strategy plan complete every year. Embedded core values and the Essence in HR practices Engaged employees in discussions of core value dilemmas Updated the Diversity and Inclusion Policy Increased attention on female successors Developed a leadership model and conducted a leadership training pilot project Corporate volunteering Being a good corporate citizen includes giving Outlook for 2016 employees opportunities to engage in volunteer Develop and launch a leadership curriculum work. In 2015, our employees took part in a Implement learning agendas to develop a culture of number of activities. One was the music festival continual learning at Roskilde, Denmark, where Danske Bank is Increase the visibility of female executives and secondresponsible for the financial infrastructure. In level female managers 2015, some 210 employees contributed 6,720 Launch internal health activities and health week at hours. Another was Familieiværksætterne, a Danica Pension Update the Code of Conduct for employees Danish programme that helps new parents Develop a Whistleblower Policy as a supplement to prepare for family life. Danske Bank provides existing process guidance on the financial aspects of becoming a Conduct a human rights risk assessment in accordance with family with children. the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights * From Danske Bank’s Responsibility Policy. ** From Danske Bank’s Diversity and Inclusion Policy. Other policies supporting this strategic area include our HR policies and the Code of Conduct. 22 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Core business CORE BUSINESS: ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Towards a low-carbon economy The ﬁnancial sector can Climate change is fundamentally increase in our CDP score, and help to limit climate altering the risks that businesswe maintained our ranking as the es and the financial sector face second-best financial institution in change by creating a throughout the world. While the the Nordic region. ﬁnancial infrastructure physical impact of climate change that supports a lowalready affects companies, many Carbon-neutral operations companies also face even more In 2015, our total CO2 emissions carbon economy. That is acute non-physical risks, such as came to 18,836 tonnes, a 50% why we take the environshifting market trends and public decline from the level in 2014. ment and climate change policies that accelerate a global We achieved this by reducing into consideration in our transition towards a low-carbon energy consumption in buildings economy. and paper consumption and by products, services and purchasing renewable electricity. business conduct. New opportunities also arise as In 2015, our energy consumption investments in renewable energy fell 8%, primarily because of enand energy-efficient solutions can ergy-saving projects and branch reconcile financial returns with closures. In addition, our paper environmentally sound behaviour. consumption fell 7%, owing mainly Did you know that in 2015... to the digitalisation of documents. • We reduced our energy consumpIn order to minimise our CO2 tion per employee by 6% emissions and manage our enviThe 18,836 tonnes of emissions • We reduced our paper consumpronmental impact as effectively we could not eliminate, we offset tion by 7% as possible, we have implemented by investing in carbon credit proj• We switched to 100% renewable an environmental management ects in India, Turkey, Lithuania and electricity system that adheres to the ISO Uganda. All the projects guarantee • We received the second-best 14001 standard. This enables a reduction of CO2 emissions. score among Nordic financial us to improve our environmental Besides reducing CO2 emissions, institutions in the Carbon performance on an ongoing basis. the projects promote sustainable Disclosure Project • We installed 10 solar panels in Danske Bank is involved in the UN development in the local comNorthern Ireland Environment Programme Finance munities. The investments are • We invested in 28 new TeleInitiative and is a signatory to the managed by a carbon asset manPresence facilities, bringing the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). agement company and are verified Group’s total to 110 In 2015, our efforts on climate isaccording to international stansues were rewarded with another dards such as the Gold Standard. More insights You can find more information about our environmental performance in Corporate Responsibility Fact Book 2015. Read about how we advise customers about green bonds on page 16 and how we integrate environmental requirements in our procurement practices on page 24. Core business Corporate Responsibility 2015 23 The largest private owner of solar cell parks in Denmark ENVIRONMENTAL In 2015, Danica Pension invested DKK 35 million in FOOTPRINT energy efficiency, and in the period until 2020, we will invest a total of DKK 200 million. The objective is a 30% reduction of energy consumption in our property portfolio, which covers about 1.7 million square meters Policy commitment We want to achieve a strong environmental performance by of shopping centres and office buildings. Although the working systematically to limit the negative environmental energy consumption and related costs are borne by impact of our business operations. We want to minimise the the lessors, we see a competitive advantage in offering environmental impact of our operations and reduce our CO2 environmentally friendly buildings. emissions through energy and environmental management in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard, among other meaIn the same period, we will invest DKK 100 million in sures. Further, we want to integrate environmental aspects 18 large solar cell parks in Danica Pension’s propinto selected products, aiming at increasing both financial and erty portfolio. In 2015, we invested DKK 72 million. environmental performance.* This will bring a reduction of CO2 emissions by 3,200 tonnes a year – the equivalent of emissions from the annual electricity consumption of 1,400 houses. The Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 investment will make us the largest private owner of Revise the Climate Strategy solar cell parks in Denmark. Continue to develop the environmental management system Increase transparency and communication Reduce energy consumption 15% from the 2014 Green investments level (megawatts) Since December 2014, Danske Bank Group TreaClimate target 2018 Performance 2015 sury has invested DKK 1 billion in green bonds. Green bonds are issued for large renewable energy projects, 15% reduction 50% reduction 15% reduction in overall of CO2 emissions from large energy-efficiency projects, sustainable transporenergy consumption from the level in 2014 tation projects and climate protection. Green bonds the level in 2014 (tonnes of CO2) constitute a small but rapidly growing part of our total bond portfolio. We are constantly evaluating new 8% reduction opportunities to invest in green bonds. All the green of energy consumption bond projects are certified according to international from the level in 2014 standards. Green bonds are typically triple A-rated, (megawatts) making them sound as well as sustainable investments with a good return. Key actions 2015 Updated the Climate Strategy Danske Bank CDP performance Increased purchase of renewable electricity to 100% CDP is a not-for-profit organisation that rates companies on Developed energy-efficiency strategy at Danica Properties their climate change performance, including disclosure of and Established green bond portfolio at Group Treasury reporting on climate change risks and opportunities, carbon Invested in energy-efficient equipment installations across footprint, resource effiency, and development and adoption of the Group climate change strategies. 100 98 Outlook for 2016 92 80 Expand environmental management system to include our 84 operations in India 60 Engage employees in an Earth Day event to raise aware40 ness of environmental issues and promote behavioural change 20 Continue implementing energy-reducing projects and initiatives in order to reach our overall energy-reduction 0 target of 15% by 2018 2013 2014 2015 * From Danske Bank’s Responsibility Policy. Other policies that support this effort include Danske Bank’s Supplier Policy. 24 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Core business CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS Revitalising responsible procurement Responsible procurement We strive to establish lasting business relationship with the professional relationships with supplier. can promote a responsible our suppliers for the benefit of supply chain by managing both parties and ultimately of In 2015, we reviewed our social, environmental and our customers. Danske Bank’s screening process and identified a economic impacts. That Supplier Policy applies to all need to revitalise our approach in purchases of goods and services order to meet stakeholder expecis why we are revitalising throughout the Group. It contains tations and make use of new tools our approach in a more guidelines for fostering responsiavailable for responsible supply effective process to enble and transparent procurement chain management. We will develsure that suppliers compractices in our supply chain, and op an effective risk assessment specific requirements for each screening process that focuses ply with our responsibility product type are set forth in conon high-risk suppliers and constandards. tracts with individual suppliers. siders country location, impact, In 2015, we updated the environproduct category and spending. mental requirements for selected This will include aligning the products and services to ensure human rights impact assessment that they are aligned with industry with the UN Guiding Principles on best practices. Business and Human Rights and determining how we report on Did you know that in 2015... Our supplier screening process responsible procurement going • We spent a total of DKK 8.8 billion, includes a risk assessment based forward. We expect to implement including DKK 2.8 billion on IT and on the UN Global Compact printhe new process in 2016. banking, DKK 2.6 billion on preciples and other internationally mises and facilities management, recognised standards and conOver the past couple of years we and DKK 1.5 billion on professioventions on social, environmental have also reduced the number of nal services and business ethics issues. The suppliers in order to streamline • We procured more than 2.2 risk assessment ensures that we our supply chain management million credit cards establish relationships only with and strengthen the dialogue and • We had 13,601 suppliers, about 14% fewer than in 2014 suppliers that comply with our relationships with our supplier • We had around 5,000 suppliers in standards. If we identify nonbase. In 2015, Group ProcureDenmark, 4,000 in Finland, 2,000 compliance with our standards, ment carried out more than 600 in Sweden and 1,000 in each of we initiate a dialogue to clarify procurement transactions, and in Norway, the UK and Northern the circumstances. If the dialogue 2016 we expect the number to be Ireland does not lead to improvements, more than 1,000. we consider terminating the Core business Corporate Responsibility 2015 25 Raising the bar for hotels and conference venues In 2015, we developed new environmental requirements for hotel and conference venues in connection with a tender process in Denmark. We asked 115 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER conference venues how they comply with the requireRELATIONSHIPS ments, for example whether they have the official EU or Nordic ecolabels, along with questions about products and prices. Those that did not have an ecolabel were Policy commitment asked to complete a more detailed questionnaire to We want to ensure responsible supplier relationships by document their environmental performance against integrating environmental, social and ethical standards and by our requirements. We will use the responses in the focusing on impact and risk. We aim at maintaining construcevaluation of the suppliers, together with factors such tive relations based on dialogue and improvement and expect as price, quality and availability. that our suppliers adhere to the same standards.* We will also use the suppliers’ responses to evaluate the applicability of our new criteria and requirements, for example to determine whether other certifications Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 than those we have included live up to our standards. Update Supplier Policy with detailed guidelines for environmental and social responsibility Implement responsible sourcing screening process Conduct dialogue with non-compliant suppliers ISS: When environmental requirements make the difference Supplier targets 2015 Performance 2015 In 2015, ISS won our facility management contract. Begin review of current Completed review of current The ability to comply with our environmental responsible sourcing model responsible sourcing model requirements was an essential part of the evaluaand determine how to and determined how to tion. The contract with ISS includes environmental improve the process improve the process requirements for product categories such as carUpdate environmental Updated environmental pets, furniture, cleaning products and paint. ISS is requirements for suppliers requirements for suppliers committed to reducing the adverse environmental impacts of its operations. Its cleaning services are conducted in accordance with the Nordic Ecolabel, and its catering services meet our requirements for organic products and reduction of food waste. Key actions 2015 Updated environmental requirements for selected products and services For Thomas Kempf, Global Account Director at Began developing new supplier screening process ISS Facility Services, our environmental requireAligned supplier selection criteria to reflect good ments fit well with ISS’s focus on health, safety and procurement practices environment (HSE): “Our product development is driven both by our own internal aspirations and also to a large extent by our customers’ needs. When our customers also value the environment, Outlook for 2016 it benefits our HSE agenda.” Implement energy management procedures with ISS Implement environmental requirements for conference tenders in all Nordic countries Screen 80% of suppliers in the high-risk categories in tenders More insights Begin human rights risk assessment in accordance with See more details on responsible procurement on our website the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights www.danskebank.com/suppliers. * From Danske Bank’s Responsibility Policy. Other policies that support this effort include Danske Bank’s Supplier Policy. 26 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Strategic themes STRATEGIC THEMES: FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE Engaging the next generation in conversations about money Children should be encouraged to learn about personal ﬁnance at an early age. It not only beneﬁts the individual later in life – it also contributes to sound economic developments in society. That is why we support children and young people in becoming ﬁnancially conﬁdent. Our ability to make sound finanPreventing young people from various partners to promote financial decisions as adults depends entering a vicious spiral is not cial knowledge and enable young largely on our parents’ attitudes solely the responsibility of parpeople to make sound decisions towards money and finances. A ents. As a bank, we see it as an and thus achieve their goals and recent report shows that young important task for us to support dreams. And we will continue to people with debt issues have a parents in this effort. We develop develop materials that take into aclower quality of life and feel their educational materials and online count future needs and challenges, health is poor. learning games for children and such as preventing cybercrime young people. We collaborate with and fraud. ”More than 54,000 young people in Denmark are registered as bad debtors in the national credit report service.” Source: Report from Forbrugerrådet Tænk, a Danish consumer organisation, and TrygFonden, a Danish foundation, 2015. Using maths skills to control your money How much money should I save up? How do I make a budget? In 2015, we collected our educational materials in a programme based on everyday situations and decisions. The programme, which is called Smart Money, is intended for Danish primary schools. The pupils participate in games and exercises such as digital polls and a game in which they can test their knowledge about money and compete in groups. Older pupils can receive a visit from a Danske Bank financial adviser who introduces them to concepts such as income, expenses and interest and who engages them in a discussion about how to protect themselves against cyber crime and how to evaluate and prioritise financial assets. Tallerup School on the island of Funen has worked with the programme. “Smart Money is great,” says maths teacher Tue Friis. “The pupils find that what they learn in school is applicable in the real world. The adviser explained what it takes to have sound finances and warned against pitfalls. The pupils clearly got the message.” Smart Money Smart Money was developed in collaboration with the Danish Maths Association and fulfils the Danish Common Goals for maths and social sciences. Strategic themes Corporate Responsibility 2015 27 Podcast introduces children to the world of money Visit our online Farzad Farzaneh is a popular host educational universes on a children’s television show in Sweden and the founder of Sweden’s first podcast for children. In We offer free online universes where children and young people 2015, we joined forces with him can gain financial knowledge through games and exercises and and co-created a podcast called where parents can get ideas about how to talk about money and Money School, which teaches personal finance with their children. children about money in a fun way by explaining, for example, where Five to nine year-old children can 1 learn about the value of money, pocket money comes from. “I want to be an ambassador earning and saving, prioritising who introduces children to the their spending, and balancing inworld of money,” says Farzaneh. come and expenses in Moneyville. “To me, the podcast – along with Since its launch in 2008, the Monsupporting films on the platform – eyville website has had over 6.5 is a powerful tool that can bring a million users. More than 500,000 family together as they listen and people across our markets have start a conversation about the downloaded the Moneyville app. importance of money.” On the basis of positive responses from parents and teachers, Ten to 15 year-old youngsters can learn about finances by carrying out 2 next year we will develop a teaching kit with all the features missions, such as arranging and on personal finance and send it to financing a trip abroad and moving primary schools in Sweden. away from home, at the Control Your Money website. The website is designed for maths education in the classroom, and in 2015, some 558 Employees as teachers registered their classes, Youth Ambassadors who completed 5,020 missions. In 2015, we launched the SMART Partnership programme for Young people from 15 to 18 can schools in Northern Ireland. The 3 face challenging questions and programme consists of three dilemmas related to personal cross-curricular modules for finances and their own dreams in post-primary students aged 13 the Dream On game. They can invite to 16, and it is conducted by local their friends to play and share their employees who are trained as point status and dreams on FaceYouth Ambassadors. book. Since its launch in 2011, the In the three modules – BudgDream On website has had more eting & Saving, Credit & Debit than 16,000 logons. Cards, and Mortgages & Rental – the students learn such things as how to create a personal budget, how credit and debit cards Parents can find age-specific work, how interest is calculated, information about how children and 4 how to avoid accumulating debt, young people develop an underhow to plan for repayments, and standing of money and personal the pros and cons of buying verfinance at the Introducing Money sus renting property. website. With expert articles and To date, 74 schools have regtargeted advice, the site supports istered for the programme. The parents in the dialogue with their students have especially enjoyed children about money and finances. the practical exercises such as Since its launch at the end of 2014, creating a personal budget and the website has had 8,386 visits. learning how to stick to it. 28 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Strategic themes “Small and medium sized enterprises are important for their contribution to employment, innovation, economic growth and diversity” Source: Report from OECD, 2015. STRATEGIC THEMES: FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE Contributing to growth at startups and SMEs Entrepreneurs and small businesses are essential for innovation, productivity and economic growth in society. To succeed in their growth ambitions, small businesses must be well equipped to navigate in a competitive business environment. That is why we tailor our advice and solutions so that they foster ﬁnancial conﬁdence at startups and SMEs. Companies that succeed and Having financial confidence can access to financing through corposcale their businesses contribute help them focus on what matters rate bonds. to economic growth and prosmost – commercialising their perity in the societies they are business ideas and innovating Our work in 2015 encompassed part of. Our role as a bank is to their business model so that they the smallest Danish companies as stimulate investment and ecostay attuned to their customers’ well. In collaboration with partnomic growth. By absorbing risks, expectations and needs and are ners, we examined the barriers providing advice and facilitating able to meet them. to successful market entry that access to capital and financing, these businesses face. The main we help companies achieve their We work continually to develop barriers were perceived to be growth potential and ambitions. To solutions for promising mid-size knowledge sharing, recruitment support startups and established businesses. For example, in 2015, and knowledge about and access small and medium-sized entertogether with Danica Pension, ATP to venture capital. Going forward, prises (SMEs) in reaching their and PensionDanmark, we establiswe will form partnerships, parpotential, we make our expertise hed a DKK 1 billion fund to which ticularly in the digital area, to available through various initiamid-size businesses can apply co-create innovative solutions for tives and tailor it to their needs. for equity loans. We also provide these businesses. Strategic theme: Financial confidence Corporate Responsibility 2015 29 How to best position your business? What to consider when you are looking for investors? And how to keep your financial adviser calm? Keynote speakers passed on their experience and advice, and many participants also had informal chats with our corporate specialists and experts from the Danish Growth Fund, Innovation Fund Denmark and local business incubators. Motivational event for SMEs and startups hosted by our Hillerød Branch How to keep your ﬁnancial adviser calm It takes great ideas, courage and Kristian Ullum Vind participated in order dedication to create a successto get ideas from the experienced keynote speakers and also to meet like-minded ful business – whether you are entrepreneurs. He learned about financdeveloping products, entering new ing options as well: “I didn’t expect that markets or starting a new business obtaining financing from conventional banks from notes on a piece of paper. And was an option, but Danske Bank showed sometimes it requires help from that they are serious about assisting an entrepreneur like me in getting a head start others – in the form of new knowlwith their advice and service offers. That Questions from the audience edge, partnerships or capital. at the event hosted by our was news to me.” Hillerød Branch When Danske Bank’s Hillerød Branch hosted a motivational event in 2015, some 200 Danish SMEs network with peers and build new and startups attended. Leading exrelationships. perts, consultants, entrepreneurs, business angels and companies After the event, we shared video Sponsoring shared their experience about interviews with the keynote speaka gazelle event growth and business development. ers on social media platforms to The event included keynote speechprovide inspiration for a larger auFor the past 12 years, Danske es, workshops, one-on-one consultdience. We will use the experience Bank Lithuania has sponsored ing and, not least, the opportunity to to organise similar events in 2016. regional conferences in the largest cities to promote growth at SMEs as well as an annual gazelle event at which companies with the highest Join our community for scalers growth and development rates receive awards. In 2015, we launched the Hub, a The Hub will also offer advice, digital platform for startups offerdata and tools on issues unrelatIn 2015, some 1,200 SMEs ing recruitment support. In 2016 ed to banking that have not been attended the gazelle event. we will add features facilitating available to startups before. We Keynote speakers from the fundraising and giving access to co-created the content with our private sector and educationbest-practices tools. The Hub is strategic partner Rainmaking, al institutions shared their open to all businesses – regardcustomers and subject matter knowledge and experience, less of their affiliation with Danske experts, and it was tested by usand participants had the opBank. The Hub is intended for ers throughout the development portunity to expand their netSMEs with fewer than 20 employprocess. For more information, works and receive recognition ees and high growth ambitions please visit www.thehub.dk. for their business success. – so-called “scalers”. 30 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Strategic themes STRATEGIC THEMES: ACCESSIBILITY Accessibility for everyone Banking customers are becoming more accustomed to digital services and expect a seamless experience across all channels 24/7. Product needs are changing as the population is ageing and becoming more urbanised. That is why we aim to take a leading role in developing innovative products that are accessible, easy to use, and secure. Rapid technological advances, confident using digital solutions, solutions such as eBanking, online changing customer expectations computers or smartphones. So meetings, and tablet and mobile and the trend towards urbanisait is important for us to ensure a apps. These services enable custion in our markets mean that our responsible transition to future tomers to do their banking around digital reach will become more financial services and to take into the clock and let them manage baimportant than our physical reach, account the consequences of a sic banking transactions without and we are adapting our delivery more digital business model. assistance. To increase accessibilmodel to these future requireWe want all our customers to ity for everyone, we have launched ments. But while digital options have access to our services and several initiatives to customise and the number of customers products and to feel secure using our solutions for senior citizens, using them are increasing, some them. We already offer a variethe visually impaired and other customers do not use or are not ty of online and mobile banking customers with special needs. Cash cards for organisations Accessibility in rural areas How can the cash card be used in organiOne current societal issue is the situation in many rural areas, sations and businesses whose clients and where we see challenges concerning the housing market, ecomembers depend on cash? We took up this nomic development and lack of jobs. In 2015, we engaged a challenge in 2015 and worked with the range of stakeholders, including public officials, in a dialogue to Gentofte Local Authority in Denmark, among explore how we can do our part to address this problem. Our others, to find a solution. We ran a pilot proinitiatives encompass a more flexible loan policy at Realkredit ject to investigate how the cash card could be Danmark, including allowing prospective buyers with solid used to streamline cash administration and personal finances to finance the purchase of an overborrowed improve payment opportunities. For example, residential property with a mortgage loan of up to 95% of the nursing home residents can give the card assesed value. In 2016, we will continue to work on this chalto employees who shop for them instead of lenge and engage relevant stakeholders in a dialogue on how cash. The project will be evaluated in 2016. to support development in rural areas. Bridging the gap – digital banking for senior citizens For some elderly people, digital customers. We intend to continue citizens received this instruction in banking is piece of cake, but for to develop this initiative. 2015. others it is a huge challenge. In Denmark and Northern Ireland, In 2015, Nørreport Branch in In Sweden, we developed educawe invite elderly customers to Copenhagen took the initiative tional material on digital banking “Step-by-step” meetings, where of offering personal guidance to services for senior citizens. Since we guide them through all of our elderly customers who want to 2013, we have trained employees banking channels and services. get started with Easy Banking. at Sweden’s five largest senior Since 2014, we have hosted An adviser helps them carry out citizen organisations so that they 76 meetings in Denmark and small daily banking tasks at the can help their elderly clients feel 48 meetings in Northern Ireland computer, such as money transfers more confident and secure using – reaching around 5,500 elderly and bill payments. Some 25 senior digital banking solutions. Strategic themes Corporate Responsibility 2015 31 Danske Bank – accessible through many channels To increase accessibility for personal customers who need to deposit and withdraw money, we have arranged for some 200 post offices in Denmark to provide these services. We began the collaboration with Post Danmark in For customers in Denmark who are unable 1996, and in 2015, we extended To help visually impaired customto visit branches or ATMs, need someone it until 2017. ers, we have keyboards in Braille else to make payments on their behalf, or and so-called synthetic speech at have difficulty remembering a PIN, we offer many ATMs in Denmark, Sweden a cash card. It has an easily memorable PIN, and Ireland. In Denmark, we also a maximum balance of DKK 5,000, and no offer monthly account statements in overdraft facility. It can be used at all ATMs Braille and home deliveries of cash and shops that accept MasterCard. once a month. To support young people, in 2014 To accommodate customers who are we launched Youth Direct – a departnot confident with digital banking, we ment where advisers have first-hand have developed Easy Banking. It is knowledge of the financial issues young a simplified version of our eBanking customers face, such as student system in Denmark. The system has housing and study abroad. In 2015, we saw positive developments in the Innovative only three basic functions – account overview, bill payment and transfer, solutions number of customers and customer including transfers to a cash card. satisfaction. For all customers with eBanking, To keep up with customers’ diverse we offer online meetings for easy and changing lifestyles, we offer 24/7 access to advisers. Advisers telephone service so that personal can show graphics and calculacustomers can reach us whenever it tions on the screen during the suits them best. In 2015, we received meetings. In 2015, some 60,000 For some 50,000 customers with about one call per second during online meetings were held. special needs who have difficulty business hours. with digital communications, we offer correspondence by ordinary post at no extra cost. 32 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Strategic themes STRATEGIC THEMES: ACCESSIBILITY Making money transfer easy and secure A new generation of consumers is almost exclusively mobile, and they expect digital payment solutions that offer instant access and easy money transfers. For businesses, handling less cash means increased security and reduced administration. That is why we develop the ﬁnancial infrastructure with mobile payment solutions that beneﬁt both individual consumers and businesses. Did you know that in 2015... For many years, it has been text message, and it lets people • More than 2.5 million people our ambition to use digital and transfer and receive money and in Denmark used MobilePay online solutions to make banking make payments in apps as well regularly easy and readily accessible. In as in physical shops and online • Two-thirds of the users were not 1973, we were the first bank shops simply by using a smartDanske Bank customers in Denmark to create an online phone. The app is free of charge • We collaborated with UNICEF, connection to our branches, and for all private individuals and Norwegian Church Aid, Save the in 1998, we were first to launch available to anyone with a smartChildren and the Sunnaas Foundaonline banking. In 2010, we were phone. In 2014, we launched our tion in Norway to make MobilePay available for donations and the first retail bank in Denmark to first business solution – Mobilecollections offer mobile banking, and in 2013, Pay Business – and in 2015 we • More than 80 million MobilePay we launched the first mobile payadded a number of MobilePay transactions took place, with a ment solution for consumers in solutions for businesses that volume of more than DKK 20 Denmark – the MobilePay app. allow consumers to use billion MobilePay for payments to shops, • Some 55 developers worked on MobilePay exemplifies the supermarkets, local authorities, MobilePay to ensure that it conconvenience and instant access charities and webshops as well tinues to be the preferred mobile that digital solutions can offer. It as in other businesses’ apps. We payment solution makes payments to friends and also launched the app in Norway businesses as easy as sending a and Finland. Strategic themes Corporate Responsibility 2015 33 MobilePay for charity Charities use the MobilePay marketing materials – all at Business solution for door-to-door no charge. We will continue to collections and major television develop the solution to help the donation broadcasts. MobilePay organisations take advantage of gives them access to a larger fundraising opportunities. donor group because fewer people use cash today. It also makes for “Danske Bank has been attenMobile coffee fewer missed donations since tive and interested in learning donations can be made whenever how they can provide us with an In our experience, MobilePay it suits the donor. In 2015, some even better product,” says Mette is a desirable alternative to 257 charitable organisations in Grovermann, Head of Secretarcash particularly for small Denmark used MobilePay to coliat at ISOBRO. “As a members companies because it is an lect more than DKK 30 million. organisation, we collaborate with easy and secure payment various partners on how we can method that saves the busiTo address the needs of charity improve conditions for our memnesses time counting cash organisations, in 2015 we began bers, including minimising their exand depositing it at the bank. a collaboration with ISOBRO, penses and improving fundraising the Danish Fundraising Assoopportunities. MobilePay is a good Kalles Kaffe, which is one ciation, that will allow so-called example of that collaboration.” of the largest suppliers of “paragraph 8A–approved ormobile barista services ganisations” to use MobilePay We are continuing our collaborain Denmark, was among free of charge for donations and tion by investigating how we can the small businesses that collections in 2016. This includes help these organisations report initially tested our MobilePay transactions and subscriptions, donations to the tax authorities solution. The business has a training in using MobilePay for more easily and assist donors in team of 75 baristas and 25 fundraisers and collectors, and getting their tax deductions. mobile units touring Denmark to serve coffee at events, at companies and to people on the go. More than 70% of its customers pay with MobileSupporting the peace agenda Pay: “At many of the places where we sell our coffee, we In 2015, we joined the Peace their records, one in five people in see that people do not have Table campaign, launched by the world lives under the threat of cash or cards,” says CEO Crisis Management Initiative war, and nearly 60 million people Jacob Karlsen – also known (CMI), an independent Finnish have been forced to flee their as “Kalle”. “But they always peace broker, to raise awareness homes because of conflicts and have their smartphone with about conflict resolution. We see persecution. them. MobilePay makes our an ongoing need for independent Besides supporting the initijob easier and saves time conflict resolution experts like ative and offering MobilePay for for us and our customers as CMI, which prevents and resolves donations, we promoted the camthey pay while we make their conflicts by building trust between paign on our digital channels and coffee.” the opposed parties. According to invited customers to CMI’s events. Opt out of paper receipts and save CO2 emissions In 2015, we launched MobilePay Receipt, which allows users to opt not to receive a paper receipt when they pay with MobilePay in shops in Denmark. Instead, MobilePay stores the receipt electronically and thus saves paper. Dansk Supermarked Group, one of the largest retail chains in Denmark, among others, offers payments with MobilePay, and calculations show that if just 10% of its customers opt not to receive paper receipts, it will save around 30 tonnes of CO2 – the equivalent of emissions from six flights around the world. 34 Corporate Responsibility 2015 Compliance overview Corporate responsibility in core business Contributing to Responsible Responsible Environmental Responsible society customer employer footprint supplier relationships relationships Voluntary commitments and legal requirements Pages 12-15 Pages 16-19 Pages 20-21 Pages 22-23 Pages 24-25 UN Global Compact Human rights: Principles 1-2 X X X X Labour: Principles 3-6 X X X Environment: Principles 7-9 X X X Anti-corruption: Principle 10 X X X X Danish Executive Order on Financial Reports for Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, etc. Corporate responsibility, including human rights and climate: Section 135 X X X X X Gender distribution at management level: Subsection 135a X 2015 key performance indicators 2015 2014 2013 Business operations (DKK millions)* Total income 44,201 44,000 39,740 Operating expenses 21,827 22,641 23,794 Profit before tax 17,762 7,969 10,059 Financial services employer tax and social security costs 1,520 1,529 1,526 VAT 933 1,184 1,124 Tax 4,639 4,020 2,944 Net profit for the year 13,123 3,948*** 7,115 Net profit for the year before goodwill impairment charges 17,724 13,047*** 7,115 Return on avg. shareholders’ equity (%)** 8.5 2.5 5.0 Return on avg. shareholders’ equity before goodwill impairment charges (%)** 11.6 8.6 5.0 Employees Number of full-time employees (FTE), end of year* 19,049 18,603**** 19,122 Percentage of women in workforce (%) 51 54 54 Percentage of women in management (%) 35 36 36 Employee turnover (%) 11 9 9 Average years of service 14 15 15 Employee satisfaction and motivation (scale of 0-100) 76 76 74 Absence due to illness (avg. number of illness days per employee) 6 6 7.5 No. of injuries or incidents of post-traumatic stress related to robberies 93 73 67 Opportunities for professional and personal development as perceived by employees (scale of 0-100) 76 76 75 Environment CO2 emissions (tonnes)† 18,836 37,807 39,168 CO2 emissions per employee (tonnes/FTE) 1.0 2.0 2.0 Energy consumption (electricity and heat) (MWh)†† 111,708 121,126 139,373 Energy consumption per employee (MWh/FTE) 6.3 6.7 7.2 Electricity consumption (MWh) 57,166 61,355 69,568 Heat consumption (MWh) 54,542 59,861 69,805 Road transport (company vehicles and employees’ cars) (1,000 km) 13,969 16,643 16,712 Air transport (1,000 km) 61,392 52,662 51,219 Paper consumption (tonnes) 1,598 1,726 2,227 * Data are from Annual Report 2015 and Fact Book Q4 2015. ** Ratios are calculated as if the additional tier 1 capital were classified as a liability. Average shareholders’ equity is calculated as a quarterly average. *** Changes have been made to the highlights for 2014, as presented in note 2 in Annual Report 2015. Apart from 2011, the effect on the highlights for 2011-13 is not significant, and comparative figures for 2011-13 therefore have not been restated. A restatement of comparative figures for 2011 would have reduced net profit by DKK 387 million. **** The 2014 figure has been restated because of an adjustment of the number of hourly-paid employees in Norway and Finland. † Data cover DK, SE, NO, IRL, NI, FIN and LIT and include estimated figures for the remainder of the Group. †† Data cover DK, SE, NO, IRL, NI, FIN and LIT. Corporate Responsibility 2015 35 Assurance statement Independent Assurance Report To the management and stakeholders of Danske Bank We performed our on-site reviews at Danske Bank’s head We have assessed Danske Bank’s Corporate Responsibility office in Copenhagen in November and December 2015 and 2015 report (‘the report’) to provide limited assurance of sein January 2016. Our work has included interviews with key lected 2015 data on page 34 of the report. The report covers functions in Danske Bank, inquiries regarding procedures Danske Bank’s international activities from 1 January to 31 and methods to ensure that selected CR data and information December 2015. have been incorporated in accordance with the reporting principles. We have assessed processes, tools, systems and We have performed the following work: controls for gathering, consolidating and aggregating CR data at Group level, and performed analytical review procedures • We have reviewed all environmental data and all and tested CR data prepared at group level to underlying employee data on page 34 in the report and assessed documentation. Furthermore, we have received documentawhether these data have been stated in accordance with tion that the consolidated CO2 emissions have been offset by the criteria mentioned in the reporting principles; purchase of offset certificates. Finally, we have evaluated the • We have assessed whether Danske Bank has offset its overall presentation of the report, including consistency of consolidated CO2 emissions for 2015. information. Management’s responsibility We have not performed site visits or interviewed external The management of Danske Bank is responsible for collecting, stakeholders, nor have we performed any assurance proceanalysing, aggregating and presenting the information in the dures on baseline data or forward-looking statements such as report, ensuring that data are free from material misstatetargets and expectations. Consequently, we draw no conclument, whether due to fraud or error. Danske Bank’s nonsion on these statements. financial reporting principles contain management’s defined reporting scope for each data type. The criteria for the reportConclusion ing principles can be found at Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention causing www.danskebank.com/CR/reporting. us not to believe that: Auditor’s responsibility • the employee and environmental data subject to our Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclureview have been stated in accordance with the criteria sion based on our engagement with management and in acmentioned in the reporting principles; cordance with the agreed scope of work. We have conducted • Danske Bank has offset its consolidated CO2 emissions our work in accordance with ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagefor 2015. ments Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information and additional requirements under Danish audit regulation to obtain limited assurance about whether the selected CR data are free from material misstatement. Copenhagen, 2 February 2016 Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab is subject Deloitte to International Standard on Quality Control (ISQC) 1 and, Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab accordingly, applies a comprehensive quality control system, CVR No. 33 96 35 56 including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by FSR Danish Auditors (Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants), which are based on the fundamental principles of Jens Ringbæk Helena Barton integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, State Authorised Lead Reviewer confidentiality and professional behaviour. Public Accountant A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Considering the risk of material error, we planned and performed our work to obtain all information and explanations necessary to support our conclusion. Danske Bank A/S Holmens Kanal 2-12 DK-1092 København K Tel +45 3344 0000 CVR No. 61 12 62 28 København danskebank.com
