Sida 1 av 2 Dokumentnamn Version COP_swenov2016.doc Godkänd: Fastställd av: EXECUTIVE STATEMENT 2016 Idnet is an IT company that creates efficient logistics for retail stores and warehouses. Our goal is to provide clients with modern and future‐proof logistics solutions using improved work practices, with increased profitability and better ergonomics as a result. We deliver WMS solutions and/or integration with existing warehouse / business/ and store data systems that allow the customer to maximize system utilization to significantly increase the efficiency and quality. Customers consist largely of the leading Swedish chain stores as well as e‐commerce, 3pl and production companies. Idnet currently has 35 employees, with offices in Gothenburg, Björbo and Oslo. During 2016, we have focused on the implementation of our policy on bribery and corruption. Our zero tolerance approach against bribery and corruption aims to ensure that we operate our business with transparency and integrity. This has resulted in several activities during the year, some of the more extensive focusing awareness and training are:  Idnet has participated in the Nordic Global Compact Network meeting in April  We have had a 1,5 day UNGC‐ training for the management and the sales department  We have participated in the Fairtrade Challenge 2016 We have also continued our sponsorship of various CSR projects. For the third year in a row, we sponsor Team Rynkby (Barncancerfonden), Hand‐In‐Hand‐Sweden, Jontefonden (a foundation for children and young people who are waiting for, or has performed, an organ transplant) as well as local football and ice hockey teams. This report describes the steps Idnet has taken in 2016 in our efforts to integrate the principles of the UN Global Compact into corporate strategy, corporate culture and business operations. Göteborg 2016‐10‐25 Magnus Alm VD, Idnet AB Sida 2 av 2 Dokumentnamn Version COP_swenov2016.doc Godkänd: Fastställd av: 1. Human rights A new routine for the supply chain controls have been implemented. We have participated in the Fair Trade Challenge in order to increase employees' knowledge of Fairtrade and Idnet's own commitment to these issues. 2. Labour & work environment Risk assessments of employees' physical and mental health have been conducted through questionnaires. We have improved and documented many work processes for the convenience of the employees. Improvements to our own working environment has been made during the year. Several desks have been converted into height‐ adjustable desks. Idnet supports its employees with financial compensation related to physical training. A company bicycle incl. a helmet has been purchased. Employees can borrow it for private as well as service‐related matters. By offering the opportunity to use the bike instead of going by car, those who would rather go by bike than car, now have the opportunity to have a bit of an exercise, to save money and also saving the environment at the same time. 3. Environment We have, in collaboration with Linköping University conducted a study and now has a calculation to count on our customers' environmental benefits of our solutions. We can now show how we can help them in their own environmental work. Our new supplier of coffee machines and coffee has a long term vision not to generate any greenhouse gas emissions at all. On the way to this goal, the supplier climate compensates not only for their own business, they are doing likewise for the electricity we consume as a customer when we use coffee machines. We have switched to “green” electricity for our premises. 4. Anti‐corruption We have conducted a risk analysis addressing the risk of any kind of corruption and bribery within the company. All at sales and the company management participated in a specialized training in order to raise awareness around corruption and the knowledge how to act in different situations. We have also signed up for the courses that the e‐learning tool on the UN Convention against Corruption and the UN Global Compact's 10th principle against corruption offers. Key personnel in sales and other relevant functions will take these courses during 2016/2017. A link to the webpage, available to all employees, is included in our management system.
