1l HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY INTRODUCTION We, the management of MASTER COMPONENTS PVT.LIMITED. believe that safety norns are an essential & integral part of every operation. Man is not one of the 5 M's of the production inputs viz. Man, Machine, Material, Money, and Method. Man is the creator and user of the remaining 4 M's .Man is the principle asset of our business and industry This policy of Master Components Pvt., at D l0A & D-I0B,MIDC Ambad Nashik ensures a safe and healthy working within the said premises. WE DECLARE OUR SAFETY AND HEALTH POLICY AS UNDER: 1). GOAL. The aim of the Company's Health and Safety Policy is to improve awareness-of health and safety, to prevent accidents and to avoid health hazards. 2 ). OBJECTTyES 1.To provide and maintain Safe and Healthy Working Environment, Equipment and Systems of work of all our Employees. 2.To provide such information, Training and Supervision as they need for this purpose. 3.To comply with all relevant Statutory Provisions pertaining to safety, health, & environment. 4.To use relevant techniques for periodic assessment of the status of Safety, Health and Environment And to conduct Risk Analysis for all Hazardous Operations. 5.To take into consideration, Safety and llealth aspects during procurement of all plant, machinery and material. 3) SCOPE This Safety Policy is applicable to the following: a) All the manufacturing and non-manufacturing departments. b) All the Contractors, Contract labour, Transporters, Suppliers and other personnel working in the premises. 4) SET UP l.The overall responsibility for Health, Safety & Environment will be that of the OCCUPIER 2.The Chief Operating Officer will be responsible for the operations in the premises. 3.The Operators will be accountable for Safe practices in their areas and due weightage will be given in their career planning appraisal, to their performance in this regard. 4.The Pioduction Supervisors will be responsible for training the workmen for safe workiq practices. ri 5.All Department Heads will be responsible for implementation of the policy in their areas of operation. 6.4ll employees have the responsibility and obligation to co-operate with their co-workers to achieve u raf and healthy wbrking Environment and to follow all Safety Rules, Procedures, Systems and Practices including use of Safety Equipment and to take reasonable care for the Safety and Health of themselves and their co-workers' T.Communication between all employees will take place through shop floor talks, health and safety notices & placards, requisite aids, personnel health checks & training programmes' Personnel Officer will be ensure that all safety aids & fire extinguishers are in good working order at all times. And that unsafe working practices are contained wherever seen. 8.The Officer-HR & Admin. will be responsible for Occupational Health and Medical checks of employees engaged in such operations as require them, & take remedial measures, as required statutorily. He/she will maintain upto date health records of such employees.' 9. The Dispatch Department & Stores Department will be responsible for training of Suppliers & Transporters for loading, unloading & safe handling of the materials. They will ensure safe working practices for operations under their control. 10.The Supply Chain Mgt. Department of the Company will consider the safety aspect while ordering maihines, equipment's, material, etc. While procuring material handling equipment, the materiais department will ensure that the necessary certificates regarding safe working load, etc. are made available. 1l.The Supply Chain Mgt.Department will be responsible for ensuring the competence & safety awareness of all vendors' employees working inside the premises. 12 Before commencing hazardous works in the premises a Work Permit must obtain from the Director. l3.After being made aware of the safety precautions to be observed within the premises, the Contractors will be responsible for all safety measures related to their work. Contracting Departments will ensure iompliance and supervision. It will be obligatory on all contractors and visitors to follow the existing Plant Safety Rules, Procedures, Systems, & Practices.They must start their work only after receiving proper instructions and permission. s) REVTSTON A Safety Team Committee will ensure the overall implementation of the Policy with active periodic reviews. The Companies reserve the right to alter or amend this safety policy if found necessary. All are requested to make the implementation of the policy effective for Health, Safety & Cleanliness and a safe work environment. o {
