@ Statement of support for the United Nations Global Compact Climate change and resource scarcity are among the greatest challenges of this century and everyone, including IKEA, has a part to play in finding solutions. With our vision of creating a better everyday life for the many people we are certain that there is no other way of doing business than in a sustainable way. This is why sustainability is a cornerstone in the IKEA strategic direction it is highly prioritised as a driver of innovation and growth. Our People & Planet Positive strategy sets out how we are working to make a positive difference for the environment, as well as for IKEA co-workers, people working for our suppliers and communities around the world. Companies like ours can play an important role as we move towards a more sustainable society. IKEA became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2OO4 and we remain firmly committed to the initiative and its principles. Since then we have taken many steps to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption). We actively support the work of the UN Global Compact. During the COP21 meeting in Paris in December 2075, we participated in the UNGC Caring for Climate Business Forum, and advocated for a strong climate agreement before and during COP 21, In September 2015 we participated in the UNGC Private Sector Forum in New York, and spoke at sessions at the United Nations. We welcome and support the Sustainable Development Goals. In our FY15 Sustainability Report we mapped the targets of our People & Planet Positive strategy against the SDGs, showing how they are aligned and demonstrating how we as a company contribute to reaching the SDGs most close to our business. In 2015 we also committed to the principles on responsible corporate engagement in climate policy and committed to set science based targets for our COz emissions. Our annual sustainability report describes our progress towards the ambitious goals in our People & Planet Positive strategy. We will continue to publicly share our efforts and results on our way forward. Peter Agnefjäll President and CEO IKEA Group PO. Box 42 Visiting address: 2300 AA Leiden Bargelaan 20 Telephone +31-71-565 71 00 The Netherlands 2333 CT Leiden Telefax +31-71-565 71 80
