annual sustainability report 2015 index SUSTAINABILITY report 2015 01 02 03 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 2015 REPORT 2015 2015 REPORT 03 REPORT 01 02 REPORT PARAMETERS MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO COMPANY PROFILE Message from Our CEO Company Profile Report Parameters 2015 has been an exciting year for Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. This Annual Sustainability Report relates ASUR, with record passenger figures. In de C.V. operates a group of airports in to the company’s operations in the period particular our airport at Cancún reached the southeast region of Mexico under between the 1st of January and the 31st almost 20 million passengers, up from the brand name ASUR... of December 2015, and follows on from around 13 million just five years ago. ASUR’s 2014 Annual Sustainability From a sustainability viewpoint, the most Report which can be consulted at... important developments... 6 9 16 04 05 06 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 REPORT 2015 REPORT 2015 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 05 CODE OF ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES 06 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Governance Code of Ethics and AntiEnvironmental Corruption Measures Responsibility As a company that is publicly traded ASUR has a written Code of Ethics ASUR has a written policy that expressly on the stock markets of both Mexico that sets forth the ethical standards and formally sets forth the commitment City and New York, ASUR adheres to a the company expects its employees, of the company and its subsidiaries to strict set of regulations in its corporateexecutives and corporate governance take positive action in relation to the governance practices. Our Board of officials to adhere to. This Code of Ethics environment. This policy contains the Directors is made up of a majority of is provided to each new employee... stated goals of reducing the negative independent... environmental effects of the company’s operations and promoting... 20 25 28 index SUSTAINABILITY report 2015 07 08 09 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT 2015 REPORT 2015 07 08 09 COMMITMENT TO QUALITY OF LIFE FOR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT HUMAN RIGHTS EMPLOYEES AND SUPPORT Quality of Life for Community Involvement Commitment to Human Employees and Support Rights As a fundamental part of ASUR’s duty The contribution that ASUR makes The goal of ASUR’s management in of care toward its employees, we aim towards creating decent living standards relation to human rights is to ensure to provide decent working conditions for its employees and their families is that the company and its employees do in all the subsidiaries that form part of undoubtedly one of the most important not incur any human rights violations, the Group. The company’s main goal in ways in which the company provides and that in those cases where possible relation to human resources is to ensure support for local communities. The basis abuses are detected, the corresponding that our airports constitute a reliable for this is the financial success of our steps are taken to resolve them quickly, source... business... efficiently and transparently... 39 45 49 10 11 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY SUSTEINABILITY REPORT 2015 REPORT 2015 REPORT 2015 10 EXTERNAL PROGRAMMES 11 GRI STANDAR DISCLOSURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS APPENDIX External Programmes GRI Standard Disclosures Appendix and Performance In 2011, ASUR was selected as one of the Anexo A: Objetivos y desempeño Indicators first group of companies to be part of the ambiental 2015 Mexico Stock Exchange Sustainability Anexo B: Environmental Indicators Index. To be considered for inclusion This report has been prepared in in the index, companies’ practices and accordance with the G4 sustainability procedures in the areas of environment, reporting guidelines and the Airport governance and stakeholder... Operator Sector Supplement (AOSS) published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Global Reporting Initiative... 52 55 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 01 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO 6 AS U R 01 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Message from our CEO Welcome to ASUR’s Annual Sustainability Report for the year 2015. 2015 has been an exciting year for ASUR, with record passenger figures. In particular our airport at Cancún reached almost 20 million passengers, up from around 13 million just five years ago. From a sustainability viewpoint, the most important developments in our operations have been the extension of Terminal 3, inaugurated in December 2015, and the start of construction of Terminal 4 at Cancún Airport, which are required to handle these additional passengers with the appropriate standards of security and service quality. Both of these projects, and the environmental-impact-mitigation measures taken, are discussed in more detail in the relevant sections of this report. 2015 was also the first normal year of operation of a new recycling plant constructed on site at Cancún Airport, which has reduced the amount of refuse we send to landfill sites by more than half, or around 2,500 tons. This project is an key piece of our company-wide focus on sustainability issues. What is good for the environment is good for local communities and our business as a whole. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 7 The company’s main strategic sustainability priorities for the short and medium term continue to be: mitigation of the effects of climate change, by increasing the energy efficiency of our facilities and monitoring and reducing our emissions of greenhouse gases; and support for initiatives that promote education, health and culture in the locations where we operate. With regard to the challenges posed for our operations in relation to reducing our carbon footprint, in 2015 we inventoried our direct and indirect greenhouse-gas emissions and have been looking at ways in which we can reduce them further. Given the infrastructure expansion under way at Cancún Airport, we are envisaging a considerable increase in the amount of electricity consumed. Currently the company’s indirect greenhouse-gas emissions from electricity consumption constitute 96% of all carbon emissions from all nine of the airports in our group. The goal of this report is to increase transparency and to encourage dialogue with all our stakeholders. We welcome any comments or observations about additional matters that our readers would like to see included, or sugges¬tions as to how we can improve our reporting process. ADOLFO CASTRO RIVAS, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 8 AS U R SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 02 COMPANY PROFILE s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 9 2 Company profile Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. operates a group of airports in the southeast region of Mexico under the brand name ASUR. These airports are located in the cities of Cancún, Cozumel, Huatulco, Mérida, Minatitlán, Oaxaca, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa. The company’s headquarters are located in Mexico City. In February of 2013, the concession for the operation of Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico, was granted to Aerostar Airport Holdings, LLC, a company in which Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. holds a 50% stake. These are the only operations In addition to the above, the outside of Mexico in which ASUR currently has an company enters into agreements interest. with external providers for a range of additional services, which may include complementary services for aircraft (such as baggage handling and ramp 2.1 Business Activities services) and commercial services for passengers (such as restaurants, shops The company’s core activity is and car rental, among other business to administer and maintain the lines). The company’s aeronautical, infrastructure of its airports to ensure complementary and commercial sufficient capacity for safe, efficient activities represent its three revenue operations and a high standard streams. of service. Basic infrastructure Consequently, there are facilities includes that required for aircraft and personnel that, while located takeoff and landing operations at ASUR’s airports, are not under and for arriving and departing the direct operational control of the passenger flows, as well as facilities company. These include all those for the authorities involved in airport corresponding to the government operations (air-traffic controllers, agencies, complementary service customs, immigration, etc.). providers and commercial concession holders mentioned above, as well as the facilities and staff members of the various airlines that operate out of the company’s airports. 10 AS U R F1: Summary of Operational Boundaries, ASUR Airports CONTROLLED DIRECTLY BY ASUR DIRECTLY EMPLOYED STAFF: 2.2 Company History General administrative Car park attendants ASUR’s nine airports are operated under 50-year ARFF fire fighters concessions that were granted to the company Hold-baggage-screening system operators in 1998, as part of the Mexican government’s CCTV operators plan to open up the country’s state-owned SUBCONTRACTED STAFF: airport sector to private investment. Security guards Under the privatisation scheme, an initial stake of Passenger-inspection personnel 15% in the company’s capital stock (the BB series Cleaning staff Convenience-store staff shares) was sold to a strategic partner, Inversiones y Técnicas Aeroportuarias, S.A. de C.V. (ITA), with FACILITIES: expertise in Mexican business operations and in Public-access areas in terminal the international airport industry. The remaining buildings 85% of the company’s shares (the B series) began Passenger-access areas in terminal buildings trading on the stock exchanges of Mexico City Airside and airfield facilities and New York in two public offers in September Car parks and roadways 2000 and March 2005. ASUR is therefore a onehundred-per-cent privately owned company, subject to a series of national and international regulatory frameworks. WHERE ASUR HAS LIMITED INFLUENCE 2.3 Shareholder Structure STAFF AND FACILITIES OF: Airlines, including check-in and In June 2007, the strategic partner ITA reduced its boarding staff shareholding in the company from 15% to 7.65%. Ground handlers and ramp-service As of the 31st of December 2015, ITA is owned providers, including baggage by Fernando Chico Pardo, a Mexican investor, handlers, etc. who has a 50% stake in the company; and by Commercial concession-holders, Remer Soluciones a la Inversión, S.A. de C.V., a including restaurants, shops, car subsidiary of the Mexican bus transport company rental companies, taxis, etc. Grupo ADO, S.A. de C.V., which also has a stake of 50%. The 92.35% of ASUR’s shares that are not held by ITA are traded on the New York Stock Exchange NOT (NYSE: ASR) and the Mexico City Bolsa (BMV: CONTROLLED ASUR). As of the 31st of December 2015, Fernando BY ASUR Chico Pardo directly or indirectly owns a stake of 16.48% in ASUR (including the stake held via ITA); and Grupo ADO, S.A. de C.V. directly or indirectly STAFF AND FACILITIES OF: owns a stake of 16.05% in ASUR (including the DGAC (Mexican civil aviation stake held via ITA). authority) INM (immigration authority) Customs Law enforcement agencies (airport police) SENEAM (air-traffic controllers) ASA (fuel services for aircraft) s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 11 F2: Structure, Holding Company and Subsidiaries AEROPUERTO DE CANCÚN, S.A. DE C.V. GRUPO AEROPORTUARIO DEL SURESTE, S.A.B. DE C.V. AEROPUERTO DE COZUMEL, S.A. DE C.V. AEROPUERTO DE HUATULCO, S.A. DE C.V. AEROPUERTO DE MÉRIDA, S.A. DE C.V. 2.4 Organisational Structure As of the 31st of December 2015, AEROPUERTO DE MINATITLÁN, S.A. DE C.V. ASUR employs a total of 939 people. Our organisational structure may be summarised as follows: each of the AEROPUERTO DE OAXACA, S.A. DE C.V. nine airports of ASUR is a subsidiary of the holding company, Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. AEROPUERTO DE TAPACHULA, S.A. DE C.V. de C.V. In addition, there are two subsidiary service companies, one that directly employs the Group’s unionised staff (RH ASUR, S.A. de C.V.) AEROPUERTO DE VERACRUZ, S.A. DE C.V. and another that directly employs all the Group’s non-unionised staff (Servicios Aeroportuarios del Sureste, AEROPUERTO DE VILLAHERMOSA, S.A. DE C.V. S.A. de C.V.). RH ASUR, S.A. DE C.V. SERVICIOS AEROPORTUARIOS DEL SURESTE, S.A. DE C.V. ONE HOLDING COMPANY 11 SUBSIDIARIES 12 AS U R ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 2.5 Operating and Financial Data In 2015, a total of 26,140,986 passengers passed through ASUR’s terminals (not including private aviation or transit passengers), of which 14,452,228 (55%) were international and 11,688,758 (45%) were domestic passengers. The total passenger figure for 2015 increased by 2,983,426 (12.9%) compared to the year 2014. The company’s largest airport is the one located at Cancún, which accounted for 75% of total passenger traffic in 2015 (the same percentage as in 2014). F3: Breakdown of International and Domestic Passenger Traffic (Not including general aviation and transit passengers) 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 11.7 millions passangers 12.9 millions passangers 14.5 millions passangers 11.7 millions 11.7 millions passangers 11.7 millions passangers passangers 12.9 12.9 millions 12.9millions millions passangers passangers passangers 14.5millions 14.5 millions millions 14.5passangerspassangers passangers 9.4 millions passangers 12.910.3 millions passangers millions passangers 11.7 millions passangers 9.4 millions 9.4 millions passangers 9.4 millions passangers passangers 10.3 10.3 10.3 millions millions millions passangers passangers passangers 11.7 millions passangers 14.5 millions passangers 11.7passangers millions 11.7millions millions passangers passangers 11.7 9.4 millions passangers 10.3 millions passangers 11.7 millions passangers DOMESTIC PASSENGER TRAFFIC INTERNATIONAL PASSENGER TRAFFIC DOMESTIC DOMESTIC PASSENGER DOMESTIC TRAFFIC PASSENGER PASSENGER TRAFFIC TRAFFIC INTERNATIONAL PASSENGER INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL TRAFFIC TRAFFICTRAFFIC PASSENGER PASSENGER DOMESTIC PASSENGER TRAFFIC INTERNATIONAL PASSENGER TRAFFIC In 2015, ASUR’s nine airports handled a total of 302,899 air-traffic movements (landings and takeoffs), of which 82% were commercial flights, 3% were charter flights, and 15% were general aviation (private) flights. F4: Breakdown of Air-Traffic Movements by Aviation Category 2013 2014 2015 236.7 thousands operations 248.2 thousands operations 216.6 thousands operations 46.6 thousands operations 46.6 thousands operations 41.0 thousands operations 7.0 thousands operations 8.1 thousands operations 9.5 thousands operations AVIATION COMMERCIAL GENERAL CHARTER 2.6 Significant Changes in Operations during Reporting Period During 2015, there were three major infrastructure-expansion projects, all at Cancún Airport, which involved significant extensions to the built-up surface areas or “footprint” of the airport. The first of Together, the nine airports of ASUR serve these was the extension of Terminal 3 passengers arriving from every continent, although at the airport, which was inaugurated a considerable majority of passengers arrive from in December 2015; the second was the North American destinations: in 2015, passengers initial earthmoving works for a completely from the United States of America and Canada new terminal building, Terminal 4; and accounted for 75% of international passengers. the third was the removal of trees and vegetation from mandatory obstacle-free In 2015, the net income of the company was 2.9 areas around the airport’s runways, to billion Mexican pesos (equivalent to approximately comply with international aviation-safety 184 million US dollars). The company ended the regulations. year with total assets worth 26.1 billion pesos (approximately 1.6 billion US dollars), total liabilities Together, these projects necessitated of 5.7 billion pesos (approximately 361 million the deforestation of a total area of US dollars) and total equity of 20.4 billion pesos 103 hectares. In all cases, the requisite (approximately 1.3 billion US dollars).* environmental-impact assessments were carried out and authorisation was obtained from the Mexican environmental * Figures in US dollars calculated at an exchange rate of 15.85 authorities before work began. The enviMexican pesos per dollar (2015 average). ronmental-impact-mitigation measures implemented included the recovery and F5: Summary of P&L and Balance Sheet replanting of rare plant species, and the relocation of animals from the areas to be deforested. For a more detailed discussion 2015 2014 of mitigation measures for infrastructure ................................................................................................................... expansion, please refer to section 6.2.1 of ASSETS 26,126 23,925 ................................................................................................................... this report. LIABILITIES 5,718 5,173 ................................................................................................................... EQUITY 20,408 18,751 ................................................................................................................... ................................................................................................................... REVENUES 8,995 5,879 ................................................................................................................... OPERATING COSTS 4,922 2,718 ................................................................................................................... NET INCOME 2,914 2,284 ................................................................................................................... FIGURES STATED IN MILLIONS OF MEXICAN PESOS 14 AS U R 2.8 Description of Company’s Value Chain To maintain the facilities at its airports and 2.7 Social Responsibility Awards and External a high standard of passenger service, Programmes ASUR contracts goods and services with a wide range of suppliers. Among the During 2015, ASUR maintained its status as an most important of these are: contractors active signatory of the United Nations Global hired to carry out construction work for the Compact (UNGC) by complying with the UNGC’s maintenance, extension or remodelling of reporting requirements. The Global Compact is airport infrastructure; technical supervision an initiative established by the United Nations to services to ensure that construction work promote the values of social responsibility and is completed on time and in accordance respect for human rights in businesses around the with specifications; suppliers of equipment world. for air-conditioning, security and check-in systems, and so on; and the providers of Additionally, for the eighth year running, certain services, such as cleaning, security we were awarded recognition as a Socially and surveillance, passenger inspection, Responsible Company by the Mexican Centre for and refuse collection. Philanthropy, known by its Spanish initials CEMEFI. CEMEFI bases its awards on self-assessments The vast majority of the companies in of internal practices and programmes carried ASUR’s value chain are based in Mexico, out by the companies themselves, which are with the notable exception of some required to submit adequate documentation suppliers of airport-specific equipment such of the corresponding activities. The assessments as boarding bridges, specialised vehicles, monitor performance in four key areas: quality of and baggage-handling equipment. life for company employees; business ethics and All contractors and subcontractors are anti-corruption practices; community support required to adhere to ASUR’s Code of and relations; and environmental protection. Ethics. Their employees have access to the company’s internal reporting system, and In the reporting period, ASUR received are encouraged to report any instances Environmental Quality Assurance certificates for of unethical behaviour or violations of four of its airports from the Mexican Environmental their fundamental rights. The company’s Protection Agency, Profepa. The certification Internal Auditing Department also carries in question represents official confirmation by out random inspections to ensure that the Mexican environmental authorities that the subcontractors adhere to the provisions recipient has complied in full with all observations of Mexican labour legislation, especially resulting from the audits conducted by the with regard to payment of social security authorities to enforce Mexican environmental contributions for their employees. legislation. The airports certified were Cancún, Mérida, Minatitlán and Veracruz. Certificates are During 2015, of the 20 biggest contracts valid for a period of two years; the remaining for goods and services entered into by the airports in the Group – Cozumel, Huatulco, company, eight were for the acquisition of Oaxaca, Tapachula and Villahermosa – are due equipment, seven were for construction for recertification in 2016. services, and five were for services. As of the 31st of December 2015, the environmental management systems in place in all of ASUR’s airports have valid ISO 14001 certification. The airports at Cancún, Huatulco and Oaxaca were recertified for the period 2012-2015, and those at Cozumel, Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa were recertified for the period 2013-2016. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 03 0 REPORT PARAMETERS 16 AS U R 3 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Report parameters This Annual Sustainability Report relates to the company’s operations in the period between the 1st of January and the 31st of December 2015, and follows on from ASUR’s 2014 Annual Sustainability Report which can be consulted at www.asur.com.mx. Any queries relating to this report may be addressed to: Alistair McCreadie, tel. +52 55 5284 0488, e-mail: amccreadie@asur. com.mx. Stakeholder Engagement 3.1 and Identification of Material Aspects One of the fundamental decisionmaking tools used by ASUR is an assessment of the risks inherent to its operations. This analysis is ASUR’s principal stakeholder groups prepared internally on an annual have been identified based on basis, and is presented to the internal assessments and external company’s Audit Committee. guidance, such as that provided Further details regarding the by reporting frameworks, best company’s risk analysis may be practices, and the standards found in the reports submitted adopted by initiatives such as the to the stock-market authorities United Nations Global Compact in Mexico and the United States. and the Mexico Stock Exchange The assessment in question Sustainability Index. ASUR’s internal covers both risks for the company stakeholders include the company’s itself, and those that might employees, shareholders and adversely affect stakeholder the members of the company’s groups. In accordance with the corporate governance bodies, precautionary approach, one and its main external stakeholders of the guiding principles for the are local residents and business company’s operations is that communities, and the passengers it should avoid or minimise any that travel through the airports. activities that have the potential to negatively impact its own operations or the wellbeing of its stakeholders. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 17 The engagement activities described above have allowed us to identify a series of material aspects to be reported on. In selecting the information to be included in this report, ASUR has applied the four principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness established by the Global Reporting Initiative for defining report content. The material aspects identified, which are all covered by this report, are listed in Figure 7 below. The boundaries, both within and outside the organisation, regarding how each aspect Below is a summary of the main stakeholderis reported on are discussed on a case-by-case engagement activities carried out by ASUR basis in the relevant sections: during 2015: F6: Stakeholder Groups Engaged and Engagement Method F7: Material Aspects for Sustainability Reporting MATERIAL ASPECT IDENTIFIED STAKEHOLDER GROUP PRINCIPAL ENGAGEMENT METHOD ......................................................................................................................................................................................... Internal communications and campaigns; ENVIROMENT Company employees feedback and grievances received via internal reporting system ......................................................................................................................................................................................... Climate change; wildlife protection and use of resources Identification of priority issues through direct communications and in events organised by, Community groups among others, UN Global Compact and Mexico Section 6.0 stock exchange; interaction with community groups at the local level ......................................................................................................................................................................................... Identification of priority issues through direct ANTICORRUPTION communications and in events organised by, Business groups and associations among others, UN Global Compact and Mexico Systems in place to prevent corruption; stock exchange; interaction with business groups at the local level company rules regarding facilitation ........................................................................................................................................................................................ payments and bribes to government officials Airport-service-quality surveys; feedback Passengers and grievances received via internal Section 5.0 reporting system ........................................................................................................................................................................................ WORKING CONDITIONS Collective bargaining guarantees; occupational safety; quality of life in the workplace Section 7.0 HUMAN RIGHTS Gender equality; non-discrimination; human trafficking involving minors Section 9.0 18 AS U R ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 3.2 Scope and Limitations of Report This report is intended to complement ASUR’s Annual Financial Statements for 2015, which contain in-depth information on the financial performance of ASUR during the period in question. It will therefore focus in particular on social and environmental matters without including detailed financial data, except insofar as they relate to the standard disclosures contained in the company profile (Section 2) and to economic performance indicators (Section 8). The report covers operations performed directly by the companies The environmental performance indicators that form part of the ASUR business mentioned in Section 6 include data from the group. At this time, mechanisms are Group’s nine airports in Mexico only, as these not in place to include the activities are considered to be the most relevant due of clients, suppliers or subcontractors to the nature of the company’s activities. All within the parameters of this report, other indicators refer to the nine airports, the unless otherwise stated. company’s head offices in Mexico City and other company subsidiaries, as described in This report has been prepared on a Section 2.4. consistent basis with ASUR’s Annual Sustainability Report for 2014 in terms of measurement methods, and contains no restatements or reinterpretations of data contained in that report. At this time, it is not company policy to seek external assurance of our Annual Sustainability Report. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 04 0 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 20 AS U R 4 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Corporate governance As a company that is publicly traded on the stock markets F8: Overview of Corporate Governance of both Mexico City and New Structure of ASUR York, ASUR adheres to a strict set of regulations in its corporateCOMPANY SHAREHOLDERS governance practices. Our ULTIMATE AUTHORITY AT THE COMPANY Board of Directors is made up RESPONSIBLE FOR: DECISION-MAKING AT THE HIGHEST LEVEL of a majority of independent DUE REPRESENTATION OF MINORITY SHAREHOLDERS members, our Audit Committee is made up entirely of independent members and our other corpoBOARD OF DIRECTORS rate-governance bodies all have varying degrees of independent RESPONSIBLE FOR: STRATEGIC DECISION-MAKING oversight. NUMBER OF MEMBERS: 9 INDEPENDENT MEMBERS: 5 The term “independent” is defined in accordance with the Mexican Securities Market Law, NOMINATIONS AND and excludes any persons who AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPENSATIONS COMMITTEE are executive or non-executive RESPONSIBLE FOR: OVERSIGHT RESPONSIBLE FOR: PROPOSALS FOR employees of the company OF OPERATIONS TO ENSURE APPROPRIATE STANDARD OF APPOINTMENT OF BOARD MEMBERS; APPROVAL OF EXECUTIVE PAY or its subsidiaries; shareholders BUSINESS ETHICS NUMBER OF MEMBERS: 3 NUMBER OF MEMBERS: 3 INDEPENDENT MEMBERS: 1 that own a controlling share in INDEPENDENT MEMBERS: 3 the company; the company’s clients, service providers, OPERATIONS COMMITTEE ACQUISITIONS AND CONTRACTS COMMITTEE suppliers, debtors, creditors RESPONSIBLE FOR: COMPLIANCE and business partners, and their WITH INVESTMENT COMMITMENTS; RESPONSIBLE FOR: OVERSIGHT OF PROPOSALS TO BOARD FOR ACQUISITIONS TO ENSURE APPROPRIATE ETHICAL STANDARDS board members or employees; DIVIDENDS, BUDGET, BUSINESS PLAN, ETC. NUMBER OF MEMBERS: 3 in general, any individuals who NUMBER OF MEMBERS: 4 INDEPENDENT MEMBERS: 2 INDEPENDENT MEMBERS: 1 exert influence or authority over the company; and the relations by blood or marriage of any of the above. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 21 4.1 Shareholders’ Rights and Duties of the Board of Directors In accordance with Mexican law, ASUR’s shareholders represent the highest authority in the company. Shareholders’ meetings are held on at least an annual basis, in order to vote on the most important issues such as dividend payments and other matters that require shareholder approval by law. In addition, according to the company’s bylaws, any shareholder or group of shareholders representing at least 10% of the company’s capital stock has the right to convene a shareholders’ meeting at any time. It also supervises the company’s riskThe Board of Directors reports to the company’s management activities: on a regular basis shareholders, and is in turn reported to by four risk-mapping activities are carried out, different committees: the Audit Committee, covering aspects such as risks relating to the Nominations and Compensations financial information, areas of the company Committee, the Operations Committee and that may be vulnerable to fraud or other acts the Acquisitions and Contracts Committee. of corruption, information technology, and The Board of Directors is responsible for environmental and social issues. Once the making strategic decisions regarding the company’s risks have been mapped in detail, company’s business operations. To do so, courses of action are determined for them to it receives reports from the company’s top be managed and the information is presented management and corporate governance to the Audit Committee for discussion. committees regarding such matters as the company’s financial performance, passenger figures, operations, compliance The Audit Committee is also responsible for with investment commitments, and other approval of ASUR’s Code of Ethics, which is important matters. On a yearly basis, the discussed in more detail in Section 5 of this Board submits a report regarding its own report. Pursuant to the Code of Ethics, ASUR activities and performance for the evaluation has an internal reporting system that may be of the company shareholders. used by anyone to flag instances of abuse or corruption, or to report grievances relating to workplace matters. The system’s users have the option to submit reports anonymously or 4.2 Duties of the Corporate Governance to confirm their identity. All such reports are Committees completely confidential and are received directly by the Internal Auditing Department, 4.2.1 Audit Committee which has the duty to investigate them and to report to the Audit Committee. The Audit The Audit Committee is responsible for Committee ultimately reports to the Board verifying that the company has sufficient of Directors and the company shareholders internal controls to ensure accurate financial regarding the reports received and how the reporting. matters raised were resolved. 22 AS U R 4.2.2 Nominations and Compensations Committee The Nominations and Compensations Committee is mainly responsible for issuing proposals for the appointment of new Board and Committee members, as well as new executive officers in the top level of management in the company. It also determines the level of compensation to be paid at these levels, based on performance assessments and market rates, and approves the performance parameters that will be used as the basis for assessment in the 4.2.4 Acquisitions and Contracts Committee subsequent twelve-month period. The Acquisitions and Contracts Committee 4.2.3 Operations Committee is responsible for ensuring that appropriate standards are adhered to in the process of The Operations Committee oversees key acquiring the goods and services that the aspects of ASUR’s day-to-day business company needs to carry out its operations activities, including compliance with successfully. Specifically, approval is required the investments that the company is from the Committee for any acquisition required to make by the Mexican federal or contract with a total value in excess of government. It also issues proposals 400,000 US dollars, in one or more years; for and recommendations to the Board of extensions to existing contracts that represent Directors in relation to such matters as an increase of more than 25% of the originally the company’s budget, business plan, agreed timeframe or value; when a contract and dividends, among others. is put up for tender and a single bid is received, or when a contract is assigned directly and without tender to a given supplier, regardless of the contract value; and in cases when a contract is renewed with the same supplier on expiry. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 23 4.3 Composition of Corporate Governance Bodies and Remuneration Board and Committee members are appointed in accordance with proposals presented by the Nominations and Compensations Committee, whose job it is to identify potential candidates, analyse their qualifications and expertise in the relevant strategic areas, and verify that they do not have any conflicts of interest with the 4.4 Frequency of Sessions and company. Once a possible candidate has Attendance Rate been identified for each vacant position, and As mentioned above, shareholders’ this person has expressed his or her agreement meetings are held on at least an annual to be appointed, the proposal is submitted for basis. The Board of Directors and the approval by either the company shareholders committees that report to it all hold or the Board of Directors, as applicable. four ordinary sessions per year, with All Board and Committee members are paid a the exception of the Audit Committee, fixed fee for each session they attend, which is which holds five, and the Nominations proposed each year by the Nominations and and Compensations Committee, which Compensations Committee in line with market holds two. The Board and committees standards and is submitted for the approval may also hold an extraordinary sessions of the company shareholders. Compensation that are needed. payable to the company’s executive officers In 2015, the Company’s Board of is also analysed and approved by the Directors held five sessions, the Audit Nominations and Compensations Committee, Committee held five sessions, the subject to ratification by the independent Operations Committee held four Audit Committee. This includes both base sessions, the Acquisitions and Contracts salary and the annual performance bonus, Committee held four sessions, and which is linked to a series of performance the Nominations and Compensations indicators, also determined annually by the Committee held two sessions. There Nominations and Compensations Committee was a 94% attendance rate at these in accordance with the process described in meetings. section 4.2.2 above. At this time, there are no female members on either the company’s Board of Directors or any of the corporate governance committees that report to it. 24 AS U R SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 05 CODE OF ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 25 5 Code of ethics and anthi-corruption measures 5.1 Code of Ethics ASUR has a written Code of Ethics that sets forth the ethical standards the company expects its employees, executives and corporate governance officials to adhere to. This Code of Ethics is provided to each new employee as part of the company’s induction procedures. On an annual basis, awareness campaigns are carried out for all employees; together with the members of the company’s Board of Directors and corporate governance committees, company employees are required to certify that they have not incurred any violations of the Code. During 2014, an enquiry was received from a stakeholder regarding the company procedures in place to prevent facilitation payments and bribes to government officials. In response to this, the company developed and implemented a completely new Code of Ethics, which was approved by the Audit Committee. The new Code of Ethics incorporates clearer guidelines and stricter controls in a wide range of aspects, and specific provisions according to which company employees, officers and board members are expressly forbidden from offering payments, gifts or benefits of any other kind to government employees. 26 AS U R 5.2 Anticorruption Measures As established in the Code of Ethics, the company has an internal reporting system through which reports or complaints may be submitted directly to the Internal Auditing Department for investigation, by email or voicemail. Employees and other stakeholders During 2015, 100% of the company’s are encouraged to use this system to report employees were provided with training instances of corruption or abuse, and they relating to the Code of Ethics. ASUR’s may choose to submit reports anonymously Internal Auditing Department carried or not. In the event that they do confirm their out audits in all nine airports in the identity, it is guaranteed that they will not Group, as well as the airport located be penalised in any way, even if the reports in San Juan, Puerto Rico, which is submitted prove to be baseless. operated by the company as a joint venture, and several commercial The Internal Auditing Department reports concession holders operating at the directly to the Audit Committee, which is airports. These audits resulted in a total composed entirely of independent members of 12 relevant observations. A total (that is, people who are not shareholders or of 33 reports were submitted via the executive officers in the company, or their internal reporting system during the related parties). As well as investigating year, if which 10 were considered to all reports received, the Internal Auditing be of critical importance, 5 were of Department establishes a quarterly medium importance and 18 were of programme of audits to be carried out in minor importance. different business units. The Audit Committee approves the work programme of the Internal Of the critical matters that came to Auditing Department and is informed of the the attention of the Internal Auditing results of the audits performed. Department during the year, most were related to internal procedural Among the other essential roles performed concerns and no disciplinary action by the Internal Auditing Department is was taken. However, two staff the assessment of the risks inherent in the members were dismissed and one staff company’s operations, which are prioritised member was disciplined for failure according to their potential impact and the to adhere to the company’s policies likelihood that they will occur. The Department on ethical conduct. The company then establishes measures, such as increased incurred no fines or penalties in relation frequency of internal audits, to focus on those to instances of corruption. operations where a higher risk of corruption or fraud has been identified, and reports all findings to the Audit Committee. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 06 0 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 28 AS U R 6 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Environmental responsibility 6.1 Significant Issues and Management Strategy ASUR has a written policy that expressly and formally sets forth the commitment of the company and its subsidiaries to take positive action in relation to the environment. This policy contains the stated goals of reducing the negative environmental effects of the company’s operations and promoting environmental protection and the economical use of natural resources. Among the most significant environmental issues identified by the company with the potential to impact our operations negatively are climate change, and the loss of natural habitats and biodiversity. ASUR is a company whose business depends largely on the tourism industry: our airports at Cancún, Cozumel and Huatulco serve primarily tourist markets, and significant numbers of tourists also travel through our airports at Mérida, Oaxaca, Veracruz and Villahermosa. Together, these airports accounted for 98% of our passenger traffic in 2015. Therefore, it is clearly in the interests of the company to contribute as much as it can to the preservation of the natural beauty of these areas, in order for them to continue to be attractive to visitors. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 29 Since ASUR’s business activities do not involve the manufacture or creation of any Any combination of the effects of climate kind of physical product, the company’s change widely predicted by the scientific consumption of materials is relatively community, including rises in sea levels insignificant. The principal consumable with the corresponding loss of beaches, an required on a consistent basis for our airports’ increased risk of extreme weather events day-to-day operations is fuel, which is such as hurricanes and flooding, and the discussed in greater detail in Section 6.2.5 disappearance of land and marine habitats of this report. Similarly, due to the nature of such as mangroves and coral reefs, has the ASUR’s operations, the environmental aspects potential to significantly impact the airports in relating to products, services and transport ASUR’s group located in beach destinations are considered immaterial for the purposes of (Cancún, Cozumel and Huatulco), as well as this report. those serving low-lying or flood-prone areas Within the company’s overall strategic (Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and approach to environmental matters, each of Villahermosa). the nine airports in the Group establishes its In compliance with the Mexican Law on own specific goals in accordance with local Climate Change, in 2015 ASUR produced conditions. These environmental objectives a detailed inventory of direct and indirect are available for consultation in Appendix A greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions in the nine of this report. airports that it operates for the previous year. Responsibility for environmental issues within This information was reported to the National the organisation ultimately lies with our Chief Emissions Register (Spanish initials RENE). In Infrastructure and Compliance Officer, 2014, the nine ASUR airports produced a one of the six executive officers at the top total of 38,163 tonnes of carbon dioxide level of management in the company. This (CO2) or the equivalent of carbon dioxide position has responsibility for the oversight in other greenhouse gases. Indirect GHG of infrastructure management (including emissions resulting from the airports’ electricity infrastructure expansion), as well as all matters consumption constitute by far the largest relating to the company’s compliance source of emissions: 36,521 tonnes of CO2 with the various regulations it is subject to. in 2014, representing 96% of total emissions. ASUR’s Operational and Safety Compliance The company’s direct GHG emissions were Manager works below the Chief Infrastructure comparatively low; emissions from facilities and Compliance Officer and manages a or equipment directly operated by ASUR team of environmental coordinators, with accounted for just 1,642 tonnes of CO2, or 4% members based in each of the airports in the of total emissions. The most significant sources Group. of direct GHG emissions in ASUR’s airports are vehicles such as airside buses and utility vehicles. Additionally, the company has instituted programmes intended to ensure that the airports’ water consumption does not put excessive pressure on the water supplies for local habitats and populations; to protect and promote plant and animal biodiversity in the undeveloped areas surrounding the airports; and to ensure that the waste water discharged and storm water runoff do not constitute a source of pollution for local bodies of water. 30 AS U R Each of ASUR’s airports has an Environmental Management System that establishes detailed guidelines and procedures for aspects such as training, monitoring, emergency response, and the environmental requirements for projects and contractors. Each airport’s Environmental During 2015, there were three major Management System is currently certified under infrastructure-expansion projects, all at the ISO 14001 programme. In addition to ISO 14001 Cancún Airport, which involved significant certification, ASUR’s airports have consistently extensions to the built-up surface areas or been awarded Environmental Quality Assurance “footprint” of the airport. Terminal 3 was certification, which represents official confirmation expanded by approximately 25,000 square by the Mexican environmental authorities that the metres to provide additional capacity for recipient has complied in full with all observations increased passenger traffic; earthmoving resulting from the audits conducted by the works for the construction of a completely authorities to enforce Mexican environmental new terminal building, Terminal 4, got legislation. under way; and trees and vegetation were For additional information relating to key removed from obstacle-free areas around environmental issues, such as performance against the airports’ runways to comply with environmental objectives, specific risks and international aviation-safety regulations. systems, and targeted strategies and procedures, In total, 103 hectares of land were deforested. please see the information contained in Section Environmental-impact-mitigation measures 6.2 of this report. included the relocation and replanting of 81,301 endangered and non-endangered wild plant species, principally Thrinax radiata (also known as Florida thatch palm) 6.2 Overview of Principal Mitigation Measures and Coccothrinax readii (Mexican silver palm); the implementation of measures to 6.2.1 Mitigation of Infrastructure Expansion drive off animals and prevent them from re-entering the areas to be deforested; the removal of topsoil for the creation or Large-scale infrastructure expansion at any of maintenance of green areas in other parts ASUR’s airports, which tend to be surrounded of the airport; and the chipping of plant by undeveloped land, often necessitates the waste for use as compost. The Mexican modification or destruction of natural habitats. environmental authorities also mandated For this reason, projects of this type are only payment of a total sum $8,609,383 pesos undertaken following careful consideration and into the Mexican Forestry Fund, which exists analysis of the mitigation measures that can be to carry out reforesting activities throughout applied, and when it is determined that there is the country. ample justification, usually to eliminate operational hazards or serious capacity constraints, which in turn may have negative consequences for local economies and the environment. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 31 6.2.2 Energy Efficiency For several years, the most important front that we have been working on in our airports to reduce the company’s carbon footprint is to moderate the amount of electricity we consume. Beginning in 2008, the company achieved notable success in its energy efficiency programme: from 2008 to 2009, total electricity consumption in the nine These figures state only the intermediate airports of the Group was reduced by 28.9%, energy produced by Mexico’s Federal and from 2009 to 2010 another reduction of Electricity Commission and purchased by 3.7% in overall consumption was achieved. ASUR. At this time, data are not available that Our focus in 2014 and 2015 has been to allow a calculation of the amount of direct maintain the progress made in terms of energy energy from primary sources consumed efficiency in previous years. Due to increases in order to produce this electricity. ASUR in traffic at our airports, and therefore a more does not generate any of the electricity it intensive use of our facilities, total annual consumes; one hundred per cent of the electricity consumption across all the airports company’s electricity requirements are in the group increased in both years, by covered by purchasing from the Federal 7.7% in 2014 and by 3.0% in 2015. However, Electricity Commission. According to figures when measured on a per-passenger basis published by the International Energy Agency, to provide a more comparable parameter in 2013 (the most recent data available), from year to year, there was a reduction in 87% of the electricity generated in Mexico electricity consumption of 2.0% in 2014, and was produced from non-renewable sources another decrease of 8.8% in 2015 (despite a (natural gas, oil, coal and nuclear energy) 12.9% increase in passengers during this year).1 and 13% was produced from renewable sources (hydroelectric, geothermal, biomass and wind power). 2 F9: Total Electricity Consumption vs. Passenger Growth 26 millions 120 30 23 millions 21 millions 100 19 25 18 18 millions Electricity consumption (GWH) millions 17 millions 16 millions 80 millions 20 PASSENGERS(MILLIONS) 60 15 40 10 88 63 61 62 68 69 74 77 GWh GWh GWh GWh GWh GWh GWh GWh 20 5 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PASSENGERS 1 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 6.3 Environmental Management System. 2 Source: International Energy Agency website, at: http://www.iea.org/statistics/statisticssearch/report/?year=2013&country=Mexico&product=ElectricityandHeat 6.2.3 Water Management In addition to reducing the company’s carbon footprint through energy efficiency, ASUR has also been focusing on improving its systems for managing both our water consumption and waste water and ASUR also takes care to ensure that the quality of other effluents produced in the airports. the storm water that runs off our airport facilities Eight of ASUR’s nine airports are equipped with is in full compliance with local regulations. Given treatment plants that receive all waste water from the weather conditions in the southeast region of terminals and administrative buildings. In the case of Mexico, no de-icing or anti-icing fluids are used Cozumel Airport, waste water is sent to the municipal in any of the airports in the group. Furthermore, drainage system and is treated at the municipal the company has equipment in place on the plant. The airports’ plants use biological, mechanical aircraft aprons of each of our airports to ensure and chemical treatment processes to purify waste that any spills of liquids such as fuels or oil are water to a standard where it is clean enough to be appropriately eliminated before they can be either reused or discharged without presenting a risk flushed into local water sources. to other water sources. The water that is recycled is Overall, in 2015 ASUR’s total water consumption mainly used for watering green areas, which helps to in the nine airports increased by 1.9% from reduce the demands placed by the airports on local 909,949 to 927,038 cubic metres (m3). Water resources. Any water that cannot be stored and used consumption on a per-passenger basis for this purpose is released into either the subsoil or into (measured in litres per passenger) decreased local wetlands, in accordance with the permits issued by 9.7%. The amount of metered discharge by Mexico’s National Water Commission (CONAGUA). decreased by 1.4% in absolute terms (from 258,660 to 255,009 m3), and by 12.7% in litres per passenger.3 F10: Total Water Consumption vs. Passenger Growth 26 1,000,000 23 millions 50 millions 900,000 21 millions 19 25 800,000 18 18 millions millions 17 millions 700,000 16 millions millions 20 600,000 500,000 15 400,000 10 300,000 423,190 m3 569,624 m3 555,939 m3 596,197 m3 701,660 m3 717,969 m3 909,949 m3 927,038 m3 200,000 5 100,000 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION PASSENGERS 3 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 6.3 Environmental Management System. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 33 6.2.4 Waste Management The waste materials that are classified as hazardous under Mexican legislation include a series of toxic, An important aspect in ensuring that our inflammable and corrosive substances, as well as operations do not damage local environments items of equipment that have come into contact and ecosystems is to make sure that all the and are contaminated with these materials. In waste materials generated in our airports are our airports, all substances and articles of this appropriately disposed of. Consequently, each kind are safely stored, appropriately labelled airport has waste management facilities for and eventually handed over to specialist waste hazardous and non-hazardous waste. disposal companies, in strict adherence to the applicable regulations. The waste disposal companies, After an extraordinary result in which are required to be licenced 2014, the recycling programme by the Mexican authorities, eliminate has now begun to operate the hazardous waste using methods materials such as glass, PET plastic, normally. From a total of 4,595 that avoid pollution and provide cardboard and aluminium are tons of refuse produced in 2013, ASUR with waste disposal certificates removed and sent for recycling. Cancún Airport reduced its stating the methods used. Any unusable materials are then non-hazardous waste to 1,038 collected by the municipal refuse Non-hazardous waste is handled tons in 2014 and, following a redisposal service. in completely separate facilities classification of certain materials, at ASUR’s airports to avoid crossto 2,077 tons in 2015 (a reduction contamination. 2015 was the first full of 54.8% compared to the year year of operation of a new refusebefore the programme began). recycling plant at Cancún Airport, Currently, Cancún Airport which has considerably reduced produces approximately 75% of the amount of waste sent to landfill. all non-hazardous waste in the Refuse is brought from all over the group.4 airport to the sorting plant, where 4 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 6.3 Environmental Management System. 34 AS U R ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 6.2.5 Fuel Consumption Petrol (gasoline) and diesel fuels are consumed to operate a wide range of support vehicles, including shuttle buses for transporting passengers to various parts of the airports, utility vehicles, and so on. The total amount of fuel consumed by ASUR’s airports increased from 2014 to 2015 by 9.3%, from 491,514 to 537,332 litres. However, due to the rise in passenger numbers over the same period, on a per-passenger basis this represented a decrease of 3.1%. 5 6.2.6 Biodiversity Issues The measurements of fuel consumption in ASUR’s airports include only the fuel used in ASUR has several programmes in place that the facilities and the vehicles that are the are intended to promote and protect the rich property of the airport company. They do biodiversity in the areas that surround many of not take into account fuel consumed by the our airports. Local species of plants and animals airports’ subcontractors, or that consumed by that are vulnerable or endangered have been aircraft for takeoff and landing procedures. identified, along with natural habitats that are of While ASUR recognises that this information special value. In recent years, the company has may be of interest to our stakeholders, at this undertaken a mangrove-reforestation project time no systems are in place for us to obtain in association with the National Commission for these data. Protected Natural Areas, and has implemented projects to relocate endangered plant species during construction work. The company also implements wildlife-management measures to reduce the risk of impacts between animals and aircraft at our airports, both on the ground and in the air. One of the most significant risks is that of bird strike, which may cause significant damage to aircraft.6 ASUR counters this risk by using trained hawks to scare away other species of birds and prevent them from nesting on airport grounds; the method causes no damage to the bird populations themselves, while guaranteeing aviation safety. 5 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 6.3 Environmental Management System. 6: Bird-strike incidents that cause damage to aircraft are reported to the Mexican civil-aviation authorities by the airlines, as the directly affected parties. ASUR does not compile data on the numbers of bird strikes at or within the vicinity of its airports. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 35 6.3 Environmental Management System ASUR has an Environmental Management System that is applied in all nine of the airports the company operates. The purpose of the system is to establish environmental objectives for each airport, as well as a framework for the achievement of those objectives. The system creates a series of parameters that can be used to monitor and assess each airport’s performance in relation to the environmental objectives established, providing the company management with valuable information for the decision-making process. Environmental objectives are determined by each airport on an ad hoc basis, in order to ensure that local conditions are taken into consideration in ASUR’s environmental protection programme. The full details of the The Environmental Management Systems in each environmental objectives established in 2015 of ASUR’s airports are certified according to ISO for the nine airports in the Group, as well as 14001. The following tables provide an overview of performance against those objectives, can the performance in all nine of ASUR’s airports with be consulted in Appendix A. regard to some of the most relevant environmental parameters established by the System: F11: Summary of Environmental Performance Indicators for All Airports TOTAL FIGURES PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 % CHANGE (´15 VS ´14) ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION m3 717,969 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .909,949 927,038 1.9% ........................................................................ TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... m3 230,958 258,660 255,009 -1.4% TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION KWH 68,995,265 74,288,610 76,500,287 3.0% GJ 248,383 267,439 275,401 3.0% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED kg 23,355 11,888 16,616 39.8% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... t 5,179.1 1,647.7 2,761.6 67.6% TOTAL CONSUMPTION l 472,521 491,514 537,332 9.3% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... PER-PASSENGER BASIS PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE (´15 VS ´14) ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER l/pax ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 33.8 39.0 35.2 -9.7% WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER l/pax ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 10.9 11.1 9.7 -12.7% ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER kWh/pax 3.2 3.2 2.9 -8.8% MJ/pax 11.7 11.5 10.5 -8.8% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 1.1 0.5 0.6 23.8% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.24 0.07 0.10 48.5% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 22.2 21.1 20.4 -3.1% 36 AS U R For a full breakdown of these performance indicators for each of the nine airports operated by ASUR, please refer to Appendix B. The parameters measured are described in more detail below: 1Water Consumption: This parameter refers to the total amount of water consumed 4 by the airports during the year, whether taken from the municipal water supply Hazardous Waste Produced: This parameter or extracted from underground aquifers. refers to the total amount of waste classified Water recycled from treatment plants is not as hazardous under Mexican law, which is included in this figure. Data are provided on produced by the airports and appropriately total consumption (stated in cubic metres), disposed of during the year. Data are provided as well as consumption on a per-passenger on total production (stated in kilograms), as basis (litres per passenger) to provide a more well as production on a per-passenger basis comparable parameter from one airport to (milligrams per passenger) to provide a more 2 another and from one year to another. comparable parameter from on airport to 5 Water Discharged: This parameter refers to another and from one year to another. the total amount of waste water discharged Non-hazardous Waste Produced: This by the airports during the year, in accordance parameter refers to the total amount of waste with the permits obtained from the local classified as non-hazardous under Mexican authorities, following the required treatment law, which is produced by the airports and processes. Data are provided on total disposed of in municipal landfills during the discharge (stated in cubic metres), as well as year. Recycled waste is not included in this discharge on a per-passenger basis (litres per figure. Data are provided on total production passenger) to provide a more comparable (stated in tonnes), as well as production on a parameter from one airport to another and per-passenger basis (kilograms per passenger) 3 from one year to another. to provide a more comparable parameter Electricity Consumption: This parameter from on airport to another and from one year 6 refers to the total amount of electricity to another. consumed by the airports from the national Fuel Consumption: This parameter refers to the grid during the year. Data are provided total amount of petrol (gasoline) and diesel on total consumption (stated in kilowatt consumed by the airports during the year, for hours and the equivalent in gigajoules), as example in utility vehicles and shuttle buses to well as consumption on a per-passenger transport passengers for boarding. Data are basis (kilowatt hours and megajoules per provided on total consumption (stated in litres), passenger) to provide a more comparable as well as consumption on a per-passenger parameter from one airport to another and basis (millilitres per passenger) to provide a from one year to another. These figures state more comparable parameter from one airport only the intermediate energy produced by to another and from one year to another. Mexico’s Federal Electricity Commission and purchased by ASUR. At this time, data are not available that allow a calculation of the amount of direct energy consumed in order to produce the electricity. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 37 6.4 Environmental Certification As of the 31st of December 2015, the environmental management systems in place in all of ASUR’s airports have valid ISO 14001 certification. The airports at Cancún, Huatulco and Oaxaca were recertified for the period 2015-2018, and those at Cozumel, Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa were recertified for the period 2013-2016. Mexico’s Environmental Protection Agency (Profepa) also performs audits once every two years to ensure that ASUR’s airports are in full compliance with the country’s environmental legislation. Following the inspection procedure, provided that no violations of environmental legislation are identified, the individual airports are issued certificates confirming their compliance with the law. All nine of ASUR’s airports currently have valid environmental compliance certification: the airports at Cancún, Mérida, Minatitlán and Veracruz were recertified during 2015, and those at Cozumel, Huatulco, Oaxaca, Tapachula and Villahermosa are due to be audited during 2016. To date, no administrative or judicial sanctions, including fines or non-monetary penalties, have been imposed on the company for failure to comply with national, international or local environmental laws or regulations. 38 AS U R SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 07 QUALITY OF LIFE FOR EMPLOYEES s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 39 07 Quality of life for employees As a fundamental part of ASUR’s duty of care toward its employees, we aim to provide decent working conditions in all the subsidiaries that form part of the Group. The company’s main goal in relation to human resources is to ensure that our airports constitute a reliable source of safe employment for local populations. Between 2014 and 2015, the number of full-time employees in our organisation increased by 0.5%, while our agency-hired employees increased by 1.1%. During the period, we have maintained both a low level of staff turnover and an excellent occupational health and safety record. Further information on these aspects is available in Sections 7.1 and 7.2 of this report. Positive relations between the company’s employees and management are also a priority for ASUR. 37% of the company’s employees are unionised, and the company enjoys a good working relationship with the union. The company has a written “open-doors” communication policy, according to which all staff members are free to approach any member of management with consultations or complaints at any time. Employees are also given the option of submitting any grievances they have via the company’s internal reporting system; these reports are investigated confidentially by the Internal Auditing Department to identify any instances of inappropriate behaviour on the part of those involved and to reach amicable solutions whenever possible. 40 AS U R The company has a permanent training programme for employees in all ten locations where we have operations (the head offices in Mexico City and the nine airports). During 2015, training was provided to staff members in a wide range of areas, covering topics such as technical systems training, aviation security, fire safety and first aid. A total of The company has a series of written policies 110,248 hours of training was provided for the covering different aspects that relate to company’s 939 employees during the year.1 its human resources, such as recruitment In addition to the professional development practices, holiday entitlements, work-life of staff members, the company plans a balance and occupational health and safety. series of activities, to provide an opportunity Additionally, company policy mandates for employees to socialise and to support the protection of employees’ human rights, local cultural traditions. Among the events such as the right to equal opportunity and organised in 2015 were sporting events, non-discrimination, the right to personal and as well as celebrations of Children’s Day, physical integrity and the right to exercise Mothers’ Day, Father’s Day, Christmas and the fundamental liberties, including freedom traditional Mexican festivities of the Epiphany of association. Regular internal campaigns (Día de Reyes) and the Day of the Dead (Día are carried out to ensure that all company de Muertos). employees are aware of these policies, as well as the provisions of ASUR’s Code of Ethics, which include information on the internal reporting system for grievances. On a day-to-day basis, labour issues within the organisation are the responsibility of the company’s Human Resources Manager, who is based at the company’s headquarters in Mexico City and oversees the human resources team in each of the airports. Certain labour relations issues, such as the renegotiation of the collective bargaining agreement with the union, are handled directly by the Chief Executive Officer. 1: Calculated in the basis of the total duration of training courses, multiplied by the number of trainees s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 41 7.1 Description of Workforce As of the 31st of December 2015, the majority of ASUR’s workforce was employed on a permanent, full-time basis; of a total workforce of 1,121 people, 939 (84%) had indefinite, written labour contracts for full-time employment. Among full-time employees, a staff rotation rate of 7.4% was achieved during the year; this is calculated on the basis of the number of people who left the company for whatever reason, including retirements, resignations and dismissals, as a percentage of total employees. The following table shows a breakdown of the 939 permanent employees of the company according to the location where they work: F12: Breakdown of ASUR Workforce (Permanent Employees) on Geographic Basis CITY STATE Nº OF EMPLOYEES UNIONISED % NON-UNIONISED % ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... CANCÚN QUINTANA ROO 443 127 29% 316 71% ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... MÉRIDA YACATÁN 97 45 46% 52 54% ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... COZUMEL QUINTANA ROO 62 36 58% 26 42% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ VERACRUZ VERACRUZ 62 28 45% 34 55% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ VILLAHERMOSA TABASCO 58 28 48% 30 52% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ TAPACHULA CHIAPAS 49 24 49% 25 51% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ CIUDAD DE MÉXICO D.F. 47 0 0% 47 100% ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... OAXACA OAXACA 45 22 49% 23 51% ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HUATULCO OAXACA 40 20 50% 20 50% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ MINATITLÁN VERACRUZ 36 16 44% 20 56% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ TOTAL 939 346 37% 593 63% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The remaining 182 workers (16% of total workforce) were employed on a temporary basis via an employment agency, to cover non-permanent absences such as maternity leave or for interim positions. These temporary workers are distributed among the airports on an ad hoc basis, as needed. As of the 31st of December 2015, the geographic distribution of ASUR’s 182 temporary workers was as follows: 146 at Cancún Airport; 9 at Mérida Airport; 8 at Veracruz Airport; 7 at Cozumel Airport; 5 at Villahermosa Airport; 3 at Huatulco Airport; 2 at Oaxaca Airport; and 2 at Tapachula Airport. 42 AS U R ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ASUR’s unionised workers all belong to the National Airport Industry Workers Union (Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Industria Aeroportuaria y de Servicios In addition to the permanent employees Similares y Conexos de la República and the agency-hired personnel mentioned Mexicana). Once every two years, the above, there are significant numbers of company management and the union workers based at each of the company’s undertake a collective bargaining procedure airports who are not directly employed by to determine employment conditions for the company. They may be broken down into unionised employees and the benefits that a number of different categories, including: they are entitled to. The agreements reached government employees, such as those in this negotiation are formalised in a written working for the air-traffic-control, immigration collective labour agreement that is signed and customs services; the employees of by the representatives of the company and ASUR’s commercial concession holders, the union. The renegotiation process was such as food and beverage or retail outlets undertaken during 2014, and the current and car rental offices; the employees of collective bargaining agreement will be valid other businesses with a permanent base at until 2016. the airport, such as ramp service providers and the airlines; and the employees of Among the benefits negotiated with the union those companies subcontracted by ASUR for the 2014-2016 period are: higher rates of to provide specific services in the airports. In pay for special shifts or activities that imply a the latter case, the most significant services higher level of risk; life and disability insurance; subcontracted by ASUR in all nine of its airports Christmas bonuses and holiday entitlements; are cleaning services for terminal buildings, support for childcare; support in the event administrative offices, and so on; and security of a death in the family; and scholarships services, including general surveillance staff to enable employees and their children to and the personnel manning security filters complete their basic education, as well as and passenger inspection points. an allowance for their books, stationery, and other school equipment. At this time, data are not available in relation to employment types, contract types or The company’s non-unionised workers collective bargaining agreements for the are also offered a series of employment aforementioned workers. benefits, such as health and life insurance, holiday entitlements, Christmas bonuses, matching-funds savings accounts and, in some cases, performance bonuses, that are in excess of the minimum benefits required under Mexican labour legislation. 7.2 Safety in the Workplace The right to physical integrity, and therefore In the period in question, there were in total ten a safe workplace that does not expose cases of accidents in the workplace, affecting 1.1% employees to unnecessary risks, is included in of staff members, with no cases of occupational the company’s written policies. During 2015, disease and no fatalities. During the year, the total the 939 permanent employees of ASUR worked number of lost days resulting from these accidents a total of 2,719,344 hours, equivalent to 339,918 was 424, equivalent to 0.12% of total days worked. days (eight-hour shifts). In accordance with the system Minor accidents requiring first-aid These data refer exclusively to the used by the Mexican Social Security treatment only are not included 939 direct, full-time employees of Institute, accidents in the workplace in the number of accidents in the ASUR as of the 31st of December are defined as incidents leading workplace. 2015. At this time, there are no to an injury that requires the staff In the same period, the absentee systems in place that require member in question to miss one rate (defined as the total number subcontractors, service providers or more days of work. The total of days that employees were or other parties with employees number of lost days includes all absent from work due to general, working at the airport to provide calendar days between the initial non-work-related illness or when ASUR with accident, injury and accident and the date on which no justification was presented for absenteeism data. the employee returns to work, even the absence) corresponded to when these days are not working a total of 1,828 days, or 0.54% of days. The date on which the total days worked. accident occurs is counted as day one for this purpose. 44 AS U R SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 08 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND SUPPORT s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 45 08 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Community involvement and support The contribution that ASUR makes towards creating decent living standards for its employees and their families is undoubtedly one of the most important ways in which the company provides support for local communities. The basis for this is the financial success of our business, and we are therefore constantly seeking ways in which we can increase value for both our shareholders and other stakeholders. We are aware that the airports we operate play a significant role in facilitating business for other companies and individuals in the regions where they are located; our airports form a key part of local transport networks, and are therefore important for the promotion of regional economic development. As a matter of policy, ASUR undertakes a series of activities intended to raise the profile of the destinations where we operate. We have a dedicated Route Development team, whose job it is to promote our destinations with the world’s airlines. The goal of this is to bring in more flights to our destinations, and more visitors mean increased revenues for local businesses as well as our airports. We also participate in networking conventions and congresses around the world relating to the airport and tourism industries, often in coordination with the Mexican federal and state tourism authorities and local business groups. 46 AS U R ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 In addition to any direct or indirect economic impacts created by our operations, however, we recognise that the success of our business also depends on establishing good relations with our local communities, and on ensuring that our operations are of mutual benefit to both the company and all its stakeholders. To this end, each of our airports provides support at the local level for a wide range of community projects. Our corporate policies also include stated commitments to run our business ethically and to avoid practices that promote corruption or are harmful to fair trade. Sections 8.2 and 5.2 of this report contain more detailed information on ASUR’s community involvement and As per the methodology established in the anticorruption measures. Global Reporting Initiative’s sustainability reporting guidelines, the figures in this table are based on ASUR’s audited financial statements for the year 2015, which are 8.1 Direct Economic Benefits prepared in accordance with Mexican financial reporting standards. The item “Total economic value generated” corresponds to The table below provides a breakdown of the the company’s revenues. Under “Economic economic value generated, distributed and value distributed”, the item of “Payments retained by ASUR in 2015. to providers of capital” includes interests on loans and dividends paid to shareholders. “Payments to governments” correspond F13: Economic Value Generated, Distributed and Retained to taxes, and the figure for community investments includes all cash donations, as ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED well as the estimated values of donations ........................................................................................................................................... in kind and man hours used for volunteer TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED 8,994.5 projects. ........................................................................................................................................... During the year 2015, ASUR did not receive ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED ........................................................................................................................................... any financial assistance from the Mexican OPERATING COSTS 4,476.1 ............................................................................................................................................ government. EMPLOYEE WAGES & BENEFITS 435.2 ............................................................................................................................................ PAYMENTS TO PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL 1,606.5 ............................................................................................................................................ PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS 1,494.1 ............................................................................................................................................ COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS 10.4 ............................................................................................................................................ TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 8,022.4 ............................................................................................................................................ ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED ............................................................................................................................................ TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 972.2 ............................................................................................................................................ (FIGURES STATED IN MILLIONS OF MEXICAN PESOS) s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 47 8.2 Community Involvement Community Involvement The nine airports of ASUR are involved in various community projects at the local level. These projects are selected and administered by each airport individually, to respond to local needs and to promote a sense of ownership and greater commitment. Support is provided monetarily and in the form of donations of goods and services, as well as volunteering. The total value of cash donations, donations in kind and man hours in 2015 is estimated at approximately $10.9 million pesos. During the period, the projects supported fell under four In the field of assistance for people with main categories: public health services, care disabilities, upgrades were made and for people with disabilities, education and equipment acquired to improve disabled culture, and the environment. accessibility in several of the group’s airports, The organisations that received support and an awareness campaign was provided from ASUR in the healthcare sector included throughout the year for all company the Mexican Red Cross. For the seventh employees. year running, a fundraising 5K and 10K race In relation to education, the various airports was organised at Cancún Airport, and the in the group continued to organise guided proceeds were donated to a local charity tours of their facilities for local educational that raises awareness and provides support establishments. In the field of culture, Mérida for sufferers of breast cancer. An awareness Airport continued to host art exhibitions in its campaign was implemented throughout the terminal building. company to promote healthy eating, and a focused workshop on weight gain and Finally, several of the group’s airports also diabetes prevention was provided for airport participated in different ways to support fire fighters and their families. environmental initiatives in their local communities. Among the projects were donations and volunteering for local beach-cleaning initiatives. 48 AS U R SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 09 COMMITMENT TO HUMAN RIGHTS s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 49 9 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Commitment to human rights The goal of ASUR’s management in relation to human rights is to ensure that the company and its employees do not incur any human rights violations, and that in those cases where possible abuses are detected, the corresponding steps are taken to resolve them quickly, efficiently and transparently. The Internal Auditing Department is entrusted with investigating any potential human rights abuses. The head of this Department reports directly to the Audit Committee, which is ultimately responsible for enforcement of the company’s policies on human rights. Internal campaigns are carried out on at least an annual basis, in which employees are encouraged to use the company’s reporting system to notify the Internal Auditing Department of any rights abuses. ASUR has a written policy in which the company formally sets forth its commitment to upholding and promoting human rights. This policy expressly states that the company will guarantee its employees the right to personal integrity, which means that workers may not be subjected to corporal punishment or verbal abuse of any nature, and that sexual harassment of any kind is strictly forbidden. 50 AS U R The policy also represents a statement of the company’s position on gender equality and non-discrimination: it contains a clause that guarantees equal opportunity for all in hirings, promotions, salary levels, training and day-to-day treatment, regardless of ethnicity, nationality, gender, marital status, physical ability, religion, sexual orientation, social circumstances or political affiliation. During 2015, one complaint of sexual harassment by a superior was received. The matter According to the company’s policy on was investigated by the Internal Auditing human rights, ASUR does not use or benefit Department, and the grievance was found to from forced labour or child labour of any be justified. The ASUR employee responsible kind. All working agreements are governed was dismissed. by consensual, written employment The company has assumed the obligation contracts, and the company’s policy is not to protect its employees’ right to freedom of to employ anyone who is under 15 years of association. As mentioned in Section 7.1 of age. Currently, no one under the age of 18 is this report, the company management and employed by ASUR and no situations involving the airport workers’ union adhere to a regular forced labour have been identified. collective bargaining procedure to establish Finally, the company has the obligation employment conditions and benefits for to avoid any situations in which it might be unionised employees. During 2015, no complicit in human rights abuses; in practical threats were identified to the freedom of terms this means that no investments should association or collective bargaining rights of be made in, or products and services the company’s employees. procured from, other companies that incur human-rights violations. During the period, no instances of human rights violations have been identified in the company’s supply chain. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 10 EXTERNAL PROGRAMMES 52 AS U R ANNUAL 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 External programmes 10.1 Sustainability Indices In 2011, ASUR was selected as one of the first group of companies to be part of the Mexico Stock Exchange Sustainability Index. To be considered for inclusion in the index, companies’ practices and procedures in the areas of environment, governance and stakeholder issues are subject to a rigorous evaluation process, with the intention that the index can be used as a responsibleinvestment guide for ethical investors. As of the 31st of December 2015, ASUR continues to form part of the Mexico Stock Exchange Sustainability Index. In 2015, ASUR was also included for the second time in the New York Stock Exchange’s Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 10.2 United Nations Global Compact The Global Compact is a voluntary initiative established by the United Nations to promote the values of social responsibility and respect for human rights in businesses around the world. ASUR became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2005, and the Chairman of ASUR’s Board of Directors, Fernando Chico Pardo, held a position on the UNGC’s Board of Directors between 2009 and 2012. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 53 F14: United Nations Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE 1 1 PRINCIPLE 1.0PRINCIPLE 1.0 Businesses Businesses should supportshould support and respect and respect the protection theofprotection internationallyof internationally proclaimed proclaimed human rightshuman rights Section 8.0: Commitment Section 8.0: Commitment to Human Rights to Human Rights 2 2 PRINCIPLE 2.0 PRINCIPLE 2.0 Businesses Businesses should make should sure that make theysure that they are not are not complicit complicit in human rights abusesrights abuses in human Section 8.0: Commitment Section 8.0: Commitment to Human Rights to Human Rights 3 3 PRINCIPLE 3.0 PRINCIPLE 3.0 Businesses Businesses should upholdshould uphold the freedom the freedom of associationofandassociation and the effective the effective recognition ofrecognition the right toofcollective the right bargaining to collective bargaining Section 6.1: Section 6.1: Description ofDescription Workforce of Workforce Section 8.0: Commitment Section 8.0: Commitment to Human Rights to Human Rights 4 4 PRINCIPLE 4.0 PRINCIPLE 4.0 ASUR currently has a representative on the Businesses Businesses should upholdshould uphold the elimination the elimination Steering Committee of the local network of of all forms ofofforced all formsandof forced andlabour compulsory compulsory labour the UNGC in Mexico. The company provides Section 8.0: Commitment to Human Rights Section 8.0: Commitment to Human Rights 5 5 funding for the activities of the UNGC at both the national and international levels. PRINCIPLE 5.0 PRINCIPLE 5.0 Businesses Businesses should upholdshould uphold the effective the effective The UNGC asks companies to embrace, abolition abolition of child labour of child labour support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas Section 8.0: Commitment Section 8.0: Commitment to Human Rights to Human Rights of human rights, labour standards, the 6 6 PRINCIPLE 6.0 PRINCIPLE 6.0 environment and anti-corruption; these core values are the Ten Principles. Below is a table Businesses Businesses should upholdshould uphold the elimination the elimination of discrimination of discrimination in respect of in respect of that states what the Ten Principles are and employment employment and occupation and occupation where they are addressed in the text of this Section 8.0: Commitment Section 8.0: Commitment to Human Rights to Human Rights report. 7 7 PRINCIPLE 7.0 PRINCIPLE 7.0 Businesses Businesses should supportshould support a precautionary a precautionary approach to environmental approach to environmental challenges challenges Section 5.0: Environmental Section 5.0: Environmental ResponsibilityResponsibility PRINCIPLE 8.0 PRINCIPLE 8.0 8 8 Businesses Businesses should should undertake undertake initiatives initiatives to promote to promote greater greater environmental environmental responsibilityresponsibility Section 5.0: Environmental Section 5.0: Environmental ResponsibilityResponsibility 9 9 PRINCIPIO 9.0 PRINCIPIO 9.0 Businesses Businesses should should encourage theencourage the developmentdevelopment and diffusion and diffusion of environmentally of environmentally friendly technologies friendly technologies Section 5.0: Environmental Section 5.0: Environmental ResponsibilityResponsibility 10 10 PRINCIPIO 10.0 PRINCIPIO 10.0 Businesses Businesses should should work work against against corruption corruption in all its forms, all its forms, in including extortion andextortion including bribery and bribery Section 7.3 : Anticorruption Section 7.3 : Anticorruption Measures Measures 54 AS U R SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 11 GRI STANDAR DISCLOSURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 55 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 11 GRI Standar disclosures and performance indicators This report has been prepared in accordance with the G4 sustainability reporting guidelines and the Airport Operator Sector Supplement (AOSS) published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Global Reporting Initiative is a network-based organisation that promotes the use of a standardised framework for sustainability reporting. In 2009 and 2010, ASUR participated in the GRI multidisciplinary working group that brought together representatives of airports from around the world and their stakeholders, and which produced the aforementioned sector supplement for the airport industry, published in 2011. Below is an index of the GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators that are addressed in this report, and where the relevant information can be found in this document. 56 AS U R ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 F15: : Index of GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators GRI REPORTING PARAMETER STANDARD DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION G4-12Description Statement from the most senior G4-1 of the organisation’s decision-maker of the organisation supply chain about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy Refer to section 2.8 Refer to section 1.0 DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION G4-3Name of the organisation G4-13period Significant changes during the reporting regarding size, structure, or ownership Refer to section 2.0 Refer to section 2.6 DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services G4-14Precautionary principle Refer to section 2.1 Refer to section 3.1 DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION G4-5Location of organisation’s headquarters G4-15Externally developed initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses Refer to section 2.0 Refer to section 11 DESCRIPTION G4-6Number DESCRIPTION and names of countries where the organisation operates G4-16the Memberships of associations in which organisation holds a position on Refer to section 2.0 the governance body DESCRIPTION Refer to section 10.0 G4-7Nature of ownership and legal form DESCRIPTION Refer to section 2.3 G4-17organisation’s List of entities included in the financial statements or equivalent documents DESCRIPTION G4-8Markets served Refer to section 2.4 Refer to section 2.5 DESCRIPTION Process for defining report content and G4-18 DESCRIPTION aspect boundaries, and how the organisation G4-9Scale of the reporting organisation has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content Refer to section 2.4 Refer to section 3.1 Refer to section 2.5 DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION G4-10Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region G4-19List of all material aspects identified in the process for defining report content Refer to section 7.1 Refer to section 3.1 DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collection bargaining agreements G4-20For each material aspect, aspect boundary within the organisation Refer to section 7.1 Refer to section 3.1 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 57 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION G4-21For each material aspect, aspect G4-30Reporting cycle D boundary outside the organisation Refer to section 3.0 Refer to section 3.1 DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION ng G4-22provided Effects of any restatements of information G4-31Contact point for questions regarding in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements the report or its contents D Refer to section 3.0 Refer to section 3.2 DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION G4-32Table identifying the location of the D G4-23Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and Standard Disclosures in the report Refer to section 11 aspect boundaries Refer to section 3.2 DESCRIPTION ch DESCRIPTION G4-33Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report D G4-24List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Refer to section 3.2 Refer to section 3.1 DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION G4-34Governance structure of the organisation D G4-25ofto engage Basis for identification and selection Refer to section 4.0 stakeholders with whom DESCRIPTION Refer to section 3.1 Description of the organisation’s values, DESCRIPTION G4-56principles, standards and norms of behaviour, such as codes of conduct G4-26Organisation’s approach to stakeholder and codes of ethics engagement Refer to section 4.4 Refer to section 3.1 DESCRIPTION d isation ples G4-27Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement Refer to section 3.1 DESCRIPTION G4-28Reporting period t Refer to section 3.0 DESCRIPTION G4-29Date of most recent previous report Refer to section 3.0 58 AS U R ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH PERFORMANCE INDICATORS DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION DMADisclosure on Management Approach; Environment G4-EN1Materials used by weight or volume G4-E Refer to section 6.2.5 Refer to section 6.1 DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION DMADisclosure on Management Approach; Labour G4-EN2Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials G4Refer to section 7.0 Refer to section 6.2.5 DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION DMADisclosure on Management Approach; Economic G4-EN3Energy consumption within the organisation Refer to section 8.0 Refer to section 6.2.2 Refer to section 6.2.5 G4DESCRIPTION DMADisclosure on Management Approach; Society DESCRIPTION ort Refer to section 8.0 G4-EN6Reduction of energy consumption DESCRIPTION Refer to section 6.2.2 Refer to section 6.2.5 G4n DMADisclosure Human Rights on Management Approach; DESCRIPTION Refer to section 9.0 G4-EN8Total water withdrawal by source Refer to section 6.2.3 DESCRIPTION G4G4-EN15Direct greenhouse-gas emissions (Scope 1) Refer to section 6.1 DESCRIPTION G4G4-EN16Energy indirect greenhouse-gas emissions (Scope 2) Refer to section 6.1 DESCRIPTION G4G4-EN23Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Refer to section 6.2.4 DESCRIPTION G4G4-EN27Extent of mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Refer to section 2.6 Refer to section 6.2..1 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 59 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION Operations and suppliers identified in which G4-HR4 the right to exercise freedom of association DESCRIPTION and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to Monetary value of significant fines and support these rights ume G4-EN29 total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental Refer to section 9.0 laws and regulations Refer to section 6.4 DESCRIPTION Operations and suppliers identified as having at are DESCRIPTION G4-HR5significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the Type of injury and rates of injury, effective abolition of child labour G4-LA6occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of Refer to section 9.0 work-related fatalities, by region Refer to section 7.2 DESCRIPTION organisation DESCRIPTION Operations and suppliers identified as having G4-EC1Direct economic value generated and distributed G4-HR6significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced Refer to section 8.1 or compulsory labour Refer to section 9.0 on DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION G4-EC4Significant financial assistance received from government Total number of passengers annually, broken down by passengers on international and Refer to section 8.1 AO1 domestic flights and broken down by origin-and-destination passengers and transfer, ce including transit, passengers DESCRIPTION Refer to section 2.5 Total number and percentage of operations G4-SO3 assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified DESCRIPTION s Refer to section 5.2 Annual total number of aircraft movements by day and by night, broken down by DESCRIPTION AO2 commercial passenger, commercial cargo, general aviation and state aviation flights G4-SO4Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Refer to section 2.5 Refer to section 5.2 DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION AO4 Quality of storm water by applicable regulatory standards G4-SO5Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Refer to section 6.2.3 Refer to section 5.2 DESCRIPTION nd DESCRIPTION AO6 Aircraft and pavement de-icing / anti-icing fluid used and treated by m3 and/or tonnes G4-HR3Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Refer to section 6.2.3 ental Refer to section 9.0 DESCRIPTION s AO9 Total annual number of wildlife strikes per 10,000 aircraft movements Refer to section 6.2.6 60 AS U R SUSTEINABILITY REPORT 2015 APPENDIX s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 61 AppendixA ASUR ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE, 2015 AIRPORT OBJECTIVE ACTIVITIES MEASUREMENT PARAMETER PROGRESS/RESULT .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Protect species of flora that are Identify, recover and replant 54,000 CANCÚN threatened or are of special environmental interest specimens from the areas affected by infrastructure expansion Percent of target achieved 100% .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Extension of wastewater-treatment CANCÚN Maintain quality of water discharged plant to cover additional demand from Terminal 3 Percent conclusion of works 100% ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Replacement of fluorescent light fittings COZUMEL Reduce electricity consumption with energy-saving devices (LEDs) in Percentage of bulbs replaced 100% boarding lounges ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Reduce noise pollution and fuel Replacement of obsolete emergency COZUMEL consumption power plant Percent conclusion of works 100% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Replacement of 25 air-conditioning COZUMEL Elimination of greenhouse-effect cooling gas units with equipment that uses Percent conclusion of works 100% environmentally friendly cooling gas ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Replacement of obsolete 6-cylinder COZUMEL Reduce fuel consumption utilitary vehicles with new 4-cylinder Percent progress 100% vehicles ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Construction of access point in HUATULCO Reduce risk of toxic-substance spills and soil pollution electricity substation no. 2 to facilitate Percent conclusion of works 100% unloading of diesel ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. HUATULCO Reduce risk of toxic-substance spills and soil pollution Construction of vehicle-access ramp to blue-water sump and replacement Percent conclusion of works 100% of gratings .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. HUATULCO Improve handling processes for special waste Installation of sliding roof on sludge-drying bed in Percent conclusion of works 100% wastewater-treatment plant ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Recovery of cooking oil used on airport HUATULCO Improve handling processes for special waste premises and delivery for recycling on Number of deliveries 2 biannual basis ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Participation with donations and/or HUATULCO Improve community relations and support for sommunity projects volunteering in three activities linked to sustainable development in Number of events supported 3 the community .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. HUATULCO Support for local community institutions Donation of excess materials or obsolete equipment on biannual basis Number of donations 2 ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. HUATULCO Reduce amount of hazardous waste generated Recycling of minimum of 90% of ink and toner cartrisges used in the airport Percent of cartridges recycled 100% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Recycling of 80% of PET-plastic and Percent of PET & Reduce amount of non-hazardous HUATULCO waste generated cardboard waste generated at the airport cardboard recycled 80% .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Use of 100% of recoverable, Percent of recoverable, HUATULCO Reduce amount of non-hazardous waste generated non-hazardous, organic waste as compost for green areas and non-hazardous, 100% organic waste used gardens at the airport .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Maintain total consumption of Implementation of various control MÉRIDA electricity within range of ± 25% measures in different areas Change in consumption compared to 2014 0.1% compared to 2014 of the airport ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Implementation of various control MÉRIDA Maintain water consumption within range of ± 30% compared to 2014 measures in different areas of the airport Change in consumption compared to 2014 8.7% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. MÉRIDA Reduce fuel consumption Replacement programme for airport vehicles Change in consumption compared to 2014 -22.0% .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Installation of dedicated septic tank for MÉRIDA Improve quality of water discharged wastewater from Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting facility Percent conclusion of works 100% .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. MINATITLÁN Reduce total water consumption by 1%, compared to 2014 Implementation of various control measures in different areas of the airport Change in consumption compared to 2014 16.6% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Implementation of various control Change in consumption MINATITLÁN Reduce total electricity consumption by 5%, compared to 2014 measures in different areas of the airport compared to 2014 -14.2% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. MINATITLÁN Reduce total fuel consumption by 2%, Implementation of various control compared to 2014 measures in different areas of the airport Change in consumption compared to 2014 1.3% 62 AS U R .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Reduce per-passenger water Change in per-passenger OAXACA consumption by 4%, compared Implementation of various control measures in different areas of the airport consumption compared 24.2% to 2014 to 2014 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Installation of dedicated septic tank for MÉRIDA Improve quality of water discharged wastewater from Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting facility Percent conclusion of works 100% .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. MINATITLÁN Reduce total water consumption by 1%, compared to 2014 Implementation of various control measures in different areas of the airport Change in consumption compared to 2014 16.6% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Implementation of various control Change in consumption MINATITLÁN Reduce total electricity consumption by 5%, compared to 2014 measures in different areas of the airport compared to 2014 -14.2% ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. MINATITLÁN Reduce total fuel consumption by 2%, Implementation of various control compared to 2014 measures in different areas of the airport Change in consumption compared to 2014 1.3% .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Reduce per-passenger water Change in per-passenger OAXACA consumption by 4%, compared Implementation of various control measures in different areas of the airport consumption compared 24.2% to 2014 to 2014 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Improve processes for use of Replacement of roofing over compost OAXACA non-hazardous, organic waste facility at the airport Percent conclusion of works 100% .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Plant 200 local trees in areas OAXACA Contribute to reforestation projects close to airport Number of trees planted 200 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Extension of programme to ensure OAXACA Reduce / limit vehicle emissions vehicles used by airport community comply with emissions-testing Percent increase in vehicles inspected 5% requirements .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Creation of inventory of at-risk wildlife TAPACHULA Improve processes to manage biodoversity species present in federal zone of the airport and classification according Percent progress 100% to regulations in force .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. TAPACHULA Reduce total fuel consumption by 5%, compared to 2014 Implementation of various control Change in consumption compared to 2014 15.6% measures in different areas of the airport .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Reduce total amount of TAPACHULA non-hazardous waste generated Implementation of various control measures in different areas of the airport Change in consumption compared to 2014 -4.5% by 5%, compared to 2014 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. VERACRUZ Improve quality of water discharged Installation of pre-treatment systems for water in rental-car areas Percent conclusion of works 100% .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. VERACRUZ Reduce water consumption Installation of signs in public toilets as part of campaign for reduced water use Number of signs installed 11 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Installation of signs with steps to follow VERACRUZ Reduce water consumption to report leaks as part of campaign for reduced water use Number of signs installed 12 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. VERACRUZ Reduce water consumption Monthly inspections of meters in hangars and fuel-supply facilities Number of monthly inspections 12 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. VERACRUZ Improve measurement of Installation of 4 additional meters in rental-car facilities, Airport Rescue Number of items of 4 water consumption equipment installed and Fire Fighting facilities, and hangars .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. VERACRUZ Reduce electricity consumption Installation of automatic timers on lighting posts on airport apron Number of items of equipment installed 4 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Replacement of incandescent lights VERACRUZ Reduce electricity consumption for energy-saving fixtures on advertising hoardings on airport Number of bulbs replaced 12 access road .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. VERACRUZ Reduce electricity consumption Installation of signs in administrative offices as part of electricity-saving Number of signs installed 20 campaign .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. VERACRUZ Reduce emissions of pollutants into atmosphere Up-to-date emissions testing for 8 utilitary vehicles Number of vehicles inspected 8 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. VERACRUZ Improve handling processes for non-hazardous waste Installation of refuse containers that separate organic and inorganic waste Number of items of equipment installed 6 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Replacement of automatic paper-towel VERACRUZ Reduce hazardous waste generated dispensers that use batteries in Number of items of 5 terminal-building toilets with manual equipment replaced dispensers .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Replacement of 65 conventional VILLAHERMOSA Reduce electricity consumption lighting fixtures with LED lamps in different areas of the airport Number of bulbs replaced 65 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Reduce non-hazardous Separation and collection of PET VILLAHERMOSA waste generated plastic in all working areas for recycling Quantity of PET recycled 86% .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 63 AppendixB ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS ASUR ALL AIRPORTS TOTAL FIGURES PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 % CHANGE (´15 VS ´14) ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION M3 717,969 909,949 927,038 1.,9% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED M3 230,958 258,660 255,009 -1.4% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION KWH 68,995,265 74,288,610 76,500,287 3.0% GJ 248,383 267,439 275,401 3.0% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG 23,355 11,888 16,616 39.8% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED T 5,179.1 1,647.7 2,761.6 67.6% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL CONSUMPTION L 472,521 491,514 537,332 9.3% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... PER-PASSENGER BASIS PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE (´15 VS ´14) ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER l/pax 33.8 39.0 35.2 -9.7% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER l/pax 10.9 11.1 9.7 -12.7% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER kWh/pax 3.2 3.2 2.9 -8.8% MJ/pax 11.7 11.5 10.5 -8.8% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 1.1 0.5 0.6 23.8% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.24 0.07 0.10 48.5% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax 22.2 21.1 20.4 -3.1% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... CANCÚN AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE (´15 VS ´14) ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION M3 435,900 604,470 582,229 -3.7% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED M3 158,300 194,223 157,438 -18.9% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION KWH 47,735,424 52,684,731 53,147,523 0.9% 171,848 189,665 191,331 0.9% GJ ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG 8,600 2,517 3,093 22.9% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED T 4,594.7 1,038.1 2,076.7 100.0% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL CONSUMPTION L 258,780 277,242 316,311 14.1% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... PER-PASSENGER BASIS PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE (´15 VS ´14) ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER l/pax 27.2 34.5 29.6 -14.3% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER l/pax 9.9 11.1 8.0 -27.8% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3.0 3.0 2.7 -10.2% ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER kWh/pax 10.7 10.8 9.7 -10.2% MJ/pax ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 0.5 0.1 0.2 9.4% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.29 0.06 0.11 78.1% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 16.1 15.8 16.1 1.6% FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... COZUMEL AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE (´15 VS ´14) ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION M3 20,208 21,892 25,323 15.7% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED M3 19,767 14,081 44,838 218.4% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION KWH 2,486,311 2,611,287 2,732,639 4.6% GJ 8,951 9,401 9,838 4.6% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG 4,770 3,376 3,007 -10.9% 64 AS U R ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED T 40.3 55.5 72.3 30.4% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL CONSUMPTION L 26,018 23,300 25,500 9.4% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER g/pax ml/pax 1.6% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.29 0.06 0.11 78.1% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 16.1 15.8 16.1 1.6% FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ml/pax COZUMEL AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES COZUMEL PARAMETER AIRPORT UNIT MMT 2013 %CHANGE 2014 2015 TOTAL. . . FIGURES .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (´15 VS ´14) COZUMELTOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . AIRPORT PARAMETER WATER CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .UNIT M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . .MMT 20,208 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2013 21,892 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014 25,323 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .%CHANGE 15.7% ......................... TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . DISCHARGED M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19,767 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14,081. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44,838 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .218.4% TOTAL . . . . FIGURES (´15 VS ´14) ................... TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. M3 20,208 21,892 25,323 15.7% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .KWH TOTAL PARAMETER ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION UNIT M3MMT 2,486,311 2013 2014 2,611,287 ........................................................................................................................... 2,732,639 2015 %CHANGE 4.6% TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .GJ 19,767 14,081 44,838 218.4% (´15 VS ´14) 8,951 9,401 .......................................................................................................................... 9,838 4.6% TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ELECTRICITY TOTAL KWH M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,486,311 . . . .20,208 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4.6% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,611,287 21,892 25,323 15.7% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,732,639 ................. ............................................................................. ................................................... TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED M3 19,767 14,081 44,838 218.4% TOTAL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .KG GJ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4,7708,951 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,376. .9,401 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.6% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3,007 9,838 -10.9% ................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ELECTRICITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .KWH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . .T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,486,311 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,611,287 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.6% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,732,639 TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED 40.3 55.5 72.3 30.4% ................. TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . KG GJ 4,770 3,376 ......................................................................................................................... 9,401 3,007 -10.9% 4.6% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .L . . .8,951 . . . 9,838 TOTAL CONSUMPTION . .........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26,018 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25,500 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23,300 ............................................................................................................................................................................................................9.4% ............................................... TOTAL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . NON-HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED ................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40.3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55.5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72.3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30.4% .................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG L 4,770 3,376 3,007 -10.9% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION 26,018 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23,300 25,500 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9.4% .................. ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED T 40.3 55.5 72.3 30.4% PER-PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .BASIS............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ TOTAL CONSUMPTION L 26,018 23,300 25,500 9.4% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . UNIT PARAMETER . . . . . . . . . . . . .MMT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2014. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .%CHANGE ........................... PER-PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . BASIS ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (´15 VS ´14) WATER . .PARAMETER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .UNIT l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . MMT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2013 43.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014 41.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2015 45.1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . %CHANGE 7.7% .......................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .DISCHARGED .WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PER. . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .196.6% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79.9 (´15 VS ´14) PER-PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .BASIS ................... WATER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER 43.9 7.7% ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... l/pax 41.9 45.1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .kWh/pax ELECTRICITY PARAMETER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER UNIT MMT 2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5.4 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.9 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-2.5% %CHANGE .................. WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .MJ/pax l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19.5 43.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.0 26.9 79.9 196.6% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-2.5% (´15 VS ´14) 17.5 ................... . WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PER. . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . ELECTRICITY l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5.4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .kWh/pax 43.9 41.9 5.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4.9 45.1 7.7% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-2.5% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER .................. ................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER DISCHARGED HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . WASTE PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .MJ/pax . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10.4 . g/pax l/pax 19.5 43.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6.5 26.9 18.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17.5 79.9 .5.4 196.6% -2.5% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -17.0% ..................... 5.4 5.0 4.9 -2.5% ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER kWh/pax ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.09 0.11 0.13 21.4% HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... g/pax MJ/pax 10.4 19.5 6.5 18.0 5.4 17.5 -2.5% -17.0% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ml/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .44.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .45.4 FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.9% .................. . .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . NON-HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.09 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .kg/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0.11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0.13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21.4% ................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax ml/pax 10.4 56.6 44.6 6.5 45.4 5.4 -17.0% FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1.9% NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.09 0.11 0.13 21.4% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax 56.6 44.6 45.4 1.9% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HUATULCO AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES HUATULCO PARAMETER AIRPORT UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE TOTAL. . . FIGURES .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (´15 VS ´14) TOTAL PARAMETER WATER CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .UNIT M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . .MMT 14,408 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2013 16,446 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014 21,519 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .%CHANGE 30.8% HUATULCO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .AIRPORT M3 ......................... TOTAL TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . WATER . . . . FIGURES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . DISCHARGED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8,477 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8,446 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,645 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.4% (´15 VS ´14) ................... TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION M3 ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 14,408 16,446 21,519 30.8% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .KWH TOTAL PARAMETER ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION UNIT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,045,574 M3 MMT 2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,320,462 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15.9% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,530,105 2015 %CHANGE .................... TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .GJ 8,477 8,446 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4,754 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,764 8,645 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,508 2.4% (´15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15.9% VS ´14) ..................... . TOTAL .WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ELECTRICITY TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . KWH M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,045,574 14,408 . . . 16,446 21,519 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30.8% 15.9% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,320,462 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,530,105 .................... ..................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED M3 8,477 3,764 8,446 4,754 8,645 5,508 2.4% 15.9% TOTAL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PRODUCED GJ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,538 KG . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,474 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,061 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-28.0% ...................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ELECTRICITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .KWH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,045,574 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,320,462 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.9% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,530,105 ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED T 56.6 69.2 101.1 46.0%................... TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,538 KG GJ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,474 3,764 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,061 4,754 5,508 ................................................ 15.9% -28.0% TOTAL CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,451 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17,789 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18,291 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.8% ................... TOTAL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . NON-HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED . ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .T ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .69.2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101.1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46.0% ...................... TOTAL CONSUMPTION TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG 1,538 1,474 1,061 -28.0% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16,451 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17,789. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18,291 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.8%.................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED T 56.6 69.2 101.1 46.0% PER-PASSENGER BASIS ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL CONSUMPTION L 16,451 17,789 18,291 2.8% PARAMETER UNIT MMT ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE PER-PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . BASIS ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (´15 VS ´14) WATER .PARAMETER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .UNIT l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . MMT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2013 29.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014 31.5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2015 34.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . %CHANGE 9.9% .......................... WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .DISCHARGED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .BASIS PER-PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l/pax 17.4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16.2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13.9 ............................................... -14.0% (´15 VS ´14) WATER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER l/pax 29.6 31.5 9.9% ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 34.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.5 . 2.2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -2.7% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .kWh/pax ELECTRICITY PARAMETER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER UNIT MMT 2014 2015 %CHANGE ................... WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .MJ/pax l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7.7 17.4 16.2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9.1 13.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8.9 -14.0% (´15 VS ´14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -2.7% .................... . WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .kWh/pax l/pax 29.6 31.5 2.5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.5 34.6 9.9% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-2.7% ELECTRICITY . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . PASSENGER . .PER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .................. WATER HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE DISCHARGED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . PASSENGER MJ/pax l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3.2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . g/pax 17.4 7.7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.8 16.2 9.1 13.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1.7 8.9 -14.0% -2.7% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-39.5% .................... ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . ELECTRICITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . kWh/pax . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER 2.2 2.5 2.5 -2.7% NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.12 .............................................................................................................................. 0.13 0.16 22.7% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .g/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1.7 . . 9.1 8.9 HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER MJ/pax 7.7 . .-2.7% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -39.5% ................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ml/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34.1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29.4 FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33.8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -13.6% ................... NON-HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE . . . . . . . . . PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED kg/pax 0.12 . .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . .................................................................................................................................................................... 0.13 0.16 22.7% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax ml/pax 3.2 2.8 34.1 29.4 1.7 -39.5% FUEL . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER ........................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 33.8 -13.6% NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.12 0.13 0.16 22.7% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax 33.8 34.1 29.4 -13.6% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... MÉRIDA AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES MÉRIDA PARAMETER AIRPORT UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE TOTAL. . . FIGURES .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (´15 VS ´14) TOTAL PARAMETER WATER CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .UNIT M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . .MMT 135,834 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2013 158,692 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2014 172,562 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2015. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .%CHANGE 8.7% MÉRIDA . . . . . . . AIRPORT .......................... TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . WATER TOTAL . . . . FIGURES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . DISCHARGED M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,585 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,203. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,175 (´15 VS ´14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-46.7% ..................... TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. M3 135,834 158,692 172,562 8.7% TOTAL PARAMETER ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION UNIT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .KWH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8,273,653 MMT . . . . 6,585 2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7,922,329 2014 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0.1% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,931,682 %CHANGE .................. TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29,785 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28,520 2,203 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0.1% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28,554 1,175 -46.7% (´15 VS ´14) GJ ................... . TOTAL .WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ELECTRICITY TOTAL . . .M3 . . . .135,834 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,273,653 . . 158,692 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,922,329 . . . 172,562 . .8.7% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0.1% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .KWH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7,931,682 ................ ...................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTALTOTAL WATER DISCHARGED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . KG M3 .GJ 29,785 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4,632 6,585 28,520 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .759 2,203 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28,554 .4,095 1,175 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 439.5% 0.1% -46.7% ....................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ELECTRICITY . TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .KWH ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8,273,653 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7,922,329. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7,931,682 0.1% TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED T 84.3 65.2 65.8 .................................................. 1.0% TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .KG . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,632 GJ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28,520 29,785 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,095 . 759 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.1% 28,554 439.5% ................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -22.0% TOTAL CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43,328 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38,120 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48,852 ...................... TOTAL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . NON-HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED . ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65.2 ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... T 84.3 65.8 ......................................................................... 1.0% TOTAL CONSUMPTION TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG L 4,632 43,328 48,852 759 38,1204,095 439.5% -22.0% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... T 84.3 65.2 65.8 1.0% PER-PASSENGER TOTAL CONSUMPTION BASIS ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... L 43,328 48,852 38,120 -22.0% PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE PER-PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . BASIS ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (´15 VS ´14) WATER .PARAMETER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .UNIT l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . MMT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2013 101.7 109.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2014. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2015 102.2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .%CHANGE -6.3% ........................... WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .DISCHARGED PER-PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .BASIS . . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1.5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0.7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-54.0% (´15 VS ´14) .................... WATER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... l/pax 101.7 109.0 102.2 -6.3% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5.4 ELECTRICITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .kWh/pax PARAMETER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER UNIT MMT 2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.2 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4.7 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-13.7% %CHANGE .................... WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22.3 4.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19.6 1.5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.9 0.7 -54.0% (´15 VS ´14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-13.7% MJ/pax ..................... . WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER ELECTRICITY . . . . .l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6.2 101.7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102.2 . 5.4 . 4.7 -6.3% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-13.7% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . . . PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . kWh/pax .................... .................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE HAZARDOUS DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .MJ/pax . . . . . . . . . PASSENGER l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3.5 .g/pax 22.3 4.9 19.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0.5 1.5 16.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.4 0.7 -54.0% -13.7% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .364.8% ...................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.4 ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . ELECTRICITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6.2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .kWh/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4.7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-13.7% ....................................................................... NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.06 0.04 0.04 -13.0% ................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.5 HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .g/pax MJ/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0.5 22.3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.4 19.6 16.9 ............................................. -13.7% 364.8% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32.5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-32.8% FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ml/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22.6 ..................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.04 . .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE NON-HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0.06 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . kg/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.04 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-13.0% ..................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 32.53.5 0.5 2.4 364.8% -32.8% FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ml/pax 33.6 22.6 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.06 0.04 0.04 -13.0% s -32.8% u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax 32.5 33.6 22.6 65 ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... MINATITLÁN AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES MINATITLÁN PARAMETER AIRPORT UNIT MMT 2013 2015 %CHANGE ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax 32.5 33.6 22.6 -32.8% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... MINATITLÁN AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES MINATITLÁN PARAMETER AIRPORT UNIT MMT 2013 2015 %CHANGE TOTAL. .FIGURES 2014 (´15 VS ´14) ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL PARAMETER MINATITLÁN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .AIRPORT WATER CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2013 UNIT M3 MMT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2014 12,828 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2015 9,076 10,581 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16.6% %CHANGE .................... TOTAL. TOTAL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WATER FIGURES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .DISCHARGED (´15 VS ´14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5,255 7,566 ........................................................................... 4,772 -9.2% TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . M3 12,828 ........................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16.6% 9,076 10,581 PARAMETER TOTAL WATER ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION UNIT KWH MMT 808,340 2013 728,569 2014 2015 624,880 %CHANGE .................... -14.2% TOTAL DISCHARGED ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... M3 7,566 5,255 4,772 -9.2% (´15 VS ´14) GJ 2,910 2,623 2,250 -14.2% TOTAL TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .ELECTRICITY . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..CONSUMPTION .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .KWH M3 . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .808,340 12,828 728,569 9,076 10,581 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..-14.2% . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..624,880 .. ..16.6% .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .GJ M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,910 7,566 5,255 2,623 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,250 4,772 -9.2% -14.2% TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG 724 1,038 1,999 .................................................. 92.5% .TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ELECTRICITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .728,569 . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . KWH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808,340 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .624,880 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-14.2% .................... TOTAL TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . HAZARDOUS NON-HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE WASTE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . KG T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .724 8.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,038 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,999 .2,623 7.0 5.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .92.5% -19.1% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .GJ 2,910 2,250 -14.2% ..................... TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .L ........................................................................................................................ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15,913 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15,341 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15,548 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1.3% TOTAL .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. NON-HAZARDOUS .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. WASTE .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..PRODUCED ................... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..T ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8.0 7.0 5.6 -19.1% .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. TOTAL TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG 724 1,038 1,999 92.5% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15,913 L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,341 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,548 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1.3% .................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... T 8.0 7.0 5.6 -19.1% TOTAL PER-PASSENGER CONSUMPTION BASIS ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... L 15,913 15,341 15,548 1.3% PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE PER-PASSENGER BASIS ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (´15 VS ´14) WATER PARAMETER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... UNIT l/pax MMT 2013 72.2 2014 38.0 2015 40.9 %CHANGE 7.7% (´15 VS ´14) . WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . DISCHARGED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PER . . . . . . . . . . PASSENGER PER-PASSENGER BASIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42.6 l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-16.1% .................... WATER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .72.2 l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.7% .................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3.0 PARAMETER ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER UNIT kWh/pax MMT 2013 4.5 2014 2015 ......................................................................... 2.4 %CHANGE -20.8% WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER l/pax 42.6 22.0 18.4 -16.1% (´15 VS ´14) ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... MJ/pax 16.4 11.0 8.7 -20.8% WATER ELECTRICITY .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..PASSENGER . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .PER .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..kWh/pax l/pax 72.2 4.5 3.0 38.0 40.9 2.4 -20.8% 7.7% .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . MJ/pax l/pax 42.6 16.4 22.0 11.0 18.4 8.7 -16.1% -20.8% HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 4.1 ................................................................................................................................ 4.3 7.7 77.8% ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... kWh/pax 4.5 3.0 2.4 -20.8% NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.05 0.03 0.02 -25.3% HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .g/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16.4 4.1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4.3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7.7 11.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-20.8% 8.7 .77.8% MJ/pax .................... FUEL . . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ml/pax 89.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .64.2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60.0 -6.4% .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..0.02 .................................................. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. WASTE NON-HAZARDOUS .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. PER .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. PRODUCED .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..0.05 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. PASSENGER .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..0.03 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..-25.3% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... kg/pax .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 89.6 4.1 4.3 7.7 -6.4% 77.8% FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ml/pax 64.2 60.0 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.05 0.03 0.02 -25.3% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax 89.6 64.2 60.0 -6.4% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... OAXACA AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES OAXACAPARAMETER AIRPORT UNIT MMT 2013 %CHANGE TOTAL. .FIGURES 2014 2015 (´15 VS ´14) ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... OAXACA TOTAL PARAMETER . . . . . . . .AIRPORT WATER CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2013 UNIT MMT 21,564 M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2015 18,614 17,329 .................................................. %CHANGE -6.9% (´15 VS ´14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WATER TOTAL. TOTAL FIGURES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .DISCHARGED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12,267 8,067 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10,538 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-14.1% .................. TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -6.9% M3 21,564 18,614 17,329 ..................... PARAMETER TOTAL WATER ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... UNIT KWH MMT 1,080,058 2013 2014 1,175,860 2015 1,243,396 %CHANGE 5.7% TOTAL DISCHARGED M3 8,067 12,267 10,538 -14.1% (´15 VS ´14) ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... GJ 3,888 4,233 4,476 5.7% TOTAL TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..CONSUMPTION .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .ELECTRICITY KWH M3 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .1,080,058 21,564 1,175,860 18,614 1,243,39617,329 -6.9% 5.7% . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... M3 GJ 8,067 3,888 12,267 4,233 10,538 4,476 -14.1% 5.7% TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .KG 1,206 ......................................................................................................................... 1,078 873 -19.1% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ELECTRICITY .TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .KWH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,175,860 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,243,396 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5.7% . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,080,058 ................ TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . HAZARDOUS TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE WASTE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .KG T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,206 103.1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,078 106.1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,476 . 4,233 118.3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -19.1% .873 11.5% . . . .5.7% GJ 3,888 ................. TOTAL CONSUMPTION ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22,327 L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26,636 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26,852 0.8% TOTAL .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. NON-HAZARDOUS .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. WASTE .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..PRODUCED .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. T .................................................. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .11.5% .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..118.3 ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 103.1 106.1 . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. TOTAL CONSUMPTION TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG L 1,206 1,078 873 -19.1% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22,327 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26,636 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26,852 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.8% ................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... T 103.1 106.1 118.3 11.5% TOTAL CONSUMPTION L 0.8% PER-PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .BASIS .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 22,327 26,636 26,852 PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE PER-PASSENGER BASIS ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (´15 VS ´14) WATER PARAMETER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2013 UNIT l/pax MMT . . . .41.3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2014 33.7 2015 ........................................................................... 25.5 %CHANGE -24.2% . WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . DISCHARGED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PER . . . . . . . . . . PASSENGER (´15 VS ´14) PER-PASSENGER BASIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15.5 15.5 22.2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -30.1% .................... WATER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... l/pax 41.3 33.7 25.5 -24.2% PARAMETER ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... UNIT kWh/pax MMT 2013 2.1 2014 2.1 2015 1.8 %CHANGE -13.9% WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER l/pax 15.5 22.2 15.5 -30.1% (´15 VS ´14) ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... MJ/pax 7.4 7.7 6.6 -13.9% WATER ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..PASSENGER . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .PER kWh/pax l/pax 41.3 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..2.1 2.1 33.7 25.5 1.8 -24.2% -13.9% .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .MJ/pax l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7.4 15.5. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7.7 22.2 15.5 6.6 -30.1% -13.9% HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 2.3 2.0 ........................................................................ 1.3 -34.1% ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER kWh/pax 1.8 -13.9% . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2.1 2.1 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.20 0.19 0.17 -9.2% HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .g/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.3 MJ/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.3 .7.7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-34.1% 6.6 .-13.9% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7.4 ..................... FUEL . . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER ml/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-17.9% 39.6 ............................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42.8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .48.2 NON-HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . WASTE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .kg/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0.19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-9.2% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .................... . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HAZARDOUS FUEL WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 2.3 2.0 1.3 -34.1% . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42.8 ml/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .48.2 .......................................................................... 39.6 -17.9% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.20 0.19 0.17 -9.2% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax 42.8 48.2 39.6 -17.9% TAPACHULA AIRPORT ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL FIGURES TAPACHULA PARAMETER AIRPORT UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE TOTAL. .FIGURES ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (´15 VS ´14) TOTAL PARAMETER TAPACHULA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .AIRPORT WATER CONSUMPTION UNIT MMT 2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014 M3 19,237 18,430 .............................................................................. 2015 24,004 %CHANGE 30.2% (´15 VS ´14) TOTAL. TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WATER FIGURES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .DISCHARGED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4,535 5,047 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6,140 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35.4% ................... TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . M3 19,237 ......................................................................................................................... 18,430 24,004 30.2% PARAMETER TOTAL WATER ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... UNIT KWH MMT 1,445,220 2013 2014 1,457,784 1,546,808 2015 %CHANGE 6.1% TOTAL DISCHARGED M3 5,047 4,535 6,140 35.4% (´15 VS ´14) ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... GJ 5,203 5,248 5,569 6.1% TOTAL TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .ELECTRICITY . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..CONSUMPTION M3 KWH . .. .. ..19,237 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .1,445,220 1,457,784 18,430 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .1,546,808 24,004 30.2% 6.1% . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .GJ M3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,203 5,047 4,535 5,248 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5,569 6,140 35.4% 6.1% TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG 245 480 . . 330 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -31.3% .................... .TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ELECTRICITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . KWH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,457,784 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6.1% . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,445,220 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,546,808 .................. TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED T 24.2 18.8 18.0 -4.5% TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .GJ KG . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5,203 . 245 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,248 .480 330 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6.1% -31.3% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5,569 ................... TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28,694 L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17,427 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20,147 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15.6% ................................................ TOTAL .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. NON-HAZARDOUS .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. WASTE .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .T .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..PRODUCED ................... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..18.0 . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 24.2 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .-4.5% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 18.8 . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. TOTAL CONSUMPTION TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG L 245 480 330 -31.3% 15.6% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28,694 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17,427 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20,147 ................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED T 24.2 18.8 18.0 -4.5% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL CONSUMPTION L 28,694 17,427 20,147 15.6% PER-PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . BASIS ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE PER-PASSENGER BASIS ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (´15 VS ´14) WATER PARAMETER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER UNIT l/pax MMT 2013 118.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(´15 2014 101.3 2015 88.4 %CHANGE -12.7% . . . . .VS . . .´14)............. . WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . DISCHARGED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PER . . . . . . . . . . PASSENGER PER-PASSENGER BASIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31.1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -9.3% ................... WATER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .101.3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .88.4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -12.7% ...................... PARAMETER ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... UNIT kWh/pax MMT 2013 8.9 2014 8.0 2015 5.7 %CHANGE -28.9% WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER l/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.5 31.1 24.9 22.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-28.9% -9.3% (´15 VS ´14) MJ/pax 32.1 28.9 ..................... WATER ELECTRICITY .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..PASSENGER . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .PER kWh/pax l/pax 118.6 8.9 101.3 8.0 88.4 5.7 -12.7% -28.9% .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . MJ/pax l/pax 32.131.1 28.924.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-53.9% 20.5 22.6 -28.9% -9.3% HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 1.5 2.6 1.2 .................... ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... kWh/pax 8.9 8.0 5.7 -28.9% . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.15 0.10 0.07 -36.0% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WASTE HAZARDOUS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRODUCED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .MJ/pax .g/pax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32.1 .1.5. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1.2 2.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-28.9% 20.5 -53.9% ..................... FUEL . . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ml/pax ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 176.9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95.8 74.2 -22.5% .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. WASTE NON-HAZARDOUS .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. PER .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. PASSENGER .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. PRODUCED .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..0.15 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..kg/pax ............................................................................ .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 0.10 0.07 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. -36.0% .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 1.5 2.6 74.2 1.2 -53.9% -22.5% . . . . . . . . . . . . CONSUMPTION FUEL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PER . . . . . . . . . . .PASSENGER ........................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ml/pax 176.9 95.8 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.15 0.10 0.07 -36.0% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 66 AS U R FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax 176.9 95.8 74.2 -22.5% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... VERACRUZ AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES VERACRUZ AIRPORT UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE PARAMETER ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED T 24.2 18.8 18.0 -4.5% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL CONSUMPTION L 28,694 17,427 20,147 15.6% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... PER-PASSENGER BASIS PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE (´15 VS ´14) ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER l/pax 118.6 101.3 88.4 -12.7% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER l/pax 31.1 24.9 22.6 -9.3% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER kWh/pax 8.9 8.0 5.7 -28.9% MJ/pax 32.1 28.9 20.5 -28.9% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 1.5 2.6 1.2 -53.9% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.15 0.10 0.07 -36.0% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax 176.9 95.8 74.2 -22.5% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... VERACRUZ AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE (´15 VS ´14) ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION M3 27,117 26,801 35,193 31.3% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED M3 4,487 4,541 6,734 48.3% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION KWH 2,344,900 2,525,658 3,931,398 55.7% GJ 8,442 9,092 14,153 55.7% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG 1,020 794 548 -31.1% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED T 129.2 132.3 143.1 8.1% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL CONSUMPTION L 31,471 34,390 46,525 35.3% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... PER-PASSENGER BASIS PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE (´15 VS ´14) ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER l/pax 26.3 22.6 27.7 22.7% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER l/pax 4.3 3.8 5.3 38.5% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER kWh/pax 2.3 2.1 3.1 45.4% MJ/pax 8.2 7.7 11.2 45.4% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 1.0 0.7 0.4 -35.6% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.13 0.11 0.11 1.0% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax 30.5 29.0 36.7 26.4% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... VILLAHERMOSA AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE (´15 VS ´14) ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION M3 30,873 35,529 38,298 7.8% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED M3 12,663 13,108 14,730 12.4% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION KWH 3,775,785 3,861,930 3,811,856 -1.3% GJ 13,593 13,903 13,723 -1.3% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED KG 620 371 1,611 334.1% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED T 138.7 155.5 160.6 3.3% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... TOTAL CONSUMPTION L 29,539 30,536 30,039 -1.6% ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... PER-PASSENGER BASIS PARAMETER UNIT MMT 2013 2014 2015 %CHANGE (´15 VS ´14) ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER l/pax 29.8 31.0 29.6 -4.6% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... WATER DISCHARGED PER PASSENGER l/pax 12.2 11.4 11.4 -0.6% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER kWh/pax 3.6 3.4 2.9 -12.7% MJ/pax 13.1 12.1 10.6 -12.7% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER g/pax 0.6 0.3 1.2 284.0% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED PER PASSENGER kg/pax 0.13 0.14 0.12 -8.6% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... FUEL CONSUMPTION PER PASSENGER ml/pax 28.5 26.6 23.2 -13.0% ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 2 01 5 67
