Together we bring the world closer SWEDAVIA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 A business that spans the globe “We shall be a Swedish growth engine” Strategic focus on sustainable development Access and competitiveness 8 30 16 4 6 24 Contents Swedavia 2015 3 The year in brief 16 Strategy 56 Parent Company financial – Performance in 2015 – Strategic focus on sustainable reports development 4 The aviation market – Targets with high ambitions 60 Notes – A market that spans the globe – Swedavia creates value by meeting 89 Signatories to the Annual stakeholder expectations Report 6 The market and trends – Trends drive the industry 24 Operations 90 Audit Report – Access and competitiveness 8 Statement from the 91 Statement of Compliance – Customer President and CEO – Economy 92 Corporate Governance – “We shall be a Swedish growth – Environmental concern Report engine” – Social development 10 This is Swedavia 104 GRI Index 42 Financial reports – Airports with a focus on 109 UN Global Compact sustainability 44 Report of the Directors 12 Offering 110 Definitions 51 Consolidated financial – Modern commercial centres reports – Intelligent solutions ABOUT SWEDAVIA’S REPORTING This is Swedavia’s Annual and Sustainability Report for the financial year 2015. The report is aimed primarily at Swedavia’s owner, credit analysts and partners but also at other stakeholders, and is focused on our strategy as well as our objectives, targets and results for the past year. It covers the entire Group, unless otherwise indicated. Swedavia reports results using the most recent version of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines (G4, Core). Reported indicators have been chosen based on Swedavia’s and our stakeholders’ shared view of material factors and what is important for developing long-term sustainable operations. The report also constitutes Swedavia’s report (Communication on Progress, COP) for the UN Global Compact. The last publication date for the Annual and Sustainability Report was March 31, 2015. Read more at: www.swedavia.com CONTACT PERSON: Klas Nilsson, Communications Strategist Tel. +46 (0) 10 109 00 00 | klas.nilsson@swedavia.se THE YEAR IN BRIEF 18 The year in brief Performance in 2015 During the year, Swedavia’s airports had 37.6 million (35.7) passengers, which is a 5.4 per cent increase Net revenue increased to SEK 5,416 M (5,384) Operating profit increased to SEK 1,755 M (1,405), and profit for the year increased to SEK 1,410 M (926) In June, Swedavia sold a portfolio of properties to a newly formed joint venture that it co-owns with Alecta. The consolidated capital was SEK 820 M 12 Key figures for the Group Consolidated SEK M, unless otherwise indicated 2015 2014 2013 2012 Net revenue 5,416 5,384 5,137 4,883 Operating profit 1,755 1,405 946 831 Operating margin, % 32.4* 26.1* 18.4 17.0 Profit before tax 1,547 1,162 686 554 Profit for the year 1,410 926 501 447 Earnings per share, SEK 0.98 0.64 0.35 0.31 Return on equity, % 22.7 17.7 10.9 10.8 Return on operating capital, % 14.5 10.3 7.1 7.4 Debt/equity ratio, times 0,7 1.4 1.9 1.9 Equity/assets ratio, % 51.8 36.5 30.5 29.1 Cash flow from operating activities 1,374 2,109 1,339 1,493 Capital spending 1,120 924 2,413 3,418 Satisfied passengers (ASQ), % 76 75 73 68 Satisfied employees (ESI), % 86 84 80 76 Average number of employees 2,787 2,516 2,369 2,380 Carbon dioxide emissions, tonnes 3,066 3,108 3,800 5,400 *The operating margin excluding capital gains was 15.4 per cent in 2015 and 19.6 per cent in 2014. SWEDAV I A 2015 3 THE AVIATION MARKET A market that spans the globe 4 SWEDAV I A 2015 THE AVIATION MARKET The global aviation market is a system in which airlines, airports and cities together, through the transport of passengers and cargo, create the conditions needed for economic growth. Renewable aviation fuel in the Airlines must have the ability INCREASED CAPACITY At the same time that airports comply with enviNordic countries ronmental requirements, they must also increase to quickly adapt their offering based capacity. Because of continued globalised trade The air travel industry’s environon how global travel patterns and patterns and a growing middle class in Asia and mental impact comes mainly from cargo flows change. Latin America, the air travel industry needs to fossil carbon dioxide emissions from air traffic. The best way to dramatiquadruple its capacity through 2031 if it is to cally reduce emissions is by switchmeet expected demand. According to IATA and ing to renewable fuels. Today there THE AIR TRAVEL INDUSTRY IS ACI forecasts, 20 of Europe’s largest airports will is no continuous large-scale proGROWING STEADILY be operating at or near capacity in 2030. They duction of renewable aviation fuel, Global demand for air transport has increased must be expanded in order to handle heavier which means that the price of such much more rapidly than for most other products traffic and larger aircraft. But that is not enough; fuel is higher than for fossil fuel. and services. Meanwhile, the access that air stakeholders must also find more effective ways The Nordic initiative the Fly Green Fund travel creates is an increasingly important conof working together. enables companies, other organisations dition for economic growth and competitiveness. Part of this entails developing methods and and leisure travellers to reduce their However, conditions vary widely for stakeholdsystems that enable airlines, air traffic manageclimate impact by covering the additional ers in the industry, including airlines and airports. ment, airports and ground handling staff to share cost of bio jet fuel. The hope is that Airlines must be able to quickly adapt their offerinformation in real time about delays, cancelled the initiative will stimulate demand and ing based on how global travel patterns and flights or other incidents that affect the transport thus create incentives for large-scale cargo flows change. Airports instead must work chain and thus to use available resources more production of renewable aviation fuel in to ensure capacity and be able to offer soluefficiently. the Nordic countries. Another collaborations that are as flexible as possible while meettion, the Nordic Initiative for Sustainable ing ever higher demands from passengers. The ACCESS TO INFORMATION Aviation, involves a large number of Quick access to accurate information that is stakeholders working together to find the basic driver in attracting air traffic to an airport most efficient supply of renewable fuel is the attractiveness of a destination for both leishared with others brings positive effects in for the air travel industry. sure and business travellers. many areas. Reduced emissions and lower fuel consumption as a result of shorter waiting times AIR TRAVEL CREATES JOBS at the gate and take-off runway produce conAirports are major investments that link a councrete gains, including for airlines. A modern systry’s national economy to the global economy. tem for sharing information also creates better This makes them national resources that are conditions for increased punctuality and greater critical for business operations. Flying opens customer satisfaction. up opportunities for exchanges and meetings between cultures and people. The air travel industry creates millions of jobs around the world, directly and indirectly. Passenger According to a 2014 Oxford Economics study, an estimated 180,000 of these are in Sweden, with trends in about 80,000 in the air travel industry alone. The access that air travel creates contributes another Europe 100,000 or so jobs in a number of sectors, from United Kingdom traditional manufacturing to the tourism industry. 5.2% Poland Germany 8.1% REDUCED EMISSIONS By far the greatest challenge to the air travel 3.8% France industry is the requirements to reduce its climate 2.8% impact. The industry has adopted far-reaching global targets for fossil carbon dioxide emisSpain sions. Renewable fuels are a key factor in Italy 6.1% achieving these targets. Renewable fuels work in 5.5% Greece today’s aircraft engines and in the existing infra10.0% structure, but more large-scale development and Source: ACI Europe Airport Traffic Report use require great commitment from all of society. Overall passenger growth at EU airports was 5.6 per cent in 2015. Growth was generally higher in eastern Europe and in some Mediterranean countries. SWEDAV I A 2015 5 THE MARKET AND TRENDS 6 SWEDAV I A 2015 THE MARKET AND TRENDS Strong trends drive the industry The air travel industry and its stakeholders, as in other sectors, are facing global trends such as tive setting. Healthy options, transparency in the urbanisation, globalisation and greater environmental challenges. These trends drive the growth sourcing of materials and a focus on sustainability will be increasingly important to airports’ comin air traffic but also affect travel patterns as well as expectations at Swedavia. Swedavia regumercial operations. larly carries out trend analyses with a perspective of at least 3-5 years, which are incorporated Consumers are looking for goods they coninto operations. Meanwhile, Swedavia also needs to plan for very long-term infrastructure needs. sider to be unique. So the offering needs to be varied on a continuous basis, with goods sold for INCREASED AIR TRAVEL for waiting times, no matter whether these are only a limited time, pop-up shops and brief guest When prosperity increases, air travel increases, at check-in or in shops; consumers are fickle, appearances. The focus is on the experience, and something that is seen most clearly in emerging impatient and expect an immediate response. it must be interactive. At an airport, the biggest markets. The UN World Tourism Organisation The consumers of tomorrow will be even more demand is for experiences that promote curiosity (UNWTO) estimates that the number of interspontaneous, and retail trade will merge ever and relaxation, which means that shopping and national journeys made by Chinese tourists will more closely with e-trade than today. Customers cultural experiences play a key role. increase from 100 million in 2015 to 200 million want to shop when and where they want, see, in 2020. The total number of international tourists touch and try things, but without queueing to EVERYTHING IS CONNECTED is expected to increase by more than three per pay. They must be able to do so electronically In 2030, some 500 billion tablets, mobiles, suitcent annually to 2030. For airports, it is not just and efficiently. cases, refrigerators and cars will be connected. a matter of expanding capacity but also adapting Since people have continuous access to inforSensors will give these things an awareness of information and signage, the range of services on mation and unlimited options, they can make the world around them, determine their position offer and payment systems to efficiently handle comparisons, but this also creates a need for and enable them to communicate, for instance these new tourists. simplification and packaging – consumers want through global positioning systems. These sysGiven this trend, for financial reasons, airhelp choosing. tems, which are becoming increasingly comlines are investing in larger, quieter and more fuel mon, will help passengers find their way, enable efficient aircraft. For airports, the trend means AN UNCERTAIN WORLD the airport to send personalised messages about increased competition but also good growth Economic growth is accelerating in Europe and people’s flights but also about special offers, and potential. the US, whereas it is decelerating in emerging allow cashless payments. Airport staff will also markets. In Sweden, the service sector is growbe connected, perhaps using wearables, systems A TURBULENT MARKET ing, which means the country’s export goods as integrated into their clothing, to facilitate contact The tough competition in the air travel industry a share of GDP is declining. The world also faces with passengers. is leading to new forms of collaboration between challenges in environmental terms. The demand airlines, while planning is more short-term and for energy is increasing, while greenhouse gas ANALYSIS AND AUTOMATION capacity is quickly being moved between differemissions must be reduced. There is a growing Collecting, saving and analysing large quantities ent destinations. Network airlines and low-cost need for efficient energy use and new types of of data in real time will be increasingly important carriers are becoming increasingly similar in their fuel. People are increasingly aware of the need in order to customise services and create effibusiness models. Because of airlines’ cost cuts, to take responsibility, with the result being more cient flows. More and more aspects of air travel, airport charges constitute a small but growambitious political aims and governing mechsuch as check-in, document control and boarding share of total costs, which indirectly creates anisms. A high level of quality in environmental ing, will be automated. Biometric technology that expectations of lower airport charges and comwork and effective communication are clear facreads faces, fingerprints or retinas will open up petitive conditions. tors for success. new opportunities. The cost of robots has fallen, Commercial offerings and property developand as a result they are already used for a variety ment, as well as collaboration with other market NEW WAYS TO SERVICE CUSTOMERS of different tasks, from cleaning to loading bagparticipants and stakeholders, are thus becoming With the market increasingly harder to segment, gage. Passengers will be able to get help from ever more crucial to airports’ long-term funding adjustments must be made in handling situations virtual assistants on their smartphone or in a holpossibilities. and people in servicing customers. For airports, ogram. Technical advances create great potential efficient flows without waiting times are an essenfor higher productivity, better customer service A CHANGING POPULATION tial requirement. Meanwhile, they are hubs for and increased sales, but at the same time require While the global population is ageing, it is work and socialising, where services are offered new skills and collaborative partners for airports. healthier than ever. People have low tolerance that make the reality of life easier in an attracSWEDAV I A 2015 7 STATEMENT FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO We shall be a Swedish growth engine Sweden’s airports continue to meet a growing need for travel internationally as well as within the country’s borders. With a stable economic foundation, the conditions are created that enable Swedavia’s airports to invest long-term in Swedish access. At the same time, it gives us scope to carry out improvements for both customers and employees as well as take part in the industry’s transition to reduced dependence on fossil fuel. Trends such as globalisation and urbanisation are behind this growth, but another important explanation is the increased access to direct routes available. We know that direct routes drive demand, so we work continuously to increase the number of non-stop routes from our airports, both in Europe and to other continents. In order to succeed in attracting new air links, it is important that we make our own investments and that we show airlines that there are good business opportunities here, with an attractive destination combined with competitive airport charges. CONCRETE ENVIRONMENTAL WORK THAT PRODUCES RESULTS There is a clear understanding today of the importance of aviation for Sweden’s development, but also that it must go hand in hand with a sustainable environmental perspective. As a State-owned company, it is furthermore important that we act as a role model in all areas of sustainability, which is why we, together with our owner, strive to take a comprehensive approach On the journey of change that Swedavia our employees. At the same time, we are reducin our operations. embarked on when it was formed in 2010, ing our own emissions of fossil carbon dioxide. Our environmental work has made us a leader we have taken many steps toward our vision, in climate issues, something that everyone at ”Together we bring the world closer”. Through SWEDEN AS AN AVIATION MARKET Swedavia is proud of. We support the Swedish our airports, all kinds of different opportunities Sweden is attractive as a market for air travel in government’s initiative ”A fossil-free Sweden” have been created. Swedish companies can hold many ways. We have a special geography, strong and we are working to achieve our 2020 target of their own in international competition, and interexport industries, a tourism industry that is one zero fossil carbon dioxide emissions from our own national companies find it attractive to invest in of the country’s fastest growing basic industries, operations. So far, we have met and exceeded all the Swedish market. People can live and work and a multicultural population. More than two and our sub-targets, and the chances are good that in different places and create new experiences a half million people with a foreign background we will go all the way in achieving entirely fosthrough exchanges with other cultures. Our jourlive in Sweden. This is a strong customer group, sil-free operations in 2020. Just as important is ney has a goal of its own, with our role being as airlines have seen, so they are investing in our work to reduce the environmental impact of to work together with others, including airlines, their capacity in a number of places in Sweden. the entire industry. One measure to achieve this to meet the expectations of each and every Air travel is no longer simply for business – it is is our active membership in the Fly Green Fund, passenger. something more. where we are a driver in pushing for increased use Our driving force is that we see that we can Throughout 2015, air traffic continued to grow, of renewable aviation fuel. We have also decided make a difference for customers, our owner and and we set new records at seven of our airports. to establish a service that entails, among other 8 SWEDAV I A 2015 STATEMENT FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO things, fuelling with renewable fuel to offset the amount consumed by Swedavia in our business job. We are also working further with training and new processes, investing in infrastructure and Swedavia 2015 travel. It is important for us to show concrete developing our commercial concept. We remain measures. convinced that our measures will enable us to achieve our goal in time. Net revenue ENVIRONMENTAL PERMIT IS CRUCIAL increased to One of the most important events in 2015 was FINANCIAL STABILITY the entering into force of Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit after the Swedish In financial terms, we achieved our 2015 target of seven per cent return on operating capital by 5,416 M Supreme Court rejected all appeals. The restrica good margin. Meanwhile, for the first time we (SEK 5,384 M, 2014) tions in our previous environmental permit were were able to pay a dividend to our owners, someour greatest strategic risk, something that could thing that was decided at our Annual General have prevented us from continuing to develop Meeting in the spring of 2015. We have therefore Operating income Sweden’s largest airport and thus could have achieved the financial stability that we believe will increased to hampered Swedish growth. Stockholm is projected to be the fastest growing metropolitan area in western Europe through 2030, but this be maintained in economic upturns and downturns, but because of our expanded investment programme, we need to further develop our 1,755 M (SEK 1,405 M, 2014) of course requires that people can get both to commercial business. Furthermore, we continuand from the city. We now have the conditions in ously monitor our organisation in order to always place to develop Stockholm Arlanda Airport into ensure efficiency and the potential for competiScandinavia’s leading airport. In the first phase, development will entail the expansion of the terIn a longer-term perspective, we see new minal properties, while our long-term work for airport cities taking shape, with companies additional runway capacity continues. Our sustainability and thousands of jobs in the vicinity of our airwork has made us a leader ports. We see Stockholm and Uppsala growENGAGED EMPLOYEES in climate issues, something ing into a single metropolitan area and together Operating an airport is teamwork, and our motiwith Stockholm Arlanda Airport being a powervated, engaged employees are the key to our that everyone at Swedavia ful growth engine for the entire region. A similar achieving success. In 2015, we reached the level is proud of. development is taking place in Gothenburg, as of 86 per cent satisfied employees. Although the city becomes linked to Borås, with Göteborg such measures have a short shelf life, we have Landvetter Airport connecting the two. This will already met and exceeded our target of 85 per tive airport charges for airlines. On April 1, 2015, be an exciting, new kind of society based on cent for 2020. Our efforts in corporate social our charges were also reduced by an average of access, with regional mass transit interwoven responsibility, diversity and inclusion have made 3.7 per cent, which creates incentive for further with global transit, which enhances Sweden’s us an attractive employer and at the same time airline investments in line with Sweden’s needs. competitiveness. provide business advantages. Our target is to Given our passenger growth, it is of course A l thou g h a g re at d e a l revo l ve s a rou nd have 23 per cent of employees with a foreign also vital that Swedavia fully implements measStockholm and Gothenburg, I would like to make background in 2018. Today that figure is 14 per ures to enhance capacity mainly at Bromma it clear that all our airports are important. They are cent. Similarly, we would like to increase the Stockholm Airport, Göteborg Landvetter Airport crucial to their regions, but they also have national share of female employees from 34 to at least 40 and Stockholm Arlanda Airport. importance in our common task to link Sweden’s per cent. We also take it as a given that we and regions together. Our airports constitute a comour partners follow the principles laid out in the SOCIETIES BUILT ON ACCESS prehensive system, and it is in partnership with UN Global Compact. We are now headed toward 40 million passeneach other and with the regions that the access gers a year, more than 100,000 a day, at our airSweden needs is created. Local collaboration MORE SATISFIED PASSENGERS ports. That means we need both the right infrawith the regions and national collaboration with In 2015, we had 76 per cent satisfied passenstructure and new collaborations in order to industry participants have given us and the air gers, which is an increase over 2014, although continue growing. Next in line is the new airport travel industry a strong voice that has contributed we did not meet our target in full. It also means maintenance area and a new pier for Terminal 5 to growth. Our employees, especially in airport that we have a way to go to reach our target of 85 at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. We are also planoperations, have made great efforts to handle the per cent for 2020. Satisfied employees have an ning new office, logistics and hotel buildings at passenger growth we have seen. In light of this impact on passenger satisfaction, although there Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Stockholm successful work, I look forward to 2016. Swedavia is a lag. Similarly, some of those who provide serArlanda Airport. During the year, we established now continues its journey forward. We invite you vice on our behalf are employed by partners. This strategic partnerships with Alecta and Bockasjö to join us. limits our potential to work directly with passenin our real estate operations. Naturally, it is very ger satisfaction in all forms of customer contacts, exciting that new stakeholders see business Karl Wistrand but we work well together and they do a good opportunities in partnership with us. President and CEO SWEDAV I A 2015 9 THIS IS SWEDAVIA Airports with a focus on sustainable development Swedavia owns, operates and develops a network of Swedish airports. Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Göteborg Landvetter Airport have the most passengers. The company was formed in 2010 and is wholly owned by the Swedish State. Swedavia acts in an international market pany. Swedavia competes with other airports in tional efficiency. Satisfied employees and a good that is subject to heavy competition. The compaits work to attract airline investments. workplace environment are critical to Swedavia’s ny’s role is to create the access Sweden needs Safety, security, a focus on customers and operations. Swedavia shall continuously reduce to facilitate travel, business and meetings – in sustainable development are the foundation of its own environmental impact and help to reduce Sweden, elsewhere in Europe and around the everything Swedavia does, both in its own operthe environmental impact of the entire air travel world. Swedavia’s primary customer is passenations and in society in general. Operations are industry. All of Swedavia’s airports are certified at gers. Airlines and tenants that rent business, run based on solid business principles, and the the highest level of Airport Carbon Accreditation office and hotel premises in Swedavia’s propcompany shall build a long-term sustainable busi(ACA) for their environmental work. erties are also important partners for the comness through development, planning and operaPassenger trends 37.6 million passengers 2015 40 million 30 million InterTotal national 20 million Swedavia’s airports facilitate travel in Sweden and Domestic are a gateway to and from Sweden. They are also 10 million modern places for meetings and commerce, offering a variety of products, services and concepts. 0 million 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 10 SWEDAV I A 2015 THIS IS SWEDAVIA Kiruna Airport Together we bring Luleå Airport the world closer Umeå Airport A world leader Åre Östersund Airport Swedavia’s task is to own, operate and develop airports. Stockholm Swedavia is a world leader in Together the airports form a network that links Arlanda Airport developing airports with the least Sweden’s regions together and provides a bridge to Göteborg Bromma Stockholm possible climate impact. and from the world beyond. Swedavia owns all the Airport Landvetter airports except Ronneby Airport and Luleå Airport, Airport Read more about our environmental responsibility where Swedavia is responsible for commercial air Visby Airport on page 34. traffic. Swedavia’s vision is “Together we bring the world closer”. That means Swedavia shall help to make Ronneby Airport the transport of passengers and cargo – regionally but Malmö Airport also to and from Sweden – as accessible, efficient and attractive as possible. The role of the air travel industry According to a 2014 study by the analysis firm Oxford Economics, the air travel industry and the access that flying creates contribute more than 130 billion Swedish kronor each year to Swedish GDP. In addition, air travel generates direct tax revenue of more than nine billion 130 kronor a year. The air travel industry and the passengers who fly to or from Swedish airports create more than 180,000 jobs in Sweden. Over the next five years, it is 3% billion kronor to estimated that another 20,000 jobs could be created smaller carbon footprint per Sweden’s GDP. mainly as a result of increased international travel. passenger than in 2014. SWEDAV I A 2015 11 OFFERING Modern commercial centres Airports are hubs that link regional with national and international mass transit. The development around these meeting places and commercial centres is being driven forward towards airport cities, which offer companies modern premises and efficient transport links, enhancing the attractiveness of the entire region. 12 SWEDAV I A 2015 OFFERING Revenue from their commercial offering is Where there was once fast food, duty-free becoming increasingly important to airports. shopping and luxury items, there is now a rich The airports that are winning the battle for tomorassortment of food, beverages and activities to row’s passengers are no longer departure halls, enjoy, which are adapted to the needs and interbut instead shopping malls and places for enterests of each passenger. The airports that offer tainment, cultural experiences and meetings. For personal, positive experiences are the winners of airports, it is thus a matter of creating an atmosthe future. They have developed the ability to crephere that enhances the positive experience and ate long-term profitability, which is an essential connects the airport with operations taking shape requirement for continued success. around the airport. Bright, open areas with comfortable seating are already an essential requirement for customer satisfaction today. With pasAirports are more senger volume rising, greater demands will also than a place where the journey be placed on mass transit to and from the airport as well as transport within the airport area. As begins; they are attractive meeting travel increasingly becomes part of everyday life, places that are worth a journey there will also be a demand for more everyday on their own. products and services. Positive atmosphere. Bright, open spaces, comfortable seating for meetings, charging stations for phones and computers, and access to free Wi-Fi are already essential requirements for customer satisfaction today. Intelligent airports. All operations and technical systems work together in order to use existing resources as efficiently as possible. Malls for shopping, entertainment, cultural experiences and meetings. SWEDAV I A 2015 13 OFFERING Intelligent solutions Today’s airport is more than a transit hall and a take-off runway. It is a hub in a complex traffic system and an essential requirement for economic growth regionally, nationally and internationally. Ever growing demand for air transport opens up new opportunities, and the Let a robot park your car, drop off your baggage in a café industry has adopted different approaches in looking for and walk through the security checkpoint – without even effective ways to increase capacity while continuing to noticing it. That’s how your journey could begin in the future. improve safety, security and customer satisfaction. The growing flows of passengers combined with stringent security requirements mean that many airports today 1. Virtual preparations are working near capacity. This may entail limits in access to Are you thinking about where to travel? Ask your runways and terminals, environmental requirements or other virtual assistant for help. Using your search history, factors. To overcome this, the next generation of airports previous journeys and other interests you have, must be intelligent airports, where all operations and technithe virtual assistant will help you with suggestions for destinations, flights and hotels. You can try out cal systems work together in order to use existing resources places and experience them in virtual reality before as efficiently as possible. you buy your ticket. At such an airport, airlines, air traffic management and ground handling staff in terminals and in air traffic operations can communicate with one another and predict how decisions affect operations in practice. The flow of information also reaches a wider audience – tour operators, bus, taxi 2. Transit to and from the airport and parking companies, and especially the passengers themA competitive airport is a hub that links selves. With this shared flow, where everyone knows what is together different forms of transport such as rail, underground, buses, taxis and cars with going on, capacity is maximised while disruptions, queues air traffic in a single efficient flow. and environmental impact are minimised. At the same time, aviation safety and security must be ensured. To achieve this, operating systems must be integrated and exchange information in real time. Investments in modern technology 3. Robots park your car are thus crucial to the ability to create efficient flows. Mass transit continues to be important for travel to and from the For passengers, efficient flows mean that the way into airport. Self-driving trains are already found in a number of places the departure hall, through check-in and the security around the world, and in the future this could also become a reality checkpoint is smooth and short. For the airport, it at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. If you prefer to take your own car, it is means that passengers have more time to sample the very possible that it will be powered by electricity and to some extent self-driving. Once you’re at the airport, a robot will help you park – all commercial offering of goods, services and activities. in order to reduce stress and optimise the car parks. 4. Forget check-in In the future, you’ll check in automatically when you buy your ticket. Using your bag’s permanent baggage tag which you update with your mobile phone or another connected device, your bag will get to the right place. For instance, you can leave your bag at the railway station on the way to the airport or at a café once you get to the airport. 14 SWEDAV I A 2015 OFFERING 7. Personalised information 8. Smoother security You get personalised information about your flight, for checkpoint instance what gate your plane The time when you have to place your leaves from and any changes coat and bags on a special conveyor belt in departure times. When it in the security checkpoint will soon be is time to go to the gate, you history, in any case if technology using get a message, “It’s time to laser-based molecular scanning is appgo to Gate 33. It takes seven roved. Multiple passages, with several minutes from your current people going through the checkpoint at position.” the same time, and checkpoints that you can walk past which are located next to your gate could also become a reality. 9. Finger, eye or vein Already today, a number of airports use biometric identification by recognising irises and fingerprints, for instance, 6. A hologram in passport controls. And one technology that could become even more widely used is vein reading. The process, which shows you the way meets high safety standards, reads your unique vein pattern, Do you need help? In goes quickly and can be carried out from a distance. addition to airport staff giving you personal service, holographically projected assistants at the airport can show you the right way. 10. Unstaffed boarding To make boarding more efficient, passengers can identify themselves using their mobile at the gate. The technology is already used today by some airlines. 11. Complete monitoring of your bag Thanks to the new type of baggage tags, 5. Shopping, experiences, you can see in real time food and drink where your baggage is Since the area between the and when it will arrive on check-in machines and manual the baggage carrousel. If counters no longer needs to be so it should get lost, it will extensive, in the future there will be easy to locate. be more space for other offerings. Services, shopping and experiences will be mixed with inspiring areas for food and drink. SWEDAV I A 2015 15 STRATEGY Strategic focus on sustainable development As companies face increased requirements to take environmental and social responsibility and be economically viable in the long term, there are competitive advantages for companies that have come a long way in their sustainability work. Swedavia’s task, vision, mission and values, together with sustainable development, define our business. In order to justify growth and development in the long term, Swedavia works with all three dimensions of sustainability – social development, economy and environmental concern – combined with a focus on customers. This is sustainable development for Swedavia. Swedavia’s task, vision, mission and values, together with sustainable development, define our business. We based this on an analysis of external conditions, our stakeholders and sustainable development when we developed our strategies. We then brought these strategies together into what we call our sustainability wheel (see next page). There have been improvements in every dimension of sustainability since Swedavia was formed in 2010. 16 SWEDAV I A 2015 STRATEGY Customer Economy Value-creating aviation business Value-creating property business Value-creating commercial business Right capacity and high efficiency More satisfied passengers Operational excellence M Y C SO The digitised ECO airport NO IAL CUSTOMER EnvironCO 2 ment Social Proactive High level of safety environmental EN T and security VIRONMEN work Leadership and employeeship that promote development External relations that enhance business Swedavia’s management model is illustrated through our sustainability wheel, with the three dimensions of sustainability – social development, economy and environmental concern – combined with a focus on customers. In every sustainability perspective, we have strategies and targets, which set the course for management and communication. These targets are broken down in operations and made concrete through activities. Targets and activities are reviewed on a quarterly basis through function controls. SWEDAV I A 2015 17 STRATEGY Targets Passenger satisfaction by with high airport, 2015 (2014) ambitions Bromma Stockholm Airport 72% (68) Göteborg Landvetter Airport 79% (80) Kiruna Airport 77% (76) Luleå Airport 85% (85) Swedavia’s operations are managed with the Malmö Airport 75% (71) help of sustainability targets. Swedavia has Ronneby Airport 79% (82) four such overall targets to meet by 2020. In Stockholm Arlanda Airport 75% (75) addition, Swedavia reports on five task targets/ Umeå Airport 79% (78) indicators each year. Visby Airport 81% (86) Since 2011, Swedavia has four general sustainÅre Östersund Airport 90% (89) ability targets. Three of these are determined by the company’s Board of Directors, while the overSwedavia’s weighted customer satisfaction outcome for all economic target reflects the owner’s approach. 2015 was 76 per cent (75). The positive trend is based In addition to the profitability target of a seven per on focused work aimed at improving the atmosphere, cent return on operating capital, there is also a customer service, cleanliness, smooth flows and affordability of shops and restaurants. All these factors have a capital structure target with the debt/equity ratio significant impact on passenger satisfaction. equal to 1.0–1.5 times and a dividend target of 30–50 per cent of profit for the year. The current economic targets were adopted, together with the task targets/indicators, at Swedavia’s 2014 Annual General Meeting. The task targets/indicators are aimed at ensuring that Swedavia, in accordance with its task, helps to achieve Sweden’s transport policy goals. The work carried out to achieve the sustainability targets in one dimension affects the work in all the others. For instance, satisfied employees are an essential requirement for satisfied passengers, which in turn affects the potential for commercial revenue, which is important for Swedavia’s return target. Profitability is an essential requirement for developing all operations, especially in environmental efforts. In the same way, proactive environmental work is an essential requirement for the airports’ chances of long-term development relative to other sustainability and task targets. One key requirement for achieving the targets in every area is Swedavia’s working together with its partners, such as airlines and airport suppliers. 18 SWEDAV I A 2015 STRATEGY Sustainability Task targets/indicators target, 2020 Outcome 2011–2015 Outcome 2015 (2014) 85% 100% actual% 76% (75%) 80% satisfied passengers satisfied passengers 73 75 76 68 68 60% 13.3 million / 24.3 million 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (13.1 million / 22.6 million) Number of passengers domestic/international 85% 100% 84 actual% 86 323 (320) satisfied employees 80% 76 80 Number of international destinations 60% 64 457,000 tonnes (446,200 tonnes)** 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Carbon footprint*** 4 (5) 7% 15% actual% 14.5 Accidents and serious incidents return on 10% 10.3 operating capital 7.6 7.4 7.1 5% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0% 0 tonnes 6 5.4 actual kilo tonnes 4.6 fossil carbon dioxide 4 3.8 3.1 3.1 emissions* 2 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 * The overall environmental target is 0 tonnes of fossil carbon dioxide emissions from Swedavia’s own operations. ** The carbon footprint task target is not included in the auditor’s review report. *** Footprint by airport, which includes ground transport and air traffic; reported on page 35. SWEDAV I A 2015 19 STRATEGY Swedavia creates value by meeting stakeholder expectations 20 SWEDAV I A 2015 STRATEGY No value is created in isolation by Swedavia. Our operations and our essential requirements for long-term success depend on our ability to meet our stakeholders’ expectations. By maintaining a continuous dialogue, we can identify the issues that are critical to our economic, environmental and social value creation. TREND ANALYSIS, STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Swedavia’s strategy is based on the idea that tains continuously with its stakeholders. The Swedavia provides value by meeting the expecaim of the stakeholder dialogue is to ensure that tations of its stakeholders. Surveying the stakeSwedavia always understands how its customholders that are affected by or that affect operaers, owner, partners, employees and other staketions along the company’s value chain, Swedavia holders view the Group and its offering. has identified a total of seven groups of stakeThe dialogue with stakeholders leads to a holders, which are shown below. Swedavia’s materiality analysis, which identifies what issues strategy is the result of a focused process that are most critical in terms of Swedavia’s ability starts with an in-depth analysis of the global and potential to create long-term value. The trends that in various ways affect, or will affect, fields of questions selected, such as level of the Group’s operations. This involves technical satisfaction among customers and employees, and economic trends as well as demographic the Group’s environmental impact and financial changes over time, but also changes in attiresults, are monitored on a regular basis through tudes, patterns of behaviour, and the needs of measurements and surveys. Swedavia’s matericustomers and other stakeholders. ality analysis is described in more detail further The results of this trend analysis then serve as below. the basis for the dialogue that Swedavia mainAnalysis and automation Customers Increased air travel Safety and Partnerships security Capacity A changing Brand population Owner Employees Y M L Trend analysis Stakeholder Materiality ECO CIA NO SO Identify global dialogue analysis trends and factors Understand our Understand CUSTOMER that affect our stakeholders and opportunities and operations their priorities challenges for Swedavia EN T VIRONMEN A turbulent Government Environmental market authorities impact Environmental permit Employees Customers New ways of customer service Society Economy Everything Environment connected An uncertain world Based on the trend analysis, stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis, Swedavia has developed strategies for the years ahead. These are summarised in the picture of Swedavia’s sustainability wheel. SWEDAV I A 2015 21 STRATEGY A high level of safety and security is the basis of all operations at Swedavia. Together with sustainable development and a focus on customers, value is created for operations connected to the air travel market and to society in general. With input in the form of capital, employees, partnerships and suppliers, conditions are created for, among other things, appropriate environmental permits that enable Swedavia to achieve its objectives and continuous business development. FOCUS ON SAFETY AND SECURITY services that suppliers contribute. The third is offering is based on a clear, sustainable foundaSafety and security have the highest priority employees, who contribute labour and skills. The tion of values that sets the tone for Swedavia’s throughout Swedavia’s operations. The airports fourth and final category is strong relationships relations with its stakeholders. Reliabilit y, shall have a high level of safety and security so and strategic partnerships. engagement, innovativeness and a warm welthat both passengers and employees feel safe A corporate culture built on clear ethical come are key values that characterise operations. and secure. Customers’ experience of safety guidelines is an important foundation for satisAt the same time, good operations are an essenand security shall also be characterised by a fied employees and for good collaboration with tial requirement for satisfied customers, which in high level of service, efficiency and smooth flows. strategic partners and suppliers. turn are necessary for long-term profitability. For Swedavia’s customers, which are primarily INPUT SATISFIED CUSTOMERS passengers but also airlines and tenants, value is The input that Swedavia needs to create value is These input enable the creation of services that created by offering a combination of infrastrucin four different areas: The first category is capfacilitate travel, business and meetings as well ture and direct services under the auspices of the ital – tangible, intangible and financial – which as products in Aviation Business, Commercial company, together with indirect services in colenables the company to develop and fund Services and Real Estate. Different market chanlaboration with tenants, partners and customers. operations. The second consists of goods and nels are also created and developed. This overall This covers a broad range, from ground handling SkyCity Office One is creating opportunities for businesses to set up operations at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. More direct routes; for instance, Swiss launched service between Gothenburg and Zürich. Art and culture in partnership with Sweden’s Nationalmuseum at Åre Östersund Airport, Crossing Borders – Annika Norlin. 22 SWEDAV I A 2015 STRATEGY services for airlines to an attractive commercial Swedavia’s value chain and cultural offering for passengers. Swedavia’s combined business is built on a foundation of competitive charges that make EFFECTS FOR STAKEHOLDERS its airports attractive to airlines. This helps to increase access and thus increase travel, which Access Business Diversity Employment opportunities Environmental impact in turn generates higher revenue. Tax revenue Cultural and RIGHT CAPACITY knowledge exchanges In order for Swedavia to meet future needs for air travel, the right capacity is needed at its airports. Punctuality at the airports is one measurement of Swedavia’s operational excellence. DELIVERIES TO CUSTOMERS Punctuality is crucial to the airports and airlines using their resources as efficiently as possible. For passengers, punctuality means getting to Inspiring travel experiences their destination as planned. Punctuality, like a New ideas, experienAttractive ces and attractive clear focus on customers, is thus an essential destinations brands requirement for customer satisfaction. Personalised, REDUCED CLIMATE IMPACT sustainable and Airlines Tenants modern airport An increased need for air travel also means services and transport that it is vital to reduce its impact on the climate, both from Swedavia’s own operations Safe, secure Functional premises and along the value chain. Once again, satisand efficient Swedavia shall create in an attractive infrastructure the access Sweden needs environment fied customers are a key factor. They provide to facilitate travel, business the profitability that enables Swedavia to invest and meetings in new technology to achieve its target of zero Strategic partners create carbon dioxide emissions from its own operconditions for ations by 2020 and to support other industry developing the participants in their climate work. business VALUE TO SOCIETY ACTIVITIES & PRODUCTS For its owner, the Swedish State, Swedavia creates value by running airport operations based Offering Products Market channels on sound business principles which generate a return on the capital invested. Real estate Services that facilitate Aviation Business, Airports, operations contribute to this by managing and travel, business and Commercial Services stakeholder dialogue developing properties that can generate some meetings and Real Estate and partnerships of the capital needed to invest in infrastructure. At the same time, Swedavia’s airports link SUSTAINABLE BASIC VALUES the country’s regions together and connect Reliability | Engagement | Innovativeness | A warm welcome Sweden to the rest of the world. This creates access, which leads to new meetings and business opportunities, with new jobs, increased cultural and knowledge exchanges, increased diversity and increased tax revenue, which proINPUT duce positive effects for all of society – locally, regionally and nationally. Tangible, intangible and Labour Goods and Collaborations financial and skills services capital Capital Suppliers Employees Relations SWEDAV I A 2015 23 OPERATIONS – CUSTOMER Access and competitiveness Swedavia’s operations are in two areas, airport operations and real estate operations. Airport operations include operational matters such as airport planning and development. Real estate operations involve the management and development of properties at and in the vicinity of the Group’s airports and are brought together in the subsidiary Swedavia Real Estate. Together they constitute a comprehensive offering that contributes a solid return and increased customer value. The Group’s task is to operate and General strategies in Customer develop the ten airports from the north Value-creating More satisfied continuous basis in order to to the south of Sweden that constitute aviation business passengers enhance the conditions for the country’s national basic infrastructure We shall work together Based on our knowledge our business. and thus create value for the Group’s with priority partners and about passengers, we shall owner and customers. through attractive aviation work proactively in the The digitised airport products for increased priority areas that have the We shall create a coheraccess, sustainable volume greatest impact on the pasent digital platform for growth and improved busisenger’s overall experience: our business and product land at and in the vicinity of Swedavia’s airports. ness results at our airports. atmosphere, customer development and for interAs a result, Swedavia can meet the growing service, smooth flows, nal efficiency. We shall demand from businesses to set up operations Value-creating comcleanliness, affordability capitalise on our unique near airports. mercial business and the offering in shops, position as a holder of We shall create the right food and beverage. information and develop our ACCESS opportunities for optimised digital abilities to enable a The work to increase access, in the form of new sales, efficient commercial Operational excellence successful cross-functional direct routes to and from the US and Asia as well operations and the continuThrough standardised digital transformation of as Europe, continued in 2015. For Sweden and ous strategic-tactical develcontrol and management business and operations. for Swedavia, it is important to establish closer opment of the commercial of air transport operations, links with the major hubs in North America, Asia offering to ensure that we at Swedavia and together and the Middle East. During the year, the nummeet our requirements for with our partners, delivery ber of international direct routes at Swedavia’s revenue and profit. shall be improved on a airports Increased from 320 to 323. The airlines making such investments include SAS, with its service to Hong Kong, and Norwegian, with its service to Las Vegas and Puerto Rico. Göteborg Swedavia meets the need for increased air parking. This business area, named Aviation Landvetter Airport, which added eight new intertravel and ensures the access needed for growth Business, is therefore focused mainly on the airnational destinations, was the airport with the in Sweden’s regions and in the country as a lines that operate at the airports. most growth in this area. whole. Swedavia has organised its operations, In airport operations, there is also the Commer­ Since 2013, a total of 14 new intercontinental with customers at the centre and with good cial Services business area, which is the part of direct routes have been launched or announced, safety and security, to achieve the long-term Swedavia responsible for developing the comwhich has helped to increase demand, includobjectives set by its owner, the Swedish State. mercial offering in the form of retail trade and sering to and from the US. There is a direct correAirport operations are responsible for infrastrucvices. The objective of operations is to create an lation between the number of direct routes from ture in the form of terminals and related systems atmosphere and an offering that, together with a an airport, the airport’s capacity and passenger that are needed for airport operations and for aviwell-functioning infrastructure, make the airports growth. The more direct routes available and the ation safety and security. In airport operations, highly attractive, increase customer satisfaction greater the capacity, the more passenger volume services are offered that are focused on ground and thus increase revenue. increases. Today demand is growing faster than operations in the form of take-off and landing Operations in Real Estate are focused on mancapacity. services, ground handling services and aircraft aging and developing properties and developable Clear descriptions of market potential are 24 SWEDAV I A 2015 OPERATIONS Customer In Swedavia’s management model, customers constitute the core. Our customers are passengers, airlines and tenants, with passengers being our primary customer. The customer perspective includes Swedavia’s strategies for attractive aviation products, commercial development, more satisfied passengers, airport operations management and digitisation. The common factor uniting these strategies is that the airports, with Stockholm Arlanda Airport leading the way, shall enhance Swedish access by continuously carrying out customerand growth-oriented measures in order to develop business for both Swedavia and our partners. Income, % of net revenue 58% Aviation Business 14% Car parking 12% Retail, food & beverage 9% Property revenue 2% Advertising 5% Other Commercial Services SWEDAV I A 2015 25 Stockholm Arlanda Airport serving Chinese passengers In addition to Air China’s direct route to Beijing, in September 2015 SAS information in Chinese, and passengers are met by special airport hosts and launched non-stop service between Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Hong Kong. signage in Chinese. Another important change is that the main Chinese bank card, UnionPay, works in the airports’ automated teller machines (ATMs), shops and resAs prosperity and average incomes in emerging markets such as China increase, taurants. In addition, a Chinese food truck opened in Terminal 5, and restauthe demand for air travel also rises. According to VisitSweden, Sweden ranks ninth rants offer menus in Chinese. Passengers will also have access to hot among European international destinations visited by Chinese travellers. According water for their thermoses and to cook noodles or make tea. to figures from the Swedish Agency for Economic and Regional Growth/Statistics Sweden, long-haul visitors have increased their share of overnight stays in Sweden In early 2016, Stockholm Arlanda Airport became a sister from about ten to about twenty per cent, which means that one out of five overnight airport to Beijing Airport. Meanwhile, Swedavia has intensified stays in Sweden was by someone from a non-European country. Overnight stays by its engagement in Hong Kong to establish new partnerships with Chinese visitors increased 28.5 per cent in 2015. airlines and other Asian companies in order to increase access to the crucial Asian market and help expand exchanges between A number of changes to welcome these new passengers are now being carried out Sweden and China. at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The airport’s website has been expanded to include needed to attract airlines and for airlines to make airlines. Sweden and Swedavia, as part of the an aircraft is “off block”, that is, rolling out substantial investments to launch new direct largest and fastest growing market in the Nordic of the gate within 15 minutes of the estimated routes. Swedavia therefore fosters relations with countries, have a crucial competitive advantage departure time. Without the right infrastrucairlines and works together with other stakeholdin the fight for passengers. For Swedavia as well ture and a well-functioning organisation, what ers, such as the tourism promoter VisitSweden, as for other airport operators, it is a matter of Swedavia calls operational excellence, punctualto enhance the offering. The collaborative prokeeping costs down. During the year, Swedavia ity cannot be maintained. If punctuality declines, jects Connect Sweden and Go:Connect are also reduced its charges to airlines by an average of both the airports’ attractiveness and competitiveimportant channels for this work. 3.7 per cent, from what were already competitive ness are affected. Low-cost carriers are driving the growth in air levels. At the same time, airlines’ demands must Every airport that Swedavia operates has its travel. They modify their business models through be met. These demands vary, with low-cost carriown punctuality targets, with the overall target their choice of airports and by flying intercontiers wanting fast and automated service, whereas being to achieve 90.0 per cent punctuality in nentally to a greater extent. Low-cost carriers airlines such as Emirates, which has a “premium 2017. In 2015, punctuality overall was 86.1 per increasingly fly from countries’ main airports, profile”, want a higher degree of personal service cent. Compared to previous years, that was a which helps to attract business travellers. At the for their passengers. Every two years, Swedavia deterioration of 1.3 per cent, mainly as a result same time, network airlines are changing their of overstretched infrastructure, insufficient re­ business model to be more like that of low-cost sources for ground handling companies and a carriers by offering their own low-cost alternaPassenger growth is currently more crowded European airspace. Punctuality tives, such as Lufthansa’s Germanwings. greater in eastern Europe than in western for domestic departures, for which Swedavia Europe, opening up potential for direct provides more resources, is better than for interEUROPEAN GROWTH routes to new destinations. national departures. Intercontinental routes contribute to growth, but Swedavia’s strategy for achieving operational scheduled European routes constitute the basis excellence, the situation in which both the organof this. Here, too, access to direct routes is critimeasures how satisfied airlines are with the serisation and infrastructure are used with maximum cal. Passenger growth is currently greater in eastvices offered and delivered. In 2015, 62 per cent efficiency, is to create coordinated management ern Europe than in western Europe, opening up gave an overall response of exceptionally or very of aviation operations which makes it possible potential for routes to new destinations. The trend good. The figures for 2013 and 2011 were 60 and to optimise efficiency in the day-to-day work. As elsewhere in Europe has accelerated, after sev57 per cent, respectively. The clearest areas for part of this strategy, more clearly defined work eral years of weaker growth, which follows the development based on this airline survey is the to monitor and improve operational processes pattern of air travel quickly recovering after periinfrastructure in the passenger and turnaround will begin in 2016. The digital airport, in which ods of weaker economic growth. process, coordination, communication and effecdifferent systems use a common technical platAir cargo continues to increase in scope, and tive decision-making processes. form that allows all companies and organisations all the international companies in this field have at the airport to share information in real time, established operations at Swedavia’s airports. THE DIGITAL AIRPORT is an essential requirement for efficient flows However, a general trend is the growing share of For Swedavia, it is becoming increasingly importhrough the airport and a reduction in resources cargo goods transported in the hold of aircraft tant to collaborate with other industry particiused. Access to modern, mobile digital technolin scheduled traffic, which is a direct result of pants. Over the next few years, the challenge ogy is also critical for the potential to create new access to new non-stop routes. is to ma ximise infrastructure use and meet value-added services for passengers. Competition between the Nordic airports is the requirements for increased capacity. For intense, and all the main airports are expanding Swedavia, punctuality is an indicator of the airdue to growing demand from passengers and ports’ capacity and is defined in terms of when 26 SWEDAV I A 2015 OPERATIONS – CUSTOMER Stockholm – Los Angeles Stockholm – Puerto Rico Stockholm – Hong Kong Gothenburg – Prague Stockholm – Las Vegas Examples of new direct destinations Prague Los Angeles Las Vegas Puerto Hong Kong Rico SWEDAV I A 2015 27 OPERATIONS – CUSTOMER Salong Betong is one of Sweden’s most renowned tattoo studios. The artists work only in grey tones. Salong Betong opened a pop-up shop at Stockholm Arlanda Airport In 2015. COMMERCIAL SERVICES, AN ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENT FOR DEVELOPMENT Just like with most airport operators, revenue from the goods and services on offer at the more than 20,000 people who work in the our airports are of growing importance to Swedavia’s continued development work. airport area. Swedavia always strives to have competitive airport charges, in order to have airports The recipe for success lies in being able to offer that are as attractive to airlines as possible. a local, world-class experience. It is important that the mix of Swedish and international offerCommercial Services works to ensure that business and concepts for increased sales, in ings is attractive, that there is something for Swedavia’s airports are the finest and most partnership with tenants and other stakeholders. everyone and that something new is always hapmodern meeting places in Scandinavia. They Commercial Services is also responsible for pening. Temporary pop-up shops, exhibitions or shall provide passengers with differentiated and commercial tenants. There is financial leverage, interesting product launches are interwoven with value-creating experiences, designed for the with sales-based rents determined by what both traditional and virtual shops that benefit Swedish target group but also for international category the tenant belongs to as well as what from the advantages of modern e-commerce. travellers. The commercial offering, together its margins are. If the number of passengers with the airports’ basic functions, such as increases and more people spend more at the Collaboration cleanliness, customer service and atmosphere, airport, Swedavia’s revenue also increases. The Swedavia’s entire network of airports is a are crucial to customer satisfaction. Examples expansions planned at Stockholm Arlanda Airmarketplace. Although the regional airports do of new companies at the airports include Bath & port, Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Bromma not have the critical mass for full-scale retail, Body Works, which launched its first European Stockholm Airport will open up new opportunithe Group can use its economies of scale in establishment at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. ties to enhance commercial operations. procurement to create the offerings that work. The retailer Superdry and a number of new café The factor of utmost importance to growing concepts have also opened there. At Göteborg Increased revenue commercial operations is collaboration between Landvetter Airport, the Swedish hamburger If every passenger in 2020 spends ten kronor the different stakeholders. The airlines know chain MAX opened an outlet, and Malmö Airport more at the airport than today, revenue would exactly who their customers are, Swedavia can now offers an O´Learys pub and a WHSmith increase by 35 million kronor. This is based on create attractive atmospheres and efficient bookshop. the assumption that Stockholm Arlanda Airport flows, and tenants know what is in demand and will be developed so that it is so attractive it is can provide the offering. This makes it possible During the year, Swedavia increased its comworth a detour or that passengers will arrive to develop properties, concepts and offerings petences in commercial trade. An organisation early. The idea is that it should also attract not through mutual understanding that are adapted to develop sales was set up in order to optimise just travellers but also other visitors, especially to airlines, passengers or destinations. 28 SWEDAV I A 2015 OPERATIONS – ECONOMY CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND RETURN ute to the achievement of economic and other In serving passengers, the Group strives to Growth in air travel is what drives Swedavia’s sustainability goals, which are all important to the develop commercial operations, in partnership operations. While passenger flows will vary in Group’s development potential. So all sustainabilwith tenants and airlines, in order to increase this size over time, airport capacity and efficiency are ity aspects are taken into account in investment revenue. For airlines, services and charges must critical factors for success – today and tomorrow. decisions. be competitive, and it must be possible to adjust Swedavia is now investing in large-scale develThe Group’s revenue comes from the charges them to the airlines’ business models so that the opment projects that will be under way throughthat airlines pay to use the services at the airairport is attractive as a destination. Thanks to the out the thirty-year planning period and beyond. ports, from commercial operations and from real growth in traffic, Swedavia has been able to lower It is a matter of eliminating today’s bottlenecks, estate operations. Today Swedavia has a strong charges to airlines. This has helped to increase but even more so building for the future, for more financial position with good funding opportutraffic but at the same time means that commerpassengers and for more and bigger aircraft. nities, but Swedavia works on several levels to cial operations must grow and increase their conHistorically, Swedavia has invested roughly one fund investments sustainably and over the long tribution to the Group’s finances. billion kronor a year, but growth requires new bilterm while meeting the owner’s profitability tarlion-kronor investments in terminals, piers and get – seven per cent return on operating capital. TWO STOCKHOLM AIRPORTS IT systems. These are investments that have to Internally, the work continues to create as Stockholm Arlanda Airport constitutes the hub be funded, and it must be possible to recoup cost-effective and coordinated an organisation of Swedavia’s operations. Meanwhile Bromma these capital expenditures based on solid busias possible with processes that are optimally Stockholm Airport is an essential requirement ness principles. Meanwhile, they must contribefficient. for meeting the need for air travel to and from SWEDAV I A 2015 29 OPERATIONS Economy Profitability is an essential requirement for developing any operations and thus key in the drive to achieve an ever more sustainable company. Swedavia’s strategies in this area include combining a high level of efficiency with the right capacity and value-creating property deals. Increased business-mindedness is our steadfast motto. The Group’s overall development needs are reflected in clear plans and balanced ambitions that make use of the synergies in the Group. Furthermore, value growth in our properties shall be capitalised on, and Swedavia shall facilitate the set-up of new operations near the airports that enhance the airports as transport hubs. 30 SWEDAV I A 2015 OPERATIONS – ECONOMY Stockholm during the times of the day when there is peak traffic. Since international travel has the fastest growth, the greatest growth is at General strategies in Economy Stockholm Arlanda Airport. In 2015 traffic there Value-creating property business Right capacity and high efficiency increased by more than 700,000 passengers, Based on the unique value in the airport as a Based on our task, we shall proactively for a total of 23.2 million, which is a new record. transport hub, we shall capitalise on the value meet our customers’ needs for changes in This rapid growth has meant that the airport, like growth in our properties. The focus shall be on capacity in the short and long term through the Bromma Stockholm Airport, is nearing capactaking advantage of this strong value growth, efficient use of our resources, while ensuring ity in terms of aircraft parking stands and termifrom the time detailed plans are adopted to the we meet our owner’s return targets. nal capacity. In 2015, punctuality at Stockholm leasing or sale of completed buildings. Arlanda Airport was 83.8 per cent, compared to 85.4 per cent in 2014. At Bromma Stockholm Airport, punctuality was 91.4 per cent, compared to 91.9 per cent in 2014. The environmental permit issued to Stockholm be critical to the development of Stockholm ised security checkpoint, a new baggage hanArlanda Airport in 2014 entered into force on May Arlanda Airport. Another factor for success is dling system and a new area for retail activities 25, 2015. The ruling secured the airport’s conclose collaboration with its neighbours – the are planned here. Further down the line, the work tinued capacity and thus development potenMunicipalities of Sigtuna, Upplands Väsby, continues, among other things, on two new piers tial. Swedavia’s Board of Directors has adopted Vallentuna and Knivsta. A growing airport which, for Terminal 2. a long-term development plan with a focus on together with nearby areas, will generate 50,000 making Stockholm Arlanda Airport Scandinavia’s jobs over the next few decades requires not just GÖTEBORG LANDVETTER AIRPORT leading airport. Once the environmental perexpanded infrastructure but also attractive resiSweden’s second largest airpor t, Göteborg mit was approved in 2015, work could begin in dential areas within commuter distance. To coorLandvetter Airport, had sharp passenger growth a number of areas. According to the company’s dinate this development and make it easy for in 2015, with an increase from 5.2 to 6.2 million plan, the airport will be able to handle 40 million companies to set up operations, Swedavia is passengers. passengers a year in 2035, which is a 70 per cent working together with the Municipality of Sigtuna This was partly the result of general growth in increase compared to 2015. Added to that are and Arlandastad Holding under the joint venture air travel and of airlines investing in new direct investments in property development adjacent Airport City Stockholm. routes. However, the single most important cause to the airport. At the same time, in-depth work In 2016, the airpor t maintenance area at was that airlines that had previously operated out was begun to ensure the airport’s development Stockholm Arlanda Airport will move to premises of Göteborg City Airport (Säve Airport) chose to potential beyond the current planning horizon. that previously constituted the airline SAS’s techset up operations at Göteborg Landvetter Airport. Furthermore, Bromma Stockholm Airport will nical base. In conjunction, the properties will be This means that Ryanair, Gotlandflyg and Wizz be developed to meet the continued passenger rebuilt, adapted to meet today’s environmental Air now fly out of Göteborg Landvetter Airport. growth, as required by the Swedish Transport standards and environmentally certified. Next up Punctuality for the airport in 2015 was 84.7 per Agency. for development is a new pier in Terminal 5, which cent, compared to 87.5 per cent in 2014. will increase its practical capacity, allow transfer Like with Stockholm Arlanda Airpor t, the Capacity enhancement possibilities and enable the airport to efficiently increase in passenger volume and aircraft moveThe ability to create an interplay between aviahandle more new and larger aircraft types such ments means that premises and other infrastruction, real estate and commercial operations will as the Airbus 380 and Boeing 777. A centralture must be used very efficiently. At the same Net revenue and Cash flow from operating profit operating activities Capital spending SEK M SEK M SEK M 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Net revenue Operating profit SWEDAV I A 2015 31 OPERATIONS – ECONOMY In commercial operations, Swedavia’s regional airports strive to highlight and to a greater extent make use of local features in their own region. time, the greater passenger flows provide a growLandvetter Airport. The airport’s environmental airports in 2015 was 90.9 per cent, a decrease of ing basis for commercial operations, and during permit is a critical factor for its potential for con0.1 per cent compared to 2014. the year a pharmacy, a flower shop and a new tinued growth and development. In June 2015, The challenges for the regional airports are, in café, among other establishments, opened in the the Land and Environmental Court issued a new practical terms, handling the growth in passenterminal. permit that allows up to 120,000 aircraft moveger volume and working to develop commercial ments a year, compared to the previous 80,000. operations, which requires new forms of collabRapid growth Meanwhile, the new permit has been appealed, oration between aviation operations and comThe continuous increase in traffic volume places in part with regards to the volume of movements, mercial operations. One practical example of great demands on the expansion of infrastrucwhich means the process will continue in 2016. this is the provision of ground handling services. ture at and around the airport. At the same time, With the exception of Malmö Airport, since the the region of western Götaland is also growREGIONAL AIRPORTS end of 2014, Swedavia’s regional airports are ing rapidly. Today about one million people live Swedavia’s seven regional airports, with a total responsible for ground handling services that within a 40 minute journey of the airport. As a of some five million passengers a year, are cruwere previously provided by the airlines SAS and result of future rail links, this number is expected cial to Swedavia’s potential to fulfil its task. The Norwegian, services that fall between the areas to increase to 1,500,000 in 2020. Swedavia airports have a strong focus on domestic traffic, of aviation operations and commercial business. takes part in the collaboration Go:Connect, but many of them have their own routes to desThat means Swedavia has greater potential to which works to develop the attractiveness of and tinations outside Sweden. Wizz Air, for instance, create fast, cost-effective flows, from baggage access for the Gothenburg region. offers fourteen destinations mainly in eastern handling to check-in, security screening and An extensive development programme with a Europe from Malmö Airport. In 2015, a ruling was boarding. It also means passengers will meet the large number of different projects that together issued on a new environmental permit for Visby same people but in different roles at the airport, will form Airport City Gothenburg has begun. Airport, which has been appealed. The matter will which creates a sense of security and contributes This new airport city will have room for hotels therefore be decided by the Swedish government to increased customer satisfaction. and offices, logistics facilities and retail outin 2016. During the year, an application was sublets. Work is under way for a new high-speed mitted for a new environmental permit for Kiruna Strong position rail link between Borås and Gothenburg, which Airport. The regional airports also measure their In commercial operations, Swedavia’s regional will include an underground station at Göteborg punctuality, and the overall figure for the seven airports strive to highlight and to a greater extent 32 SWEDAV I A 2015 OPERATIONS – ECONOMY Enhanced growth potential Early in the year, Swedavia and Bockasjö signed an with partnerships agreement to, in the first phase, prepare land for the construction of logistics properties equivalent to 100,000 square metres at Göteborg Landvetter Airport. After this, Swedavia and Alecta formed a joint venture to manage properties with an underlying property value in the transaction of 3,950 million kronor. Through this company, a long-term engagement in real estate is secured while the conditions required for the airports’ development are enhanced. make use of local features in their own region. the attractiveness and competitiveness of the difPark. When it is completed, the park will offer This is being done in close collaboration with key ferent airports. These, for example, include the 100,000 square metres of logistics facilities. local partners such as municipalities, companies hotel, conference, office and logistics facilities Another example is the joint venture formed with or chambers of commerce, for instance, during that form part of Swedavia’s customer offering. the pension company Alecta. The company will Almedal Week, the annual Swedish gathering Operations are also an essential requirement to manage 20 larger properties in the form of hangof political and other leaders, or during the ski ensure Swedavia’s continued investments since ars, logistics buildings and offices at Stockholm season in Åre. It is also important to utilise the revenue from developed properties that are sold Arlanda Airport, Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Group’s strong bargaining position. Agreements off reduces the need for external funding. Malmö Airport covering a total of 200,000 square with a supplier that wants to deliver services or The plans for the next five years include a major metres. buy advertising space at Stockholm Arlanda can new hotel with 20,000 square metres of space be designed so that the regional airports can also over 18 storeys, and the SkyCity Office One Satisfied tenants benefit from the agreement. And if the critical development, covering an area of 15,000 square Like with the Group’s customer satisfaction surmass is not there for bricks-and-mortar stores, metres. Both properties are part of the new veys of passengers and airlines, Swedavia also temporary pop-up shops can be a solution, or Airport City Stockholm, which is taking shape monitors how satisfied tenants are. Starting this virtual shops that give passengers access to the around Stockholm Arlanda Airport. year, the survey will be carried out every two offering available at the big airports. years. The figure for the latest measurement, in Resources and competences 2014, was 65 per cent, an improvement of three REAL ESTATE As more projects are launched, Swedavia is per cent compared to the survey in 2013. In 2016, The Group’s Real Estate operations are responbuilding up a function for project management. Swedavia will continue to develop and strengthen sible for the buildings and land that can be develSince the organisation should be small and effiits collaboration with the Group’s tenants, the oped as the different airports become increascient, Swedavia also strives to create partnerobjective being to increase their satisfaction. ingly important as hubs. This means, for instance, ships with other participants in the real estate that terminals and other properties used for airindustr y that can contribute resources and port operations are currently not included under competences. One example of this is collabReal Estate, which is entrusted with the task of oration with the logistics and property develmanaging and developing properties to enhance oper Bockasjö to develop Landvetter Logistics SWEDAV I A 2015 33 OPERATIONS – ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN work. This certification, which is backed by in the Nordic countries using the region’s raw General strategy in the United Nations Convention Framework on Climate Change, means that all of Swedavia airmaterials. The Swedish air traffic industry is working to Environmental Concern ports continuously reduce their carbon dioxide make Swedish domestic air travel fossil-free by emissions from their own operations, and create 2030. In 2016, Swedavia will establish a service Proactive environmental work opportunities for other operations at the airports which entails, among other things, fuelling with We shall be a driver in the transition to to reduce their emissions. renewable aviation fuel to offset the amount used renewable aviation fuel while working actively One of the most important challenges to the in Swedavia’s business travel. This decision, ourselves and influencing companies and air travel industry is to reduce the climate impact. which represents an investment of ten million kroorganisations at the airports to reduce their The industry has therefore agreed on a joint nor, will entail a reduction in carbon dioxide emiscarbon dioxide emissions and use natural global target, which is to cut actual emissions of sions equal to 1,100 tonnes as well as increased resources efficiently and in an environmentally fossil carbon dioxide in half by 2050, compared to demand for renewable aviation fuel. sound way. 2005 levels. A transition from today’s fossil fuels In addition to the new fuels, modern systems to renewable fuels is critical in achieving this goal also contribute to more energy-efficient operaby 2050. tions to a greater extent, with information being ENVIRONMENTAL WORK FOR During the year, Swedavia increased its shared in real time by airlines, ground handling SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT engage­m ent in promoting renewable aviation staff and air traffic management. As a result, the Swedavia’s goal is to have zero emissions of fosfuel, in part by joining the Fly Green Fund. The wait for aircraft at the gate or on the runway can sil carbon dioxide from own operations by 2020. aim of the Fly Green Fund is to stimulate demand be minimised, which reduces noise, fuel conThe transition to renewable fuels and reduced and create a market for renewable aviation fuel in sumption and emissions. Swedavia also continenergy use in our own operations are crucial the Nordic countries. This is to be done in part by ues to work to link different transport modes and to us achieving our goal. In 2015, the Group’s jointly funding the additional cost of this renewimprove mass transit to and from the airports so emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from our own able fuel. The fund will also contribute to develthat it can offer passengers a fossil-free journey operations was 3,066 tonnes, about one per opment projects for large-scale fuel production In the future. cent lower than in 2014, 19 per cent lower than in 2013, and a reduction of about 73 per cent since 2005. The decrease in 2015 is due mostly to increased use of renewable fuels and syntheSwedavia’s fossil carbon dioxide emissions by area, %, 2015 tic diesel (HVO) In the Group’s vehicle fleet. At the same time, mild weather and a reduced need for snow removal in 2015 as well helped to reduce 93% Vehicles and propellants emissions faster than planned. 6% Energy Swedavia’s vehicle fleet accounts for most of 1% Fire & Rescue Service the remaining emissions, so the Group is working to modernise this fleet and replace fossil fuels with renewable alternatives, such as biogas. In the autumn of 2015, 14 new biogas-propelled plough, sweep and blow (PSB) machines were delivered to Stockholm Arlanda Airport. In 2020, Progress on Swedavia’s zero target for fossil carbon dioxide emissions* all vehicles in operations will be propelled by elecTonnes tricity, biogas or renewable diesel. Alongside this, Swedavia is implementing measures to reduce the use of resources in operations and their impact on water to help conserve the biological diversity at the airports. Swedavia also works to ensure that people living near the airports consider the noise level from air traffic to be acceptable. In 2015, some 14,500 people were exposed to aviation noise exceeding the national standard of FBN 55 dB(A) at Swedavia’s airports. This is the same level as for the past two Year years, despite an increase in the number of aircraft movements. Scope 1: Vehicle propellants, electricity and heat produced by Swedavia (used by Swedavia and sold), and firefighting exercises WITH RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE Scope 2: Purchased electricity and heat used by Swedavia ENTIRE JOURNEY Scope 3: Purchased heat sold to others Swedavia’s ten airports are certified at the higSub-targets 2016–2020 hest level in accordance with Airport Carbon *The goal includes Swedavia’s emissions in Scope 1 and 2 as well as purchased heat sold to others (Scope 3). Scopes as Accreditation’s standards for airports’ climate per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 34 SWEDAV I A 2015 OPERATIONS Environmental concern Environmental concern is critical to Swedavia being able to run and develop our operations in a sustainable way. Swedavia’s strategy of proactive environmental work thus includes the company’s own operations as well as the industry’s transition to renewable aviation fuel. As a result, we work actively to reduce our own fossil carbon dioxide emissions and those of our stakeholders and to ensure that natural resources are used efficiently to ensure long-term Swedish access. An ever shrinking carbon footprint per passenger, kilo tonnes CO2 The carbon footprint for Swedavia’s Airport Air traffic Ground transport Swedavia Total airports in 2015 is reported here, Bromma Stockholm Airport 20 3 0.3 24 broken down into air traffic emissions Göteborg Landvetter Airport 46 33 0.5 80 in the landing and take-off cycle (or Kiruna Airport 2 1 0.2 3 (LTO cycle, flying below 3,000 feet including taxiing on the ground), pasLuleå Airport 9 6 0.1 15 sengers’ ground transport to and from Malmö Airport 22 18 0.2 40 the airports and Swedavia’s own opeRonneby Airport 2 1 0.0 3 rations. During the year, the carbon Stockholm Arlanda Airport 153 113 1.1 267 footprint of Swedavia’s airports increUmeå Airport 9 6 0.3 16 ased about two per cent, from about Visby Airport 2 1 0.1 3 446 kilo tonnes of CO 2 in 2014 to 457 kilo tonnes in 2015. Meanwhile, Åre Östersund Airport 4 2 0.3 6 passenger volume increased more Swedavia Real Estate 0.0 0 than five per cent, which means that Total 270 184 3.1 457 the carbon footprint per passenger Percentage change 2014–2015: 0.3% 5.8% -1.4% 2.4% decreased about three per cent. Emissions of fossil carbon dioxide in kilograms per passenger for air traffic’s LTO cycle and passengers’ ground transport to/from the airports Total LTO cycle Ground transport 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 SWEDAV I A 2015 35 OPERATIONS – SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT checks, which makes screening easier for passengers and in the long term can also help make General strategies in Social Development flows more efficient. Swedavia is also studying the possibilities of using queue metrics and posiHigh level of safety and Developing leadership External relations that tioning systems to create increased predictability security and employeeship enhance business for passengers and staff in terms of loads and We shall work proactively Based on our values and Strategic communication queue times at the security checkpoint, which has to ensure a high level of with a focus on development, and open, humble and close a direct effect on customer satisfaction. safety and security by workcompetences and engagement, relations create interest, During the year, work continued with cusing systematically with our leaders and employees – understanding and engagetomer service at the security checkpoints in term quality, identifying risks and taking an inclusive approach ment in Swedavia’s developof the way people are treated and the environproactively mitigating, han– shall together create an ment and the importance of ment there, and measures were adapted to condling, securing and accepting attractive workplace that is air travel. These relations also these. We shall always have characterised by pride, busicontribute to the development ditions at the different airports. Further measures the ability to handle serious ness-mindedness and pleasure of operations. to increase the level of service in airport safety incidents and minimise the in work. and security work are planned in 2016. consequences of them through continuity planning and reguPREVENTIVE WORK larly held exercises. Swedavia’s own safety and security work and the services provided by partners, mostly in the form of security services companies, are examined and monitored on a regular basis both by the Swedish Transport Agency, which is the oversight CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT WORK IN In 2015, new EU regulations were introduced authority, and through Swedavia’s internal audits. SAFETY AND SECURITY for aviation security, including the installation of In many cases, this is done on a daily basis as Swedavia’s safety and security work is focused explosives trace detectors. Along with a heightwell as each month. on aviation safety and security. Aviation safety ened level of security, the initial results show Leadership, engagement and the right attitude is focus on preventing accidents, while aviation that the flow of passengers through the secuon safety and security issues are critical factors security is aimed at actively preventing crimirity checkpoint can go faster by using the new for aviation safety and security. During the autumn nal acts. This work has the highest priority at technology. of 2015, special seminars were held with a focus Swedavia and is integrated in all operations and Tests were also carried out on new secuon further improving the climate for safety and in the Group’s objectives and targets. rity scanners that reduce the need for physical security. Swedavia also collaborates with the US preclearance During the year, the work began for US preclearance at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The implementation of preclearance procedures would mean that, in the future, passengers flying to the US can complete a US border check while still at the Swedish airport, which makes travel easier and creates better potential to establish direct routes between the two countries. Implementation is a long process that involves negotiations between and political decisions from the two countries. 36 SWEDAV I A 2015 OPERATIONS Social development For Swedavia, social development involves creating safety and security for passengers, making Swedavia an attractive employer and ensuring that the relations the company has with others will enhance the airports’ development potential. Given our strategies in these areas, we work proactively to ensure a high level of safety and security through systematic risk work, that our values are integral to the development of Swedavia as an engaged, inclusive employer, and that our communication efforts create understanding and curiosity about Swedavia’s development needs. SWEDAV I A 2015 37 OPERATIONS – SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT University of Gothenburg and University College West to develop a method to measure the climate for safety and security. An initial measurement was taken in the spring of 2015. Inclusion The work with Swedavia’s new operations centre (OPC) continued during the year. This includes the development of a standardised and human technical platform for all camera systems at Swedavia’s different airports. Swedavia is also developing a CRM system in order to, in the long term, collect all information from detectors, cameras and x-ray equipment and more effectively analyse and handle this in real time. rights CRISIS PLANS Every Swedavia airport today has a crisis management plan and manual adapted to local conditions and carries out exercises on a regular basis. In the autumn of 2015, Stockholm Active diversity work enhances our Arlanda Airport took part in a large-scale coordinated exercise together with the police and business potential and contributes to our security authorities, the county council and the long-term supply of talent. county administrative board. In the area of continuity planning, that is, how the Group would manage disruptions such as a major power outThe concept of diversity is an integral part of Swedavia’s susage or water supply problem, planning is under tainability work. Swedavia strives to have more employees from way for the most important operations. foreign backgrounds and better balance between the sexes. In 2015, there was greater focus on improved No matter whether this concerns internal work or the interplay incident reporting, which led to a 43 per cent between the Group’s different stakeholders, active, inclusive rise in such repor ts at Stockholm Arlanda diversity work, with respect for human rights on every level, is Airport during the first six months of the year. an investment in a business advantage for Swedavia. That increase, which cannot be linked to a corresponding increase in the number of inciIn 2015, an updated diversity and gender equality plan was dents or near-accidents, indicates an even more adopted. The plan is synchronised with annual measurements of heightened awareness of safety and security. equality in terms of gender and international origins, which are compared to the benchmark JÄMIX equality index. This means FEWER ACCIDENTS AND SERIOUS there are checks to ensure employees reflect the demographics of INCIDENTS Swedish society today in terms of gender, age and country of origin. Swedavia has a vision of zero accidents and Other priority tasks are to reduce the number of women absent due to illness for long periods and to work to ensure parental leave is serious incidents. The definitions for these are more evenly divided between men and women. based on a standard EU regulation and are evaluated in Sweden by the Swedish Accident In the day-to-day operations at Swedavia’s airports, diversity work Investigation Authority. Swedavia reports all is represented in a number of ways. The Group has diversity teams incidents with an assessment of their impact that work actively with these issues in Stockholm and Gothenburg. on aviation safety to the Swedish Transport The diversity perspective is also included as part of manager Agency. All accidents and serious incidents training programmes. Guidelines have been developed for how job are reported directly to the Swedish Accident advertisements are to be written so that they do not exclude anyone Investigation Authority. In 2015, there were for the wrong reason. Another practical application of this diversity four such incidents – two accidents and two work is the unisex uniform designed for employees at the airports. near-accidents. In comparison, there were five incidents in 2014. At present, there is nothing to The work for human rights and gender equality also includes moniindicate that Swedavia’s infrastructure or opertoring Swedavia’s suppliers and sub-suppliers, in collaboration with ational procedures contributed to any of these the Group’s procurement function, to ensure that they also respect fundamental human rights. incidents. 38 SWEDAV I A 2015 OPERATIONS – SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS CODE OF CONDUCT The Group’s partnerships and suppliers were selected to create efficient operations with good returns and to contribute to greater social well-being in terms of the environment, access and A corporate culture that is founded on ethical guidelines is the basis for social responsibility. satisfied employees. Sustainable supplier chain To support the management of day-toSwedavia has a large number of suppliers that provide different kinds of services and goods, from security services day operations and as support for our and catering to building contracts, cleaning, IT and air traffic management. employees, there is a Code of Conduct, Swedavia’s suppliers are expected to comply with all laws and work to increase diversity. In addition, Swedavia has which compiles Swedavia’s Grouprequirements for quality, safety, security and environmental work. Along with Swedavia’s own Code of Conduct for wide ethical guidelines. The training employees, the Group has developed a Code of Conduct adapted to suppliers. The aim is to make it easier for supprogramme “Welcome to Swedavia”, pliers to adapt their operations to Swedavia’s approach in the area of sustainability. The supplier Code of Conduct is which all employees complete, includes based on the United Nations Global Compact, which stems from the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the an introduction on this. In 2014, a International Labour Organisation’s Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on whistle-blower function was also introEnvironment and Development, and the UN Convention against Corruption. duced, where employees at Swedavia’s airports can report irregularities. To Swedavia also strives to maintain an open business climate and a high level of business ethics. During the year, handle such cases, an Ethics CommitSwedavia expanded its whistle-blower function to include external stakeholders. That means employees of suppliers tee was set up, which consists of the can anonymously report irregularities overlooked by people in leading chief legal officer, an internal audit positions at Swedavia. manager and a chief negotiator. The Collaborations that provide social well-being committee convenes as needed and at Swedavia works together with businesses and other organisations least twice a year. In addition, a comin order to create favourable conditions for developing Swedish pulsory online training programme for access. This is done, for instance, in trade associations such as all leaders, Swedavia’s Bribery Policy Airports Council International (ACI) and the Swedish trade group and Guidelines for External Business Svenskt Flyg, through the regional initiatives Connect Sweden and Entertainment were launched during Go:Connect in Gothenburg and Connect Jämtland, and through its the year. membership in the Fly Green Fund. Swedavia takes part in the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences’ national technology initiative Tekniksprånget, which is aimed at strengthening and securing Sweden’s talent supply. With its nationwide partnership with the Swedish employment agency Arbetsförmedlingen, Swedavia provides internships, giving priority to young people and the long-term unemployed in the vicinity of its airports. Swedavia also collaborates with the non-profit organisations Doctors Without Borders and the Red Cross. Among other things, the Red Cross takes care of all items that passengers leave behind at the airports and are not picked up the owner. Clothes, computers, bags and other such items are then sold in the Red Cross’s shops across the country. The Group takes part in the Stockholm Pride Festival and in West Pride, which is the Gothenburg counterpart, as well as a number of other initiatives with that theme elsewhere in Sweden. These collaborations enhance Swedavia’s brand as a business-minded company that is aware and takes responsibility, which contributes to employee engagement and the continuous development of operations in line with society’s needs. The Red Cross takes care of all Items that passengers leave behind at the airports and are not picked up the owner. Clothes, computers, bags and other such items are then sold in the Passengers can use foreign coins left over from their trip to play some cult video games, such as Ms. Red Cross’s shops across the country. Items are Pac-Man, Space Invaders and Galaga. Any coin in any kept in the lost and found department for three currency works, and all money is donated in full to months. Whatever is not picked up by the owner Red Cross operations. is donated to the Red Cross, which distributes the items to its shops. SWEDAV I A 2015 39 OPERATIONS – SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT DIVERSITY FOR SUCCESS ment. In the survey conducted after year-end LEADERSHIP AND COMPETENCES Swedavia’s operations cover a wide range of 2015, an employee satisfaction index (ESI) of 86 In 2015, the Group developed a new and more areas, from ground handling services to proper cent was achieved, compared to 84 for 2014. clearly defined strategy for human resources. ject management and airport hosts. That means These results indicate that in 2015 Swedavia Swedavia carries out continuous work to further Swedavia needs a variety of different compealready met and exceeded its target of 85 per develop its communicative leadership with a focus tences, which combined enable the Group to cent employee satisfaction, which was set for on dialogue to build the Group into a cohesive unit. meet the challenges that arise as a result of 2020. The response rate was also high in 2015, During the year, continuing programmes in increased air travel, in the form of customer satand survey results were monitored during the practical and visible leadership were conducted, isfaction, safety, security, capacity and sustainyear in all working groups. The survey results and a special day focused on leadership and ability thinking. For Swedavia, this means that also serve as a basis for different action plans business-mindedness was also arranged. The the ability to recruit and retain skilled, engaged and for the continuous improvement and develwork to clarif y the Group’s organisation, its employees, now and in the future, is a critical facopment work. mandate and responsibilities continued. The tor for success. Competence Terminal systems support initiative The objective is therefore to provide a workSWEDAVIA A CAREER COMPANY was further developed to ensure that every posiplace in which employees have the conditions In 2015, for the third year in a row, Swedavia was tion and role have the right competences, responneeded to carry out their duties, further develop named by the recruitment firm Jobtip as one of sibilities and authorisation. their skills and achieve their set goals. The workSweden’s 100 most exciting companies to purplace shall also be characterised by respect for sue a career in. Each year, more than 1,200 comOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY the individual on every level, diversity and an inclupanies are examined and assessed in terms of Many duties at a modern airport are carried out sive attitude. Swedavia’s work to promote diversity development opportunities, employee engageunder stressful time constraints, which are further also has a strong connection to business performent and international scope. Among the reaintensified by the growing number of passengers. mance, since it enables the Group to recruit new sons cited for this distinction, it was noted that In 2015, the number of sick days in the Group employees from a broader base than before and “With its great focus on its employees, sustainaincreased, a trend that also applied to society in also increases the chances of better customer bility and social development, Swedavia creates general. For Swedavia, it is of utmost importance service in an increasingly international world. a modern workplace with potential for a broadly to carry out systematic and forward-looking work diverse population to pursue a career. A well-defor occupational health and safety to ensure that EMPLOYEE SURVEY veloped trainee initiative and development proall employees can enjoy a safe, secure workplace Each year, Swedavia carries out employee surgrammes create many different career paths and environment. Along with preventive measures, veys in order to measure how employees themdemonstrate that employees are the company’s other important tools in this work are clear monselves assess their participation and engagemost important resource.” itoring procedures and quick implementation of Average number of employees, 2015 2,787 34% Women 66% Men 70% Permanent 9% Fixed-term contract 21% On hourly wages 40 SWEDAV I A 2015 OPERATIONS – SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT rehabilitation measures. As part of these efforts, Swedavia’s employees in figures* during the year the position of rehabilitation coordinator was established. Every employee also has Employees Permanent Part-time On hourly Full-time Part-time special healthcare and rehabilitation insurance. Over the next few years, Swedavia will carry 2015 out a number of large-scale development projects, mainly at Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Women 1,148 849 51 248 755 94 Göteborg Landvetter Airport, which means that Men 2,204 1,519 240 445 1,461 58 a great number of building contractors will be Total 3,352 2,368 291 693 2,216 152 working at the airports. The Group has responsibility for coordinating health and occupational 2014 safety issues and has begun work to create clarity with regard to relations with the contractors Women 1,148 829 54 265 727 103 being hired. Men 2,100 1,464 208 428 1,377 86 Total 3,248 2,293 262 693 2,104 189 COOPERATION Good cooperation with employee organisations 2013 is important in order for Swedavia to continue Women 975 696 60 219 646 50 to successfully carry out its development and change work. In June 2015, a new joint coopMen 1,907 1,323 195 389 1,279 46 erative agreement was signed, which went into Total 2,882 2,019 255 608 1,925 96 effect in September 2015, with four trade unions: the Swedish Transport Union, the Swedish Union * Information pertains to the number of employee contracts as of December 31. for Service and Communication Employees, the management organisation Ledarna and the The increase in the number of employees is due in part to the development of ground handling operations Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers. at the regional airports and the consolidation of Göteborg City Airport (Säve Airport). Expanded regulations for security screening along with the increase in traffic and passenger volume also entailed an increase in employees on a full-year basis in airport operations. Recycled beverage containers help those in need as well as the environment The receptacles for recycling beverage containers that have been set up at Swedavia’s airports since the autumn of 2014 contribute to the Group’s sustainability work. Passengers, visitors and employees can place empty aluminium cans and plastic bottles in the receptacles for recycling. For each aluminium can that is recycled, 90 per cent of the energy used to produce a new can is saved, which reduces the environmental impact and energy use. The deposit on these cans and bottles is a welcome cash injection for Swedavia’s partner Doctors Without Borders, which provides medical and humanitarian aid to people afflicted by crises, war and natural disasters. The beverage recycling initiative was a success from the very start. In just two months, 1,700 kilos of cans and 70,000 kronor in deposits were collected at Swedavia’s airports. In 2015, Swedavia, together with Returpack, which is responsible for maintaining and emptying the receptacles, collected empty cans and bottles that generated a total of more than 460,000 kronor for Doctors Without Borders. The money is used in operations carried out in more than 60 countries around the world. At the same time, as a result of the recycled plastic, carbon dioxide emissions were reduced by a total of 17,500 kg. SWEDAV I A 2015 41 Annual report 2015 Financial reports 42 SWEDAV I A 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Contents Report of the Directors 44 Note 21 Investment properties 77 Note 22 Biological assets 77 Consolidated accounts 51 Note 23 Non-current financial assets 77 Consolidated income statement 51 Note 24 Other long-term receivables 77 Consolidated balance sheet 52 Note 25 Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures 78 Changes in equity 54 Note 26 Holdings in Group companies 79 Consolidated cash flow statement 55 Note 27 Financial assets and liabilities 79 Parent Company’s accounts 56 Note 28 Materials and supplies 80 Parent Company income statement 56 Note 29 Current receivables 80 Parent Company balance sheet 57 Note 30 Receivables from Group companies 80 Changes in equity 58 Note 31 Other receivables 81 Parent Company cash flow statement 59 Note 32 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 81 Notes 60 Note 33 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 81 Note 1 Corporate information 61 Note 34 Assets held for sale 81 Note 2 Accounting principles 61 Note 35 Equity 82 Note 3 Segment reporting 66 Note 36 Provisions 82 Note 4 Net revenue 67 Note 37 Provisions for pensions 82 Note 5 Transactions with related parties 68 Note 38 Other provisions 84 Note 6 Other operating income 68 Note 39 Deferred tax 84 Note 7 Remuneration and compensation for auditors 68 Note 40 Interest-bearing liabilities 85 Note 8 Employees and staff expenses 68 Note 41 Long-term and current liabilities 85 Note 9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses on Note 42 Borrowings 85 tangible fixed assets/intangible non-current assets 72 Note 43 Bank credit facilities 85 Note 10 Other operating costs 72 Note 44 Other liabilities 85 Note 11 Financial income and expenses 72 Note 45 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 86 Note 12 Allocations and untaxed reserves 73 Note 46 Financial risks 86 Note 13 Tax 73 Note 47 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 88 Note 14 Intangible non-current assets 73 Note 48 Cash flow 88 Note 15 Fixed assets 74 Note 16 Buildings and land 74 Signatories to the Annual Report 89 Note 17 Field structures 75 Audit Report 90 Note 18 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 75 Note 19 New construction in progress related to tangible Statement of Compliance 91 fixed assets 75 Note 20 Fair value 76 Corporate Governance Report 92 SWEDAV I A 2015 43 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Report of the Stockholm and Las Vegas as well as Puerto Rico, Swiss’s launching of service between Gothenburg and Zurich, and Wizz Air’s continued expansion in Directors Malmö, including the new destination of Debrecen. As passenger volume grows, Swedavia believes demand will increase for attractive office premises with good access to rail-based mass transit as well as domestic and international air links. In light of this trend, Swedavia has decided to build the SkyCity Office One complex, which consist of two The Board of Directors and the President and CEO of Swedavia AB buildings with 15,600 square metres of space. The first tenants are expected (publ), Swedish corporate identity number 556797-0818, hereby to move in at the end of 2017. submit their annual accounts for Swedavia AB and the consolidated In February, Swedavia signed an agreement, via its subsidiary Swedavia Real Estate AB, with Bockasjö AB for the continued development of logistics financial accounts for the Swedavia Group for the year of operations properties at Göteborg Landvetter Airport. As a result of the agreement, the 2015. The Report of the Directors is for the Group and Parent Comparties will form a joint venture to develop the area around the airport for logispany, unless otherwise indicated. tics facilities. In the first phase, land will be prepared for the construction of logistics properties with some 100,000 square metres of space. In December, SWEDAVIA’S OPERATIONS Swedavia sold land to the joint venture. Swedavia is a State-owned company that owns, operates and develops the In June, Swedavia sold a portfolio of properties in logistics, hangar and State-owned airports in Sweden. Swedavia’s operations are divided into office operations located at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Göteborg Landvetter two segments, Airport Operations and Real Estate, at year-end 2015. the Airport and Malmö Airport. Swedavia formed a property company together Airport Operations segment at Swedavia ran operations at ten airports in the with Alecta, Swedish Airport Infrastructure, which acquired the properties and national basic infrastructure of airports as determined by the Swedish govwhose task is to manage them. Through the company, a long-term engageernment, which consist of Bromma Stockholm Airport, Göteborg Landvetter ment in properties is secured and the potential for the airports’ development Airport, Kiruna Airport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, Ronneby Airport, is enhanced. Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Umeå Airport, Visby Airport and Åre Östersund The Land and Environmental Court has ruled on a new environmental Airport. The airports are managed as and consolidated into an integrated permit for Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The ruling means that the airport can airport system with shared corporate functions. Also included in the Group continue to be developed in line with expected passenger growth there. A is the company Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, which owns Göteborg City ruling was also issued on a new environmental permit for Göteborg Landvetter Airport (Säve Airport). Real Estate owns, develops and manages properties Airport, which means the airport can continue to be developed and meet the and developable land at and in the vicinity of Swedavia’s airports. region’s long-term needs for air links. The Land and Environmental Court’s Swedavia’s task from the Swedish State includes working actively based ruling has been appealed. The main hearing in the Land and Environmental on sound business principles and with long-term profitability to develop the Court is planned for March 2016. Swedavia’s own emissions of fossil carbon transport sector and help achieve the Parliament’s transport policy objectives. dioxide decreased somewhat in 2015 to 3,066 tonnes, which means that the The overall objective of Swedish transport policy is to ensure the socioecsub-targets for the Group’s goal of zero emissions by 2020 were again met onomically efficient, long-term sustainable provision of transport to citizens and exceeded. In addition, Swedavia has decided to procure a service that and businesses throughout the country. As per the instructions of its owner, entails, among other things, fuelling with renewable aviation fuel equivalent Swedavia shall measure and report results for five indicators in the areas of to the amount used on Swedavia’s roughly 15,000 flights for business puraccess, quality of transport, safety, security, and environment. Swedavia’s poses each year. operations are funded by the revenue generated from operations. Stockholm Arlanda Airport is one of ten airports around the world to be selected for the possible introduction of US border checks, so called US preVISION AND MISSION clearance. Any implementation, which requires the final approval of Swedish Swedavia’s vision is “Together we bring the world closer”, and its mission and US authorities, is expected to make travel easier between the two counstatement is “We at Swedavia create added value for our customers through tries and thus help enhance Swedish access. Negotiations are under way attractive airports and access. We continually develop our business together between Swedish and US authorities. with our partners”. As part of Swedavia’s task to enhance Swedish access, Swedavia lowered its charges to airlines by 3.7 per cent as of April 1, 2015. The reductions were IMPORTANT EVENTS DURING THE YEAR made from what were already very competitive levels for comparable airports. The year was dominated by continued good passenger growth, with an After taking over passenger services, including check-in and boarding, at increase of 5.4 per cent compared to last year, which means a new passenfive regional airports in 2014, during the year Swedavia enhanced its offering ger record for Swedavia. to include Visby Airport. During the year, the service was also incorporated In December, the Board of Directors decided to dismiss Torborg Chetkovich into the airports’ operating model, Basic Airport, which delivered good results from her duties as president and chief executive officer, a position she had held at the airports in question. since 2010. The Board then appointed deputy CEO Karl Wistrand as acting In January 2015, Swedavia acquired all shares in the company that operpresident and CEO. The work to recruit a new CEO has begun. ates Göteborg City Airport (Säve Airport). Swedavia intends to end its involveDuring the year, a number of new routes were launched to both domestic ment in the airport and in August signed a letter of intent with Serneke Group and international destinations. Capacity was also expanded on a number AB for the sale of the airport. Negotiations between Swedavia and Serneke of existing routes. As a result of these developments, Swedish access was Group AB continue as planned. Swedavia still has a commitment to maintain improved. Examples of new air links are SAS’s investment in traffic between operations for part of 2016. Stockholm and Hong Kong, Norwegian Air Shuttle’s new routes between 44 SWEDAV I A 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE GROUP IN BRIEF1 Staff expenses increased SEK 199 M as a result of an increase in the numSEK M, unless otherwise ber of employees. The development of the Group’s ground handling operaindicated 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 tions at the regional airports had an impact of SEK 40 M, while the takeover of Göteborg City Airport had an impact of SEK 47 M. Increased traffic and Net revenue2 5,416 5,384 5,137 4,883 4,620 passenger volume and a change in the Swedish Transport Agency’s security Operating profit 1,755 1,405 946 831 781 screening requirements entailed an increase in the number of employees. The Operating margin, % 32.4 26.1 18.4 17.0 16.6 change is also attributable to the effects of annual salary reviews. Ongoing development work to Increase synergies entailed a decrease in the number Profit before tax 1,547 1 162 686 554 556 of employees in management and support functions. Profit for the year 1,410 926 501 447 438 Depreciation, amortisation and loss impairments decreased SEK 31 M Earnings per share, SEK 0.98 0.64 0.35 0.31 0.30 compared to the previous year. In 2014, loss impairments of SEK 57 M, attributable in part to the takeover of Göteborg City Airport of SEK, affected this Return on equity, % 22.7 17.7 10.9 10.8 11.2 item. In 2015, no depreciation was taken on assets held for sale, and for the Return on operating capital, % 14.5 10.3 7.1 7.4 7.6 same period in 2014 depreciation on these was SEK 18 M. The underlying Debt/equity ratio, times 0.7 1.4 1.9 1.9 1.6 depreciation increased compared to the previous year, which is a result of increased capital spending. Equity/assets ratio, % 51.8 36.5 30.5 29.1 32.7 Net financial items totalled SEK -208 M (-242). Net financial items was Cash flow from operating activities 1,374 2,109 1,339 1,493 1,178 adversely affected by SEK 52 M as a result of non-recurring effects from both Capital spending 1,120 924 2,413 3,418 1,057 the early and final settlement of interest rate derivatives. A reduction in borrowings and lower interest rates compared to the previous year had a positive Average number of employees 2,787 2,516 2,369 2,380 2,265 effect on net financial items. 1 For definitions of terms, see page 110. 2 Beginning in 2015, Swedavia has made minor adjustments in the definition of net revenue. LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL POSITION Comparative periods have been restated. Equity in the Group at year-end totalled SEK 6,863 M (5,571) and the equity/ assets ratio was 51.8 per cent (36.5). NET REVENUE AND PROFIT Swedavia’s borrowing at year-end totalled SEK 3,705 M, which is a decrease Consolidated net revenue for the full year totalled SEK 5,416 M (5,384), an of SEK 3,184 M compared to the start of the year. The sale of the property increase of SEK 32 M, or 0.6 per cent compared to the previous year. portfolio allowed the Group’s borrowings to be paid down. Swedavia’s borOperating profit was SEK 1,755 M (1,405), an increase of 24.9 per cent comrowings consist of notes issued of SEK 3,097 M, commercial paper issued pared to the previous year. The operating margin was 32.4 per cent (26.1). of SEK 600 M and unused overdraft facilities of SEK 8 M. The operating margin excluding capital gains was 15.4 per cent (19.6). The debt/equity ratio was 0.7 times, which was a decrease compared to the Revenue from Aviation Business increased SEK 167 M, which is largely turn of the year, when the ratio was 1.4 times. On the balance sheet date, the explained by the increased passenger volume and changes in security screenGroup’s cash and cash equivalents totalled SEK 6 M. On the balance sheet ing regulations, which entailed higher compensation. Revenue from Göteborg date, Swedavia had credit facilities totalling SEK 700 M divided between a City Airport, SEK 51 M, and increased revenue from ground handling, SEK 48 credit line of SEK 500 M and overdraft facilities of SEK 200 M, SEK 8 M of M, had a positive impact on Aviation revenue compared to the previous year. which was utilised on December 31. The reduced charges introduced on April 1, 2015, had an adverse effect of almost SEK 60 M. Aviation revenue was also adversely affected by SEK 44 M CASH FLOW as a result of a retroactive final settlement of revenue for security screening Cash flow for the year totalled SEK -107 M (60). Cash flow from operating for the period 2010-2015. activities was SEK 1,374 M (2,109), which is SEK 735 M lower compared to Revenue from Commercial Services fell SEK 134 M, which is mostly the same period last year. The change is due to a lower figure after adjustexplained by SEK 193 M in lower rental income, a result of the sale of ments for items not included in the cash flow compared to the previous year Swedavia’s property portfolio in 2015 and its hotel property in 2014. Changes and to a change in operating receivables and operating liabilities. in the terms for the largest tenant in Retail, Food & Beverage also entailed lower The cash flow from investing activities was positive and totalled SEK 1,943 revenue. Sales per departing passenger showed a positive trend. Revenue M (-378). The sale of the property portfolio generated SEK 3,854 M. The transfor Car Parking and Advertising increased compared to the previous year. action was reported in gross. Important assets sold were investment propOther operating income increased SEK 558 M compared to the previous erties and important liabilities consisted of operating liabilities. Swedavia’s year. Other operating income consists mostly of capital gains from the sale of investment in Swedish Airport Infrastructure had a SEK 790 M effect on cash the property portfolio, SEK 820 M; the sale of land to the joint venture owned flow from investing activities. in partnership with Bockasjö AB, SEK 98 M; and a supplemental purchase Cash flow for the year from financing activities totalled SEK -3,424 M (-1,671). price for the sale of land, SEK 20 M. Last year’s figure consists of a capital As a result of the sale of the property portfolio, borrowings were paid down gain from the sale of the hotel property, SEK 347 M. during the second half of the year. In 2014, the hotel sale was completed, Other external costs increased SEK 112 M compared to the previous year. which also allowed borrowings to be paid down. The increase is attributable to higher costs for security screening as a result of more stringent requirements from the Swedish Transport Agency and the CAITAL SPENDING increased passenger volume. The increased passenger volume also entailed Capital spending for the year totalled SEK 1,120 M (924). Capital spending higher costs for operations and maintenance. The takeover of Göteborg City consisted mainly of investments in security screening equipment, vehicles, Airport entailed costs of SEK 37 M. a new multi-storey car park at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, baggage handling SWEDAV I A 2015 45 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS facilities at Stockholm Arlanda Airport and the safety classification of the runmostly accounted for increased passenger volume during the year. Charter way system at Bromma Stockholm Airport. traffic overall fell somewhat at Swedavia’s airports. Airlines generally reported a high passenger load factor throughout the FINANCIAL TARGETS year. Seasonally adjusted passenger growth shows that international air travel Swedavia’s financial targets consist of a profitability target, which entails a reached record volumes in 2015. return on operating capital of 7 per cent, and a gearing target, which specifies a debt/equity ratio of 1.0–1.5 times. SIGNIFICANT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTY FACTORS These financial targets are long-term, which means that performance may Risk management at Swedavia is aimed at ensuring the Group’s ability to exceed or fall below the targets as a result, for instance, of fluctuations in the achieve its business objectives and be well prepared to meet change both economy. The values are based on a combination of historical performance internally and externally. Swedavia’s risk management methods are harmoand the company’s expected ability to achieve the targets over the years ahead. nised with ISO 31000 standards and are described in a risk management framework. Governance is made concrete through a risk management policy, DIVIDEND POLICY financial policy and credit policy with related guidelines for the purpose of The normal dividend shall be between 30 and 50 per cent of the year’s profit describing the risk management process. Carrying out proactive risk manexcluding capital gains on the sale of properties and excluding changes in agement is an important tool in Swedavia’s drive to provide greater access value and related tax. Dividend decisions shall take into consideration the for passengers and other customers. Through continuous, systematic risk company’s operations and the capital structure target (a debt/equity ratio management, we direct decisions, priorities and change work toward our of 1.0–1.5 times). overall objectives. SHARES Definition of risk criteria and risk management principles Swedavia AB (publ) has issued 1,441,403,026 shares, which comprise a sinStrategic risks – Risk of loss or other adverse consequence that affects gle share class, and all shares have equal voting rights in the company. All Swedavia’s sustainable development. In general, this risk has a great effect shares are held by the Swedish State; the State’s holdings in Swedavia were on the Group as a whole. administered by the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation as of December Operational risks – Risks as the result of insufficient, inefficient or 31, 2015. The par value of a share is one Swedish krona. non-functional internal processes, human error, problems with technical systems or external events. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Financial risks – Currency risks, interest rate risks, credit risks, commodity In December, Swedavia sold land to a company it jointly owns with Bockasjö price risks and liquidity and refinancing risks are included within the frameAB. The transaction entailed a capital gain of SEK 98 M. work for financial risk management. On June 30, 2015, the property portfolio that had been recognised as Swedavia’s risks shall be managed based on the principles of responsibilassets held for sale since April 2014 was sold. The sale was completed at ity, equality and proximity. an underlying property value of SEK 3,950 M. The capital gain had an effect The principle of responsibility entails that the person who is responsible for on the operating income for the Real Estate segment of SEK 929 M and in an operation is responsible for its risks. Responsibility thus includes ensuring the Group of SEK 820 M. The portfolio was sold to the newly formed assothat the risk owner of that operation takes measures to ensure the robustness ciated company Swedish Airport Infrastructure. Swedavia acquired holdings of the operation’s processes and works for a high level of risk awareness. in Swedish Airport Infrastructure for SEK 790 M. These holdings are reported The principle of equality states that an operation shall function as far as in the Real Estate segment. possible in the same way during a serious incident as under normal conditions. The principle of proximity states that risks shall be managed where they may MARKET occur in the organisation and by whoever the risk owner is. However, somePassenger volume increased 5.4 per cent (6.4) during the full-year 2015. times a risk may not be managed at the level in question; in such cases a risk International passenger volume increased 7.6 per cent (7.9), while domescommittee may supervise the risk owner. tic passenger volume increased 1.5 per cent (3.8). Demand for international There is also what is known as the precautionary principles, which is aimed flights was strong throughout the year. The domestic market got off to a at proactivity. This is enforced through the mandatory completion of risk analweak start to the year, but during the second half of the year, domestic air yses on a continuous basis when there are changes and projects. travel also increased at Swedavia’s airports. Swedavia’s airport operations strive for a low level of risk taking, which safeThe increase in international passenger volume is driven by Swedish demand guards Swedavia’s brand and meets the requirements of its owner, overfor air travel as well as increased travel to Sweden from other countries. Some sight authorities, partners and customers in line with Swedavia’s business of the growth in 2015 was driven by the transfer of air traffic at Göteborg strategy. City Airport to Göteborg Landvetter Airport. Swedish households have had good purchasing power as a result of national economic conditions over the Risk identification and risk assessment past few years. Combined with an expanding offering from airlines, this has Risk identification is carried out on a continuous basis in Swedavia’s operaled to increased demand among Swedes for international travel. Improved tions at the strategic level and in all operations. In Swedavia’s management access to Sweden by air is considered to have increased travel to Sweden system structure, risk work is included in the “planning and preparing” confrom other countries. trol process, which serves as a basis for the airports’ and corporate units’ In intercontinental scheduled operations, passenger volume continues to work with business planning. The risks specified in the business plans and rise. The growth in 2015 was primarily on existing routes. However, the new quarterly reports are checked on a continuous basis against Swedavia’s direct route to Hong Kong entailed increased intercontinental volume for both overall top risks. passengers and cargo. In other long-haul traffic, the US and the Middle East Risk identification can lead to the start of work with risk change 46 SWEDAV I A 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS management. For each identified risk, a risk owner and measures to manage Customer risk changes are documented. All the risks and types of risks in operations are Swedavia strives to continuously develop, improve and create flexibility assessed and compiled into risk banks, which are continuously updated within in operations in order to have a focus on customers. To meet increased the framework for the executive management’s review and work with business demand in the short term, efficient flows in the existing infrastructure are plans. Risks in the risk bank are aggregated and reported on a quarterly basis. needed. In the long term, the demand for more capacity is met through development plans that then result in investment plans. There is a risk in Reporting terms of the ability to make accurate assessments of the demand for capacThe operations’ risks are reported on a quarterly basis as part of the strategy ity and in the ability to implement development plans at a fast enough pace. and business planning process with a focus on risks based on strategies, There is also a risk that Swedavia will not be able to translate insights and objectives, targets and activities. The risk values and activities are assessed. customer needs into new ventures and business opportunities quickly Based on the risk banks reported from operations, the relevant risks are enough, which could lead to declining profitability. To ensure increased aggregated up to the Group level for assessment. The risks assessed then growth and the potential to take advantage of business opportunities in the constitute the basis of a Group-wide risk report that is adopted by the Group long term, extensive business intelligence is carried out. management prior to the preparation of matters in the Audit Committee and a Board decision. Social development Events such as extreme weather conditions, operational downtime, a terrorist Control and monitoring act or labour dispute could entail a shutdown or disruption in airport operNecessary preparations to consider Group-wide risk matters are made in ations and Commercial Services. The airports’ aviation safety and security the Risk Committee, which meets on a quarterly basis. The Risk Committee work is aimed at preventing and minimising the effects of any incidents in constitutes a cross-functional platform to prepare matters for decision-makSwedavia’s operations. With effective safety and security work combined ing concerning strategic and Group-wide risks. Internal auditors examine, with effective risk work, disruptions in airport operations shall never affect test and validate the effectiveness of Swedavia’s risk management through aviation safety and security. Swedavia works actively with crisis manageaudits of the risk management function and the risk work being carried out ment and continuity plans and carries out exercises to increase risk awarein the operations. ness and the competency levels of our employees, partners and government authorities. RESULTS IN 2015 Being an attractive employer that attracts and retains the right employees The risk work at Swedavia during the year resulted in analyses and measures is an important part of Swedavia’s drive to secure the supply of future talto manage a number of risks associated with our sustainability targets, cusent and thus minimise dependence on key people at all levels of the Group. tomers, social development, environmental concern and economy. With a precise breakdown of targets and clear leadership, we motivate and engage our employees, which also results in an improved employee satisfaction index (ESI). Environmental concern The most important part of the ruling was a lifting of the ban on straight Risk management work approaches to Runway 3, which was a condition in the previous permit. Instead a condition was imposed on Swedavia whereby the airport shall use other approach methods to avoid the built-up portion of Upplands Väsby when possible, in consideration of the airport’s capacity, air traffic man5. ADMINISTRATION 1. RISK IDENTIFICATION agement regulations, aviation safety and weather conditions. The so-called emissions cap was also eliminated and replaced with an action plan aimed Y S NO M O at reducing atmospheric emissions and which includes both air traffic and CI AL ground transport to and from the airport. This is Swedavia’s most important EC O strategic issue, and the risk associated with Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s CUSTOMER environmental permit is managed with the highest priority. 4. MONITORING 2. RISK AND INSPECTION ASSESSMENT Economy EN T Swedavia carries out work on a continuous basis to make operations more V IRON MEN efficient, which is required to meet performance targets and over time achieve a high equity/assets ratio to withstand periods of decelerating growth in traffic and passengers. Very complex infrastructure investments 3. RISK CHANGE WORK are needed as a result of increased demand and a fast pace of change. That A. Mitigate the consequences constitutes a challenge in terms of priorities, funding and resource use. There B. Increase the level of protection is a risk of insufficient quality in the planning process and in the assessment C. Control the risk of long-term future development and capacity needs, which could produce D. Insure the risk inaccurate data for decision-making. In order to counter and control this E. Transfer the risk risk and to manage and give priority to the company’s investment funds, F. Accept the risk the investment process has been developed and a forum for capital spending and contracts has been established. Swedavia’s customers operate in SWEDAV I A 2015 47 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS a market subject to intense competition, where there are a small number of Salary level major airline customers and changes occur rapidly. The risks that Swedavia With an average of 2,787 employees (2,516), Swedavia’s staff expenses faces because of uncertainty about the economy and airlines in financial totalled about SEK 1,675 M (1,476). A 1 per cent change in staff expenses imbalance include the risk of lower revenue as a result of lower profitability if would have a SEK 16 M (15) on an annualised basis. costs cannot be reduced to the same extent and the risk of credit losses as a result of airlines or other customers going bankrupt. Swedavia strives to Interest rates increase flexibility in costs, create action plans to handle a decline in traffic As of December 31, 2015, Swedavia had external borrowings of SEK 3,704 M and bolster its business intelligence about customers’ economic situation (6,889), which is 28 per cent (44) of the balance sheet. Swedavia is sensitive in order to minimise credit losses in conjunction with any bankruptcy. The to changes in interest rates, which affect the company’s financial expenses. Group’s financing activities and management of financial risks are centralAs of December 31, 2015, 99 per cent of external funding is hedged via finanised in the Group Finance function. Operations are carried out based on a cial instruments, which means a 1 per cent increase in interest rates would financial policy adopted by the Board of Directors which is characterised by a have a SEK 0 M (13) effect on Swedavia’s interest rate expense. However, low risk level. The aim is to minimise the Group’s capital costs through effecgiven the current interest rate situation, a 1 per cent decrease in interest tive funding solutions and effective management and control of the Group’s rates would have a SEK 20 M effect on Swedavia’s interest rate expense. financial risks. For more information about definitions and the management Current lock-in periods and financial instruments are taken into account in of financial risks, see Note 46 on pages 86–87. calculating the sensitivity analysis. The analysis thus reflects the actual risk on the balance sheet date. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS A sensitivity analysis shows how a change in different parameters, both interOther factors affecting performance nal and external, affects the company’s performance and financial position. There are also other factors that could have an impact on profits in both The three parameters that have the greatest impact on performance are the short and long term. One critical factor, especially in the long term, is passenger volume, staff expenses and interest rates. Swedavia’s situation the environmental permits required for Swedavia’s operations. A change in can generally be described as one where revenue essentially is variable while these could affect operations on a large scale. In the short term, any extreme costs are relatively fixed. That means flexibility is limited in terms of the ability weather conditions or natural disasters constitute the main factors that have to adjust costs in case revenue should fall. an immediate impact on air traffic and thus a negative impact on revenue. Interest rate changes also affect Swedavia’s pension liability, which means Parameter % Effect on profit that if the discount rate falls, Swedavia must add funds to the provision for its +1 +34 pension liability. Swedavia is also sensitive to policy decisions that can affect Passenger volume +1 +34 air traffic as well as to changes in the general public’s attitudes to air traffic. Salary level +1 -16 ONGOING LITIGATION AND DISPUTES Interest rate level +1 0 Swedavia is a party to ongoing litigation and disputes. Legal proceedings and disputes are unpredictable by nature, and the actual outcome may deviate from the assessments Swedavia has made. Passenger volume The number of passengers who fly to or from one of Swedavia’s airports conCORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT stitutes the basic condition for all revenue the company generates. About 60 The Corporate Governance Report is a separate document from the Annual per cent of Swedavia’s revenue comes from Aviation Business and consists Report and is released in conjunction with the publication of the Annual of infrastructure services aimed at airlines and ground handling companies. Report. Revenue from Aviation Business consists of airport charges, including passenger and take-off charges, which are related to the number of passenWORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS gers, the number of aircraft movements and aircraft take-off weight in tons. Under the Articles of Association, Swedavia AB’s Board of Directors shall A change in the number of aircraft movements, aircraft tonnage and the consist of at least six and at most nine regular Board members. In addinumber of passengers directly affects Swedavia’s revenue. Swedavia’s other tion, there are two regular employee representatives plus their two depurevenue comes from Commercial Services, which is revenue from commerties. Swedavia’s Chief Legal Counsel is the Board secretary. The CEO is cial services connected with the airport. This consists of revenue from car not included on the Board but presents reports at the Board meetings. The parking and the leasing of premises for shops, offices, restaurants and logisBoard is responsible for the organisation of the company and the Group and tics. Rental revenue is based largely on its customers’ revenue, which means for the administration of the company’s affairs. None of the Board members Swedavia’s revenue depends on its tenants’ sales, which in turn depend is part of the executive management. During the financial year 2015, the directly on the number of passengers at the airport. An increase in pasBoard held twelve meetings, one of which was statutory and two were extra senger numbers means that Swedavia’s revenue immediately rises while a meetings. The meetings concerned, among other matters, the assessment decrease means revenue immediately falls. The correlation between percentof the CEO, business operations including the strategic sustainability plan, age change in passenger volume and percentage change in revenue is not the annual and sustainability report and related reports. The Board also conlinear; instead there is some difference due to route development discounts, sidered investments and procurement processes, Swedavia’s pricing model differentiated charges for domestic and international traffic and rental revefor airlines, and acquisitions and disposals. Coordination with regard to the nue, which depends partly on customer revenue. A negative change in pasSwedish Government’s inquiry into Bromma Stockholm Airport was also senger growth of 1 per cent has a negative impact on Swedavia’s revenue considered during the year. of SEK 34 M (33) on an annualised basis. The Board has an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The 48 SWEDAV I A 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Audit Committee’s tasks include taking responsibility for preparing matters for is important since many of our employees have physically demanding tasks. the Board’s work to quality assure the company’s financial reporting and mainEmployees are supported and encouraged to take responsibility for their taining an ongoing dialogue with the company’s auditors. The Remuneration health through occupational healthcare service, crisis management support Committee has the task of preparing matters pertaining to remuneration and and subsidies for fitness activities. All employees have an employee insurother employment terms for executive officers. Further information about corance programme for illness and occupational rehabilitation via Swedavia porate governance, the composition of the Board and internal control can be aimed at quickly providing the help they need. Swedavia also has a service found in the Corporate Governance Report. that includes an internal rehabilitation coordinator who was appointed in order to increase the quality and speed of the crucial rehabilitation process. EMPLOYEES AND SWEDAVIA Swedavia has a zero tolerance policy on bullying and harassment. Swedavia’s values, leadership and sustainability work constitute the foundation of the corporate culture. Swedavia should be an attractive employer, Diversity and gender equality with airports that people look forward to visiting. Engaged employees with At Swedavia, diversity and an inclusive approach are a strategic issue and the right competencies and a desire to develop are critical to Swedavia’s a priority. Having carefully prepared, inclusive diversity work is critical to future. The work is carried out with a focus on sustainability and ambitious our business because Swedavia operates from the assumption that peoobjectives in the areas of employeeship, leadership, talent management, ple’s differences enrich us. Having a diversity perspective in the choice of occupational health and safety, and diversity. Each year, Swedavia conducts suppliers is also an increasingly important issue in enhancing the contribuan employee survey to measure employee satisfaction. The employee satistion to social well-being. In 2015, Swedavia continued the work to set clear faction index (ESI) has gradually increased each year, and the result in 2015 goals in the area of diversity in operations. In 2018, Swedavia shall have was 86 per cent satisfied employees, which met and exceeded Swedavia’s gender-equal occupations and shall have gender balance, with a gender target of 85 per cent in 2020. At year-end 2015, the number of employees, breakdown of 40–60 per cent. Swedavia’s aim is also, by 2018, for at least regardless of the form of employment, was 3,352 (3,248). Restated as aver23 cent of Swedavia’s employees to have a foreign background. age number of employees during the financial year (see definition on page 110), the number was 2,787 (2,516). The increase in employees was due in Leadership and employeeship principles and ethical part to the development of ground handling at the regional airports and conguidelines solidation of Göteborg City Airport. Expanded security screening regulations Swedavia’s approach to leaders and employees is clarified in five principles along with the increase in traffic and passenger volume entailed an increase which are based on Swedavia’s values and are aimed at providing a standin full-year employees in airport operations. The breakdown by gender was ard platform for the day-to-day work. These principles, which are based on 34 (35) per cent women and 66 (65) per cent men. Further information about Swedavia’s vision, values and Code of Conduct are: a focus on business, a employees can be found in Note 8 on pages 68-72. good role model, courage to be better and clear communication. To ensure that everyone at Swedavia is familiar with our employee principles and our Effective talent management Code of Conduct, these concepts and guidelines and what they entail are During the year, Swedavia continued to develop the processes in the area included in our introductory training programme for all new employees, of talent management. A modified competence report was developed for “Welcome to Swedavia”. Moreover, all new leaders are trained in Swedavia’s tests used during the recruitment process. The competence report is based Bribery Policy and Guidelines for External Business Entertainment through on the Group’s competence bank and ensures that the tests used to select a web-based programme. Leaders’ and employees’ compliance with these candidates comply with the requirements for the different job profile requireprinciples and guidelines in their day-to-day work is monitored through our ments. During the year, a brand new process for employee development performance review process, in which behaviour is assessed and strengths was established. Personal Engagement and Performance (PEP) is a proand areas for development are identified in order for them to continuously cess mainly aimed at increasing engagement by ensuring that all employees develop in line with these principles. have a development plan and productive employee reviews and that every employee has personal and challenging goals. REMUNERATION TO EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The term executive officers refers to the people who, together with the Leadership President and CEO, constitute the executive management and/or report A crucial role for leaders at Swedavia is to create the conditions that enable directly to the President and CEO. The Swedish Government has estabemployees to take responsibility for the company achieving our objectives lished guidelines for remuneration to executive officers. Guidelines for remuand targets. These leaders are the key to our vision and values extending neration to executive officers were adopted at the Annual General Meeting into our operations. We work continuously to strengthen our leaders, in part (AGM) held on April 29, 2015. Swedavia follows the Government’s guideby developing communication tools to use in the dialogue with employlines for terms of employment for executive officers in State-owned comees. Compulsory leadership training programmes are carried out to create panies. For 2016, the Board proposes that the guidelines for remuneration a common platform for leadership and individual development. to executive officers remain unchanged. The principles are presented in the Corporate Governance Report. Information about those involved and the Occupational health and safety company’s process for handling remuneration to executive officers is preOccupational health and safety have high priority at Swedavia. Our employsented in Note 8 on pages 68-72. ees shall have a physical and psychosocial work environment that enables them to be healthy and thus work and perform to their best potential. ENVIRONMENTAL PERMIT Swedavia works actively with occupational rehabilitation in case of repeated Swedavia carries out operations subject to the conditions of its environshort-term absences due to illness as well as longer such absences. mental permits under the Swedish Environmental Code. These consist priSwedavia also works to develop measures and tools to prevent injury. This marily of operations that are hazardous to the environment under Chapter SWEDAV I A 2015 49 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 9 (airport operations) and water operations under Chapter 11 (ponds, treat2013 and the Land and Environmental Court of Appeal in 2014. ment facilities and groundwater redirection). Swedavia must therefore have In January 2016, Swedavia’s decision to reduce airline charges by an an environmental permit for each airport in order for the company to be average of 0.8 per cent was announced. However, the decision has been allowed to operate the airports. At year-end 2015, Swedavia was responsible appealed by the Swedish Transport Agency, which also issued an interim for nine airports, including Göteborg City Airport, subject to conditions in its decision which entails a risk that the intended reduction, planned for April environmental permits under the Swedish Environmental Code. The Swedish 1, 2016, will be delayed. Armed Forces was responsible for the environmental permits for the remainBeginning in February 2016, a new organisation for Security & Safety entered ing two, Luleå Airport and Ronneby Airport. Swedavia’s primary environmeninto force. In conjunction, Anders Lennerman left Swedavia. Mats Paulsson, tal impact is atmospheric greenhouse gas emissions, mainly carbon dioxide. formerly in charge of security and safety at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, was The largest source of the company’s emissions is exhaust from vehicles and appointed the new director of Security & Safety. the operation of terminals and other buildings. Another significant environmental impact is discharges into the ground and water, mainly of oxygen-deTHE PARENT COMPANY pleting substances from the deicing of runways and aircraft. The vicinity of The Parent Company’s net revenue for the year totalled SEK 5,259 M (5,075), the airports is also affected by aviation noise as a result of airport operations. an increase of SEK 184 M. Operating profit totalled SEK 436 M (828) and On November 21, 2014, the Land and Environmental Court issued its ruling the operating margin was 8.3 per cent (16.3). The increase in staff expenses in the case concerning Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s application for a new compared to 2014 is explained by the increased number of employees and environmental permit. Three parties appealed the ruling: the Municipality of annual salary reviews. In the Parent Company, a change in the interest rate Vallentuna, the neighbourhood association against aviation noise Föreningen assumption related to the pension liability also had a significant negative Väsbybor mot Flygbuller and one private individual living in Sollentuna. The mateffect on staff expenses. Profit before tax was SEK 594 M (327) and profit Supreme Court dismissed the appeals, and the ruling entered into force on for the year was SEK 523 M (178). May 25, 2015. Stockholm Arlanda Airport plans to exercise the new permit as of January 1, 2016. Although the permit is new, Swedavia has identiPROPOSED DISTRIBUTIN OF PROFIT fied a flaw in Condition 5 which prevents the airport from complying with The following unrestricted equity is at the disposal of the Annual General this condition. Swedavia has therefore applied for an amendment with the Meeting, SEK: Land and Environmental Court. In the new permit, the emissions cap, which set a limit on carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions, was eliminated Share premium account 2,161,354,539 and replaced with an action plan for atmospheric emissions of fossil carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The action plan shall include Retained earnings -57,764,208 Swedavia’s operations and the operations of other companies and organProfit for the year 523,100,331 isations at the airport as well as ground transport and air traffic. The con2,626,690,662 dition regulating overflights of Upplands Väsby means that regular straight approaches over the built-up portion of Upplands Väsby are now allowed, but the airport is to use other approach methods to avoid that area when The Board proposes that the profit be appropriated as follows: possible, taking into consideration the airport’s capacity, air traffic management regulations, aviation safety and weather conditions. During the year, Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Kiruna Airport, and Visby Airport worked on Paid to shareholders SEK 0.161 per share 232,065,887 permit applications for their own brand-new permits. The airports have old Brought forward 2,394,624,775 permits under the Swedish Environmental Protection Act, and operations at 2,626,690,662 these airports have changed over the years. The airports therefore decided to apply for new environmental permits. Göteborg Landvetter Airport submitANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ted its application in April 2013, and Visby Airport submitted its application Swedavia AB’s Annual General Meeting takes place on April 28, 2016, at in July 2013. Kiruna Airport submitted its application in November 2015. The Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The Annual Report and other financial reports Land and Environmental Court ruled on June 17, 2015, on the case concernare available on Swedavia’s website www.swedavia.com. ing Göteborg Landvetter Airport. The ruling was appealed by Swedavia and 18 other parties, including the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the West Götaland County Administrative Board. The main hearing in the CALENDAR Land and Environmental Court is planned to be held on March 15-17, 2016, Annual report 2015 March 31, 2016 and a decision is expected during the second quarter of 2016. The Stockholm County Environmental Appeal Delegation issued a ruling Annual General Meeting 2016 April 28, 2016 in February concerning Visby Airport. The decision entails conditions conQuarterly report Q1 2016 April 29, 2016 cerning noise insulation for which Swedavia and the Swedish Armed Forces Quarterly report Q2 2016 July 18, 2016 have submitted an appeal to the Swedish Government. The Government is Quarterly report Q3 2016 October 27, 2016 expected to decide on the matter in the summer of 2016. Year-end report 2016 February 14, 2017 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE In January 2016, Stockholm Arlanda Airport implemented its new environFor other matters concerning the company’s results and position, see the mental permit. This means that the airport is now running operations fully in income statements and balance sheets below. compliance with the rulings issued by the Land and Environmental Court in 50 SWEDAV I A 2015 INCOME STATEMENT Consolidated income statement Amounts in SEK M Note 2015 2014 Net revenue 3,4,5 5,416 5,384 Other operating income 6 965 407 Own work capitalised 94 94 External expenses 7 -2,121 -2,009 Staff expenses 8 -1,675 -1,476 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets 9 -915 -946 Other operating costs 10 -9 -49 Operating profit 1,755 1,405 Income from financial items 11 Income from financial items and joint ventures 25 22 0 Interest income and similar items 4 6 Interest expenses and similar items -234 -248 Profit after financial items 1,547 1,162 Tax 13 -136 -236 Profit for the year 1,410 926 Earnings per share Earnings per share before and after dilution, SEK 0.98 0.64 Number of shares 1,441,403,026 1,441,403,026 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Amounts in SEK M Note 2015 2014 Profit for the year 1,410 926 Other comprehensive income: Items that can be reclassified to the income statement Cash flow hedges: Reclassified to the income statement 81 – Change in fair value for the year 18 -186 Tax -36 41 Items that cannot be reclassified to the income statement Revaluations of defined benefit pensions 42 -71 Tax -9 16 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax 96 -201 Comprehensive income for the year 1,506 725 SWEDAV I A 2015 51 BALANCE SHEET Consolidated balance sheet Amounts in SEK M Note 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible non-current assets 14 615 621 Other tangible non-current assets 15,16,17,18,19 10,515 10,389 Investment properties 20,21 181 150 Biological assets 20,22 85 86 Non-current financial assets 23,24,25 988 108 Total non-current assets 12,385 11,353 CURRENT ASSETS Materials and supplies 28 45 42 Trade receivables 46 451 424 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 31 113 0 Other receivables 32 141 93 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 33 118 211 Derivative instruments 20,27 – 3 Liquid assets 27 6 112 Total current assets 874 885 Assets held for sale 34 – 3,027 TOTAL ASSETS 13,259 15,265 52 SWEDAV I A 2015 BALANCE SHEET Consolidated balance sheet (cont.) Amounts in SEK M Note 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 35 Share capital 1,441 1,441 Other paid-in capital 2,162 2,162 Hedge reserve -175 -237 Retained earnings 3,435 2,205 Total equity 6,863 5,571 Non-current liabilities 46 Provisions 36,37,38 945 983 Deferred tax liability 39 447 363 Interest-bearing liabilities 40,42,18 2,412 3,107 Derivative instruments 20,27,43 209 375 Other non-current liabilities 9 15 Total non-current liabilities 4,022 4,843 Current liabilities 46 Provisions 38 49 4 Interest-bearing liabilities 40,42,18 1,315 3,800 Derivative instruments 20,27 15 14 Trade payables 372 333 Other liabilities 44 82 156 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 31 18 0 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 45 521 460 Total current liabilities 2,373 4,767 Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale 34 – 83 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 13,259 15,265 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Amounts in SEK M Note 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Pledged assets 47 – – Contingent liabilities 47 86 6 SWEDAV I A 2015 53 EQUITY Changes in equity Holdings with Share Other paid-in Hedge Retained non-controlling Amounts in SEK M capital capital reserves earnings interest Total capital 2014 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 -93 1,395 11 4,915 Dividend paid – – – – -11 -11 Acquisition of minority interest – – – -54 – -54 Adjustment – – – -4 – -4 Comprehensive income for the year – – -145 869 – 725 Equity, closing balance 2014-12-31 1,441 2,162 -237 2,205 – 5,571 2015 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 -237 2,205 – 5,571 Dividend paid – – – -231 – -231 Adjustment – – – 16 – 16 Comprehensive income for the year – – 62 1,444 – 1,506 Equity, closing balance 2015-12-31 1,441 2,162 -175 3,435 – 6,863 54 SWEDAV I A 2015 CASH FLOW STATEMENT Consolidated cash flow statement Amounts in SEK M Note 2015 2014 Operating activities 48 Profit after financial items 1,547 1,162 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow etc. -13 718 Tax paid -137 -115 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,397 1,765 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(-)/Decrease(+) in materials and supplies -4 5 Increase(-)/Decrease(+) in operating receivables -73 141 Increase(+)/Decrease(-) in operating liabilities 53 198 Cash flow from operating activities 1,374 2,109 Investing activities Disposal of subsidiaries, net effect on liquidity 3,854 – Acquisition/disposal of intangible non-current assets -22 -187 Acquisition(-)/Disposal(+) of tangible fixed assets -1,096 -754 Acquisition(-)/Disposal(+) of subsidiaries/other financial assets -793 617 Acquisition of minority interest – -54 Cash flow from investing activities 1,943 -378 Financing activities Borrowings raised 4,563 5,001 Borrowings repaid -7,748 -6,663 Dividend paid -231 -10 Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in other financial liabilities -8 1 Cash flow from financing activities -3,424 -1,671 Cash flow for the year -107 60 Liquid assets at the beginning of the period 112 52 Liquid assets at the end of the period 6 112 SWEDAV I A 2015 55 INCOME STATEMENT Parent Company income statement Amounts in SEK M Note 2015 2014 Net revenue 4 5,259 5,075 Other operating income 6 54 25 Capitalised work for own account 94 94 External expenses 7 -2,167 -2,097 Staff expenses 8 -1,858 -1,357 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets 9 -936 -912 Other operating costs 10 -9 – Operating profit 436 828 Income from financial investments 11 Income from holdings in Group companies 398 -202 Income from holdings in associated companies – -1 Interest income and similar items 33 71 Interest expenses and similar items -277 -225 Profit after financial items 590 471 Appropriations 12 4 -144 Profit before tax 594 327 Tax 13 -70 -149 Profit for the year 523 178 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income Amounts in SEK M Note 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Profit for the year 523 178 Other comprehensive income – – Other comprehensive income 523 178 56 SWEDAV I A 2015 BALANCE SHEET Parent Company balance sheet Amounts in SEK M Note 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible non-current assets 14 615 644 Tangible fixed assets 15,16,17,18,19 10,411 10,320 Financial non-current assets 23,24,25,26,39 986 1,012 Total non-current assets 12,012 11,976 CURRENT ASSETS Materials and supplies 28 41 38 Current receivables 29,30,31,33 1,424 3,662 Liquid assets 27 2 111 Total current assets 1,467 3,811 TOTAL ASSETS 13,479 15,787 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY 35 Restricted equity Share capital (1,441,403,026 shares) 1,441 1,441 Unrestricted equity Share premium 2,162 2,162 Retained earnings -58 -5 Profit for the year 523 178 Total equity 4,068 3,775 Untaxed reserves 12 1,982 1,967 Provisions 36,37,38 1,312 1,111 Non-current liabilities 40,41,42 2,413 3,114 Current liabilities 31,40,41,42,43,45 3,705 5,820 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 13,479 15,787 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Amounts in SEK M Note 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Pledged assets 47 – – Contingent liabilities 47 86 6 SWEDAV I A 2015 57 EQUITY Changes in equity PARENT COMPANY Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Amounts in SEK M Share capital Share premium Retained earnings Total capital 2014 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 -5 3,598 Profit for the year – – 178 178 Equity, closing balance 2014-12-31 1,441 2,162 173 3,775 2015 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 173 3,775 Dividend paid – – -231 -231 Profit for the year – – 523 523 Equity, closing balance 2015-12-31 1,441 2,162 465 4,068 58 SWEDAV I A 2015 CASH FLOW STATEMENT Parent Company cash flow statement Amounts in SEK M Note 2015 2014 Operating activities 48 Profit after financial items 590 471 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow etc. 1,249 1,052 Tax paid -146 -93 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,693 1,430 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(-)/Decrease(+) in materials and supplies -3 3 Increase(-)/Decrease(+) in operating receivables 2,052 779 Increase(+)/Decrease(-) in operating liabilities 364 316 Cash flow from operating activities 4,106 2 529 Investing activities Acquisition of intangible non-current assets -22 -187 Acquisition(-)/Sale(+) of tangible fixed assets -1,030 -706 Acquisition(-)/Sale (+) of subsidiaries/other financial assets – -71 Paid-in shareholder contribution -50 – Cash flow from investing activities -1,101 -964 Financing activities Borrowings raised 4,563 5,001 Borrowings repaid -7,700 -6,663 Dividend paid -231 – Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in other financial liabilities -1 1 Group contribution received/paid in 256 193 Cash flow from financing activities -3,113 -1,468 Cash flow for the year -108 97 Liquid assets at the beginning of the period 111 14 Liquid assets at the end of the period 2 111 SWEDAV I A 2015 59 Notes 60 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES Notes NOTE 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity number 556797-0818, has Regulations governing operations its registered officer in the Municipality of Sigtuna, Sweden. Swedavia AB is Swedavia’s operations are mostly regulated by Swedish and European regwholly owned by the Swedish State. Swedavia’s task is to own, operate and ulations, with the most important regulations for running airport operations develop the national basic infrastructure of airports decided by the Swedish consisting of, among others: government. That consists of ten airports: Bromma Stockholm Airport, • Swedish Environmental Code (1998:808), with subsequent regulations Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Kiruna Airport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, requiring a permit for airport operations Ronneby Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Umeå Airport, Visby Airport • Swedish Civil Aviation Act (2010:500), with subsequent regulations govand Åre Östersund Airport. It also includes the company Cityflygplasten i erning, among other issues, permission to establish an airport Göteborg AB, which owns Göteborg City Airport (Säve Airport). • Swedish Civil Aviation Security Act (2004:1100) concerning searches of persons and baggage in security screening • Swedish Aerodrome Ground Services Act (2000:150) concerning the responsibilities of the airport operator in opening up airports with more than 2,000,000 passengers/year to external ground services providers • Swedish Act on Airport Charges (2011:866) regulating requirements for consultation on airport charges with the users, airlines NOTE 2. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Conditions for preparation of the Parent Company’s and consoliNew accounting principles dated financial reports The following are new and amended standards and interpretations that The consolidated accounts for Swedavia and its subsidiaries have been entered into force on January 1, 2015: prepared in conformity with the International Financial Reporting Standards • IFRIC 21 Levies. The interpretation clarifies when liabilities for levies/taxes (IFRS) to the extent these have been adopted by the European Union (EU). are imposed by government agencies or similar bodies on companies The Parent Company applies Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act and the in accordance with laws/regulations with the exception of income taxes, Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council’s recommendation RFR penalties and fines. The interpretation specifies that a liability shall be 2 Accounting for legal entities. The differences arising between the Parent recognised when the company has an obligation to pay the levy triggered Company and consolidated accounting principles are due to restrictions by an event. A liability is recognised progressively if the obligating event on applying IFRS in the Parent Company as a result of Sweden’s Annual occurs over a period of time. If an obligation is triggered on reaching a Accounts Act and Pension Obligations Vesting Act as well as, in some cases, minimum threshold, the liability is recognised when that minimum threshthe connection between accounting and taxation. old is reached. Since the owner of a property is liable to pay real estate In this report, the Swedavia Group is called “Swedavia” or “the Group”, tax on January 1, the interpretation means that Swedavia will recognise a and Swedavia AB is called either by its full name or “the Parent Company”. liability for total real estate taxes on January 1. Reporting for the Group and the Parent Company is in millions of Swedish kronor (SEK M) unless otherwise indicated. The amounts reported have in New and amended standards and interpretations that enter into some cases been rounded off. Figures in parentheses are for the previous force in 2016 or later year. • IFRS 9 Financial instruments. The standard concerns the classification Non-current assets, non-current liabilities and non-current provisions and valuation of financial instruments, impairment and hedge accounting. consist in all essential respects only of amounts that are expected to be The standard replaces IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and recovered or paid after more than twelve months calculated from the balance measurement. The date for compulsory application is January 1, 2018. sheet date. Current assets and current liabilities consist in all essential The standard has not been approved by the EU. Swedavia has not yet respects only of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within analysed all of the effects of the new standard, which however is expected twelve months calculated from the balance sheet date. to affect accounting and financial reports. Assets, provisions and liabilities have been recognised at cost unless oth• IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers. The standard conerwise indicated below. Financial assets and liabilities have been recognised cerns recognition of revenue from contracts and from the sale of some at amortised cost, apart from derivative instruments, which are recognised non-financial assets, and includes expanded disclosure requirements. at fair value. Biological assets are recognised at fair value; see Note 22. For The standard replaces IAS 11 and 18, IFRIC 13, 15 and 18, and SIC-31. information concerning valuation and information about fair value under IFRS The effective date is January 1, 2018: earlier application is permitted 13, see Note 20. once the EU has approved the standard. Swedavia has begun to analyse the effects of the new standard, which is mostly expected to lead to an increase in information disclosed in Swedavia’s Annual Report. SWEDAV I A 2015 61 NOTES • IFRS 16 Leases. The standard requires that lessees recognise assets and entails that the carried amount of shares in the associated company or joint liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less and/or venture is equivalent to the Group’s share of the associated company’s or the underlying asset has a low value. Accounting for lessors will be subjoint venture’s equity and any residual value of the consolidated premiums or stantially unchanged. The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases and related discounts. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint venture’s interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The effective date is the finanprofit adjusted for any amortisation on or liquidation of premiums or discial year that begins January 1, 2019, or later. Earlier application is permitcounts on acquisitions is recognised in the consolidated income statement ted (once the EU has approved this) provided that IFRS 15 is also applied. as “Income from holdings in associated companies and joint ventures”. The EU has not yet announced a preliminary date of approval. Swedavia has not yet analysed the effects of the new standard, which however is Elimination of transactions between Group companies expected to affect Swedavia’s accounting and financial reports. Intra-Group receivables and liabilities and transactions between Group companies as well as unrealised gains in conjunction with these are eliminated in Significant judgements and assumptions full. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associated companies In the preparation of financial reports in conformity with IFRS, the executive and joint ventures are eliminated against “Holdings in associated companies management is required to make judgements and assumptions that affect and joint ventures” to the extent that the Group owns shares in the company. the application of the accounting principles and the amounts recognised for Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains as long assets, liabilities, revenue and costs. These judgements and assumptions as there is no need for impairment. are based on historical experience and a number of other factors that seem In 2015, Swedavia sold subsidiaries to a joint venture. In conjunction with reasonable under prevailing conditions. The actual outcome may differ from the sale, Swedavia lost its controlling interest over these subsidiaries, which these assumptions and judgements. Judgements and assumptions are means that the companies were deconsolidated. The indirect holding of 50 reviewed on a regular basis. Changes in assumptions are recognised in the per cent via the joint venture is recognised revalued at fair value in accordperiod the change is made if it only affected that period, or in the period the ance with IFRS 10. change is made and future periods if the change affects both the current and future periods. Segment reporting The most significant judgements and assumptions for Swedavia have A business segment is defined as a part of a company that carries out operbeen made in the following areas: valuation of goodwill through impairment ations from which it can generate revenue and incur costs, whose operating testing (see Note 14), and assumptions in conjunction with provisions for profit is examined on a regular basis by the company’s highest executive pensions and other provisions (see Note 37 and 38). officer and for which there is independent financial information. Swedavia’s The executive management’s best judgement is used in conjunction with operations are organised and run, based on two business segments, Airport recognition of amounts involved in disputes since litigation and disputes are Operations, which owns, operates and develops Swedavia’s airports, and unpredictable in nature. Real Estate, which owns, develops and manages properties and developable land at and around Swedavia’s airports. Consolidation principles The basis of segment reporting is internal reporting. The Board of The consolidated financial accounts include the Parent Company and all Directors and executive management mostly use operating profit by segment the companies over which the Parent Company directly or indirectly has for their monitoring. Financial expenses, financial income and income tax are controlling interest. Controlling interest is assumed to exist when ownership handled at the Group level. entails at least 50 per cent of the votes in the subsidiary, but can also be achieved if controlling interest can be exercised over the operational and Revenue financial management. The Parent Company in all cases owns, directly or Swedavia’s recognised net revenue is revenue from Aviation Business and indirectly, shares/holdings in the companies included in the consolidated Commercial Services. financial accounts. Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial Revenue from Aviation Business consists of revenue related to passenaccounts starting from the time controlling interest is achieved and are gers, aircraft movements, ground handling & aircraft parking, and revenue excluded from the consolidated financial accounts from the time controlling from other aviation. interest is no longer exercised. Where necessary, adjustments are made in Revenue from Aviation Business is recognised in conjunction with the airthe subsidiaries’ financial statements to adapt their accounting principles to lines’ and ground handling companies’ use of Swedavia’s ranges of services those used by the Group. All intra-Group transactions, dealings, income and on offer, that is, when there is a departure from one of Swedavia’s airports. expenditures are eliminated in consolidation. Revenue from Commercial Services consists of revenue from car parking, Retail, Food & Beverage, other property revenue and other comBusiness combinations mercial services. Revenue from car parking is recognised in conjunction Acquisitions of businesses are recognised using the acquisition method. with a parking customer using a parking space. Revenue from Retail, Food & Cost is calculated as the total fair value of assets purchased, liabilities that Beverage is salesbased, and preliminary revenue is recognised on a monthly have arisen or are assumed, and equity instruments issued as payment in basis, and there is final settlement at year-end. Property revenue consists of exchange for controlling interest over the acquired entity. Identifiable assets, fixed lease charges, which are recognised during the period of the lease, and liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are recognised at fair value on sales of energy and telecom services, which are recognised when the service the acquisition date. The premium that consists of the difference between is provided. Advertising revenue consists of the sale of advertising space, the cost of the acquired holdings and the total fair value of the identifiable and revenue is recognised during the period the space is used. For other net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. A discount is charged to the services, revenue is recognised when such a service is provided. Discounts income statement. provided have reduced net revenue. Revenue is recognised as the fair value of what has been received or will Associated companies and joint ventures be received. Revenue is only recognised if it is likely that economic benefits Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures are recognised in will flow to the Group and these benefits can be reliably estimated. If there is the consolidated accounts using the equity method. The equity method later uncertainty as to the likelihood of receiving payment for amounts already 62 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES recognised as revenue, the amount for which payment is no longer likely is Tangible fixed assets recognised as a cost instead of as an adjustment in the amount of revenue Tangible fixed assets excluding biological assets are recognised at cost originally recognised. minus accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises the purchase price and expenditures directly attributable Financial income and expenses to the asset in order to convey it to its location and to use it for the purpose Financial income consists of income on invested funds, dividends, the gain for which it was acquired. Borrowing costs are capitalised for large-scale on a change in value in financial assets recognised at fair value through profit construction and refurbishment projects to the extent they have arisen during or loss and such gains on hedging instruments as are recognised in net the construction period and the interest expense constitutes a significant financial items. amount. Interest expenses are calculated based on the Group’s average Financial expenses consist of interest expenses on liabilities to credit interest rate on all borrowings. Additional expenses are added to the asset’s institutions, effects of reversing provisions calculated at their present value, book value or recognised separately when it is likely that the company will the loss on a change in value in financial assets recognised at fair value via derive future economic benefits attributable to the asset and the cost of the profits and losses and such losses on hedging instruments as are recogasset can be calculated in a reliable way. nised in net financial items. Depreciation is recognised based on the expected and estimated useful Interest income and interest expenses on financial instruments are reclife using the straight-line depreciation method. For cases where parts of ognised using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised the Group’s assets consist of different components, where each part has when the right to receive a dividend is established. Foreign exchange gains an expected useful life that differs significantly from the asset as a whole, and losses are offset. depreciation of such components occurs on an individual basis using the estimated useful life of each component. Tax Depreciation begins when the assets are ready for their intended use. The The Group’s total tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. Tax is recresidual value and useful life are reviewed on an annual basis and adjusted if ognised in the income statement except when the underlying transaction necessary. is recognised in other comprehensive income. Current tax is tax that is to New expenditures are added to the cost for the share of improvement be paid or received for the year in question. Current tax is calculated based in the asset’s performance compared to the level that applied when it was on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit is distinguished from profit originally acquired. Other new expenditures are recognised as a cost in the recognised in the income statement. The difference concerns revenue that period they occur. is subject to tax and expenses that are deductible in other years (temporary differences) as well as items that are not subject to tax or are not Depreciation principles for tangible fixed assets tax-deductible (permanent differences). The Group’s current tax liability is Scheduled depreciation is based on cost minus estimated residual value. calculated using the tax rates that are in effect on the balance sheet date. An Depreciation is on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the adjustment in current tax attributable to earlier periods is also recognised as asset or component. Useful life for the Group is: current tax. Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet method based on the Buildings and investment properties temporary differences between book and tax values of assets and liabiliFoundation and frame 20–60 years ties. Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and tax regulations that Roof 20–60 years are decided or advised on the balance sheet date. Temporary differences Facade 20–60 years attributable to consolidated goodwill and asset acquisitions are not taken Interior walls 20–30 years into account, and normally nor are differences attributable to holdings in subElectrical installations 10–30 years sidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures that are not expected to Equipment, buildings 5–30 years be taxed within the foreseeable future. Untaxed reserves including deferred Equipment, land 10–60 years tax liability are recognised for legal persons. However, in consolidated Field structures 10–60 years accounts, untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liability and equity. Electrical installation, vehicles and equipment 3–10 years Deferred tax assets for temporary differences and loss carryforwards that are tax-deductible are only recognised to the extent it is likely that a taxable profit occurs against which tax-deductible temporary differences can be Biological assets – standing timber used. The book value of deferred tax assets is reviewed on each closing The Group’s forest assets are divided into standing timber, which is recdate. Deferred tax liabilities are normally recognised for all temporary differognised as a biological asset, and land, which is recognised as a tangible ences subject to tax. fixed asset. Standing timber is valued and recognised at fair value on each reporting date. Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement. Intangible non-current assets Fair value has been calculated as the present value of the discounted future The Group’s intangible non-current assets consist of goodwill and other return from long-term sustainable forest operations, that is, the expected intangible non-current assets. Goodwill arises when the cost for the acquifuture cash flow from forest operations. For further information, see Note 20 sition of shares in a subsidiary exceeds the fair value of the identifiable net and 22. assets of the company acquired. Goodwill is recognised at cost less any impairment loss. Goodwill has an indeterminable expected useful life, and an Leases impairment review is carried out at least once a year. Leases are classified in the consolidated financial accounts as either financial Other intangible non-current assets consist mostly of noise insulation for leases or operating leases. Financial leases arise when the economic risks the properties of others. Straight-line amortisation is used for noise insulation and benefits associated with ownership in all essential aspects are transmeasures and is reviewed annually. Useful life shall correspond to the time ferred to the lessees. If that is not the case, then it is a question of an operthe environmental permit or conditions contained therein are in effect but ating lease. The Group’s significant leases are classified as financial leases never more than 25 years. and recognised as assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The obligation SWEDAV I A 2015 63 NOTES to pay future leasing fees is recognised as a current or non-current liability. objective indications that an impairment loss needs to be taken on a financial The leased assets are depreciated according to a set schedule while lease asset or group of financial assets as a result of events that have occurred. payments are recognised as interest and principal payments on the liabilities. Objective indications could be a breach of contract such as a default or delay of payment of interest or capital, significant financial difficulties for debtors or Impairment losses deterioration in the creditworthiness of customers. On each balance sheet date, the Group analyses the book values of tangible The book value after impairment losses on assets is calculated as the present fixed assets and intangible non-current assets to determine whether there is value of future cash flow discounted by the effective interest rate that applied anything to indicate that these assets have decreased in value. If there is an when the asset was recognised for the first time. Assets with a short maturity indication of this, the replacement value is calculated in order to determine are not discounted. An impairment loss is charged to the income statement. the value of any impairment loss. The asset is eliminated from the balance sheet in the event of bankruptcy. In valuation of the airports, a systems approach is applied. Since the airports included in the national basic airport infrastructure are operated as a Financial assets recognised at fair value through profit or loss system, integrated and mutually dependent, the individual airports have been This category includes derivatives with a positive value that are not intended valued according to their systemic useful life rather than based on recogfor hedge accounting. Financial instruments in this category are measured at nised profit. Operating the airports as a system means that it is not possible fair value with value changes recognised in the profit for the year. Fair value to isolate cash flow attributable to individual airports included in the system is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged or a liability settled on a meaningful basis. Therefore the system of airports that are included in between knowledgeable, independent parties. In determining fair value, the Sweden’s national basic infrastructure is treated as a single cash-generating official price listing in an active market or other observable market data are unit. preferably used. If these do not exist, fair value is calculated with the aid of An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. If an impairthe methods that can be considered on each occasion to give the best estiment loss is reversed, it is done so only to the extent that the book value of mate of fair value. Financial assets are valued at fair value based on hierarchy the asset does not exceed the book value, minus depreciation, if no impairlevel 2 (see Note 20). ment loss had been made. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. A reversal of an impairment loss is never recognised Loans receivable and trade receivables for goodwill. This category includes loan receivables, trade receivables, receivables from Inventories are recognised at the lower of cost using the first-in first-out associated companies and joint ventures, other receivables and liquid assets. method or fair value. As a result, obsolescence risks are mitigated. These assets are valued at accumulated cost. Loan receivables and trade receivables with short maturities are valued at their nominal cost with no Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies discounting. Trade receivables are recognised at the amount that is expected Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies have been translated at the to be received minus any bad debts, which are judged on an individual basis. exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Exchange rate differences for operating receivables and operating liabilities are included in the operating Financial liabilities recognised at fair value through profit or loss profit, while exchange rate differences for financial receivables and liabilities This category includes derivatives with a negative value that are not intended are recognised in financial items. for hedge accounting. Financial instruments in this category are measured at fair value with value changes recognised in the profit for the year. Liquid assets Liquid assets comprise cash and banking holdings that are immediately Other financial liabilities available. Borrowings and other financial liabilities, apart from derivatives, are recognised at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined based on the effective Trade payables interest rate calculated at the time the amount was borrowed. This means Trade payables have a short expected maturity and are valued without disthat discounts/premiums and the direct costs of share issues are allocated counting their nominal amount. over the maturity of the loan. Trade payables have short expected maturities and are recognised without discounting their nominal amount. Financial instruments Non-current liabilities have an expected maturity of more than one year A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when whereas current liabilities have a maturity less than one year. an asset or liability arises under the terms of the instrument stipulated in the contract. A financial asset is derecognised from the balance sheet when the Hedge accounting contractual rights are realised, expire or when the company loses control General over it. A financial liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when the Derivative instruments are recognised in the balance sheet on the contract contractual obligation has been fulfilled or in any other way eliminated. date at fair value, both initially and in subsequent revaluations. The method Financial instruments that are not derivatives are recognised at fair value for recognising profit or loss arising from revaluation depends on whether the plus or minus transaction costs, except for those financial assets belonging derivative has been identified as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature to the category of financial asset or liability recognised at fair value through of the item hedged. The Group identifies some derivatives as a hedge of a profit or loss. Derivative instruments are recognised at fair value; increases given risk which is connected to a recognised liability or a very likely forecast and decreases in value are recognised on a regular basis as revenue or transaction (cash flow hedge). costs in other comprehensive income in cases where hedge accounting is The Group uses derivative instruments to limit exposure to the negative appropriate. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognised as a net effect of financial fluctuations on the Group’s income statement, balance amount in the balance sheet when there is a legal right to offset and when sheet and cash flow. the intention is to settle the items with a net amount or to realise the asset When the transaction is entered into, the relationship between the and settle the liability simultaneously. hedging instrument and the item hedged is analysed and assessed against On each balance sheet date, the company evaluates whether there are the Group’s risk management objectives for hedging. The analysis is 64 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES documented at the inception of the hedge and on a continuous basis, to expected economic benefits the Group expects to receive from a contract ensure that the derivative instruments used in hedging transactions are are lower than the unavoidable costs of fulfilling the terms of the contract. effective in evening out changes in fair value or changes in cash flow for hedged items. Gains and losses on hedges are recognised in the profit for Pensions the year at the same time the gains and losses on the items hedged are The Group has commitments to both defined benefit and defined contribution recognised. pension plans. Changes in fair value for derivative instruments that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are recognised directly in the income statement. Defined benefit pension obligations The transfer of agreed assets and liabilities for airport operations from Cash flow hedges LFV included the assumption of a defined benefit pension liability. Most of To hedge uncertainty in highly likely forecast interest cash flows related the defined benefit pension obligations after the transfer are in the form of to borrowings at floating interest rates, interest rate swaps – in which the paid-up pension policies, and no new pension rights accrue for these. The company receives a floating rate and pays a fixed rate – are used. Interest remaining defined contribution plans consist mostly of pension obligations rate swaps are recognised at fair value on the balance sheet. The interest under collective bargaining agreements and pension obligations as speccoupon portion is recognised directly in the profit for the year as part of ified in transitional provisions adopted in conjunction with the conversion interest expenses. Unrealised changes in fair value on the interest rate into a limited liability company of operations run previously under LFV. The swaps are recognised in other comprehensive income and are included in expected present value of the defined contribution obligations is recognised the hedge reserve until the hedged item affects the profit for the year and in the balance sheet as a provision. The company’s obligations are calcuas long as the criteria for hedge accounting and effectiveness are fulfilled. lated at least once a year by independent actuaries. An obligation consists The gain or loss attributable to the non-effective portion of unrealised value of the present value of expected future payments. The discount rate used changes on the interest rate swaps is recognised in profit for the year. corresponds to the interest rate on government bonds with a maturity that Hedge accounting has also been applied for commodity and currency corresponds to the average maturity of the obligation. The assumption on derivatives. Currency derivatives are used mainly to lock in the exchange the discount rate is made on a quarterly basis. The Group bears the risk of rate for future flows of foreign currencies, which arise mostly in conjunction ensuring that the payments determined are effected. with investments and with electricity trading. Commodity derivatives are A receivable/liability that is part of the pension obligation is recognised for used to hedge the risk of electricity prices that arises in the Group’s busithe special payroll tax if the pension expense is lower/higher than the pension ness operations. Changes in the fair value of these derivative instruments expense stipulated for a legal entity. The receivable or liability is based on the are recognised in other comprehensive income and are accumulated in the difference between these amounts and the present value is not calculated. hedge reserve under equity. The accumulated gains or losses in the hedge reserve are reclassified to the income statement in the same period that the Defined contribution pension obligations hedged item affects profit. The defined contribution plan applies as of the date of the Group’s formaWhen a hedging instrument or hedging relationship is terminated but tion and is secured through payments to insurance companies or managed the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the accumulated gains funds. A defined contribution pension plan is a pension plan for which a and losses in the hedge reserve remain and are recognised in the profit for company pays fixed contributions to a separate legal entity. The company the year when the contracted or projected transaction is recognised in the subsequently has no legal or informal obligations to pay additional contribuincome statement. However, if the hedged transaction is no longer expected tions to the employee’s accrued pensions. to occur, the accumulated gains and losses in the hedge reserve are immediately reclassified to profit for the year. Contingent liabilities A contingent liability is a possible obligation resulting from past events and Provisions whose occurrence is confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the company has a one or more uncertain future events, which are not entirely in the company’s formal or informal obligation as a result of an event occurring, it is likely that control, or there is an obligation resulting from past events but which is not an outflow of resources is required to settle the obligation, and a reliable recognised as a liability or provision since it is not likely that an outflow of estimate of the amount can be made. resources will be required to settle the obligation, or the size of the obligation A present value calculation is made to take into account significant time cannot be estimated with sufficient accuracy. No accounting is necessary effects of future payments. Provisions are divided into non-current and when the likelihood of an out-flow of resources is extremely limited. current provisions. Assets held for sale Restoration reserve Assets that are classified as held for sale are recognised separately in the In conformity with the Group’s published environmental principles and applibalance sheet. Liabilities attributable to assets that are classified as held cable legal requirements, a provision to restore contaminated assets shall be for sale are recognised separately from other liabilities in the balance sheet. recognised when the asset is contaminated. These assets are not offset. Restructuring reserve PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES A provision is recognised when a detailed restructuring plan has been The Parent Company prepares its financial reports in conformity with adopted and the restructuring has either begun or been publicly announced. Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for legal Other provisions entities. The differences between the consolidated and Parent Company Other provisions consist of provisions related to estimated amounts for accounting principles are presented below. The accounting principles specidisputes, onerous contracts, a provision for social security funds and other fied for the Parent Company have been applied consistently in all the periods commitments. A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the presented in the Parent Company’s financial reports. SWEDAV I A 2015 65 NOTES Group contributions Group contributions received and paid are recognised as appropriations. NOTE 3. SEGMENT REPORTING Intangible non-current assets Swedavia’s operations are organised and run as two business segments, The Parent Company recognises goodwill from the acquisition of assets that Airport Operations and Real Estate. have an expected useful life of 20 years. Useful life reflects the company’s estimation of the period under which future economic benefits that goodwill • Airport Operations owns, operates and develops Swedavia’s airports. and other intangible non-current assets represent will flow to the company. Most revenue consists of passenger-related revenue Straight-line amortisation is applied over the expected useful life of the asset. • Real Estate owns, develops and manages properties and developable land at and in the vicinity of Swedavia’s airports. Most revenue consists of Associated companies and joint ventures revenue from properties Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures are recognised in the Parent Company using the cost method. Dividends received are recogThe basis of segment reporting is internal reporting. The Board of Directors nised in the income statement. In cases where a joint venture is a limited and executive management mostly use operating profit by segment in partnership, the value of the holding is adjusted by the value of the Parent accordance with Swedish accounting principles for monitoring. Financial Company’s share of the limited company’s net profit. expenses, financial income and income tax are handled at the Group level. The accounting principles conform with those applied in the consolidated Group companies financial accounts. Holdings in Group companies are recognised in the Parent Company using the cost method. The recognised value of holdings in a limited partnership changes annually by the Parent Company’s share of the limited partnership’s net profit and any withdrawals or contributions made during the year. Equity Equity is divided between unrestricted and restricted reserves in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Group contributions paid are recognised by the donor as an increase in holdings in Group companies. The recipient recognises the contribution as unrestricted equity. Untaxed reserves In the Parent Company, untaxed reserves are recognised in their entirety without being divided between equity and deferred taxes. Financial instruments The Parent Company does not apply IAS 39; instead, financial instruments are recognised based on their cost in conformity with Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act. This means that non-current financial assets are recognised at cost minus any impairment loss, and current financial assets are valued based on the lower of cost or market rule. Interest rate swaps that effectively hedge cash flow risk for interest payments on liabilities are recognised at the net of the accrued asset on floating interest and accrued liability on fixed interest. The difference is recognised as an interest expense or interest income. Pensions The Parent Company complies with the statutes in the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the instructions of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority since that is a requirement for making tax deductions. The most significant differences compared to reporting in the consolidated financial accounts and in that case with the regulations in IAS 19 are the way the discount rate is determined, with the calculation of the defined benefit obligation based on the current salary level without any assumption of future salary increases, and actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income statement. The Parent Company’s total commitments for defined benefit pensions are covered by credit insurance with FPG/PRI. . 66 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES Airport Operations Real Estate Eliminations/adjustments Total Swedavia Income statement Jan–Dec 2015 2014 2013 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Revenue from external customers 5,291 5,086 – 799 -117 – 6,476 5,885 Revenue from other segments 141 117 311 230 -452 -347 – – Total revenue 5,432 5,203 1,613 1,029 -569 -347 6,476 5,885 Operating costs -3,888 -3,637 -369 -265 452 367 -3,806 -3,535 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses -912 -920 -3 -54 -1 28 -915 -946 Operating profit 632 646 1,241 710 -118 48 1,755 1,405 Airport Operations Real Estate Eliminations/adjustments Total Swedavia Balance sheet, on December 31 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Non-current assets 11,960 11,830 1,137 168 -713 -645 12,385 11,353 Current assets 1,437 3,843 1,555 1,048 -2,119 -4,006 874 885 Assets held for sale – – – 3,027 – – – 3,027 Total assets 13,398 15,673 2,693 4,243 -2,832 -4,651 13,259 15,265 Equity 5,858 5,318 1,882 1,151 -877 -898 6,863 5,571 Liabilities 7,539 10,355 810 3,009 -1,954 -3,754 6,395 9,610 Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale – – – 83 – – – 83 Total equity and liabilities 13,398 15,673 2,693 4,243 -2,832 -4,651 13,259 15,265 One customer accounted for 14 per cent (14) of consolidated revenue in 2015, equal to SEK 918 M (841), allocated to both segments. Of the Group’s total capital spending in 2015, SEK 1,120 M (924), SEK 1,053 M (902) is attributable to Airport Operations and SEK 67 M (22) is attributable to Real Estate. NOTE 4. NET REVENUE Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Revenue by source 2015 2014 2015 2014 Revenue by source 2015 2014 2015 2014 Aviation Business Commercial Services Passenger-related revenue 2,142 2,058 2,145 2,058 Car parking 796 741 796 741 Aircraft movement-related revenue 643 609 640 607 Retail, Food & Beverage 635 660 635 659 Ground handling & aircraft parking 344 296 335 296 Property revenue 480 620 364 392 Other Aviation 11 10 9 10 Advertising 90 82 90 82 Total Aviation Business 3,140 2,973 3,129 2,971 Other Commercial Services 274 308 244 230 Total Commercial Services 2,276 2,410 2,130 2,104 Total revenue 5,416 5,384 5,259 5,075 SWEDAV I A 2015 67 NOTES Transport Agency for security screening and parts of air traffic management NOTE 5. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS services. The Group’s sale of goods and services to other related parties totalled SEK 105 M (155), and its purchase of goods and services totalled Related party transactions involve transactions with State-owned compaSEK 169 M (181). Transactions with the Swedish State pertaining to taxes and nies or operations that conduct business in which the State has controlling payroll fees have not been included. interest. Related parties also include companies over which Swedavia may exercise controlling interest or a significant influence in terms of operational and financial decisions made; for transactions with them, see the table below. Concerning Swedavia AB’s receivables from and liabilities to Group NOTE 6. OTHER OPERATING INCOME companies, see Note 30 “Receivables from Group companies” and Note 31 “Receivables from and liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures”. Group Parent Company Shares in Group companies are described in detail in Note 26 “Holdings in 2015 2014 2015 2014 Group companies” and in Note 25 “Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures”. Transactions are carried out on market terms, and operations Other operating income are subject to competition. Physical persons who are related parties are defined as executive officers, Capital gains 938 347 – – Board members and immediate family members of such persons. For informaOther 27 60 54 25 tion about remuneration to executive officers and Board members, see Note 8 Total 965 407 54 25 “Employees and staff expenses”. There are no securities pledged by or contingent assets from Swedavia for executive officers or Board members. Capital gains pertain to the sale of a property portfolio, SEK 820 M (see Note Group Parent Company 34), and the sale of land, SEK 20 M and 98 respectively. Capital gains for 2015 2014 2015 2014 2014 pertain to the sale of a hotel property. Sales of goods and services Subsidiaries – – 174 115 NOTE 7. REMUNERATION AND COMPENSATION FOR Associated companies and joint AUDITORS ventures 18 6 9 6 Group Parent Company Total sales of goods and services 18 6 183 121 2015 2014 2015 2014 Sales of immovable property or other assets Ernst & Young Subsidiaries – – 10 4 Auditing assignments 3 3 3 3 Associated companies and joint Tax consultancy – 0 – 0 ventures1 918 – – – Other services 0 1 0 1 Total purchases of goods and services 918 – 10 4 Total 3 4 3 4 Purchases of goods and services Auditing assignments refers to the statutory auditing of the annual accounts Subsidiaries – – 312 275 and the administration of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO as well as auditing and other examination performed in accordance with Associated companies and joint agreements or contracts. This includes other duties incumbent upon the ventures 16 – 16 – company’s auditors as well as advice or other assistance stemming from Total purchases of goods and observations made during such audits or the performance of other such services 16 – 328 275 duties. Tax consultancy refers to all consultancy pertaining to taxes. Interest, net Other services refers to advice on accounting issues as well as advice on processes and internal auditing. Subsidiaries – – 27 65 Total interest – – 27 65 1 The amount pertains to capital gains on the sale of assets to joint ventures. NOTE 8. EMPLOYEES AND STAFF EXPENSES Transactions with the Swedish State 2015 2014 Swedavia AB is wholly owned by the Swedish State. The Swedavia Group’s products and services are provided to the State, government agencies and PercenPercenPercenPercenState-owned companies (hereinafter called other related parties) in competiAverage number of tage of tage of tage of tage of tion with other suppliers on commercial terms. Similarly, Swedavia AB and its employees Total women men Total women men Group companies purchase products and services from government authorities and State-owned companies at market prices and on commercial terms. Parent Company 2,759 34% 66% 2,512 35% 65% Costs for other related parties consist mostly of the purchase of meteorologiSubsidiaries 28 40% 60% 4 27% 73% cal services, fees to government authorities and air navigation services, which are largely included in the costs covered via remuneration from the Swedish Koncernen 2 787 34 % 66 % 2 516 35 % 65 % 68 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 RemuneraGender breakdown of executive Share of Share of Share of Share of Remuneration to the Board Audit tion Other management women men women men 2014, SEK T Board fee Committee Committee benefits Group Chairman of the Board Board of Directors 67% 33% 56% 44% Ingemar Skogö 440 – 25 – Other executive officers including CEO 42% 58% 43% 57% Chairman of the Board Karin Apelman 220 35 – – Group Parent Company Salaries, other remuneration, and Lars Backemar 220 – – – payroll fees, SEK M 2015 2014 2015 2014 Anna Elgh 220 20 – – Adine Grate Axén 220 – – – Salaries and remuneration Hans Jeppsson 220 – – – Board of Directors 2 2 2 2 Jenny Lahrin – – – – CEO and executive officers 32 25 32 25 Lars Mydland1 147 – – – Other employees 1,103 974 1,077 962 Lottie Svedenstedt 220 – 20 – Total 1,137 1,001 1,111 989 Total 1,907 55 45 – Payroll fees 705 330 696 324 of which pension expenses including 1 At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, Lars Mydland was elected as a member of Swedavia’s special payroll tax for CEO and Board of Directors. executive officers 9 8 9 8 of which pension expenses including Remuneration to the Board of Directors consists of a fee decided at the special payroll tax for other employees 263 104 263 104 Annual General Meeting. The Board fee is paid as a salary or as an invoice from the Board member’s sole proprietorship or company. In cases where Other staff-related expenses 53 44 51 44 the Board fee is invoiced, an amount equivalent to the payroll fees that Group-related adjustments -219 100 – – Swedavia AB does not have to pay as a result is added.. Total staff expenses 1,673 1,476 1,858 1,357 Guidelines for remuneration to the Board of Directors Swedavia follows the State’s guidelines for remuneration to the Board. A fee is paid to the Chairman and Board members based on a decision at the Remuneration to the Board RemuneraAnnual General Meeting (AGM) on April 29, 2015. No pension contribution is Parent Company Audit tion Other 2015 SEK T Board fee Committee Committee benefits paid for Board members. No remuneration is paid to Board members who are employed in the Swedish Government Offices. No Board fee is paid to employee representatives or their deputies. Board fees are paid as salary Chairman of the Board or are paid to the Board member’s company. No Board fee is paid to Board Ingemar Skogö 440 – 25 – members in any subsidiary since all members are employees of companies in Board members the Swedavia Group. Remuneration for the Audit Committee is based on a decision taken at Karin Apelman 220 35 – – the AGM held on April 29, 2015. Since the 2015 AGM, the Audit Committee Lars Backemar 220 – – – includes the Board members Karin Apelman as Chair and Adine Grate Axén Anna Elgh2 220 7 – – and Lotta Mellström as members. Since the 2015 AGM, the Remuneration Committee includes Ingemar Adine Grate Axén2 220 13 – – Skogö as Chair, Board members Lotta Mellström and Lottie Svedenstedt Hans Jeppsson1 73 – – – members, and Robert Olsson as employee representative. Lottie Knutson 1 147 – – – Jenny Lahrin1, 2 – – – – Lotta Mellström1, 2 – – – – Lars Mydland 220 – – – Lottie Svedenstedt 220 – 20 – Total 1,980 55 45 – 1 At the Annual General Meeting 2015, Lottie Knutson and Lotta Mellström were elected as new Board members and replaced Hans Jeppsson and Jenny Lahrin, who stepped down. 2 At the Annual General Meeting 2015, Adine Grate Axén was elected as a new member of the Audit Committee, replacing Anna Elgh, and Lotta Mellström was elected as a new member of the Remuneration Committee, replacing Jenny Lahrin, who stepped down. SWEDAV I A 2015 69 NOTES Employer’s period of notice of termination + number Variable of months’ Remuneration to executive officers Parent Company1, remuneraOther Pension severance 2015 SEK T Base salary tion benefits expenses pay Base salary President and CEO Torborg Chetkovich 2 until Dec 17, 2015 9,347 – 9 1,468 10,824 6+ 15 President and CEO Deputy CEO starting Dec 17, CEO Swedavia Real Estate 2015 Director Commercial & Real Estate Karl Wistrand3 2,453 – 1 724 3,177 6+ 9 /12 Chief Financial Officer Mats Påhlson4 2,248 – 0 540 2,788 6+ 6 Michael Persson Director Aviation, Customer & Marketing Gripkow5 until Jul 5, 2015 2,312 – 0 384 2,696 6+ 6 starting Jul 6, Director Aviation Business Elizabeth Axtelius 6 2015 492 – 0 96 589 3+ – Chief Human Resources Officer Marie Wiksborg 1,629 – 0 449 2,078 6+ 6 Chief Legal Counsel Anna Bovaller 7 1,420 – 0 385 1,805 6+ – Chief Information Officer Linda Sjödin 1,366 – 7 362 1,734 6+ 6 Director of Security and Safety Anders Lennerman 1,367 – 13 410 1,790 6+ 6 Strategy Director Lennart Bergbom 1,186 – 0 256 1,442 6+ 6 Chief Technical Officer Per Arenhage7 1,619 – 7 487 2,113 6+ – Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport Peder Grunditz 1,580 – 3 412 1,995 6+ 6 Airport Director, Regional Airports and Airport Director, Åre Östersund Airport Susanne Norman 1,344 – 2 341 1,687 6+ 6 Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport Charlotte Ljunggren 1,803 – 2 534 2,340 6+ 6 Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport Kjell-Åke Westin 1,884 – 7 566 2,457 6+ 6 Total 32,050 – 51 7,414 39,514 1 Remuneration has been recognised based on the period each executive officer was included in the team of executive officers. Base salary reported is based on a fixed monthly salary, statutory holiday entitlement, any salary increase and severance pay. Other benefits consist of, for example, parking and newspaper benefits. Pension expense includes the effect of any exchange of salary for benefits and premiums for additional health insurance. 2 Torborg Chetkovich was dismissed from her position as President and CEO by the Board of Directors with immediate effect on December 17, 2015. Remuneration reported for 2015 also includes her base salary and pension premiums during the period of notice of dismissal and until June 17, 2016, of SEK 1,885 T and SEK 501 T respectively, as well as severance pay for a period of 15 months of SEK 4,178 T. The total maximum remuneration in connection with her dismissal is SEK 6,564 T. Salary during the period of notice of dismissal and severance pay are paid on a monthly basis and offset against any other income. The total cost of the dismissal including payroll fees was expensed in 2015. 3 Karl Wistrand assumed the role of President and CEO on December 17, 2015. During his time as President and CEO, a supplemental salary and a severance package of 12 months are given should the company terminate his employment. 4 Mats Påhlson assumed the role of Chief Financial Officer on February 12, 2015. Until February 11, 2015, he was acting Chief Financial Officer, for which remuneration was paid through a consulting fee. 5 A merger of Corporate Communications and Market Communications took place on July 6, 2015, with Chief Information Officer Linda Sjödin assuming responsibility for the new organisation. In conjunction with the restructuring, there was redundancy, which meant that Michael Persson Gripkow left Swedavia. Remuneration recognised for 2015 also includes his base salary and pension provision during the period of notice until December 5, 2015, of SEK 800 T and SEK 180 T, respectively, and severance pay for a period of 6 months of SEK 744 T. The total maximum remuneration is SEK 1,724 T. The severance package is paid out on a monthly basis and offset against any other income. The cost of the severance package including payroll fees was expensed in 2015. 6 In her capacity as Director Aviation Business, Elizabeth Axtelius reports to the President and CEO as of July 6, 2015, but she is not a member of Swedavia’s executive management and her current terms of employment do not include a severance package. 7 These employment contracts do not include any severance package terms. 70 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES Employer’s period of notice of termination Variable Total + number of Remuneration to executive officers Parent Company1, Base remuneraOther Pension remuneramonths’ seve2014 SEK T salary tion benefits expenses tion rance pay President and CEO Torborg Chetkovich 3,283 – 13 967 4,262 6+ 15 Deputy CEO, CEO Swedavia Real Estate, Director Commercial & Real Estate Karl Wistrand 2,378 – 0 702 3,080 6+ 9 Acting Chief Financial Officer Mats Påhlson2 starting Mar 18, 2014 1,618 – – – 1,618 – Chief Financial Officer Lars Johansson until Jul 24, 2014 1,180 – – 337 1,517 6+ 3 Director Aviation, Customer & Marketing Michael Persson Gripkow 1,515 – 0 413 1,928 6+ 6 Chief Human Resources Officer Marie Wiksborg 1,591 – 0 437 2,028 6+ 6 Chief Legal Counsel Anna Bovaller 3 1,352 – 0 361 1,714 6+ – Chief Information Officer Linda Sjödin 1,174 – 7 303 1,483 6+ 6 Director Security & Safety Anders Lennerman 1,372 – 11 411 1,794 6+ 6 Strategy Director Lennart Bergbom 1,152 – 0 248 1,400 6+ 6 Chief Technical Officer Per Arenhage 3 1,562 – 7 469 2,038 6+ – Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport Peder Grunditz 1,525 – 3 399 1,927 6+ 6 Airport Director, Regional Airports and Airport Director, Åre Östersund Airport Susanne Norman 1,289 – 2 336 1,626 6+ 6 Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport Charlotte Ljunggren 1,718 – 2 506 2,225 6+ 6 Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport Kjell-Åke Westin 1,790 – 7 537 2,334 6+ 6 Director of Procurement4 Athanassios Boukas until Feb 17, 2014 170 – – 44 214 6+ 3 Chief Procurement Officer4 Fredrik Frimodig until Jul 24, 2014 521 – – 102 623 6+ – Total 21,907 – 40 5,603 31,812 1 Remuneration has been recognised based on the period each executive officer was included in the team of executive officers. Base salary reported is based on a fixed monthly salary, statutory holiday entitlement, any salary increase and severance pay. Base salary reported has not taken into account any exchange of salary for benefits. 2 For Mats Påhlson, Chief Financial Officer, remuneration is via a consultancy fee. 3 These employment contracts do not include any severance package terms. 4 On February 17, an organisational change and review of Swedavia’s management structure were carried out which entails new reporting channels for IT and the elimination of the procurement and quality functions from the executive management. Remuneration to executive officers Employment for Executive Officers in Companies under State Ownership “Executive officer” refers to the people who together with the CEO constitute adopted by the Government on April 20, 2009. These guidelines shall result the company’s executive management or report directly to the CEO. The in remuneration that is competitive, capped, reasonable and appropriate. executive management is appointed by the CEO. Remuneration to the CEO, Deputy CEO and head of Internal Auditing Pensions is determined by Swedavia’s Board of Directors after the matter has been A provision for the dismissed President and CEO’s pension was made via prepared in the Remuneration Committee. The CEO determines remunera premium-based pension plan, which corresponds to 30 per cent of fixed ation to other executive officers, following preparation in the Remuneration salary during her period of employment and period of notice of termination. Committee and a decision in the Board at an aggregate level. The Airport Director of Göteborg Landvetter Airport also has an agreement The Board’s proposed principles for remuneration and other terms of for a premium-based pension, the provision for which corresponds to 30 per employment for the company’s executive management entail that Swedavia cent of fixed salary. Provisions for pensions for other executive officers are AB (publ) shall strive for remuneration and terms of employment that are included under the ITP 1 defined contribution plan. Executive officers who competitive and well informed. Remuneration shall be characterised by reawere employed in the transition from LFV to Swedavia on April 1, 2010, are sonableness and transparency as well as contribute to good ethics and coralso covered by an age-related graduated pension premium for the ITP plan porate culture. Remuneration shall not be such that it drives salaries relative 1 as determined through a collective bargaining agreement. An extra pension to comparable companies but shall instead be characterised by moderation. contribution in addition to the defined contribution plan under the ITP 1 plan For matters concerning remuneration and other terms of employment, was agreed for some executive officers not covered by the graduated penSwedavia applies the principles decided in the Guidelines for Terms of sion premium for ITP 1. The retirement age for the CEO and other executive officers is 65. SWEDAV I A 2015 71 NOTES Dismissal and severance pay For notice of termination given by the company, the period of notice of NOTE 10. OTHER OPERATING COSTS termination and severance pay are specified in the table. Severance pay is equal to a fixed salary. If a new position or income from another economic activity is found, severance pay shall be reduced by the amount equal to the Group Parent Company new income during the period in question. Severance pay is not pensionable Other operating costs 2015 2014 2015 2014 income and is not subject to statutory holiday pay. The CEO and other executive officers have six months’ notice of terminaAcquisition cost 1 – 49 – – tion by mutual consent, except for one person who must give four months’ Divestment costs 8 0 8 – notice of termination and one person who is included in a three months’ Other 1 0 1 – notice of termination by mutual consent. All executive officers are entitled to all employment benefits that apply during the period of notice. Total 8 49 8 – Other employees 1 Costs attributable to the acquisition of the company Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB. Employees in the Swedavia Group receive remuneration in the form of a fixed base salary, a fixed hourly wage, benefits and pension provision in accordance with collective bargaining agreements. For some age groups whose positions were transferred from LFV to Swedavia on April 1, 2010, there is also an age-related graduated pension premium for the ITP plan 1 as deterNOTE 11. FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES mined through a collective agreement. As a supplement to their fixed base salary, advertising sales representatives also have a variable portion of their Parent Company salary which is commission-based. Income from holdings in Group companies 2015 2014 2014 Impairment loss on holdings in Group companies 1 -85 -217 -217 Dividend 483 15 NOTE 9. DEPRECIATION/AMORTISATION AND Total 398 -202 IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 1 See Note 26 for information about impairment losses on holdings in Group companies. AND INTANGIBLE NON-CURRENT ASSETS Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Income from holdings in associated Depreciation and amortisation 2015 2014 2015 2014 companies and joint ventures 2015 2014 2015 2014 Goodwill – – 25 25 Portion of earnings of associated companies and joint ventures for the year 22 0 – -1 Other intangible non-current assets 27 18 27 18 Total 22 0 – -1 Buildings and land 322 311 320 308 Investment properties 1 31 – – Field structures 158 155 158 155 Group Parent Company Electrical installations, vehicles and Financial income 2015 2014 2015 2014 equipment 405 381 404 378 Interest income 2 2 31 67 Impairment losses, new construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets – -6 – -6 Net changes in foreign exchange rates 2 4 3 4 Total 913 890 934 878 Total 4 6 33 71 Depreciation and amortisation Group Parent Company Buildings and land 2 28 2 18 Financial expenses 2015 2014 2015 2014 Investment properties – 12 – – Interest expenses, financial liabilities -54 -190 -54 -121 Field structures – 12 – 12 Derivative instruments -157 -99 -220 -99 Electrical installations, vehicles and Portion of interest on pension expenses equipment – 4 – 4 for the year -21 45 0 -4 Total 2 56 2 34 Other financial expenses -2 -5 -2 -1 Total -234 -248 -275 -225 Total 915 946 936 912 The interest expense from financial liabilities is attributable to liabilities to credit institutions, medium-term notes and commercial paper. No borrowing expenses attributable to refurbishment and rebuilding projects were charged to the balance sheet during the year. 72 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES 2015 2014 NOTE 12. APPROPRIATIONS AND UNTAXED RESERVES Parent Company Per cent Amount Per cent Amount Parent Company Reconciliation of effective tax Appropriations 2015 2014 Profit before tax 594 327 Change in accelerated depreciation -15 -400 Tax calculated using Swedish rate for Group contribution paid -33 -20 the Parent Company 22.0 -131 22.0 -73 Group contribution received 52 276 Tax pertaining to taxation for the Total appropriations 4 -144 previous year -1 – Tax effect of non-deductible costs -44 -81 Untaxed reserves Tax effect of non-taxable revenue 106 4 Accumulated accelerated depreciation 1,772 1,757 Recognised effective tax 11.7 -70 45.6 -149 Tax allocation reserves 210 210 Total untaxed reserves 1,982 1,967 In the consolidated accounts, non-taxable revenue in 2014 and 2015 is mostly capital gains from the sale of shares and holdings. In the Parent Accumulated amortisation and depreciation pertain to other intangible Company’s accounts, the corresponding item for 2015 is mostly dividends assets, electrical installations, vehicles and equipment. from subsidiaries. NOTE 13. TAX NOTE 14. INTANGIBLE NON-CURRENT ASSETS Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Intangible non-current assets 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015 2014 2015 2014 Goodwill 352 352 352 376 Current tax expense (-)/ tax income (+) Other intangible non-current assets 263 268 263 268 Tax expense/tax income for the year -78 -162 -49 -155 Total 615 621 615 644 -78 -162 -49 -155 Deferred tax expense (-)/ Group Parent Company tax income (+) Goodwill 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Deferred tax for temporary differences -58 -74 -21 5 Total tax expense recognised -136 -236 -70 -149 Accumulated cost 2015 2014 Opening balance 377 377 493 493 Group Per cent Amount Per cent Amount Closing balance 377 377 493 493 Reconciliation of effective tax Accumulated scheduled amortisation Profit before tax 1,547 1,162 Opening balance -25 -25 -117 -92 Tax calculated using Swedish tax rate in effect 22.0 -340 22.0 -256 Scheduled amortisation for the period – – -25 -25 Tax pertaining to taxation for the Closing balance -25 -25 -142 -117 previous year -1 3 Tax effect of non-deductible costs -24 -61 Book value, closing balance 352 352 352 376 Tax effect of non-taxable revenue 232 80 Other -3 – Goodwill In conjunction with the conversion of airport operations into a limited liability Recognised effective tax 8.8 -136 20.3 -236 company on April 1, 2010, assets and liabilities from LFV were transferred to Swedavia at an estimated market value. In conjunction with the transaction, goodwill of SEK 493 M arose in the Parent Company. In the consolidated accounts, goodwill totalled SEK 377 M, with the difference due to the valuation of defined benefit pension commitments in accordance with IAS 19. SWEDAV I A 2015 73 NOTES Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit NOTE 16. BUILDINGS AND LAND from the acquisition. Goodwill has an indeterminable expected useful life. An impairment review is carried out at least once a year or more frequently Group Parent Company if there is any indication of a decrease in value. Goodwill has been tested for impairment based on the cash-generating unit, Airport Operations, from 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 which the goodwill is derived. The recovery value is based on calculations of the value in use. For the first four-year period, calculations are based on Accumulated cost estimated cash flows in the business plan. After the business plan period, Opening balance 6,513 6,178 6,470 6,084 estimated cash flows are based on the executive management’s strategic forecasts adopted through 2035. The revenue, expenses and capital Acquisitions/reclassifications for the year 326 339 306 390 spending in these forecasts are based on experience, expectations of the market trend, previous profit and external comparisons. It has been assumed Disposals/divestments for the year -12 -4 -18 -4 that cash flows beyond 2035 have annual growth equivalent to 2 per cent (2) Closing balance 6,827 6,513 6,758 6,470 annually. The discount rate before tax used was 7.7 per cent (7.8). The impairment review has not entailed any impairment loss on goodwill, Accumulated scheduled depreciaand reasonable changes in the assumptions would not lead to any need for tion impairment. Opening balance -1,373 -1,068 -1,369 -1,066 Group Parent Company Reversal of depreciation on disposals 9 6 9 5 Scheduled depreciation for the year -322 -311 -321 -308 Other intangible non-current assets 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Closing balance -1,686 -1,373 -1,681 -1,369 Accumulated cost Opening balance 341 154 341 154 Accumulated depreciation Reclassifications for the year 22 187 22 187 Opening balance -28 – -18 – Closing balance 363 341 363 341 Scheduled depreciation for the year -2 -28 -2 -18 Closing balance -30 -28 -20 -18 Accumulated scheduled amortisation Opening balance -73 -54 -73 -54 Book value, closing balance 5,111 5,113 5,057 5,083 Scheduled amortisation for the year -27 -18 -27 -18 Closing balance -100 -73 -100 -73 Of which land Opening balance 397 359 315 282 Book value, closing balance 263 268 263 268 Acquisitions for the year 2 20 – 15 Other intangible non-current assets pertain to noise insulation on the properties of others. Disposals for the year – – -6 – Reclassification from field structures and new construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets – 18 – 18 Book value, closing balance 399 397 309 315 NOTE 15. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Group Parent Company 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Buildings and land (Note 16) 5,111 5,113 5,057 5,083 Field structures (Note 17) 2,331 2,232 2,324 2,226 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment (Note 18) 2,343 2,112 2,327 2,108 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets (Note 19) 731 932 702 902 Total 10,515 10,389 10,411 10,320 74 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES Leasing NOTE 17. FIELD STRUCTURES Swedavia’s leases pertain to the financial leasing of vehicles. Leased items that the Group has under leasing agreements are recognised under the item “Electrical Group Parent Company installations, vehicles and equipment” for the following amounts. Consolidated leasing fees for the year totalled SEK 7 M (7) in the Group. 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Group Accumulated cost Book value 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Opening balance 2,937 2,796 2,931 2,796 Cost – capitalised financial leases 46 38 Reclassifications for the year 256 166 256 145 Accumulated depreciation -29 -25 Disposals/divestments for the year -31 -25 -31 -10 Book value, closing balance 17 13 Closing balance 3,162 2,937 3,156 2,931 Accumulated scheduled depreciaThe Group leases a number of vehicles under leasing agreements; the leastion ing periods run between 2 and 9 years. Opening balance -693 -547 -693 -547 2015 2014 Reversal of depreciation on disposals 30 9 30 9 Present Present Scheduled depreciation for the year -158 -155 -158 -155 value of value of Future future Future future Closing balance -820 -693 -820 -693 minimum minimum minimum minimum leasing leasing leasing leasing Future leasing fees fees fees fees fees Book value, closing balance 2,331 2,232 2,324 2,226 Within one year 7 7 5 5 Between two and five years 11 11 11 10 Net field structure assets acquired have been treated for tax purposes as land. Field structures consist mostly of take-off and landing runways. More than five years – – – – Total 18 18 16 15 NOTE 18. ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS, VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT NOTE 19. NEW CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS RELATED TO TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Group Parent Company 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Group Parent Company 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 932 1,074 902 1,043 Opening balance 3,774 3,458 3,770 3,458 Acquisitions for the year 1,090 903 1,031 892 Reclassifications for the year 644 337 630 333 Disposals for the year -21 – -17 -5 Disposals/divestments for the year -35 -21 -35 -21 Reclassifications for the year -1,271 -1,036 -1,214 -1,028 Closing balance 4,383 3,774 4,365 3,770 Reclassification to assets held for sale – -9 – – Accumulated scheduled depreciation Book value, closing balance 731 932 702 902 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets mostly consists Opening balance -1,659 -1,300 -1,658 -1,300 of investments in infrastructure and terminals as well as landing runways and baggage handling systems. A reclassification of the asset is made when the Reversal of depreciation on disposals 28 23 28 20 asset is placed in service. The asset is reclassified as the type of asset it Scheduled depreciation for the year -405 -382 -404 -378 constitutes. Closing balance -2,036 -1,659 -2,034 -1,658 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance -4 – -4 – Depreciation for the year – -4 – -4 Closing balance -4 -4 -4 -4 Book value, closing balance 2,343 2,112 2,327 2,108 SWEDAV I A 2015 75 NOTES Currency futures NOTE 20. FAIR VALUE Fair value of currency futures is calculated by discounting the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate that can be conThe table below presents the assets and liabilities that are valued at fair tracted on the balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract period. value or for which fair values are given for information purposes. Fair value is Discounting is done at a risk-free interest rate based on Swedish sovereign defined as the price at the time of valuation that would be received in the sale bonds. of the asset or charged in the transfer of a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. Assets and liabilities that are valued at fair value Biological assets are classified in a hierarchy with three different levels based on the inforSwedavia’s biological assets consist of large forest holdings adjacent to mation used to determine their fair value. Level 1 applies when fair value is Swedavia’s airports, with standing timber assessed at fair value. determined based on listed prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical The holdings are valued on each balance sheet date. Valuation is made by assets and liabilities. Level 2 applies when fair value is determined based on an external appraiser in conjunction with the year-end closing every two years or observable data for the asset or liability other than listed prices included In at another time if there are any indication of changes in market value. For other Level 1. Level 3 applies when fair value is determined based on input for the balance sheet dates, the stock of standing timber is valued through an internal asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. valuation. The most recent external appraisal was carried out in conjunction with the 2014 year-end closing. Valuation at fair value The valuation method used for external valuation is in accordance with the Swedish land registration authority Lantmäteriet’s forest valuation method. This Hierarchy levels in valuation of fair method is based on a discounted cash flow valuation of expected future cash value Dec 31, 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total flows from long-term sustainable forestry. Important input are local pricelists for timber and pulp with average prices for the past ten years, potential harvestable Derivative instruments (Note 27)1 – 224 – 224 volume in accordance with the Swedish Forestry Act’s restrictions on clear-cutBiological assets (Note 22)1 – 85 – 85 ting, and discount rates based on the age of the forest. A change in fair value Long-term interest-bearing liabilities is recognised in the income statement as other external costs. Fair value is (Note 27)2 – 2,454 – 2,454 determined based on hierarchy Level 2, which means that input in the valuation are based on observable market data. Investment properties (Note 21)2 – – 367 367 In internal valuations, the stock is compared on the valuation date with the Total – 2,763 367 3,130 stock on the date of the previous external valuation. After this, an interview is/ interviews are carried out with a key person/key people to determine whether any factors have had an effect on the stock and thus the market value. Hierarchy levels in valuation of fair value Dec 31, 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Long-term interest-bearing liabilities Derivative instruments (Note 27)1 – 386 – 386 For information purposes, fair value is calculated for interest-bearing liabilBiological assets (Note 22)1 – 86 – 86 ities. The fair value of a loan is calculated by discounting future cash flows. The calculation also takes into account any change in Swedavia’s credit Long-term interest-bearing liabilities risk since the loan was taken out. For some borrowings, the book value is (Note 27)2 – 3,164 – 3,164 considered to reflect the fair value, given the short remaining maturity of the Investment properties (Note 21) 2 – – 396 396 liabilities. Total – 3,636 396 4,032 Investment properties 1 Recognised at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet. Swedavia’s investment properties are recognised at accumulated cost. The 2 Recognised at cost in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts above are fair values for properties are valued to determine their fair value, that is, their estimated information purposes. market value. The portfolio of investment properties is valued annually in conjunction with the year-end closing. Valuation is made either by external There were no changes in the levels for 2015 compared to 2014. Internal independent appraisers or through internal valuation. The latest external valuations were used to determine fair values for 2015. valuation was carried out in conjunction with the 2014 year-end closing. The valuation of properties is based on the cash flows the asset is expected Derivative instruments to generate, discounting net operating income. To estimate net operating Interest rate swaps income, estimates are made of inflation, rents, vacancies, and operating and For interest rate swaps, fair value is calculated as the present value of maintenance costs. The value of the property is based on the expected cash expected future cash flows based on current market interest rates. flows of each property appraised over the next ten years. For properties with rental contracts or leaseholds longer than ten years, the calculations have been Electricity derivatives extended. For the last year of the calculation period, a residual value is calcuFor electricity derivatives, fair value is calculated based on listed rates. If lated, which shall constitute an estimated market value at that time. The informathere are no listed rates, fair value is calculated by discounting the difference tion used to determine the fair value of the investment properties is classified as between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate available on the Level 3, which means that the fair value of the investment properties cannot be balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract period. directly attributed to observable market data. 76 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES NOTE 21. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES NOTE 22. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS Swedavia recognises the properties classified as investment properties at Group cost. Investment properties are found in the Real Estate operating segment, 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 and the portfolio consists of cargo and office properties as well as land at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport. Accumulated cost Revenue from investment properties including properties held for sale was Opening balance 86 87 SEK 5 M (3351) and direct costs totalled SEK 12 M (53). For information about the depreciation method and estimated useful life, see Note 2 “Accounting Change in fair value -1 -1 principles”. For information about valuation assumption, see Note 20 “Fair Book value, closing balance 85 86 value”. Group Swedavia’s biological assets consist of large forest holdings adjacent to Swedavia’s airports, with standing timber assessed at fair value. The stock 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 is valued on each balance sheet date. Valuation is made by an external Accumulated cost appraiser in conjunction with the year-end closing every two years or at another time if there are any indication of changes in market value. For other Opening balance 164 3,938 balance sheet dates, the stock of standing timber is valued through an interAcquisitions for the year 34 10 nal valuation. Any change in fair value is reported in the income statement as other external expenses. For information about valuation assumptions, see Disposals for the year -7 -758 Note 20 “Fair value”. Reclassifications for the year – 257 Reclassification of assets held for sale – -3,283 191 164 Accumulated scheduled depreciation NOTE 23. NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS Opening balance -2 -91 Group Parent Company Scheduled depreciation for the year -1 -31 Reversal of depreciation on disposals – 19 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Reclassifications for the year – -250 Holdings in Group companies – – 889 913 Reclassifications to assets held for sale – 351 Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures 815 0 – – Closing balance -3 -2 Other long-term receivables 173 108 87 68 Deferred tax assets – – 10 31 Book value, closing balance 181 150 Total 988 108 986 1,012 Fair value (Note 20) 367 396 Operational leases – the Group as lessor The Group’s investment properties are leased through operational lease NOTE 24. OTHER LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES agreements and generate rental revenue. Future rental revenue attributed to non-cancellable operational leases is broken down as follows. Group Parent Company Group 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015 2014 1 Accumulated cost Expiry Opening balance 108 146 68 68 Within one year 3 282 New receivables 66 0 19 – Between one and five years 6 1,017 Receivables settled 0 -38 0 – More than five years 6 1,741 Reclassifications – 0 – 0 Total 14 3,040 Book value, closing balance 173 108 87 68 1 In 2014, figures include leases for investment properties that were classified as properties held for sale. SWEDAV I A 2015 77 NOTES A summary of the balance sheet and income statement for Swedish Airport InfraNOTE 25. HOLDINGS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND structure KB based on the Swedavia Group’s accounting principles: JOINT VENTURES SEK M 2015-12-31 Group Parent Company 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Investment properties 3,971 Liquid assets 49 Accumulated cost Other current assets 51 Opening balance 0 1 – 1 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 2,370 Acquisitions for the year 793 – – – Current liabilities 77 Disposals for the year – -1 – -1 Equity 1,624 Share of profit 22 – – – Consolidated book value of holding 812 Reclassifications – – – – Book value, closing balance 815 0 – – SEK M 2015-07-01 – 2015-12-31 Revenue 153 Specification of the Parent Company’s and Group’s holdings in associated companies and joint ventures on December 31, 2015 Depreciation and amortisation -58 Other expenses -37 Profit for the Book Company, corporate year, Value of value in Net interest -14 identity number, regisSwedavia’s Number of Ownerholding in the Parent Classificatered office share shares ship in % Group Company tion Profit before tax 44 Tax 0 Swedish Airport Infrastructure AB, Total profit 44 559012-5182, Group's portion of profit for the year 22 Stockholm County, Municipality of Joint Stockholm – 25,000 50.0 0 0 venture On June 30, 2015, Swedavia acquired a 49.9 per cent holding in a newly Swedish Airport formed company, Swedish Airport Infrastructure KB. Alecta owns 49.9 per Infrastructure KB, 969775-2609, cent and Swedish Airport Infrastructure AB owns 0.2 per cent. Alecta and Stockholm County, Swedavia together have a controlling interest and joint liability. On June 30, Municipality of Joint Swedish Airport Infrastructure acquired 20 large properties, reported in a Stockholm 22 1 49.9 812 0 venture number of companies, from Swedavia and has managed these properties since then. The properties are located at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Landvetter Logistik Malmö Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport. Swedavia is a tenant in some Center AB, 556986-7236, West of the properties. The value of Swedavia’s holding is estimated using the Götaland County, equity method. For more information, see the accounting principles. No Municipality of Joint dividend was paid by Swedish Airport Infrastructure in 2015. Gothenburg – 250 50.0 3 0 venture Airport City Stockholm AB, 556872-9619, Stockholm County, AsMunicipality of sociated Stockholm – 495 33.0 0 0 company 815 0 78 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES NOTE 26. HOLDINGS IN GROUP COMPANIES NOTE 27. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Parent Company The Group’s financial assets and liabilities, excluding the Group’s derivative Parent Company’s holdings in Group companies 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 instruments, are recognised at cost in the balance sheet. The Group’s derivative instruments are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. Other finanAccumulated cost cial assets and liabilities are valued at fair value for information purposes. For Opening balance 1,150 963 information about fair value regarding derivative instruments, see the Group’s valuation below as well as Note 20. For current receivables and liabilities, Acquisitions – 71 such as trade receivables and trade payables, with a remaining useful life of Shareholder contribution for the year 62 116 less than six months, the book value is considered to reflect fair value. The Parent Company recognises its financial instruments at amortised cost. Closing balance 1,212 1,150 No financial assets and liabilities are offset in the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 32. For derivatives, the Group has ISDA agreements, which allow Accumulated impairment losses offset in the event of a bankruptcy. As of December 31, 2015, there were no Opening balance -237 – significant financial liabilities or assets that should be offset in the event of a Impairment losses the year -85 -237 bankruptcy. Closing balance -322 -237 Group Book value Fair value Book value, closing balance 889 913 Financial assets 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Other long-term receivables 173 108 173 108 Impairment losses for the year consist of impairment losses of SEK 24 M on the shares in Arlanda Development Company AB. An impairment loss of Trade receivables 451 424 451 424 SEK 62 M was also taken on the shares of City-flygplatsen i Göteborg AB, Receivables from associated which is equivalent to the shareholder contribution for the year. companies 113 0 113 0 Other receivables 71 58 71 58 Specification of the Parent Company’s holdings in Group companies Derivative instruments – 3 – 3 Subsidiary, corporate identity number, Number of OwnerBook value Book value Liquid assets 6 112 6 112 registered office shares ship in % 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Total 814 705 814 705 Swedavia Real Estate AB, 556858-9872, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna 500,000 100 870 870 Group Book value Fair value Arlanda Development Company AB, Financial liabilities 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 556653-6628, Stockholm County, Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 2,397 3,096 2,454 3,164 Municipality of Sigtuna 10,000 100 2 26 Current interest-bearing liabilities 1,307 3,793 1,307 3,793 Bromma Stockholm Airport fastigheter Derivative instruments1 224 389 224 389 AB, 556932-3537, Stockholm County, Liabilities to leasing companies 23 19 23 19 Municipality of Sigtuna 50,000 100 17 17 Other long-term liabilities 9 6 9 6 Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, 556195-5823, Trade payables 372 333 372 333 West Götaland County, Other liabilities 8 9 8 9 Municipality of Gothenburg 13,110 100 – 0 Accrued interest expenses 34 45 34 45 Book value, closing balance 889 913 Total 4,374 7,690 4,431 7,758 1 Derivative instruments pertain to derivatives for hedge accounting. Other important Group companies wholly owned by Swedavia Real Estate Group company, corporate identity number, registered office Swedavia Energi AB, 556951-8185, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm Swedavia Airport Telecom AB, 556951-8193, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm Logistic City 1 AB, 556876-7007, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm Office Arlanda AB, 556876-6983, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm TreDoffice AB, 556844-2932, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm SWEDAV I A 2015 79 NOTES Valuation at fair value Assets and liabilities that are valued at fair value are classified in a hierarchy NOTE 28. MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES with three different levels based on the information used to determine their Group Parent Company fair value. Level 1 applies when fair value is determined based on listed prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 applies when fair value is determined based on observable data for the asset Supplies 36 29 32 29 or liability other than listed prices included in Level 1. Level 3 applies when Gravel stocks 3 7 3 4 fair value is determined based on input for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. The Group’s financial assets and liabilities Supplies, buildings and land 3 2 3 2 are valued at fair value based on Level 2. For more information about valuaOther stocks 3 4 3 3 tion at fair value, see Note 20. Total 45 42 41 38 Net income from items for which hedge accounting is not applied 2015 2014 Financial assets/liabilities that are valued at fair value 2 – – Total – – NOTE 29. CURRENT RECEIVABLES Parent Company 2 The subcategory held for sale. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2015 2014 Trade receivables 430 406 Derivative instruments 3 – 224 – Receivables from Group companies 729 2,977 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 4 – 2,454 – Receivables from associated companies 1 – Total – 2,678 – Other receivables 123 76 3 Recognised at fair value in the Group’s balance sheet. 4 Recognised at cost in the Group’s balance sheet. The amounts above are fair value for Tax receivable 36 – information purposes. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 105 203 No change in levels in 2015 compared to 2014. Total 1,424 3,662 Other long-term receivables For information purposes, fair value for long-term receivables is calculated by discounting future cash flows based on current market interest rates. Derivative instruments NOTE 30. RECEIVABLES FRM GROUP COMPANIES Interest rate swaps Parent Company Fair value for interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 expected future cash flows based on current market interest rates. Swedavia Real Estate AB 398 2 Electricity derivatives Logistic City 1 AB 42 42 For electricity derivatives, fair value is calculated based on listed rates. If Tor Viking Real Estate Holding AB – 105 there are no listed rates, fair value is calculated by discounting the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate available on the Tor Viking Komplementären AB – 836 balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract period. Office Arlanda AB 66 66 Currency futures Swedavia Airport Telecom AB 24 56 Fair value of currency futures is calculated by discounting the difference between Swedavia Energi AB 71 71 the contracted forward rate and the forward rate that can be contracted on Cargo City 1 AB 59 59 the balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract period. Discounting is done at a risk-free interest rate based on Swedish sovereign bonds. Altuna Hangar KB1 703 703 Nordic Airport Properties KB1 703 703 Interest-bearing liabilities Tor Viking Sverigehuset AB¹ – 74 For information purposes, fair value is calculated for interest-bearing liabilities. The fair value of a loan is calculated by discounting future cash flows. The Tor Viking Flygfastigheter AB¹ – 44 calculation also takes into account any change in Swedavia’s credit risk since Other Group companies 105 217 the loan was taken out. For some borrowings, the book value is considered to Book value, closing balance 729 2,977 reflect the fair value, given the short remaining maturity of the liabilities. 1 The company was sold to the joint venture Swedish Airport Infrastructure and was deconsoliOther receivables and liabilities dated in conjunction with this. For current receivables and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, with a remaining useful life of less than six months, the book value Swedavia’s wholly owned Group companies are funded through a consoliis considered to reflect the fair value. dated account structure. 80 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES NOTE 31. RECEIVABLES FROM ASSOCIATED NOTE 34. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES Group Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures to the Group Assets held for sale 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 totalled SEK 113 M (0) and pertain mostly to the receivable from Landvetter Logistik Center AB. Liabilities to associated companies totalled SEK 18 M. Investment properties – 3,002 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures to the Parent New construction in progress – 9 Company totalled SEK 1 M (-) and liabilities totalled SEK 6 M (-). Customer receivables – 11 Other receivables – 4 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1 1 Total – 3,027 NOTE 32. OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale Other long-term borrowings – 7 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Trade payables – 6 Tax receivable 62 0 Tax liabilities – 1 Other receivables 79 93 Other liabilities – 10 Total 141 93 Accrued income and other – 59 Total – 83 On June 30, 2015, the property portfolio that had been recognised since NOTE 33. PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME April 2014 as assets held for sale was sold. The sale was completed at an underlying property value of SEK 3,950 M. The portfolio was sold to the Group Parent Company newly formed joint venture Swedish Airport Infrastructure. The transaction entailed a consolidated capital gain of SEK 820 M. 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Accrued income, ground handling 5 6 5 6 Accrued income, retail, food & beverage 56 157 56 157 Accrued income, energy 12 11 2 2 Accrued income, parking 6 6 6 6 Prepaid material and maintenance costs 13 10 13 10 Prepaid operational services 10 5 10 5 Other accrued income and prepaid expenses 15 17 13 17 Total 118 211 105 203 SWEDAV I A 2015 81 NOTES NOTE 35. EQUITY NOTE 36. PROVISIONS The Group Group Parent Company Equity attributable to the Parent Company consists of share capital, other 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 paid in-capital, hedge reserves and retained earnings. Provisions for pensions 765 807 1,121 971 Share capital Other provisions 180 176 191 140 Share capital is divided into 1,441,403,026 shares with a stated value of SEK 1. Total 945 983 1,312 1,111 Other paid-in capital Other paid-in capital pertains to the premium in connection with new share issues. NOTE 37. PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS Hedge reserves The reserve for cash flow hedging consists of unrealised changes in the The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit pension value of interest rate, electricity and currency derivatives (net of deferred commitments. tax). Hedge accounting entails that the change in value has been charged to equity in the balance sheet via other comprehensive income. Defined benefit pension commitments Most of the defined benefit pension commitments pertain to PA91 and PA03 Retained earnings government employee pension agreements that were taken over from LFV Retained earnings includes profit for the year and the portion of untaxed reserves in conjunction with the division of operations. No new pension rights accrue that constitutes equity. This also includes revaluations of defined benefit pensions for these commitments; instead the commitments are in the form of paid-up in accordance with IAS 19 (net of deferred tax). pension policies. 2015 2014 The actuarial bases for calculating the value of capital are the provisions Capital management in FFFS 2007:24 adopted by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, Group financial targets Actual Target Actual Target which include interest rate assumptions. Unvested pension commitments Return on operating capital 14.5% 7.0% 10.3% 7.0% are entered as a liability at 60 per cent in both the Parent Company and the Group. The unvested pension commitments pertain to a small number of Debt/equity ratio 0.7 times 1-1.5 times 1.4 times 1-1.5 times employees who have the option of taking early retirement at the age of 63. The Parent Company complies with the statutes in the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the instructions of the Swedish Financial Parent Company Supervisory Authority since that is a requirement for making tax deductions. Restricted and non-restricted equity The most significant differences compared to the regulations in IAS 19 are Equity is divided between restricted and unrestricted (payable as dividends) the way the discount rate is determined, the fact that the calculation of the capital in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. A dividend may only defined benefit obligation is calculated based on the current salary level be paid if there is full coverage for restricted equity after the payment of without any assumption of future salary increases, and the fact that actudividends. Dividends are also regulated by the precautionary principle, arial gains and losses are recognised in the income statement. The Parent which means that a dividend may only be paid if this is justifiable taking into Company’s total commitments for defined benefit pensions are covered by consideration the risks that the nature and scope of operations place on the credit insurance with FPG/PRI. size of the Parent Company’s and consolidated equity as well as the Group’s consolidation requirements, liquidity and financial position in general. Actuarial assumptions In the Parent Company, restricted capital consists of share capital of SEK In the Group, the liability is calculated using a discount rate that corresponds 1,441 M. The unrestricted capital in the Parent Company is SEK 2,334 M and to the interest rate on mortgage bonds with a maturity corresponding to the consists of a share premium fund of SEK 2,162 M, retained earnings of SEK average duration of the commitment. The assumed interest rate for 2015 -57 M and profit for the year of SEK 523 M. is 3.0 per cent (2.75), an increase attributable to the current interest rate situation. The assumption for inflation, like last year, was 1.5 per cent. This assumption is based on current expectations of future inflation and on an inflation rate that has fallen significantly below Sweden’s Riksbank’s inflation target over the past few years. 82 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES Group Parent Company Group 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015 2014 Sensitivity analysis Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Actuarial assumptions The following important actua0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% rial assumptions have been applied in percentage percentage percentage percentage calculating the obligations (weighted Change in discount rate points points points points average values): Effect on obligation -52 58 -66 57 Discount rate 3.00% 2.75% -0.40% 0.80% Future changes in price base amount Group (inflation) 1.50% 1.50% 2.00% 2.00% The obligation broken down by members in the plans as follows 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations Active members 60 63 Obligations as of January 1 807 749 971 1,069 Paid-up pension policyholders 2,373 2,414 Payments made during the year -25 -28 -25 -28 Pensioners 449 424 Cost of vesting, current period 1 1 1 1 Total number of obligations 2,882 2,901 Interest expense 22 28 – 4 Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+) -42 57 174 -75 The remaining vesting period for active members is 6.0 years (6.8). Obligation as of December 31 765 807 1,121 971 Effect of payments for the pension liability on consolidated cash flow: 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Group Parent Company Within one year 30 30 Cost recognised in profit for the year 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Between one and five years 129 124 Defined benefit plans More than five years 1,099 1,114 Cost of pensions vested during the year 1 1 1 1 Effect of discounting -487 -461 Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+) – – 174 -75 Total 771 807 Special payroll fee – – 42 -20 Interest expense 22 28 – 4 Cost of defined benefit plans 23 29 217 -90 Cost of defined contribution plans 90 85 95 83 Payroll fee 22 21 23 20 Cost of defined contribution plans 112 106 118 103 Total cost of remuneration after termination of employment in the profit for the year 135 135 335 13 Group Cost recognised in other comprehensive income 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Defined benefit plans Revaluation including payroll fee Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+) on change in financial assumptions -42 71 Tax 9 -16 Recognised in other comprehensive income -33 55 SWEDAV I A 2015 83 NOTES NOTE 38. OTHER PROVISIONS NOTE 39. DEFERRED TAX Group Parent Company Group December 31, 2015 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Temporary difference goodwill -10 – Restoration reserve, opening balance 115 117 115 95 Temporary difference tangible fixed Provision for the year 29 26 21 26 assets -23 – Provisions used during the year -1 -27 -1 -6 Temporary difference biological assets – 7 Reversal of unused provisions during Temporary difference financial the year -2 – -2 – instruments -49 – Restoration reserve, closing balance 141 115 133 115 Temporary difference untaxed reserves – 437 Temporary difference pensions – 97 Restructuring reserve, opening balance 7 20 7 20 Other temporary differences – – Provision for the year 43 8 30 8 Capitalised deficit -12 – Provisions used during the year -29 -21 -18 -21 Offset 94 -94 Restructuring reserve, closing Total – 447 balance 22 7 19 7 Other provisions during the year 57 17 17 17 Group December 31, 2014 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Provision for the year 35 40 21 – Temporary difference goodwill -15 – Provisions used during the year -26 – – – Temporary difference tangible fixed Other provisions, closing balance 66 57 39 17 assets -22 – Temporary difference biological assets – 8 Of which current portion -49 -4 – – Temporary difference financial Total other provisions 180 176 191 140 instruments -85 – Temporary different untaxed reserves – 433 Current provisions constitute SEK 49 M (4) of the total. The current portion consists of a restructuring reserve of SEK 22 M (4) and other provisions of Temporary difference pensions – 46 SEK 27 M (-). The definition of provisions can be found in the accounting Other temporary differences -3 – principles on page 61. Offset 124 -124 Total – 363 Parent Company December 31, 2015 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Temporary difference tangible fixed assets 8 – Other temporary differences 2 – Total 10 – Parent Company December 31, 2014 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Temporary difference tangible fixed assets 28 – Other temporary differences 3 – Total 31 – 84 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES NOTE 40. INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIESV NOTE 42. BORROWINGS Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Non-current interest-bearing 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 liabilities 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Liabilities to credit institutions 8 347 8 300 Medium-term notes issued 2,397 3,096 2,397 3,096 Medium-term notes 3,097 4,096 3,097 4,096 Liabilities to leasing companies 15 12 15 12 Commercial paper 600 2,446 600 2,446 Total 2,412 3,107 2,412 3,107 Total 3,704 6,889 3,704 6,842 Capital market programme Current interest-bearing liabilities 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Swedavia has a medium-term note (MTN) programme denominated in SEK for medium-term borrowing in the Swedish capital market. The limit is set at Liabilities to credit institutions 8 347 8 300 SEK 5,000 M (5,000) and borrowings via notes issued totalled SEK 3,097 M (4,096). In addition, Swedavia has a Swedish commercial paper programme. Medium-term notes and commercial paper 1,300 3,446 1,300 3,446 The limit is set at SEK 5,000 M (5,000) and borrowings under this programme totalled SEK 600 M (2,446). Liabilities to leasing companies 8 7 8 7 The average maturity on borrowings as of December 31, 2015, was 2.1 Total 1,315 3,800 1,315 3,753 years (1.7) with an average interest rate of 3.18 per cent (2.7). As of December 31, 2015, the share of borrowings at a fixed rate was 99 per cent (82) and the average lock-in period was 2.9 years (2.8). NOTE 41. LONG-TERM AND CURRENT LIABILITIES Parent Company NOTE 43. OVERDRAFT FACILITIES Long-term liabilities 2015 2014 Group Parent Company Medium-term notes 2,397 3,096 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Liabilities to leasing companies 15 12 Overdraft facilities approved 200 210 200 200 Other long-term liabilities 1 6 Unutilised portion 192 210 192 200 Total 2,413 3,114 Credit amount used 8 0 8 0 As of December 31, 2015, Swedavia had overdraft facilities at SEB of SEK Current liabilities 2015 2014 200 M, SEK 8 M of which was utilised on the balance sheet date. Liabilities to credit institutions 8 300 Medium-term notes and commercial paper 1,300 3,446 Liabilities to leasing companies 8 7 NOTE 44. OTHER LIABILITIES Trade payables 356 318 Group Liabilities to Group companies 1,460 1,168 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Liabilities to associated companies 6 – Current tax liabilities 0 47 Other liabilities 77 147 Other liabilities 82 109 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 490 434 Total 82 156 Total 3,705 5,820 SWEDAV I A 2015 85 NOTES works actively to reduce interest paid through interest rate swaps and issues NOTE 45. ACCRUED EXPENSES AND PREPAID INCOME of notes and commercial paper at fixed rates. On the balance sheet date, the nominal amount of interest rate swaps was SEK 2,500 M (4,382) with a fair Group Parent Company value of SEK 202 M (-373). Notes and commercial paper totalled SEK 1,197 M. Based on those 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 hedges, a 1 per cent increase in the interest rate would have a SEK 0.1 M (13) Accrued staff-related expenses 193 116 191 115 effect whereas a 1 per cent decrease would have a negative effect of SEK 20 M. Accrued interest 34 45 34 45 Under Swedavia’s financial policy, interest rates shall be fixed for a period Accrued construction and property costs 44 37 36 22 of 3 years ± 1 year. On the balance sheet date, the fixed rate period was 2.9 Prepaid aviation income 41 56 41 56 years (2.8). Prepaid property income 60 61 59 60 Commodity price risks Prepaid income Retail, Food & Beverage 58 44 58 44 Swedavia’s commodity price risk is concentrated on the purchase of elecPrepaid parking income 13 13 13 13 tricity, and the way this is handled is governed in its financial policy. There is continuous hedging of electricity prices in accordance with the financial Prepaid advertising income 7 14 7 14 policy. Hedging is done through electricity derivatives as well as through Other accrued expenses and prepaid bilateral agreements with producers. The hedge ratio was 85 per cent (78). income 71 74 52 66 A 1 per cent increase/decrease in the price of electricity for the unhedged Total 521 460 490 434 volume would not have a material effect on profit, less than SEK 0.1 M (0.2), given the current level of hedging. Hedge accounting The Group applies cash flow hedging for its interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and electricity price risk. The effective portion of the changes NOTE 46. FINANCIAL RISKS in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income during the year was SEK 18 M (186). The ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement The Group is exposed to a number of different financial risks in its operations, during the year was SEK 0.7 M (0.3). which in turn have an impact on the company’s profit, cash flow and valuation. Financial risks arise when there is a change in foreign exchange rates, Liquidity and refinancing risk commodity prices and interest rates or when prevailing market conditions “Liquidity and refinancing risk” refers to the risk that financing opportunities and capital structures give rise to refinancing and credit risks. The Group’s will be limited and the cost will be higher when loans are to be re-negotiated. financial operations and risk management are centralised in the Corporate It also comprises payment obligations that cannot be met due to insufficient Finance unit, and operations are carried out following a financial policy liquidity. The Group’s target capital structure is to have the Group’s fixed adopted by the Board of Directors and characterised by a low risk level. The assets funded by equity and have no more than 40 per cent of borrowings aim is to minimise the Group’s capital cost through effective financial solumaturing in the same twelve-month period. tions and the effective management and control of the Group’s financial risks. The liquidity risk is minimised by Swedavia having a diversified portfolio To reduce the Group’s exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, electricity of borrowings, which ensures access to capital and flexibility. In accordance prices and exchange rates, various types of derivatives are used. with the financial policy, the Group has overdraft facilities of SEK 500 M (500). On the balance sheet date, there was an unutilised bank loan guarantee Exchange rate risks of SEK 500 M (500) and overdraft facilities of SEK 200 M (210), SEK 8 M(0) of “Exchange rate risk” is defined as the risk that movements in currency prices which was utilised. The Group believes there are no risks associated with its will have a negative impact on the Group’s profit, financial position and/or refinancing potential. cash flow. Since all subsidiaries are Swedish and use the Swedish krona The following tables show the discounted cash flows for financial liabilities (SEK) as their currency, there is no translation exposure. as well as net settled derivatives at the prices on the reporting date. Floating interest rates on borrowings and interest rate swaps in effect on the reportTransaction exposure ing date are assumed to apply for the remaining maturity of the respective Most revenue is not affected by any foreign exchange fluctuations since instruments. invoices are largely denominated in SEK. When invoicing is in a foreign currency, an internal match against supplier invoices is made in the corresponding foreign currency. For other payments in foreign currencies, currency hedges are entered into that match the foreign flow. Currency hedges are entered into in conjunction with the signing of a contract or upon receipt of an invoice. Interest rate risks “Interest rate risk” is defined as the risk that changes in market interest rates will have a negative impact on the Group’s net interest income/expense. As of December 31, 2015, Swedavia had external borrowings of SEK 3,704 M (6,889). To reduce the sensitivity to interest rate changes, Swedavia 86 SWEDAV I A 2015 NOTES Group 2015-12-31 Financial liabilities (including future interest expenses and derivative instruments) – Maturity structure < 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years > 5 years Total Interest-bearing liabilities 1,386 35 2,033 207 1 207 3,869 Liabilities to leasing companies 8 15 – – – – 23 Trade payables 372 – – – – – 372 Other liabilities 8 – – – – – 8 Derivative liabilities 76 64 50 32 12 0 234 Total 1,800 114 2,083 239 13 207 4,456 Group 2014-12-31 Financial liabilities (including future interest expenses and derivative instruments) – Maturity structure < 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years > 5 years Total Interest-bearing liabilities 3,806 745 42 2,037 209 217 7,055 Liabilities to leasing companies 7 12 – – – – 19 Trade payables 339 – – – – – 339 Other liabilities 9 – – – – – 9 Derivative liabilities 113 101 83 64 47 34 442 Total 4,274 857 125 2,101 256 251 7,864 Credit risks and counterparty risks Group Parent Company The Group’s commercial and financial transactions give rise to credit risks Age analysis 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 against its counterparties. “Credit risk” refers to the risk of loss if the counterparty does not meet its obligations agreed. The credit risk that Swedavia Trade receivables not due 440 329 418 315 is exposed to consists of financial credit risk and credit risk for customer Trade receivables past due 1–30 days 10 92 12 89 receivables. Trade receivables past due 31–90 days -3 2 -3 2 Financial credit risk Trade receivables past due >90 days 4 1 2 1 The credit risk for financial transactions arises when the Group invests liquid Total 451 424 430 406 assets as well as in the form of counterparty risks when the Group enters into an agreement on financial instruments with banks. The maximum credit risk consists of the book value of financial assets including derivatives with a Doubtful trade receivables 2015 2014 2015 2014 positive market value. The Group’s policy is to work with banks with a good credit rating, and Swedavia has entered ISDA master agreements with its Doubtful trade receivables, opening counterparty banks. balance 16 11 16 11 Reversed doubtful trade receivables -10 0 -10 0 Credit risk in customer receivables Bad trade debt declared -9 -9 -9 -9 The credit risk for commercial transactions arises when there is a risk that customers will not meet their payment commitments to the Group. This risk is Provision for bad debts 7 13 6 13 managed by the Group assessing customers’ creditworthiness on a frequent Doubtful trade receivables, closing basis. For trade receivables, operations are run in accordance with a provibalance 4 16 3 16 sion regulating credit terms and working methods. Terms of payment are in most cases net 30 days. As of December 31, 2015, there was no significant credit risk. The quality of credits appears to be good based on credit assessments carried out in accordance with the Group’s credit policy. SWEDAV I A 2015 87 NOTES NOTE 47. PLEDGED ASSETS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Group Parent Company 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Pledged assets – – – – Group Parent Company 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Contingent liabilities 86 6 86 6 Swedavia’s contingent liabilities (contractual liabilities in the Parent Company) consist of pension commitments in company-owned endowment insurance plans of SEK 5 M and a guarantee of SEK 81 M for the joint venture Landvetter Logistik Center AB, which it owns together with Bockasjö. Swedavia also has a guarantee to cover losses in the associated company Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, for which it is not possible to measure the value of the commitment. Swedavia also has contingent liabilities stemming from environmental requirements for running airport operations. NOTE 48. CASH FLOW Group Parent Company SEK M 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 2015-12-31 2014-12-31 Adjustments for items not included in the cash flow Profit from holdings in associated/ Group companies -22 – 85 237 Capital gain on sale of operations/ subsidiaries -918 -349 – – Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 915 946 936 912 Change in pension provisions -1 58 150 -98 Change in other provisions 31 42 32 7 Change in value of financial instruments – -4 – – Other -18 25 46 -6 Total -13 718 1,249 1,052 Interest paid and dividend received Dividend received – – 483 16 Interest received 4 6 4 5 Interest paid -297 -221 -275 -220 Short-term borrowings (maturity of 3 months or less) that are raised and repaid during the same month are offset. In the Group, profit from holdings pertains to capital gains from the sale of the property portfolio; see information in Note 34 “Assets held for sale”. In 2014, capital gains pertains to the sale of the hotel property. In the Parent Company, the item pertains to the impairment loss on shares in subsidiaries; see information in Note 26 “Holdings in Group companies”. 88 SWEDAV I A 2015 SIGNATORIES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT SIGNATORIES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and Annual Report have been prepared in conformity with international financial reporting accounting standards (IFRS) such as have been adopted by the EU in line with generally accepted accounting principles and give a true and fair picture of the financial position and results of the Group and the Parent Company. The Report of the Directors gives a true and fair picture of the performance of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s operations, financial position and results and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced Stockholm-Arlanda March 17, 2016 Ingemar Skogö Chairman of the Board Karin Apelman Adine Grate Axén Lars Backemar Board member Board member Board member Anna Elgh Lottie Knutson Lotta Mellström Lars Mydland Board member Board member Board member Board member Lottie Svedenstedt Lars Andersson Robert Olsson Board member Board member Board member Employee representative Employee representative Karl Wistrand CEO Our Audit Report was submitted on March 17, 2016 Ernst & Young AB Magnus Fagerstedt Authorised Public Accountant The income statements and balance sheets of the Group and the Parent Company will be subject to approval at the Annual General on April 28, 2016. SWEDAV I A 2015 89 AUDIT REPORT Audit Report To the Annual General Meeting of Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish cordate identity number 556797-0818 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND CONSOLIDATED of the Group’s financial position as of December 31, 2015, and of its financial ACCOUNTS performance and cash flows for the year in accordance with International We have audited the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts of Financial Reporting Standards such as have been adopted by the EU and Swedavia AB (publ) for the financial year 2015. The annual accounts and the the Annual Accounts Act. The Report of the Directors is consistent with the consolidated accounts are included in the printed version of this document other parts of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. on pages 44–89. We therefore recommend that the Annual General Meeting adopt the Income Statement and Balance Sheet for the Parent Company and the Group. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY The Board of Directors and the President are responsible for the prepaREQUIREMENTS ration of annual accounts that give a true and fair picture in accordance In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, with the Annual Accounts Act, for the preparation of consolidated accounts we have examined the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or that give a true and fair picture in accordance with International Financial loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the President of Reporting Standards such as have been adopted by the European Union and Swedavia AB (publ) for the financial year 2015. the Annual Accounts Act, and for the internal control the Board of Directors and the President determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstateThe Board of Directors is responsible for proposing appropriations of the ment, whether due to fraud or error. company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and President are responsible for administration under Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and Auditor’s responsibility consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the adminauditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with istration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. As a basis for our opinassurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts ion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures profit or loss, we examined whether their proposal is in accordance with the to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual Swedish Companies Act. As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge accounts and consolidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on from liability, in addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolithe auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material dated accounts, we examined significant decisions, actions taken and cirmisstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether cumstances of the company in order to determine whether any member of due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considthe Board of Directors or the President is liable to the company. We also ers internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentaexamined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the President tion of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts to give a true and fair has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the Swedish Companies Act, picture in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the cirthe Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association We believe that the cumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effecaudit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a tiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating basis for our opinion. the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the President, as Opinions well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and conWe recommend to the Annual General Meeting that the profit be approprisolidated accounts. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is ated in accordance with the proposal in the Report of the Directors and that sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. the members of the Board of Directors and the President are discharged from liability for the financial year. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, a Stockholm March 17, 2016 true and fair picture of the financial position of the Parent Company as of Ernst & Young AB December 31, 2015, and of its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have also been prepared in accordance with the Annual Magnus Fagerstedt Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, a true and fair picture Authorised public accountant 90 SWEDAV I A 2015 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE Auditor’s Review Report on Swedavia AB’s Sustainability Report To Swedavia AB INTRODUCTION Control ISQC 1 and thus has a comprehensive quality control system which We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Swedavia AB to includes documented guidelines and procedures concerning compliance review Swedavia’s Sustainability Report for the year 2015. Swedavia AB with professional ethics requirements, standards for professional conduct has defined the scope of the Sustainability Report as those areas referand applicable requirements in laws and other statutes. The procedures red to in the GRI index on pages 106-108. performed in a review consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ AND EXECUTIVE in an audit. The conclusion expressed based on an examination thus does MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE not have the assurance of a conclusion based on an audit. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our review is based on the criteria selected by the Board of Directors and The Board of Directors and the executive management are responsible executive management, which are defined above. We consider these critefor preparing the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicaria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that ble criteria, which are presented on pages 104-105 in the Sustainability the evidence we obtained during our review is sufficient and appropriate to Report, and consists of those parts of the Sustainability Reporting provide a basis for our conclusion below. Guidelines (issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) at are applicable to the Sustainability Report, and by the accounting and valuation OPINIONS principles produced by Swedavia AB. This responsibility also includes Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to the internal control considered necessary to enable the preparation of believe that the information in the Sustainability Report has not, in all matea Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatement, whether rial respects, been prepared in accordance with the above-stated criteria. due to fraud or error. AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A review consists of making inquiries, Stockholm March 17, 2016 primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Ernst & Young AB Report, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A review has another aim and is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control Magnus Fagerstedt Charlotte Söderlund otherwise has. The audit firm applies International Standard on Quality Authorised public accountant Authorised public accountant SWEDAV I A 2015 91 Corporate KAPITELNAMN Governance Report 92 SWEDAV I A 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Report Swedavia AB (publ) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Swedavia’s corporate governance is regulated by external legal frameworks Swedavia AB is a Swedish limited liability company with its regissuch as the Swedish Companies Act and other applicable Swedish laws, the tered office in the Municipality of Sigtuna. Swedavia’s operations State’s ownership policy and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance are described in the company’s Articles of Association as financing, (the Code). The Government conveys its position on important matters of principles concerning corporate governance of all State-owned companies owning, managing, operating and developing airports with their in its ownership policy. Among other things, the decision has been made that appurtenant buildings and facilities. Swedavia shall also take an all companies in which the State owns a majority shall apply the Swedish active part in the development of the Swedish transport sector and Code of Corporate Governance. The Code is applied based on the “comply help achieve the transport policy goals set by Parliament based on or explain” principle, which means that deviations from the Code are allowed sound business principles. but must be explained. The Board of Directors is responsible under the Swedish Companies Act All shares in Swedavia AB are owned by the Swedish State. The Ministry and the Code for Swedavia’s internal control. The Board has decided that of Enterprise and Innovation represents the Swedish State’s shares at Swedavia shall apply a framework for documentation and analysis of internal Swedavia’s Annual General Meeting and thereby nominates Board memcontrol issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway bers in Swedavia. Commission (COSO). Swedavia’s structure for corporate governance is illustrated in the picture below. EXTERNAL AUDITORS SHAREHOLDER SWEDAVIA’S EXTERNAL FRAMEWORK Laws, environmental BOARD OF DIRECTORS permits, Swedish Transport Agency AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE and other regulations, Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, The Swedish State’s ownership policy etc. INTERNAL AUDITING PRESIDENT AND CEO COMPLIANCE Elects/appoints RISK CONTROL Reports to/informs SWEDAVIA’S INTERNAL FRAMEWORK Articles of Association, owner directive, the Board’s Rules of Procedure, instructions to the President and CEO. Group policies, governing documents, Swedavia’s values and communication etc. SWEDAV I A 2015 93 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Code requirement Deviation Explanation/comment Code rules 1.2-1.3, 2.1-2.7, 8.1 and 10.2 No Nomination Committee has been The Nomination Committee has been replaced by the The company has a Nomination Committee that set up. owner’s nomination process. represents the company’s shareholder. Code rules 4.5 and 4.6 Dependency relationship with major The State’s ownership policy states that the relevant The Corporate Governance Report shall include shareholders is not reported. provision in the Code is mainly aimed at protecting minority information about whether Board members are owners in companies with dispersed ownership. In Stateindependent of major shareholders. owned companies, there is no reason to report such independence. DEVIATIONS FROM THE CODE Directors and the President and CEO and discharged the Board members Swedavia is wholly owned by the Swedish State, and the principles that the and the President and CEO from liability for the financial year 2014. The AGM Swedish State applies in its ownership policy are generally in agreement also decided, in accordance with the Board’s proposed distribution of profwith the rules in the Code. However, under the State’s ownership policy, its, that a dividend of SEK 231 M be paid to the owner. The decision was in Code regulations regarding the selection of Board members and auditors are conformity with the dividend policy. replaced by a special nomination process that applies to companies wholly The AGM also decided to adopt guidelines for the remuneration of execowned by the State. The primary reason for deviations from the Code is that utive officers. Swedavia has only one owner whereas the Code is aimed at listed companies with dispersed ownership. THE NOMINATION PROCESS FOR THE BOARD OF The State’s ownership policy also deviates in reporting the independence DIRECTORS of Board members relative to major shareholders. The State’s ownership For companies that are wholly owned by the Swedish State, a nomination policy specifies that the relevant provisions in the Code are primarily aimed process that complies with the Swedish State’s ownership policy is applied, at protecting minority shareholders in companies with dispersed ownership replacing the Code’s rules for appointing Board members and auditors. so there is no reason to report such independence. The nomination process for Board members is managed and coordinated by the State ownership unit at the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING A working group analyses the need for talent based on the composition The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the company’s highest governing of the Board and the company’s operations and situation. After this, it is body, where shareholders exercise their influence. The matters considered determined whether there are any recruitment needs and recruitment work at the AGM are regulated by the Swedish Companies Act. is initiated. Members are selected from a broad recruitment base. Once the According to the Swedish Companies Act, the AGM shall be held annually process has ended, the nominations are announced in accordance with the no later than April 30. Members of Parliament are entitled to take part in the provisions of the Code. meeting and ask questions in conjunction with this. The general public shall also be given the opportunity to take part in the meeting. The AGM shall, among BOARD OF DIRECTORS other activities, appoint the Board and auditors, decide on remuneration to According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors shall consist them and adopt the income statement and balance sheet. The Board shall of at least six and no more than nine members, excluding deputy members. also present principles for the remuneration to executive officers at the AGM. Under Swedish law, employee organisations are also entitled to appoint regular members and their deputies. Swedavia’s Chief Legal Counsel is the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2015 Board secretary. The President and CEO is not included on the Board but Swedavia’s Annual General Meeting 2015 was held on April 29 at Stockholm makes presentations at the Board meetings. None of the Board members Arlanda Airport. Outsiders were entitled to attend the AGM. Minutes from the is on the executive management team. For information about the appointAGM are available on Swedavia’s website. ment and removal of Board members, reference is made to the Swedish At the AGM, Board members Ingmar Skogö, Karin Apelman, Lars Backemar, State’s ownership policy. Anna Elgh, Adine Grate Axén, Lars Mydland and Lottie Svedenstedt were relected. Lottie Knutson and Lotta Mellström were elected as new Board memThe work and responsibilities of the Board bers. Ingemar Skogö was re-elected by the AGM as Chairman of the Board. According to the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish State’s ownerThe AGM adopted the Annual Report 2014 submitted by the Board of ship policy, Swedavia’s Board is responsible for the company’s organisation 94 SWEDAV I A 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT and management of the company’s operations. The Board establishes the Among the main issues dealt with by the Board in 2015 were: Rules of Procedure each year for the Board’s work, instructions for the divi• Assessment of the President and CEO sion of labour and responsibilities between the Board and the President • Strategic development and CEO, and instructions for economic reporting to the Board. The • Sustainability objectives and targets Board’s duties include determining the company’s overall strategies, objec• Access and new air links tives and targets as well as ensuring that there are appropriate systems • Work with US preclearance for monitoring and controlling the company’s operations and the risks to • Disposal and development plan for Real Estate operations and strategic the company in connection with its operations. During the year, the Board partnerships decided on a specific measure to allow internal auditing on two occa• Development plans for Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Bromma sions to assess a pilot project for the operation’s construction process. Stockholm Airport The Board attends to the company in a sustainable and responsible way • Governing documents* to ensure long-term value creation. The Board’s Rules of Procedure also • Major investments and procurements regulate the Chairman’s duties and information to the Board. • Internal control Under the Board’s Rules of Procedure, at least eight statutory Board • Risk management and risk assessment meetings apart from the statutory Board meeting shall be held per calen• Financial reports including reporting from internal and external auditing dar year. Additional meetings may be held when justified by events of major importance. The Board is responsible for financial reporting and has regu* In addition, at the annual statutory meeting the Board adopts Group lar meetings through the Audit Committee with the company’s auditors. In policies, the Board’s Rules of Procedure, the committees and governing addition, the auditors meet the full Board at least once a year. documents. The Board assesses the President and CEO’s work on a continuous basis and gives particular consideration to this matter at least once a year, when The Board’s committee work no one from the executive management team may be present. Swedavia’s Board of Directors has an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The committees prepare matters for the Board meetings. Composition of the Board Guidelines for the committees’ work are found in the Rules of Procedures In 2015, Swedavia’s Board consisted of nine members elected at the AGM, for each committee. including the Chairman. In addition, the Board had two regular employee The Audit Committee’s tasks include being responsible for preparing the representatives and their two deputies. An account is given on pages 100Board’s work to quality assure and prepare the company’s financial reports 101 of each Board member’s age, education, main work experience, other and maintain an ongoing dialogue with the company’s auditors. Minutes for important duties outside the company and number of years as a member of each committee meeting are attached to the minutes for the following Board Swedavia’s Board. The AGM elected nine Board members, of which three meeting. In 2015, the Audit Committee held seven meetings for which minutes are men and six are women. The employee representatives in 2015 were were kept, which were all attended by the company’s internal and external two men. The average was 56 years. auditors. During the year, among the matters dealt with by the Audit Committee were financial reports and up-to-date risk reporting, assessment of internal Chairman of the Board and external auditors, internal control logs and the external auditors’ reporting The Chairman of the Board is elected at the AGM. Under the Rules of on internal control. The Audit Committee also dealt with Internal Auditing’s Procedure for Swedavia’s Board of Directors, the Chairman shall ensure reports and an in-depth review of Swedavia’s risk management process. Since that the Board’s work is managed effectively and that the Board fulfils the AGM, the Audit Committee includes Board members Karin Apelman as its duties. The Chairman’s duties include organising and managing the Chair and Adine Grate Axén and Lotta Mellström as members. Board’s work, keeping in regular contact with the President and CEO and The Remuneration Committee’s task is to prepare matters concerning remuensuring that the Board is given sufficient information and material to make neration and other terms of employment for executive officers. The committee decisions in its work. The Chairman is also responsible for coordinating shall also assess the compliance with decisions regarding remuneration that the Board’s views in relation to the owner on issues of critical importance were made at the AGM. Minutes for each committee meeting are attached to the company, and for receiving the owner’s views and conveying them to the minutes for the following Board meeting. In 2015, the Remuneration to the Board. Committee held seven meetings for which minutes were kept. During the year, among the matters dealt with by the Remuneration Committee were overall The Board’s work in 2015 remuneration and terms of employment for executive officers as well as preparThe Board held twelve meetings in 2015, two of which were extra meetings ing salary matters for the President and CEO, Deputy CEO and head of Internal and one of which was statutory. Among the matters dealt with were busiAuditing. The committee also worked with the assessment of the President ness operations including the strategic sustainability plan, the annual and and CEO, which was carried out by an external independent party. The comsustainability report and reports related to this. The Board also dealt with mittee furthermore had a review of the results from Swedavia’s employee investments and procurements, Swedavia’s pricing model for airlines, the survey and monitoring of action plans. The members of the Remuneration efficiency analysis carried out by the owner concerning Swedavia as well Committee since the AGM include Ingemar Skogö as Chair, Lotta Mellström as acquisitions and disposals of companies. Coordination concerning the and Lottie Svedenstedt as members as well as Robert Olsson as employee Swedish Government’s commission on Bromma Stockholm Airport was representative. also dealt with during the year. SWEDAV I A 2015 95 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Evaluation of the work of the Board of Directors, 2015 after which the Board appointed the Deputy CEO as acting President and During the year, the Board’s work was assessed, at the Chairman of the CEO. The work to recruit a new CEO has begun. The President and CEO is Board’s initiative, through a methodical, structured process by an exterresponsible for the day-to-day management of the company in conformity nal independent party. The assessment is aimed at, among other things, with the Board’s guidelines and instructions. Within the bounds determined developing a good basis for the Board’s own development work. The results by the Board, the President and CEO manages operations and keeps the of the assessment are reported to the Board and by the Chairman of the Chairman of the Board continuously informed about significant business Board to the owner. Based on this assessment, the Board adopts measmatters. The President and CEO shall organise the company’s manageures to develop the Board’s working methods and effectiveness. In addition ment to meet the aims set for governance and control of operations. Other to the annual assessment, the Board conducts an assessment after every executive officers are appointed by the President and CEO. The executive Board meeting at which the company’s executive management are not in management team is a forum for information, discussions and decisions for attendance. Group matters. The team’s meetings are chaired by the President and CEO and are held each month. Swedavia’s executive management, including the Remuneration of the Board President and CEO, is presented in more detail on pages 102–103. Compensation to the Board is decided by the AGM. The Chairman of the Board is paid a fee of SEK 440,000, and each member is paid SEK 220,000. Remuneration to executive officers It was also decided at Swedavia’s AGM that no specific remuneration should At Swedavia’s AGM on April 29, 2015, the owner decided on the princibe paid to the Board’s employee representatives or members employed in ples for remuneration and other terms of employment for executive officers. the Swedish Government Offices. The Chair of the Audit Committee is paid a For remuneration and other terms of employment, Swedavia shall apply the fee of SEK 35,000 and the committee members are each paid SEK 20,000. A principles decided in the “Guidelines for Terms of Employment for Executive fee of SEK 25,000 was decided for the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Officers in Companies under State Ownership” adopted by the Government. and SEK 20,000 each for the members. Similar principles are applied in Swedavia’s subsidiaries. Swedavia does not use variable remuneration for executive officers. THE PRESIDENT AND CEO AND THE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Subsidiaries and associated companies The Board of Directors appoints the company’s President and CEO. In Swedavia had four subsidiaries at year-end 2015 – Swedavia Real Estate AB, December, the Board decided to dismiss the previous President and CEO, Arlanda Development Company AB, Bromma Stockholm Airport Fastigheter Facts about the Board Attendance, Year Attendance, Audit Attendance, RemuneraMembers elected at the AGM Chair Board meetings elected Committee tion Committee Ingemar Skogö Member 12/12 2010 7/7 Karin Apelman Member 11/12 2010 6/7 Lars Backemar Member 12/12 2010 Anna Elgh2 Member 11/12 2010 3/7 Adine Grate Axén 2 Member 10/12 2010 3/7 Hans Jeppsson1 Member 4/12 2010 Lottie Knutson1 Member 8/12 2015 Jenny Lahrin1, 2 Member 3/12 2012 3/7 3/7 Lotta Mellström 1, 2 Member 9/12 2015 4/7 4/7 Lars Mydland Member 11/12 2014 Lottie Svedenstedt Member 12/12 2010 7/7 Employee representatives Lars Andersson Member 12/12 2010 Robert Olsson Member 12/12 2010 4/7 Mats Abrahamsson Deputy member 0/12 2010 Agne Lindbom Deputy member 0/12 2010 1 At the Annual General Meeting 2015, Lottie Knutson and Lotta Mellström were elected as new Board members and replaced the Board members Hans Jeppsson and Jenny Lahrin, who stepped down. 2 At the Annual General Meeting 2015, Adine Grate Axén was elected as a new member of the Audit Committee and replaced Anna Elgh, while Lotta Mellström was elected as a new member of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee and replaced Jenny Lahrin, who stepped down. 96 SWEDAV I A 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AB and Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB. Through its subsidiary Swedavia documents such as the Code of Conduct. Swedavia’s Board has established Real Estate, Swedavia has two associated companies – Swedish Airport Rules of Procedure for its work and the work of the committees. Some of Infrastructure and Landvetter Logistik Center, which are strategic partnerthe Board’s work entails developing, updating and approving basic policies ships in joint ventures – which means Swedavia does not have a controlling that govern the company’s work. The control environment is aimed at prointerest in these. There is an officer from Swedavia’s executive management viding operations with the conditions for carrying out their tasks in a clear represented on the Board of every subsidiary and associated company in way in accordance with the Board’s objectives, targets and intentions as the Group. well as influence control and risk awareness in the organisation. This is done Swedavia’s owner directive is applied for all subsidiaries in order to have by delegating responsibility and authority to the managers and employees uniform management principles in the Group. of the company. The control environment consists essentially of external documents such as laws, agreements, generally accepted accounting prinAUDITORS ciples, the ownership policy and guidelines as well as other internal governExternal auditing ing documents. The control environment also consists of the Board’s Rules Under the Swedish State’s ownership policy, responsibility for electing audiof Procedure and instructions to the President and CEO. The company’s tors in companies owned by the State always lies with the owner. The final President and CEO has delegated responsibility and authority to members decision on the choice of auditors is made by the owner at the AGM. The of the executive management team in specific rules of procedure concernauditor’s duties are to examine the financial reporting of the company and ing their mandate to enter agreements, make decisions on investments and the Group as well as the administration of the company by the Board and the authorise invoices. All Group policies are reviewed annually and adopted by President and CEO. At Swedavia’s AGM on April 29, 2015, the auditing firm the Board or executive management and are then available on the compaErnst & Young was elected as auditors. Auditing duties are to be performed ny’s intranet, which employees have access to. until the end of the AGM being held in 2016. Authorised public accountant Magnus Fagerstedt was elected as the principal auditor. Magnus Fagerstedt The table of Swedavia’s governing documents below shows what policies has no duties at the company that affect his independence as an auditor for the Board of Directors and executive management decide. Swedavia. Remuneration has been paid to the auditors and auditing firm for auditing and advice. Swedavia's governing documents Decided by The Board has a special internal auditing function at Swedavia to support The Board of Directors' Rules of Procedure Board of Directors the Board in carrying out its oversight and assessment of the company’s operations which reports to the Board. The Board has adopted instructions Instructions to the President and CEO Board of Directors for internal auditing, which in 2015 consisted of three auditors. Instructions for Economic Reporting Board of Directors Proposed Guidelines for Remuneration and Other Terms Board of Directors THE BOARD’S REPORTING ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER of Employment for Executive Officers FINANCIAL REPORTING Financial Policy Board of Directors Under the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, the Board is responsible for internal control of financial reporting. Under the Code and the Annual Credit Policy Board of Directors Accounts Act, the Board must submit a description each year of the most Safety and Security policy Board of Directors important features of the company’s system for internal control and risk manEnvironmental Policy Board of Directors agement over financial reporting. The Board has a formalised procedure for ensuring that there is compliance with the established method for financial Code of Conduct Executive management reporting and internal control. The Board receives reports with feedback Gender Equality and Diversity Policy on monitoring the status of measures taken based on self-assessments in Workplace and Drug Policy operations as well as recommendations from Internal Auditing and external Employee Planning Policy auditing concerning internal control at the company. Internal control over financial reporting is aimed at providing reasonable assurance as to the reliInformation Security Policy Executive management ability in the external reporting prepared in compliance with laws, appropriDocument Management Guidelines Executive management ate accounting principles, specific requirements from the owner and other Aviation Safety and Security Policy Executive management requirements for limited liability companies. This Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in accordance with Fire Safety Policy Executive management the Annual Accounts Act and the Code of Corporate Governance and is Communication, Information and Insider Policy Executive management restricted to internal control over financial reporting. Risk Management Policy Executive management The Board has decided that Swedavia shall follow the established Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) frameRisk Management Guidelines Executive management work for internal control. The COSO framework consists of five interdependCrisis Management Policy Executive management ent components: control environment; risk assessment; control activities; Procurement Policy Executive management information and communication; and monitoring and assessment. Bribery Policy Executive management Governance and control environment Guidelines for Signing Agreements Executive management The basis of Swedavia’s internal control consists of the control environQuality Policy Executive management ment, which consists mainly of the organisational structure and governing SWEDAV I A 2015 97 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Risk management President and CEO for preparation in the Audit Committee before they are The Board has ultimate responsibility for the company’s risk management adopted by the company’s Board of Directors and then published. In addition and has assigned the President and CEO the task of managing this operato the Annual Report, at least one of the interim reports is examined by the tionally. Swedavia’s risk management is aimed at identifying potential events company’s auditors, who report on their review work to the Audit Committee that can affect the organisation’s ability to achieve the objectives and tarand the Board of Directors. Swedavia’s Internal Auditing also conducts reviews gets set. The method used by the company for risk management is based in different areas in order to ensure quality in financial processes and in the on a model with three lines of defence. The first line of defence consists of financial reporting. The Audit Committee also has the possibility to conduct the company’s operations, in the form of airports and Group-level functions in-depth dialogue and follow-up on accounting matters with the company’s that have responsibility for identifying, assessing and reporting risks on a CFO and auditors taking part in the committee’s meetings. continuous basis. The second line of defence consists of the company’s Risk Manager, whose Information and communication task is to facilitate and develop support for the risk management processes Swedavia is a State-owned company and under the Swedish state’s guideand methods used in operations as well as consolidate and report on the lines shall follow the same regulations for accounting and reported as pubcompany’s risks. licly listed companies. Swedavia has issued financial instruments listed The third line of defence consists of the company’s internal auditing, which on the Nasdaq OMX exchange, which means the company is obliged to examines Swedavia’s operations and reports to the Board. Risks are moniapply Nasdaq OMX’s regulations for issuers as well as other regulations that tored on a continuous basis by the airports and corporate functions and are arise regarding this. Swedavia has therefore developed a Communication, reported to the Risk Manager, who together with the Risk Committee conInformation and Insider Policy that regulates the spread of information solidates them on a quarterly basis. Swedavia’s greatest risks are then cominternally and the dissemination of information to the market. Swedavia’s piled in a risk report which is approved by the President and CEO and then public financial reports consist of four interim reports and an Annual and prepared by the Audit Committee before it is adopted by the Board. Financial Sustainability Report. External financial reporting shall be characterised by risks are always reported as part of the risk report. A more detailed description openness and transparency and is aimed at giving the company’s different of Swedavia’s risk management process can be found in the Annual Report stakeholders a relevant picture of operations. for 2015 on pages 46-48. Monitoring and assessment Control activities The executive management team meets on a monthly basis and reviews operSwedavia’s control activities for financial reporting consist of three parts – ations and related risks. The Board also evaluates the development, economic monitoring and analysis of economic results, the risk report and monitoring results, financial position and cash flow of operations on a monthly basis. At of key controls in the process. the Group-level, there are corporate functions, including a control and an The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) monitors and analyses economic results accounting unit, that analyse and monitor results compared to the budget and on a monthly basis and reports this to the President and CEO. The CFO also forecasts which are reported to the company’s President and CEO and to the monitors and analyses processes for bookkeeping, financial statements and CFO. All people with responsibility for business units regularly report results financial reports on a quarterly basis through a special monitoring programme and annual forecasts to the company’s President and CEO and to the CFO. in which key controls are self-assessed and reported. The Board evaluates the information provided by the President and CEO on a Swedavia’s Board of Directors receives reports of economic results with continuous basis. There is also an internal auditing function that serves as an analysis and comments from the company’s President and CEO on a monthly independent examination function. basis. Swedavia’s publicly available reports are compiled by the CFO and the INCLUDED IN OPERATIONS 1ST LINE OF DEFENCE 2ND LINE OF DEFENCE 3RD LINE OF DEFENCE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT RISK AND COMPLIANCE INTERNAL AUDITING Responsible for maintainResponsible for providing Responsible for performing ing good internal control sufficient tools, evaluating independent examinations and risk management and supporting operations and ensuring that the Risk in its work with risk and Compliance function management works in a satisfactory manner MONITORING 98 SWEDAV I A 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Stockholm-Arlanda, Sweden March 17, 2016 Ingemar Skogö Chairman of the Board Karin Apelman Adine Grate Axén Lars Backemar Anna Elgh Board member Board member Board member Board member Lottie Knutson Lotta Mellström Lars Mydland Lottie Svedenstedt Board member Board member Board member Board member Lars Andersson Robert Olsson Board member Board member Employee representative Employee representative AUDITOR’S OPINION ON THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT To the Annual General Meeting of Swedavia AB (publ), corporate identity number 556797-0818 The Board of Directors is responsible for the Corporate Governance Report stantially less in focus and scope than an audit conducted in accordance for 2015 on pages 93-99 and for ensuring that it has been prepared in with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. standards in Sweden. We have read the Corporate Governance Report and, based on that In our opinion, the Corporate Governance Report has been prepared reading and our knowledge of the company and the Group, we believe that and its statutory content is in accordance with the annual accounts and we have a sufficient basis for our opinions. This means that our statutory consolidated accounts. examination of the Corporate Governance Report is different and subStockholm March 17, 2016 Ernst & Young AB Magnus Fagerstedt Authorised public accountant SWEDAV I A 2015 99 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Swedavias’ Swedavias Board of styrelse Directors 1 2 3 4 5 1. INGEMAR SKOGÖ 3. ADINE GRATE AXÉN 4. LARS BACKEMAR Chairman of the Board (elected 2010), Member (elected 2010)) Member (elected 2010) Chair Remuneration Committee Born: 1961 Born: 1950 Born: 1949 Other Board duties: Sky Ltd, Sampo Oyj, 3 (HI3G Other Board duties: Backemar Consulting AB (Chair), City Other Board duties: Fordonsstrategisk Forskning och Scandinavia), Sobi AB, Sjunde AP-fonden (Deputy i Samverkan AB (Chair), Retailmentorerna (Chair), ArosInnovation (Chair) and Sensys Gatso Group AB. Teologiska Chair), Madrague AB. Chair, Dansmuseet, Base23 and gruppen Fastigheter Fjärdingen AB, Arosgruppen Holding Högskolan i Stockholm AB (Chair), Sensys Gatso Group Formmuseets Vänner. AB, Fastighets AB Velocipeden. AB and Swedish International Development Cooperation Education: BS in Economics, Stockholm School of EcoEducation: Business administration and marketing, Agency. nomics; Executive MBA (AMP), Harvard University. Köpmannainstitutet, Stockholm; marketing and consumer Education: BS in Economics, Lund University. Work experience: Own company; Chair, NASDAQ policy, Uppsala University. Work experience: Formerly Governor, Västmanland County Stockholm Listing Committee. Formerly Executive Vice Work experience: Senior Advisor, Backemar Consulting Board, Director-General, Vägverket; Director-General, President and Managing Director, Investor AB; Vice AB. Formerly various executive positions at Hufvudstaden, Luftfartsverket; Undersecretary of State, Ministry of ComPresident Corporate Finance, Gota Group and Hägglöf Jones Lang LaSalle. munications; Mayor, Municipality of Södertälje; department & Ponsbach. Formerly member of Swedish Securities advisor, energy, Ministry of Industry; administrator, Budget Council, Carnegie Investment Bank AB, Gambro AB, 5. ANNA ELGH Department, Ministry of Finance; Swedish National Audit Grand Hotel Holdings, Ericsson Project Finance AB, EDB Member (elected 2010) Office. ErgoGroup A/S, Spray Ventures BV, Swedish Industry and Born: 1963 Commerce Stock Exchange Committee and Government Other Board duties: INone. 2. KARIN APELMAN Council for Reduced State Ownership. Education: Master’s of Engineering, KTH Royal Institute Member (elected 2010), of Technology, Stockholm; Executive MBA, Instituto de Chair, Audit Committee Empresa Madrid. Born: 1961 Work experience: CEO Svenska Retursystem AB. Other Board duties: EKN (Swedish export promotion Formerly Business Area Manager, Elder Care Private agency), Swedish Credit Insurance Association (KFF), Management Vardaga; Vice President Supply Chain and financing delegation for Group Logistics Director, Lantmännen; Supply Chain Swedish Radiation Safety Authority; advisory council for Director, SAS Component; various executive positions at Swedish Legal, Financial and Administrative Services Svenska Statoil AB. Agency (Kammarkollegiet); Bliwa Livförsäkring, Kåpan Pensioner. Education: BS in Economics, Stockholm School of Economics. Work experience: Director-General, EKN. Formerly CFO, Luftfartsverket; Deputy CEO, Saab Aircraft Leasing; Manager Leasing and Project Financing, Scandinavian Airlines. 100 SWEDAV I A 2015 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Together we bring the world closer 6 7 9 8 11 10 6. LOTTIE KNUTSON 8. LARS MYDLAND 10. LARS ANDERSSON Member (Elected 2015) Member (Elected 2014) Employee representative (elected 2010) Born: 1964 Born: 1954 Born: 1953 Other Board duties: H&M AB, Stena Line BV, Scandic, Other Board duties: mydland ehrling AB (Chair), SESAR Other Board duties: Chair of SEKO Swedavia negotiations Wise Group, Cloetta, STS Alpresor. Performance Partnership (Chair). organisation. Education: Journalisthögskolan i Stockholm, Diplôme de Education: Fighter pilot training RNAF/USAF, Norwegian Education: First repairman. Culture Française, Paris IV. Air Force. . Work experience: Communications Director, TUI Nordic; Work experience: Consultant, mydland ehrling AB; Senior 11. ROBERT OLSSON account manager and project manager, JKL and Bates; Consultant, IATA; Special Adviser to Managing Director, Employee representative (elected 2010) information officer SAS; Journalist, Svenska Dagbladet. Veling Ltd., Formerly SVP & Accountable Manager ScanBorn: 1966 dinavian Airlines, airline captain, SAS; CEO, SAS Flight Other Board duties: Section Chair ST. 7. LOTTA MELLSTRÖM Academy AB; fighter pilot and officer, Norwegian Air Force. Education: High school, trade union training etc. Safety Member (Elected 2015), member Remuneration Committee, Formerly member SAS Commuter AB, SAS Sverige AB, officer/security guard, Swedavia. member Audit Committee SAS Norge AS, SAS Danmark AS, TFHS, IATA OPC, SAS Born: 1970 Technical Services (STS). Formerly Chair EAC (Spain) and Other Board duties: AB Svensk Exportkredit. Norwegian Aviation College AB. Education: B.S in Economics, Lund University. Work experience: Senior advisor, Deputy Director, Division 9. LOTTIE SVEDENSTEDT DEPUTY MEMBERS for State-Owned Enterprises, Ministry of Finance; manageMember (elected 2010), AGNE LINDBOM ment consultant Resco AB; controller in the Sydkraft and member Remuneration Committee Born: 1961 ABB Groups. Born: 1957 MICHAEL SIÖNÄS Other Board duties: MiL Foundation (Chair), MiL Institute Born: 1952 (Chair), Uppstart Helsingborg (Chair), K-Utveckling Engineering AB (Chair), Byggmax AB, ITAB Shop Concept AB, AUDITOR Vanna AB, Åhus Studiodata AB and Orango AB. MAGNUS FAGERSTEDT Education: Law degree, Uppsala University. Principal auditor Work experience: Formerly CEO, Kid Interiör A/S; Ernst & Young AB Business Area Manager, IKEA of Sweden; Deputy General Born: 1957 Manager, IKEA Systems BV; CEO, Inter IKEA Systems A/S; Regional Director, H&M AB. SWEDAV I A 2015 101 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Swedavias executive management 1 2 3 4 5 6 1. KARL WISTRAND 3. LENNART BERGBOM 5. PEDER GRUNDITZ President and CEO since December 2015, Deputy CEO of Strategic Director since December 2010 Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport since Swedavia since July 2012, Director of Commercial and Born: 1969 December 2013 Real Estate since February 2014, and CEO of Swedavia Education: BS in Economics, Uppsala University. Born: 1963 Real Estate AB since January 2013 Work experience: Head of Strategic Development, Education: Executive MBA, M-gruppen. Born: 1957 Stockholm Arlanda Airport; investigator and market Work experience: Director of Regional Airports; Education: Degree in corporate and business mananalyst, Luftfartsverket; Desk Officer, Ministry of various duties at LFV including Airport Director, Visby agement law, School of Business, Economics and Law, Finance. Airport and acting Division Head; Director of Passenger University of Gothenburg. Board duties: None. Services Malmö Aviation; Director of Ground OperaWork experience: CEO, Coop Sverige AB; Deputy CEO tions, Braathens Sverige; Head of Traffic, Transwede and CFO ICA AB; various positions at ICA. 4. ANNA BOVALLER Airways. Other Board duties: Chair of Landvetter Logistic Center Chief Legal Counsel since April 2010 Board duties: Chair of Bromma Stockholm Airport AB and Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB. Board member of Fastigheter AB, Board member of Cityflygplatsen i Born: 1963 Swedish Airport Infrastructure AB, Swedavia Real Estate Göteborg AB. Education: Law degree, Lund University; IHM Master AB and Airport City Stockholm AB. in Leadership and Executive Management Program, IFL at Stockholm School of Economics. 6. ANDERS LENNERMAN 2. PER ARENHAGE Work experience: Chief Legal Counsel, LFV; Assistant Director of Security and Safety since October 2010 Chief Technical Officer since July 2011 Chief Legal Counsel, Posten AB; commercial lawyer, Born: 1953 Born: 1956 Posten AB; lawyer, Dahlman Magnusson AdvokatEducation: Swedish National Police Academy; CrimiEducation: MS in Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of byrå; law clerk, Nacka District Court; legal assistant, nology, Stockholm University. Technology, Stockholm. Michelsons Advokatbyrå. Work experience: Head of Security, Stockholm Work experience: Chief Operating Officer and Chief Board duties: None. Arlanda Airport; Management consultant, Mercuri Technical Officer, Stockholm Arlanda Airport; acting Urval International; various positions with the Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport; CEO, Swedish Security Service, particularly in counter­ Uppsala Stadsnät Song; Head of Business Area, City espionage; various positions with the Swedish Police in Systems Vattenfall Connection; Chief Technical Officer, Stockholm County. Uppsala Energi. Board duties: Board member of ACI Europe Aviation Board duties: None. Security Committee and mp3Consulting AB. 102 SWEDAV I A 2015 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 7 8 9 10 11 12 7. CHARLOTTE LJUNGGREN 9. MATS PÅHLSON 11. KJELL-ÅKE WESTIN Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport since Chief Financial Officer since August 2014 Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda August 2012 Born: 1963 Airport since September 2011 Born: 1967 Education: Economics, Växjö University. Born: 1957 Education: Economics & Law, IHM Business School, Work experience: CFO AcadeMedia; CFO Poolia; CFO Education: Aviation College of Sweden, FTS Swedish Gothenburg. Lernia; CFO AGA S/A Brazil, CFO AGA Gas Sverige. Air Force, War College F20. Work experience: Route Director and Onboard Board duties: Board member of Criar AB and Swedavia Work experience: Swedish Air Force; SAS Flight Manager, Stena Line Scandinavia AB; Route Director, Real Estate AB. Academy; CEO, Skyways Express AB; CEO, Direktflyg SeaCat AB; Finance & HR Manager, AB; President, Aviation College of Sweden; CEO, Örebro Sea Containers LTD; Silja Line Eesti Oy; Route Director 10. LINDA SJÖDIN Airport AB; Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport. Color SeaCat AS; various positions at B&B FondkomChief Market and Communication Officer since October Board duties: Board member of Destination Sigtuna AB mission AB. 2015 and Arlanda Development AB, deputy Board member of Board duties: Board member, Swedish Exhibition Airport City Stockholm AB. Born: 1976 and Congress Centre, Börssällskapet i Göteborg, Education: Professional Board work, Michäel Berglund Thomas Concrete Group AB and Arlanda Development Board Value, Stockholm; Communication Executives 12. MARIE WIKSBORG Company AB. Program, Stockholm School of Economics; Masters of Chief Human Resources Officer since October 2013 and Media in IT, Stockholm; BS in Media and CommunicaHR Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport since August 8. SUSANNE NORMAN tion, University of Gävle; political science and sociology, 2013 Airport Director, Regional Airports since December Örebro University. Born: 1965 2013 and Airport Director, Åre Östersund Airport since Work experience: Director of Communication, SweEducation: in Economics, School of Business, EconomNovember 2008 davia: Head of Communication Services at Vattenfall; ics and Law, Gothenburg University Born: 1966 various positions in the SAS Group, including Head of Work experience: HR Director, Stockholm Arlanda AirEducation: BS in Information Systems, Mid Sweden Information, SAS Sverige AB; journalist on the news port; Director of HR and Employees, KF Group, including University, Östersund. and sports desks, TV4. Coop; Business Support Director, Work experience: CEO, Recall AS Oslo; Head of Board duties: Board member of Svenskt Flyg KF Fastigheter AB; HR Director, Sheraton Stockholm Production/Site Manager, Recall AB Sverige; Head of Intresseaktiebolag. Hotel & Towers; Training Director, Sheraton Stockholm Sales, Central Region, Cap Gemini AB; Hotel & Towers. operations developer, Jämtkraft AB. Board duties: None. Board duties: Chair of Fristilen AB. SWEDAV I A 2015 103 GRI INDEX GRI – Content and sustainability Swedavia’s Annual and Sustainability Report focuses on strategy, the The airline survey is carried out once every two years and measures the achievement of objectives and targets, and operational results for the airline customers’ satisfaction with the airports. The most recent survey was past year. Swedavia’s general objective is for the report to be transparcarried out in 2015. The tenant survey is carried out at Bromma Stockholm ent, relevant and comparable. Swedavia has used the Global Reporting Airport, Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Initiative (GRI)’s guidelines since 2010 and reports its sustainability work in Airport. The survey is carried out every two years. The most recent meas2015 in accordance with GRI’s updated guidelines, G4, at the Core level. urement was carried out in 2014 using an established method of measureReported indicators have been chosen based on our stakeholders’ assessment in the real estate industry with ten fields of questions and an overall ments of Swedavia’s operations in order to develop long-term sustainable satisfied customer index (SCI). operations. Employee satisfaction is measured as an employee satisfaction index (ESI), which assesses the work climate in the working group. ESI is measured in REPORT BOUNDARY conjunction with Swedavia’s employee survey, which is carried out once a Swedavia has limited the report to areas in which the company has total year in February. The survey also measures the ability of leadership to lead, control over data collection and information quality, which means the entire communicate, manage and develop operations (communicative leadership group is included unless otherwise indicated. Data for subsidiaries or assoindex or CLI), the likelihood that employees would recommend Swedavia as ciated companies in which Swedavia owns a minority interest are excluded. a workplace to a friend (net promoter score or NPS), and an engagement However, transition operations at Göteborg City Airport (Säve Airport) are index (EI), which shows what percentage of the company’s groups are effiincluded only in economic information and employee statistics. cient and profitable. The number of international destinations is determined by the total numREPORTING PRINCIPLES ber of cities outside Sweden that can be reached by direct flights in schedIndicator G4-EN19 reports emission reductions under the framework for uled or charter operations from Swedavia’s airports. Threshold values have Swedavia’s target of zero fossil carbon dioxide emissions, broken down in been used in the calculation in order to filter out flights that take place on accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol into Scope 1, 2 and 3. The an ad hoc basis and for which the general public cannot purchase tickets. year 2005 was chosen as the base year for reporting because Swedavia has worked strategically since 2006 with climate and energy issues in its IDENTIFYING THE CONTENT OF THE REPORT – operations. MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Emissions are reported in tonnes of fossil carbon dioxide. Emissions for The materiality analysis is based on Swedavia’s dialogue with stakeholders 2015 calculated in carbon dioxide equivalents were about 3,110 tonnes, about and was designed to identify the issues that are most critical to Swedavia’s 1 per cent higher than the emission of carbon dioxide gas. Emissions of fossil economic, environmental and social value creation. carbon dioxide are calculated based on fuel consumption and energy use Swedavia has identified its materialities by weighing 47 issues selected reported in the Group’s environmental reporting system, SMIL. Reporting from two perspectives: how they affect Swedavia’s value creation potenincludes Swedavia AB (10 airports) and Swedavia Real Estate AB. Data tial and to what extent each issue affects stakeholders’ assessments of for minority-owned subsidiaries or associated companies and the office in Swedavia’s value creation. Relevant global trends and drivers and Swedavia’s Norrköping are excluded. Energy purchased for the office in Norrköping is not objectives, targets and priorities provide the basis for the issues assessed. measured by Swedavia’s landlord since it is included in the rent. Emissions Stakeholders are represented first by key people at Swedavia with good are thus calculated under Scope 3 in accordance with principles of scope in knowledge about and insight into the priorities of the different groups of Airport Carbon Accreditation Guidance, which applies the Greenhouse Gas stakeholders. Qualitative interviews were then conducted with representProtocol for carbon dioxide certification to airport operations. Emissions from atives of the most important groups. Of Swedavia’s seven main groups of Göteborg City Airport (Säve Airport) are not included but in 2015 were about stakeholders (see page 21), customers were given the highest weight. 230 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents and are reported under Scope 1. The most recent materiality analysis was carried out in late 2013, and the The indicator G4-PR5 measures customer satisfaction of Swedavia’s pasfindings were then compared with the trend analysis carried out in 2015. The sengers, airlines and tenants at its larger airports. Swedavia is part of the trend analysis is based on up-to-date business intelligence, market surveys, ASQ Programme of passenger surveys administered by Airport Council in-depth studies, an internal trend network and external trend reports. The International (ACI). The survey measures departing passengers’ attitudes to aim is to identify the changes that could possibly have a major impact on and experiences at the airport. For Bromma Stockholm Airport, Göteborg Swedavia’s business. The time horizon is at least 3-5 years, but many trends Landvetter Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport, reporting is on a quarare sustained in the longer term. These trends have been compiled under terly basis. Reporting for other Swedavia airports is done every six months. seven overall trend themes. All of these are considered to be certain and Swedavia’s annual results are weighted based on the annual results for have a major impact, which means that Swedavia needs to plan for them; the airports. For Bromma Stockholm Airport, Göteborg Landvetter Airport read more on page 7. and Stockholm Arlanda Airport, the period is for the full-year 2015. For the The findings from the trend analysis and materiality analysis are interegional airports, the period is for the fourth quarter of 2014 to the third grated in Swedavia’s vision, objectives and targets as strategies and pracquarter of 2015. tical operations. 104 SWEDAV I A 2015 GRI INDEX Swedavia’s materiality matrix satisfaction of passengers, airlines and tenants. Passengers place a high value on issues related to atmosphere, customer service and attractive commercial offerings. For airlines, attractive charges, efficient processes and Very high Climate well-functioning infrastructure are crucial. For our tenants, premises, service Stakeholder dialogue and prices are examples of important issues. Capacity How the issue affects stakeholder assessments of Swedavia Environmental Swedavia shall have sufficient capacity to meet future needs for air travel Socio-economic value creation permits and thus contribute to Sweden’s economic development through increased access. Safety and security Punctuality at the airports is one indicator of our capacity. Capacity is ultimately determined by the airports’ environmental permits but also by access to infrastructure and talent in Swedavia’s own organisation. International exchanges High level of safety and security Capacity Safety and security are assigned a high value by both stakeholders and Brand Swedavia. A high level of safety and security helps makes passengers Strategic partnerships feel safe and contributes to a positive experience. Swedavia’s work with Employees Focus on safety and security includes proactively preventing both criminal acts and customers accidents. Reduced climate impact Reducing the climate impact is one of the greatest challenges to the air travel industry. Swedavia shall therefore work to reduce emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from our own operations and along the value chain. Economic High profitability is an essential requirement to ensure that Swedavia can invest How the issue affects Swedavia’s value creation High Very high in technology and sustainable energy solutions. The matrix above shows the internal ranking of the issues that are considered by Swedavia and by internal and external stakeholders to be most material The aspects below are part of Swedavia’s sustainability work and to Swedavia’s value creation. GRI indicators have been selected for some of are described in the sustainability report: these issues. For other issues, Swedavia has chosen to report its own indicators as a more relevant way of reflecting how Swedavia integrates stakeholSocio-economic development and international exchanges der expectations in its objectives, targets and strategies. For its owner, custoSwedavia contributes to enhanced access to and from Sweden by offering mers and strategic partners, economic aspects such as financial strength, more international destinations from the airports. Increased access creates capacity and socio-economic value creation are important issues. Similarly, value for Sweden, both economically and socially. climate issues are also given a high ranking by these groups. Issues related to labour conditions and the workplace environment are given the highest Attractive brand, stakeholder dialogue and strategic partnerships ranking by employees and government authorities. An active stakeholder Everything Swedavia does and says communicates our brand. An attracdialogue, transparency, and safety and security are important for all groups. tive brand is therefore considered to be one of the most important issues for Swedavia. A stronger relationship with airports and with Swedavia leads to an improved image, customer satisfaction and profitability. Maintaining SWEDAVIA’S MATERIALITIES an active dialogue with stakeholders and strategic partnerships creates the conditions needed to ensure environmental permits that are in line with the Aspects reported as indicators in the sustainability report: objectives and thus potential for increased value creation. Satisfied employees Environmental permits Motivated and engaged employees are an essential requirement for cusEnvironmental concern is critical in enabling Swedavia to operate and tomer satisfaction and thus to ensure that Swedavia can continue to create develop its operations in a sustainable manner. Proactive environmental value for our owner and for society in general. A corporate culture based work, especially in aviation noise reduction, serves as the basis for ensuring on ethical guidelines, together with issues related to labour conditions that the airports will be issued and retain environmental permits that enable and the potential for development, is an important foundation for satisfied them to have the capacity needed to meet the increased need for air travel. employees. EXTERNAL ASSURANCE Focus on customers The sustainability information in the integrated report for 2015 was subject A clear focus on customers is an essential requirement to ensure that to a general review by Swedavia’s auditors, Ernst & Young, In accordance Swedavia can successfully develop operations sustainably and create with the Board’s wishes. It was subsequently approved by Swedavia’s Board value both for our owner and at a national level. Swedavia measures the of Directors. SWEDAV I A 2015 105 GRI INDEX Cross-reference table Standard information G4 information Description Page reference and comments Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from most senior decision-maker 8-9 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation 44 G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 44 G4-5 Location of organisation's headquarters 61 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 61 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 61 G4-8 Markets served 61 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization, including number of employees, number of operations, net revenue, total capitalisation (broken down in terms of debt/equity) 3 G4-10 Number of employees broken down by employment contract, gender, region, permanent and seasonal 40-41 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 100 per cent of Swedavia’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 The company's supply chain 39 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership and the value chain 44 G4-14 How the precautionary principle is applied by the company 46-47 G4-15 External sustainability principles and initiatives that the organisation supports 39 G4-16 Membership in associations such as industry associations 39 AO:G4-7 Environmental permits and other regulations in effect 49-50, 61 AO:G4-8 Catchment areas for cargo and passengers 61 AO:G4-9 Direct destinations and other information about airports’ size etc. 19 At Swedavia’s airports there are a total of 14 runways ranging in length from 800 to 3,350 metres. The total number of employees at the airports is 25,000. Transit times at the airports vary between 15 and 55 min. 122 airlines performed 416,000 take-offs/landings. 106 SWEDAV I A 2015 GRI INDEX G4 information Description Page reference and comments Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Business units included/not included in the report 104 G4-18 Process for defining report content 21, 104-105 G4-19 Identified material aspects 21, 105 G4-20 Boundaries of each aspect within the organisation 22-23, 105 G4-21 Boundaries of each aspect outside the organisation 22-23, 105 G4-22 Effect of change in information from previous reports Effect of any change is noted for the indicator concerned G4-23 Changes from previous reporting periods concerning scope and boundaries Any changes are noted for each indicator Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups 21 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 21 G4-26 Organisation's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement, specifically for preparing the report 21, 104-105 G4-27 Key topics and concerns and the organisation's response to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 21, 105 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period for the information provided 2 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report and its contents 2 G4-32 GRI content and scope 104 G4-33 Policy for external assurance 105 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees and Board responsibility for economic, environmental and social impact 93-99 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles and codes of conduct 39, 49 SWEDAV I A 2015 107 GRI INDEX Specific standard information G4 information Page reference and comments Product and service labelling G4 DMA Governance 17, 18, 24 G4 PR5-Customer 19, 26, 33, 104 satisfaction Emissions G4 DMA Governance 17, 34 G4-EN19 Reduced emissions and greenhouse gases (GHG) 34, 104 Sufficient capacity Governance 17, 24, 26 Punctuality 26 Satisfied employees Governance 17, 36, 40-41 ESI 19 Aviation safety Governance 17, 36-38 Accidents and serious incidents 19 108 SWEDAV I A 2015 FN GLOBAL COMPACT Cross-reference table UN Global Compact Starting in 2012, Swedavia supports the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles. Swedavia’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 also constitutes Swedavia’s Communication on Progress (COP), which is an annual update on how the Group complies with the ten principles. The table shows where each Global Compact principle can be found in Swedavia’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2015. UN Global Compact ten principles Page reference and comments Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in the spheres they can influence 38-39 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 38-39 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 38-39 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 38-39 5. Businesses should work to abolish child labour Swedavia complies with the regulations in effect in laws and agreements for the protection of underage workers in the labour market. Children under 15 are not employed at Swedavia. 6. Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 38-39 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 34-35 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 34-35 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 34-35 Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 38-39 SWEDAV I A 2015 109 DEFINITIONS Definitions ACCIDENTS AND SERIOUS INCIDENTS DEBT/EQUITY RATIO PASSENGER The terms are defined by Regulation (EU) no Net liabilities divided by equity. A passenger is defined as a statistical event, in which 996/2010. In simple terms, an accident means (i) a person has departed from or arrived at an airport the death or serious injury of a person in conjunction EARNINGS PER SHARE by air. with an aircraft during the flight, except from natural Profit for the year after tax divided by the average causes, (ii) damage to an aircraft that seriously affects number of shares. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR its performance or (iii) an aircraft that is completely Profit after tax. inaccessible. A serious incident means an incident EQUITY ASSETS RATIO involving circumstances indicating that there was a Adjusted equity as a percentage of total assets on PUNCTUALITY high probability that an accident with an aircraft could the balance sheet date. Punctuality is defined as when an aircraft is off block, have occurred during the flight. that is, rolling out from the gate, within 15 minutes of ESI the estimated departure time. AIRPORT OPERATIONS Employee satisfaction index. Airport operations is one of Swedavia’s two business REAL ESTATE segments. Owns, operates and develops Swedavia’s GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) Real Estate is the second of Swedavia’s two business airports. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sets guidelines segments. It owns, develops and manages properties for what a sustainability report should include, how and developable land at and in the vicinity of SweANL it should be prepared and what indicators should be davia’s airports. Aircraft noise level, a weighted equivalent noise level reported. in which noise events in the evening and at night are REGIONAL AIRPORTS assigned a heavier weight in the calculation. IFRS Swedavia’s regional airports consist of Kiruna Airport, As of January 1, 2012, Swedavia prepares its Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, Ronneby Airport, Umeå ASQ consolidated financial reports in conformity with the Airport, Visby Airport and Åre Östersund Airport. Airport Survey Quality, a passenger survey adminisInternational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) tered by ACI in which some 150 airports around the issued by the International Accounting Standards RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED world take part. Board (IASB). Operating profit for the period plus financial income as a percentage of average capital employed for a AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL DIRECT DESTINATIONS rolling 12-month period. The average number of employees is calculated based The number of international destinations is deteron hours worked, restated as total number of hours mined by the total number of cities outside Sweden RETURN ON EQUITY worked divided by normal annual working hours as that can be reached by direct flights in scheduled Profit for the period as a percentage of average defined by the Swedish Accounting Standards Board. or charter operations from Swedavia’s airports. equity for a rolling 12-month period. Threshold values have been used in the calculation AVIATION BUSINESS in order to filter out such charter flights that take RETURN ON OPERATING CAPITAL Services and infrastructure aimed at airlines and place on an ad hoc basis and for which the general Operating profit plus income from holdings in associground handling companies, such as take-off and public cannot purchase tickets. ated companies for a rolling 12-month period divided landing services and security screening. by average operating capital. ISO 14001 CABIN FACTOR SO 14000 is an umbrella term for the internationally SCI Cabin factor is a measure of the aircraft’s utilisation accepted standards for environmental management. Satisfied customer index. rate and is calculated by dividing the number of passengers by the number of aircraft seats available. NATIONAL BASIC INFRASTRUCTURE TSFS Sweden’s national basic infrastructure consists of The Swedish Transport Agency’s regulations. CAPITAL EMPLOYED the ten airports the Government has determined Total assets minus non-interest-bearing liabilities Swedavia should own. The decision is aimed at UN GLOBAL COMPACT (including deferred tax liability). securing long-term operations under the auspices of The UN Global Compact consists of ten principles the State and a long-term sustainable air transport based on the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human COMMERCIAL SERVICES system that guarantees basic inter-regional access Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Services connected to the airports, for instance rental throughout the country. conventions on human rights in working life, the Rio of premises for commercial activities, offices, hotels, Declaration and the UN’s Convention against Corrupstorage and logistics as well as leaseholds, parking OPERATING CAPITAL tion. Under the UN Global Compact, businesses are operations and rental of advertising space. Equity including interest-bearing liabilities minus encouraged to embrace, support and enact, within liquid assets. their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the COMPARATIVE DATA areas of human rights, labour standards, the environIn contexts where Swedavia is mentioned before the OPERATING MARGIN ment and anti-corruption. Group was formed on April 1, 2010, refers to airport Operating profit as a percentage of net revenue. operations under LFV. This has been done to obtain comparative data. 110 SWEDAV I A 2015 PRODUCTION Swedavia in partnership with Concept and management: Christa Antas Form: Eva-Stina Bolin Kind Text: Eric Österberg Translation: Susan Long Photos: Daniel Asplund, Sergio Joselovsky, Peter Phillips, Kristin Lidell, Jonas Borg, Magnus Bergström Cover image: Intro Inred Printing: Arkitektkopia
