Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 – integrated in our strategy to achieve our vision John Gallo ISS Australia ISS AT A GLANCE OUR BUSINESS Our business model is based on creating value for our MODEL customers by allowing them to focus on their core business. We service and maintain their facilities, ensuring that they are safe, efficient and pleasant places for our customers to pursue their own purpose. Focusing on our selected customer segments, we offer a leading value proposition based on our philosophy of self-delivery of our chosen services. customers want TO FOCUS ON THEIR CORE BUSINESS TO Ensure compliance TO safeguard their business to maximise uptime of their facilities TO manage risk TO protect the value of their assets convenience and consistency sustainable/transparent cost savings ISS delivers via END-USER SATISFACTION @ @ @ customer TYPE customer segments DELIVERY TYPE 61% Key accounts 31% Business Services & IT 34% Integrated Facility 30% Large & Medium 13% Industry & Services (IFS) Manufacturing 6% Small 12% Public Administration 15% Multi-services 3% Route based 11% Healthcare 51% Single-services 8% Retail & Wholesale 7% Transportation & Infrastructure 18% Other Focus on larger customers Diversified customer portfolio Increasing IFS share (34%) OUR global presence We are a true global player with a leading market position. We are leveraging our global presence in order to meet the growing demand from multinational corporations for the delivery of IFS across borders. Our IFS revenue share has grown significantly and our ability to deliver IFS is key to serving global customers and grasping new local North America market opportunities. We are well-positioned in 4,161 DKKm emerging markets, where we generate 24% of revenue our total revenue (2014: 24%). 5% of Group Latin America 3,609 DKKm revenue 5% of Group Nordic Eastern Europe 14,738 DKKm 1,580 DKKm revenue revenue 19% 2% of Group of Group Asia 10,104 DKKm revenue 13% of Group Pacific Western Europe 4,478 DKKm revenue 40,894 DKKm revenue 6% of Group 51% of Group Contents Letter to our Stakeholders Independent Review Statement 40 Independent Review Statement Our Approach 4 Our strategy execution: GREAT Reporting Principles and Compliance 6 Materiality: knowing what is important to us 7 Stakeholder engagement 42 External principles and guidelines 7 How we govern Corporate Responsibility 42 Internal guidelines 8 Awards and Recognitions 42 Changes and future outlook 9 Internal controls for good business practices 11 A responsible supply chain GRI and UNGC Compliance Tables Our Performance and Targets 44 GRI Standard Disclosures 48 United Nations Global Compact 12 Our Performance and Targets 14 Performance against objectives and targets for 2015 14 Objectives and targets for 2016 People – the key to our success 16 Everything points to leadership 19 Training for business performance 20 Monitoring engagement 21 Health and Safety 23 Human rights 23 Competencies and diversity 24 Collaborating with unions on human rights 26 Human rights due diligence assessment Planet – managing our impacts 32 Moving towards global certification 32 Expanding the Green Offices Programme 32 No emissions from our Global headquarters 34 Innovations with suppliers Profit – ensuring good business practices 36 2015 financial performance 36 A coherent framework for good practices 36 Improved risk management 37 Addressing issues reported in our Whistleblower system 2 letter to our stakeholders Letter to Our Stakeholders Our focus at ISS is to create shareholder value and this informs every aspect of our strategic direction. In 2015, we grew our Profit before amortisation/impairment of acquisition-related intangibles by more than 50% from DKK 1,816 million to DKK 2,785 million, leading to a significant increase in operating cash flow for the year. Our 2015 financial performance reflects Our teams build strong, long-term relaa year of significant achievements for ISS, tionships with our customers. demonstrating the value of our strategic direction and our sustainable business We strongly believe in the benefits of model. Through effective execution of our being an attractive employer. In an strategy and our defined value proposiindustry with fierce competition for talent tion, our highly engaged teams around and high staff turnover, our reputation the world improved customer experience as a responsible employer is vital to the and won many new contracts on an long-term success of our company. international, regional and local scale. We are proud that our employee engageIn a challenging global economic environment scores in 2015 were maintained at ment, we improved our operating margin, a high level of 4.4 on a scale of 1 to 5. generated strong organic growth and We are delighted that 227,195 employees maintained our high cash conversion, responded to our survey, a response rate enabling us to further reduce debt. of 72%, up from 67% in 2014. Our employee Net Promoter Score, which Once again, the quality of our customer shows employees’ willingness to recomoffering was recognised in top ratings mend ISS as an employer, increased by from the International Association of Out10 points to 56.4. sourcing Providers. We have entered 2016 in a strong position to take advantage of This positively affected our customer the huge potential in the estimated USD satisfaction levels, with our Customer 1 trillion global market for outsourced Net Promoter Score increasing to 36.7. facility services. Integrated Services Expansion Engaged teams and One of the cornerstones of our strategy satisfied customers is to meet customers’ demand for the Our 504,816 colleagues who provide an bundling of services. Our integrated outstanding experience to our customers facility services (IFS) offering is particuaround the world, are at the core of our larly attractive to major customers who success. Each and every day, our motivated look for a high-value, low-risk service. and capable colleagues deliver services, Our IFS offering makes it simpler and enhancing the work environments of our more effective for them to receive all the customers to benefit their businesses. services they need at a uniform quality letter to our stakeholders 3 level across the board, delivered by a year to ensure we maintain our focus on a signatory and supporter of the United single provider. these areas in our operations. Nations Global Compact since its inception in 1999. We remain committed to In 2015, revenue from IFS continued to Ensuring integrity aligning our strategy and operations grow through new contracts and expanIn 2015, we received 144 Whistleblower with the ten Global Compact principles. sion of existing relationships, including reports. As in previous years, the majority UBS in the United Kingdom, Huawei in of the reports concern local human Furthermore, we respect, support and China, Danske Bank in the Nordics and resource issues. Of the reports in scope, promote human rights and support the Eastern Europe, the Danish State Railways 14 cases were escalated to the ISS Group’s ambitions stated in the United Nations (DSB) and numerous other significant Business Integrity Committee in 2015 Universal Declaration of Human Rights partners. IFS now represents 34% of for further investigation. and the Core Conventions of the InterGroup revenue, and we expect continued national Labour organisation. In 2015, we growth in demand in coming years. We would like to see more reports coming carried out an assessment of our level in from our employees and stakeholders, of compliance with the United Nations’ Solid performance in 2015 as a way of ensuring the integrity of our Guiding Principles for Business and Human In 2015, we made significant progress business behaviour. In 2015, we investiRights (UNGPs). You can read more about within Corporate Responsibility. We gated the establishment of more options the assessment in this Report. continue to take initiatives to improve for reporting via telephone and app-techour performance in Corporate Responnology to widen the choices. We will In recent years, we have also strengthened sibility such as increased training and implement new initiatives in 2016. our control environment and governance awareness campaigns. As a result, we including our supply chain. Looking ahead, improved our Lost Time Injury Frequency Continued commitment to we will strive to further improve our perby 60% and reduced the Lost Work UN Global Compact formance within Corporate Responsibility Time by 55% over the past five years. On human rights, labour rights, environwith particular attention to eliminating Unfortunately, seven of our colleagues mental protection and anti-corruption, fatalities at our work places and aligning lost their lives in 2015 due to work-related we have made a strong commitment as with the UNGPs. accidents. This is both deeply regrettable and unacceptable. Each of these fatalities had profound impact on families, Yours faithfully colleagues and friends and we extend our thoughts and sympathy to them. In 2015, we took new initiatives to address the challenges with vehicle related incidents such as campaigns and developing an E-Learning module on driver safety. In addition, we also developed a Toolbox Talk Calendar that aims at raising awareness and safety performance by encouraging operational teams to discuss two key topics each month. We continued with our Global Lord Allen ‘Drive to 100’ campaigns covering Health, of Kensington CBE Jeff Gravenhorst Safety and Environment throughout the Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer 4 our approach Our Approach Corporate Responsibility (CR) can concentrate on pursuing their goals safety and environment (HSE), and is an important factor in and objectives as we perform non-core labour law management in compliance activities for their business, and at the with local and international regulations achieving the ISS vision and same time protect their brand, handle and customer requirements. These include strategic goals. This chapter risks on their behalf and deliver the child labour, freedom of association, discridescribes links between CR facilities management services needed mination, harassment, paying the right and our business priorities, with flexibility and as an integrated part wages and paying wages on time. what our material issues of their operations. We see Corporate Responsibility becoming are and how we govern increasingly important for our customers as our work on these issues. Our Value Proposition they strive to improve their own business Service performance performance and make a positive impact ISS is an integrated facilities management on society. Leading global companies facilitating our customers’ provider working on five continents and expect a consistent CR performance from with direct representation in 77 countries. purpose through people their partners, and this is often a key factor Our business services customers with opeempowerment in winning and retaining contracts for ISS. rations in an equal number of countries. Our vision is to be the world’s greatest Our strategy execution: GREAT service organisation, and to achieve this Deep connections into the field of GREAT articulates and dictates the drivers through the value proposition shown on Corporate Responsibility are necessary to that will close the gap to the consistent this page. In essence, this value proposideliver on this. We must credibly and delivery of our mission and value propotion obliges us to ensure our customers effectively manage risks in terms of health, sition. How do we do this? How do we Our STRATEGY: GREAT EMPOWERING PEOPLE Leadership is our key strategy enabler. Great leaders extract the value embedded in The ISS Way THROUGH LEADERSHIP by establishing a sense of purpose and driving alignment. Initiatives to keep employees healthy and safe, free of discrimination and with fair conditions for labour contribute to a sense of purpose. TRANSFORMING OUR We must make conscious choices with respect to our customer focus to deliver a unique and CUSTOMER BASE compelling value proposition. Customers require effective and credible risk management, including risks related to safety, labour conditions and influencing human rights positively. Our initiatives within these areas allow ISS to claim consistency in managing these risks. FIT FOR PURPOSE Transforming our customer base will require organisational changes by extracting synergies, ORGANISATION sharing best practices, enabling the deployment of excellence and balancing group standardisation with local adaption, we can optimise the delivery of our value proposition. Our adjusted organisational structure provides a better “high-way” for the deployment of our HSE culture and processes. READY TO Our ability to self-deliver the services needed to run a facility as a “one stop shop” for customers DELIVER IFS locally, regionally and globally, is at the core of our differentiated value proposition. Our group-wide systematic approach to HSE and CR enables us to ensure consistency across services and locations, contributing to our customers’ performance on their HSE and CR targets. STRIVING FOR To become the world’s greatest service organisation, we must identify and implement relevant EXCELLENCE excellence initiatives per site in an aligned and standardised way. By applying global policies and standards e.g. safety, anti-corruption and supplier Code of Conduct across all our markets, Corporate Responsibility contributes to the service performance we aspire to. our approach 5 Joao Tavares ISS Portugal 6 our approach touch both minds and hearts and move GUIDANCE FRAMEWORK for corporate responsibility us towards our vision? In 2015, we continued to focus on our five strategic initiatives, which are the principal drivers moving us towards realising our vision Local and exploiting our scale benefits. business platform Our Corporate Responsibility efforts support each of these themes. Please The ISS Safety Rules, see page 4 for an overview. the ISS Group HSE Management Manual, Materiality: knowing what is the ISS HSE and CR Reporting important to us Manual, and the ISS HSE and To guide our reporting focus and validate CR Action Plan the focus of our Corporate Responsibility The ISS Corporate Responsibility Policy efforts, we assess the importance of The ISS International Human Resource different issues to our business and our Standards and the ISS Code of Conduct most important stakeholders. We base this assessment on our understanding The ISS Strategy: The ISS Way of their interest in and influence on our business. We have identified our The ISS values: Honesty, Entrepreneurship, Responsibility employees, customer and investors as and Quality, and the ISS Leadership Principles our main stakeholders. The ISS vision: To be the world’s greatest service organisation In line with previous years’ assessments, the most material issues are health and safety as well as fair business practices. The successful management of these are essential to both business continuity and reputation of ISS. cise with internal stakeholders, ensuring Management, Internal Audit, Marketing, timeliness and accuracy. Participants Communications, Strategy and HSE In December 2014 and January 2015, we represented the following Group funcand CR. conducted a materiality assessment exertions: Legal, Human Resources, Risk MATERIAL ISSUES • Health & Safety High • Management composition • Labour standards (child labour) • Risk management • Climate change • Working conditions • Civil & Political rights • Anti-corruption • Employment conditions • Fair competition • Income generation • Supply chain management • Economic and social rights • Discrimination Medium • Handling of incidents • Personal development • Prevention of pollution opportunities • Sustainable use of resources • Sustainable consumption • Local community Significance to ISS Stakeholders involvement • Education • Social dialogue • Respectable marketing Low Low Medium High Impact to ISS business our approach 7 At the last review, we concluded that the STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT areas of Management composition and Supply Chain management had become more important to our stakeholders Employees Employees are invited to share thoughts and on our business. The conclusions and opinions through a global Employee of the materiality review were validated Engagement survey. See page 20. through presentations at internal leadership training in 2015, a process that conCustomers We carry out a Customer Experience survey firmed the original conclusions. A new to gauge customer satisfaction. See “Investisession will be conducted during 2016. gating customer satisfaction” on this page. The full picture can be seen in the mateInvestors During 2015, we had a close dialogue with riality matrix on page 6. the market through, among others, company announcements, press releases, road shows, investor conferences, conference calls, Stakeholder engagement website and other direct communication. Our approach to stakeholder engagement is to be consistent with our values and commitments and across geographies Unions We have constructive interactions with and cultures. We strive to act in line with works councils, unions and employee our values: honesty, responsibility, quality representatives. See page 24. and entrepreneurship. Suppliers We engage with suppliers both to manage We engage both at Group level and in risks in the ISS supply chain management each of the countries where we operate. and to develop partnership. See page 11. An overview of our stakeholder engagement is shown in the adjacent table and Media and NGOs We communicate with media and NGOs, examples of our engagement are available of communication with media and NGOs, throughout the report. particularly in Denmark and most other countries in Western Europe. In 2015, we received around 1,100 media requests at Investigating customer satisfaction Group level, which was around the same Since 2012, we have conducted annual high level as 2014 (when the company Customer Experience surveys, to gauge relisted on the stock exchange). The our success in achieving our vision of interest goes for international and local Danish media alike. being the greatest service organisation in the world. In 2015, 82.7% of the 7,600 potential respondents participated. The Net Promoter Score, the consolidated indicator for customer experience, has improved. The main drivers of satisfacCorporate Senior Officers of the Group reporting on HSE and CR. The function tion are the relationship with the key in addition to the EGMB. works in close alignment with the EGM contact and that we manage risks and collaborates with counterparts in effectively, while customers find that In 2015, we de-layered and strengthened regions and the countries as well as with we could improve on the information the organisational structure to drive other corporate functions. contained on the invoices. customer focus, deliver faster decision making and further cost efficiencies. Two A designated HSE manager in each country How we govern Corporate new global roles were created. First, a is responsible for implementing the Group Responsibility new Group Chief Operating Officer role, strategy for HSE by integrating it into Incorporated as a limited liability comwhich drives customer retention and the the country business strategy. Actions pany and operating under Danish law, delivery of operational excellence to key that are part of this strategy are followed ISS A/S follows current practice where account customers in partnership with the up during the regional business review. management powers are distributed regional and country organisations. Second, between the Board of Directors and the a new Group Chief Commercial Officer Countries report on their performance to Executive Group Management Board role, which drives commercial capabiliGroup HSE and CR based on the HSE and (the EGMB). The members of the EGMB ties, new sales, and key account customer CR Reporting Manual. Group HSE and CR are the Group CEO and Group CFO and growth, sharpening our attention on our reviews the performance and works with form the management registered with regional and global sales pipeline. countries in achieving the Group goals. the Danish Business Authority. The Group has a wider Executive Group ManageGroup HSE and CR has the responsibility Management tools ment (the EGM) which comprise nine for driving strategy, monitoring and A set of governance documents prepared 8 our approach by Group HSE and CR exists to guide the in the form of Lost Time Injury Frequency, with the reporting and escalation of integration of CR into the business. While in the bonus programme for manageserious incidents from contracts over the ISS Vision forms the basis for everyment. By the end of 2015, this bonus countries to regions and headquarters, thing we do, the work is in practice parameter had been in force for two we have in 2015 rolled out a Group guided by specific manuals for implementyears, and our experience is that safety Emergency Response Plan for serious ing and reporting on Health, Safety and awareness has increased in our manageincidents. We held webinars with counEnvironmental issues. ment both at Group and country levels. tries to explain the objectives and the contents as part of the rollout. Another important tool in managing CR Building on the strengthening of our across the group is the inclusion of safety, Escalation policy in 2014, which deals Awards and recognition Juan Paulo Mendoza and Paulina Sánchez Santos ISS Mexico Every year, the ISS Group and ISS coun• ISS Australia won twelve awards announced the winner in the category tries around the world are awarded at the Customer Service Institute `Services´, and achieved an overall recognition from peers and stakeholders of Australia’s (CSIA) 2015 Service second place among the 500 comfor their performance and initiatives Excellence Awards including seven panies surveyed. within the areas of health, safety and individual employee awards, the environment and Corporate ResponsiLarge Organisation Award for New • ISS France received a prestigious bility. Below is a non-conclusive list of South Wales and the Training Orgaaward from the oil company Exxonawards from 2015. nisation Award for Queensland. Mobil, for outstanding safety performance at the refinery of Notre-Dame • ISS Group won the IAOP and ISG • ISS Greece received four safetyde Gravenchon in Le Havre as ISS Global Outsourcing Social Responsiand people-related awards. The has had zero safety accidents at the bility Impact Award. awards highlight the company’s site since April 2005. innovative workplace practices. • ISS Mexico won a Corporate • ISS Australia won the Sarina Responsibility Award, called Dignified • ISS Austria won the Gold Award Russo Award for ‘National Employer Job, for best practices in personnel for recruitment awarded annually by of the Year, acknowledging ISS’s care within construction and cleanthe bureau BEST RECRUITERS, who support for unemployed and dising. The award acknowledges good perform the largest independent advantaged Australians. practices in salaries, labour responrecruitment study in Germany, Austria sibility and legal accomplishments. and Switzerland. ISS Austria was our approach 9 Internal controls for good How GIA works Furthermore, the key element in GIA’s business practices work is an internal audit framework The monitoring of good business pracGroup Internal Audit is independent consisting of three elements: tices, among these HSE and CR requireof the Executive Group Management ments, is carried out through an elaboBoard, and operates under a charter • A baseline audit programme that rate set of assurance activities, which are approved by the Board of Directors assesses the internal controls and performed by the Group Internal Audit and reports – in addition to the Group compliance across 70 key control acti(GIA) function. CFO – directly to the Audit and Risk vities, with a view to ensure a strong Committee. The committee has six foundation for the internal control In 2015, GIA continued the process of annual meetings. environment across all key control performing a self-assessment covering categories. This audit embeds Corpoalmost the entire revenue of the company. Audit findings and follow-up on prorate Responsibility issues such as the The self-assessment covers three main gress to resolve them is also provided Code of Conduct, anti-corruption, scope areas (see figure below) compristo country and regional management, health and safety, child labour and ing 20 key control categories, including representatives of ISS’s executive working hours. Again, in 2015, we governance, financial and operational management and the independent exceeded our target of carrying out controls and compliance with safety Group auditor. audits with Corporate Responsibility rules and policies. While the self-assesscontent of at least 20% of the counment is performed by all country organitries in which we operate. sations, the smaller countries respond to a scaled-down version of the self-assessand communicates results to Country, • A contract audit programme which ment. The self-assessments are reported Regional and Group Management and assesses the internal controls and to Group Internal Audit who analyses the Audit and Risk Committee. contract compliance for key customer SELF-ASSESSMENT CATEGORIES 20 categories for self-assessment New in-depth audit guidelines were implemented in 2013. These guidelines now structure the control self-assessments that all countries are required to complete annually. The assessments are based on a catalogue of 20 control categories split into three main areas: Governance and Compliance, Business Support and Contract Lifecycle. A. Governance and Compliance B. Business Support C. Contract Lifecycle Financial reporting C.01. Sales C.05. Operation A.01. Code of Conduct A.02. Leadership A.03. Corporate Governance A.04. Competition A.05. Anti-corruption B.05. Tax B.06. Treasury B.07. Procurement B.08. IT B.09. HSE and CR B.10. Risk management C.02. Solution C.03. Negotiation C.04. Transition B.01. Systems, interfaces and configuration B.02. Month-end procedures and accounting B.03. Payroll B.04. Invoicing and accounts receivables After assigning responsibility to relevant managers for each category, Group Internal Audit (GIA) sends an online survey to each manager. When answered, GIA collects and analyses the data and improvement possibilities. 10 our approach Sanna Saarela ISS Finland our approach 11 contracts. This standardised programme well as due diligence of sub-contractors datory HSE inspections were not being was developed in 2015 and includes and 3rd parties need improvements, just fully implemented, corrective actions were both key controls from the baseline as the local annual payroll audits need not being monitored or followed up for programme and detailed controls more focus. closure, and Tool box talks were not being related to compliance with contract planned or carried out. terms and conditions. In terms of As in previous years, we find that workCorporate Responsibility, this audit ing hours continue to be a challenge in A responsible supply chain programme includes an assessment many emerging markets, where local The main HSE and CR risks associated with of the controls and processes for expectations and industry practices are the supply chain are related to human e.g. employee screening, training of not always aligned with the working rights (child labour, wages), labour practices new hires and performing of prevenhours regulations. (health and safety, work time/ overtime, tive maintenance programmes for freedom of association) and environment critical equipment. Due diligence of sub-contractors and (water, chemicals and waste). 3rd parties was a new audit focus area • Risk-based focused audit programmes that was introduced in 2014 and found These risks are mitigated by ensuring that designed to perform detailed assesscontinued use in 2015. The purpose of all suppliers understand and sign the ISS ment of the controls and compliance this audit focus is to strengthen risk Supplier Code of Conduct and all suppliers for individual risk areas or control mitigation processes related to service complete a Self-Assessment Questionnaire measures. These are designed for delivery to global corporate clients in (SAQ). The SAQ is based on a range of country-level audits. In 2015, GIA locations with no direct ISS presence. The issues including labour, human rights developed the programme for audits audits focus on sub-contractors’ service and environmental criteria that are of payroll, HR and HSE including overcapabilities and performance, legal comthen evaluated. time, timely payments and child labour. pliance as well as compliance with ISS In 2016, GIA will expand the areas of anti-corruption and ISS Supplier Code of The ISS Supplier Code of Conduct covers scope covered by the standardised audit Conduct policies. In addition, the prothe areas of workplace standards, health programme to include the areas of gramme focuses on assessment of risk and safety, compensation and working travel and entertainment expenses, the management associated with third party hours, freedom of association and colleccatering business and the accountingcontracts through clear governance and tive bargaining, forced and compulsory to-reporting process. The impact of sign-off on third party contractual risks. labour, child labour, non-discrimination developing a standardised audit proIn terms of Corporate Responsibility, the and harassment, and environment. gramme is further strengthened by audits focus on key due diligence risks the work performed by the internal including corruption, risk assessment of In 2015, as part of the new work wear auditors employed in the individual the sub-contractors, screening and approproject, 13 SAQs were submitted by ISS countries. Local internal audit val of their employees and training in potential suppliers and this was followed functions have been established in ISS and customer HSE policies, standards up by three site audits. The main findings 20 of the largest countries to ensure and guidelines. from the SAQs and the audits were further assurance coverage within regarding fire safety, personal safety the Group, using the standardised Group HSE and CR also performs audits and the environment. The findings programme to ensure consistence in against the ISS International HR standards, are monitored to ensure closure of the the work performed. Accordingly, in the Group HSE Manual, the ISS Safety gaps identified. 2016 all local internal audit functions Rules and the ISS Code of Conduct. In will perform audits of payroll and at 2015, 36 such audits were performed, least five key account contracts. where the findings included Group manPerformance in 2015 In line with the target for 2015, GIA THE SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT PROCESS FRAMEWORK performed more than 85 assurance assignments during the year. GIA performed 38 baseline audits in indiviSupplier Management dual countries and 23 contract audits. Furthermore, 16 risk-based focused Supplier Selection Supplier Management audits were performed covering internal control areas related to the quality and Identify Required Supplier Manage and Control Supplier effectiveness of financial reporting and related systems and processes. Evaluate Potential Suppliers Evaluate Supplier Performance The key findings from these audits were Select Supplier that the overall quality of the internal control environment is satisfactory, but that clarity in delegation of authority as 12 Our performance and targets Our Performance and Targets Our key performance PEOPLE indicators and results against objectives and 2015 2014 2013 targets for 2015 are Number of employees 504,816 510,968 533,544 presented on this page. – Full time % 74 73 74 Objectives and targets – Part time % 1) 26 27 26 for 2016 are also Total workforce communicated here. Front line 479,951 485,074 503,300 – % Front line 95 95 94 We report on our performance – % Male 49 51 51 within three areas: – % Female 51 49 49 PEOPLE, PLANET, and PROFIT. White collar 24,865 25,894 30,244 – % White collar 5 5 6 – % Male 55 57 58 – % Female 45 43 42 Turnover % All employees 43 44 52 % Front line 44 46 53 – Male 46 48 58 – Female 42 46 48 % White collar 20 21 23 – Male 20 21 24 – Female 20 21 22 Hours of training 6,639,891 5,912,982 6,564,880 – Front line 2) 6,149,122 5,584,132 6,152,385 – White collar 490,769 328,850 412,495 Absentee rate % 1.8 1.7 1.9 Incidents of discrimination 3) 14 10 11 Fatalities 7 7 6 Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) 4) 5 6 7 Exposure hours (million hours) 5) 997.5 1,009.1 1,011.7 Number of vehicles 20,856 19,307 21,909 Number of vehicle accidents 3,563 3,797 4,476 1) Defined as employees working an average of less than 30 hours per week for ISS. 2) The front line training hours for 2014 has been corrected to 5,584,132 from 7,349,857 due to an error in country reporting in 2014. 3) Incidents of discrimination corrected for 2014 from 6 to 10. Our performance and targets 13 PLANET Financial highlights in 2015 2015 2014 2013 revenue Million DKK Electricity consumption (MWh.) 6) 54,600 56,301 85,744 79,579 Electricity emissions 18,626 19,887 22,818 organic growth 4.4% (tonnes CO2 eq.) 7) Electricity costs (million DKK) 55.6 51.2 74.0 cash conversion 99% Fuel usage (million litres) 46.6 43.3 55.72 Vehicle emissions 107,647 100,120 128,806 (tonnes CO2 eq.) 8) operating margin Business Travel emissions 14,287 15,691 12,328 5.7% (tonnes CO2 eq.) number of employees 504,816 Water consumption (m3) 9) 331,169 440,268 549,256 PROFIT 2015 2014 2013 Revenue (million DKK) 79,579 74,105 78,459 EBITA (million DKK) 4,533 4,150 4,315 Net Finance costs (million DKK) 709 1,296 2,270 Taxes paid (million DKK) 867 1,082 933 Staff costs (million DKK) 51,900 48,849 51,234 Income tax paid by employees 13,180 12,316 (million DKK) 10) 4) A LTI is defined as any work-related injury which prevents that person from doing any work after the incident i.e. any work related injury which results in a person being unfit for his/her work for at least one full working day or shift. The LTIF is based on 1 million exposure hours. This includes contractors under ISS operational control. 5) Exposure hours include contractors working under ISS operational control. 6) Please see explanation on page 32 for the decrease. 7) Electricity emissions corrected for 2014 from 18,293 to 19,887. 8) Please see explanation for increase on page 33. 9) Please see explanation for decrease on page 32. 10) Income tax paid by employees comprises estimated employment taxes, social charges and contributions paid either by ISS or directly by employees. 14 Our performance and targets JIANG JIA YUN ISS China Our performance and targets 15 Performance against strategy and are related to health, safety ensure the organisation’s focus remains objectives and targets for 2015 and environment as well as monitoring on these subjects. Our most material issues are also the of labour conditions for our employees. ones most directly supporting our We set targets and carry out audits to SUBJECT TARGETS 2015 PERFORMANCE 2015 TREND Fatalities 0 We saw seven fatalities. See page 21. L Lost Time Injury Frequency Reduce 60% compared to 2010. LTIF decreased by 60% from the baseline value of 13, to 5 in 2015. J Lost Work Hours Reduce 45% compared to 2010. The number of Lost Work Hours per 1000 exposure hours reduced by 55%. J CO2 emissions from electricity Seek to establish baseline. Electricity decreased due to awareness and behaviour programmes and divestments. J CO2 emissions from leased cars (g/km) Reduce by 15% within four year lease period starting in In 2015, we have reduced emissions from our leased cars (g/km) by 2% compared J 2014. to the baseline in 2014. Audits with CR content In at least 20% of countries where we operate. The scope of internal audits in 15 countries, more than 30% of countries included the ISS J Code of Conduct, the ISS Safety Rules, child labour and working hours. Employee engagement Offer survey participation to 400,000 in 50 countries. We offered 344,900 employees, nearly two-thirds of our workforce, in 46 countries, J the opportunity to express their opinion of working for ISS. 71% chose to make fully use of this option. Objectives and targets for 2016 3. Related to the LTIF are Lost Work 5. To carry out audits that include 1. In accordance with the HSE Vision, Hours (LWH) as a result of lost time Corporate Responsibility areas in at our first priority is to prevent fatalities incidents. The Group target for 2016 least 30% of countries where at our work places. Our Group target is a reduction of 55% per 1,000 we operate. is 0. exposure hours relative to the baseline figure in 2010. 6. To conduct an annual employee 2. In terms of Lost Time Injury Frequency engagement survey with a (LTIF), the Group target for 2016 is 4. Reduce the emissions from our leased response rate target of 75% of to reduce LTIF by 60% relative to our cars (g/km) from 2014 over the leasing eligible employees. baseline figure in 2010 to below 5. period of 4 years by 15%. 16 PEOPLE People – the key to our success The promise we make to Research confirms importance Class room training received our customers can be of employee engagement in 2015 fulfilled only through our Front line employees people. This section explains 13 In 2015, ISS published a white paper how we ensure capabilities on the links between customer experihours per employee and risk management in ence and employee engagement. terms of health and safety. Three main conclusions stand out and White collar employees We also take a closer look 20 support the key correlations stated in this chapter. These conclusions are: hours per employee at ISS’s potential human rights impacts. 1. Employee engagement correlates strongly with customer experience. The sheer size of the ISS workforce is The more engaged the employees, will develop further measurements of our impressive. More than 500,000 people the more likely it is that customers leadership through assessments and surwork for ISS, which means that for every will be satisfied with the service proveys, tracking developments in employee 15,000 people in the world, there is one vided – even to a level where they and customer Net Promoter Scores as well ISS employee. We are the fourth largest will actively recommend the service as Lost Time Injury Frequency, sickness, private employer in the world, and through provider to others. turnover among other benchmarks. the work we provide and salaries we pay, we impact the lives of more than two 2. The primary drivers behind customer Leadership is a key strategy enabler million people. experience are: on the journey to becoming GREAT. • Motivation and engagement of Equipping our leaders to communicate Our business results hinge on the actions service staff; the strategy and engage the organisaof our employees. They deliver the • Amount of training and quality tion is of primary importance to leaderservices and embody the value proposiof service staff; ship development. tion we make to our customers: that • Knowledge of, and the ability to they can pursue their purpose and goals act on, customer expectations. Since the launch of The ISS Way in 2008, while we assume facilities management we have invested heavily in leadership responsibilities and risk management 3. Customer experience (as measured programmes at various levels of the related to these. by the Net Promoter Score) is closely organisation: the Leadership Mastery linked to contract profitability. The programme for top management, begun In 2015, ISS renamed its Human more likely the customer is to in 2013, the Acorn programme for Key Resources department to ‘People and recommend a service provider, the Account Managers, and the Service with Culture’, which more aptly describes how more profitable the contract. a Human Touch programme (SWAHT) we work and our routes of influence. for supervisors and frontline employees. We aim to engender a purpose in each The study is built on large and unique These programmes provide an essential of our employees working for us and data sets comprising service employee understanding of the key elements of our are looking at enhancing focus on our engagement scores, customer experistrategy and provide tools relevant to leadership education and role models to ence scores, customer “profit & loss” leaders and employees in their daily work. make sure our employees have a clear data, and user experience surveys. In addition to these, we have progressed sense of direction and empowerment in in deploying the Key Account Manager their work. programme (KAM-C) in order to strengthen our key account capabilities. Everything points to leadership The intricate relationships between leaderIn 2015, we accelerated leadership Motivation, engagement and training of ship, engagement, customer satisfaction training in a number of countries in line employees as well as understanding the and compliance with guidelines and with our strategic focus on IFS. We are customers’ expectations are proven policies are shown in the graphic on setting minimum standards aimed at drivers of performance in facilities managepage 18. reaching a total alignment of the leaderment (see text box). Each and all of these ship programmes in all of our countries, drivers depend on leadership, including In 2015, we continued to invest in leaderbuilding a common on-boarding mechasafety leadership. ship at all levels of the organisation. We nism for managers, and developing a PEOPLE 17 COMPANY DAY ISS Switzerland 18 PEOPLE Correlations driving good business Investing in leadership and training Engaged employees Sustainable and profitable business Engaged employees Customer satisfaction and loyalty Compliance with guidelines and policies LEVEL TRAINING WITH A PURPOSE MAIN PROGRAMMES Top management Ensuring that we support our leaders sufficiently to • Top Management Conference (TMC) act as ambassadors of our Leadership Principles and • Leadership Mastery programme behaviours is a key priority. • Advantage programme • Mandatory governance E-learning programmes Focus is on personal leadership development and • Performance appraisals behaviour, developing a team as well as securing a deep understanding of our strategy and facilitating a Example: greater understanding of customers and employees. 400 senior leaders addressing the strategic objectives and direction of the Group once a year at the TMC. Middle Accelerating middle managers’ induction and future • Advantage programme management performance by introducing them to the strategy so • Performance appraisals they can communicate it and engage the organisation. Managers are taught key business disciplines Example: including compliance and CR and they are given The Advantage programme has more than 150 relevant tools they can use in their day-to-day work. participants annually. Supervisors/ Ensuring that all employees support a purpose-led • Local management training programmes Key Account service culture and alignment to global standards of • KAM-C programme Managers (KAM) operations is key. • Acorn programme • Service with a Human Touch (SWAHT) Focus is on country-based training in service and • Performance appraisals operational excellence, processes and leadership to • Apple Awards enhance employee skills and encourage staff mobility. • HSE E-learning programmes Example: Approximately 4,500 supervisors completed the SWAHT programme in 2015. Frontline By understanding our customer’s needs, our people • Local training programmes employees learn how to add value to their customers through • Service with a Human Touch (SWAHT) purpose-led service culture – we call this “finding • Apple Awards your apple”. • HSE E-learning programmes • Performance appraisals Subjects included HSE, operational and technical training, management, language training, leadership Example: and supervisory, IT, security and fire prevention. Frontline employees received 6,149,122 hours of classroom training in 2015. To recognise employees who have found their apple, we have launched the Apple Award. PEOPLE 19 common approach to hiring and person• The Advantage programme, where customers and their teams. The pronel assessment. This work has been onmembers of Group management pregramme creates awareness around going throughout the second half of 2015 sent and discuss ‘The ISS Way’, the the importance of meeting and and is expected to show results in 2016. Group strategy. This is a very imporexceeding customer expectations, Further, we continued our roll-out of tant induction programme for manaenables our employees to clearly SWAHT, which is a suite of training workgers starting in ISS where all key busiunderstand their purpose in helping shops and activities that have been specifiness disciplines are taught including to build the world’s greatest service cally designed by ISS for ISS to engage compliance and CR. organisation, and it empowers our and motivate frontline employees and employees to use their initiative and supervisors, and spur them on to provide • The Value Proposition programme, to make a difference by creating those exceptional service both to our customers a hands-on workshop focussed on winning moments for our customers. and to each other. creating the most effective model It aims to create consistency in the way for presenting value and motivatfrontline employees are empowered Training for business ing buyers. to recognise customer needs and sigperformance nals, as well as in the way employees We offer training opportunities for • The Acorn programme, targeting are trained, coached and recognised employees and leaders on the key talented managers with the aim of by supervisors. elements of our strategy and the tools developing them into the bestthey need to fulfil it in a number of prointegrated facilities management Key All these programmes, except Leadership grammes addressing different audiences Account Managers. The programme Mastery, are run by our internal training (see overview on opposite page). is built up around three modules with facility, ISS University. This entity also focus on understanding and working trains and certifies regional and country These are: with complex commercial models managers to run programmes in local • Leadership Mastery programme, a and operational excellence in a global languages, thus extending the reach of comprehensive five-module programme environment including focus on interour leadership training. for selected top leaders, the focus is cultural aspects and communication. on personal leadership development In 2015, 21 participants graduated from and behaviour, developing a team as • Service with a Human the Leadership Mastery programme and well as securing a deep understanding Touch (SWAHT), a programme for 70 from the Acorn programme, in line of our strategy and facilitating a supervisors seeking to engage, with our targets of similar or slightly greater understanding of customers motivate, and spur them on to prohigher attendance than 2014. The roll out and employees. vide exceptional service to both the of the SWAHT programme continued in SERVICE WITH A HUMAN TOUCH READ MY TRAIN ME SIGNALS COMMUNICATE EMPOWER ME WITH ME OBSERVE AND SUPPORT ME ASSESS ME MAKE A DIFFERENCE COACH ME FOR ME MAKE IT RIGHT FOR ME RECOGNISE ME 20 PEOPLE 2015 and more than 31,300 service proWhile our survey target once again in pared to 69% of our workforce in 2014, fessionals have completed the programme 2015 was to reach 400,000 employees and 30% of our employees have been since it was launched in 2013. with the survey, it has become clear that with ISS for more than five years. Our this is not achievable as to be eligible for staff turnover rate in 2015 decreased to Linking back to the data analysis the survey, an employee needs to be 43%, compared to 44% in 2014. Our published in 2015 and described earlier, employed for at least three months. This absenteeism rate in 2015 was 1.8%, an this confirmed our expectation that if requirement reduces the number of partiincrease from 1.7% in 2014. Staff turnour Service with a Human Touch-training cipants eligible for the survey by approxiover is still highly influenced by the tight delivers, it will result in higher customer mately 70,000 employees. Furthermore, labour supply in emerging markets where satisfaction and as such improved busiemployees working fewer than 10 hours our business is growing. Furthermore, ness performance. per week and employees on leave are employee retention remains a challenge not included. as jobs in our industry are often used as Monitoring engagement temporary or supplementary income. As already established, the level of For 2016, we aim for a response rate of engagement felt by our employees is 75% of the eligible employees. We employ different measures to inspire a key driver in our pursuit of business employees to stay on with ISS. One is success. We conduct one of the world’s The longer they stay, the more the Service with a Human Touch prolargest engagement surveys by a private they engage gramme (see page 19). Other measures employer annually. Looking at the results from all of our are offering more full-time and daytime employee surveys, we have learned that work, jobs with greater variation in In 2011, we introduced a global Employee length of employment drives engagement. tasks, career development opportunities Engagement Survey (EES). We intentionally and programmes to promote teamwork use the same questions for all respondents In 2015, 74% of employees were and skills development. to compare the results globally. employed full-time (working 30 hours or more a week), compared to 73% in 2014. As the share of our business made up The survey provides managers at all levels Employees employed for more than one by integrated facilities services solution with specific information about their year made up 68% of our workforce comgrows, we have also found that employee employees, allowing them to address the causes of low engagement and improve each individual’s sense of engagement. What is Company Day? The survey revealed an overall employee engagement of 4.4 (2014: 4.4) out of a possible 5. We monitor both overall engagement (employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS)) and four measures for employee engagement. The eNPS developed positively compared to 2014 and increased by 10 points to 56. Our aim is to increase our promoter base in the coming years. The four measures of employee engagement show a constant high-level, well above 4 (on a 5 point scale). The scope has been expanded every Company Day is an ISS initiative where managers are encouraged to work at one year since its inception and in 2015, the of the company’s 200,000 customer sites, alongside their colleagues who operate survey was sent to 344,900 employees on the front line. This process demonstrates ISS’s commitment to getting closer to its and had a response rate of 71.5%, an customers’ businesses, to understand their needs and gain first-hand experience of improvement from last year’s 66.6%. their organisation. The survey is produced in 52 languages, making it possible for more than 90% of Every year, for one day, our managers get to perform just some of the job roles carried the participants to complete in their first out by their colleagues, and this gives them a strong understanding of the opportunities language. Only 20,900 of the potential and challenges their colleagues face on a day-to-day basis. participants have an email address and the remaining will complete the survey This supports our Value Proposition where we promise to understand our customers’ on paper or receive information on how businesses and industry, and Company Day is the perfect platform to discover just what to access the survey with their paychecks. is involved at the front end, for our customers and employees. PEOPLE 21 retention is higher on these contracts. This Financial benefits from improved Fatalities in 2015 supports the claim that a greater sense safety performance in Hong Kong During ISS operations in 2015, seven of purpose and expansion of roles and people lost their lives in accidents with fatal responsibilities makes for stronger employee outcomes. This is by no means in line engagement, increased motivation and, For the past three years, ISS’s Hong with the ISS HSE Vision of zero accidents. not least, better quality of service. Kong business has seen a 30% Each of these accidents is deeply regrettdecrease in amounts claimed from able and we will continue to push for the Health and Safety insurance due to work-related injuries. total elimination of these occurrences. Continuous improvements in personal safety This has helped ISS Hong Kong stay Two of the fatal accidents took place in The Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) for resilient against increasing work injury Indonesia, two in Thailand, one in DenISS fell to just over 5 from 6 in 2014. insurance rates in the region due to mark, one in Hong Kong and one in This is almost a 60% reduction in LTIF claims made soaring over the past 10 France. Three fatalities were related to from our 2010 baseline of 13. years. Where companies in manpower security activities, three to cleaning and intensive industries in general claim to one to property services. One fatality in Related to LTIF is the number of lost work be under pressure from rising cleaning 2015 was vehicle related and involved a hours due to injuries. The number of lost rates, ISS Hong Kong has managed to member of the public. work hours decreased by 55% compared negotiate a modest reduction in the to the 2010 baseline, in line with our 2015 rates. Each fatality and serious injury is reported target of a 45% reduction. When we are to our top management within 24 hours able to reduce this number, we are certain of occurrence and local management to make both operational and financial carries out an investigation determining gains (see example from Hong Kong) the root cause of the incident and the corrective actions to be taken to prevent We also monitor the number of Total and will be rolled out across the Group similar incidents in the future. Reportable Cases Frequency (TRCF), in the first half of 2016. and the Group target for 2015 was to Safety action plans reduce TRCF by at least 55% from the Focus on E-learning As part of the HSE strategy, we have a baseline in 2010. TRCF decreased by over In 2015, an HSE E-learning module tarstated goal called “Drive to Zero”. This 60% from the baseline value of 23 to geted at ISS supervisors was developed requires action from all parts of the ISS just under 9 in 2015. and rolled out to re-enforce the culture organisation and, each year, we build and behaviours we want at ISS. In the and distribute a Group HSE and CR Improvements can be attributed to the coming year this will be translated into a Action Plan with actions for each counhighly systematic approach established number of different languages. try to implement. In the past 3 years we in our HSE strategy and applied since have furthermore asked country manage2010 with an established HSE manageIn addition, as part of the ongoing focus ment to develop a Personal Safety ment manual, continuous awareness on addressing car-related accidents which Action Plan (PSAP) with objectives and raising, a global reporting system and has made up an disproportionate share targets for each member of a country the inclusion of safety indicators in the of fatal accidents involving ISS staff, the management team. This encourages management bonus programme. development of an E-learning module and allows for management to show on Driver safety was initiated in 2015. their safety commitment and leadership The Group HSE manual is being updated This E-Learning module will be launched through actions. to comply with the new ISO standards in early 2016. global employee engagement results 2015 (2014) 4.4 (4.4) 4.4 (4.4) 4.4 (4.4) 4.3 (4.3) 4.4 (4.4) 1 5 1 5 1 5 1 5 1 5 Overall Capability Motivation Pride Retention engagement 22 PEOPLE Katie McAvoy ISS UK PEOPLE 23 Tools and communication Safeguarding children and and inclusion. With more than 504,000 for awareness vulnerable people employees, ISS embraces and encourages Group HSE and CR issued one Global ISS must always perform our services in diversity in its broadest sense. We recogSafety Flash in 2015. The Flash was sent a way that provides safe environments nise that our diverse workforce gives us out because of two fall related fatalities for our customers and their users. To this a key competitive advantage, and we that occurred within a few weeks. The end, we created a policy on safeguarding consider our employees to be our most idea behind a safety flash is to dissemichildren and vulnerable people in 2014, valuable asset. Diversity makes ISS creanate important information on incidents, which we were actively implementing in tive, productive and an attractive place potential hazards and the lessons to help business processes in 2015. to work. prevent similar accidents. The policy emphasises that ISS staff and The Board and the EGM recognise the As in previous years, we ran quarterly ISS sub-contractors, who perform services importance of promoting diversity at ‘Me and You’ safety campaigns in all the in risk environments while children or management levels and have implemencountries in 2015, focusing on Slips, trips vulnerable adults are present, must adopt ted policies regarding competencies and and falls, Working at heights, Electrical appropriate behaviours, follow defined diversity in respect of Board and EGM safety and Driving safety. The campaign procedures and undergo required checks nominations according to which we are uses posters produced by Group HSE to ensure that services are performed in committed to selecting the best candidate and CR that are translated into more a safe and non-threatening environment. while aspiring to have diversity in gender than 20 languages. as well as in broader terms such as interWe produced an animated film to communational experience. Furthermore, to drive safety awareness nicate the content of the policy and its into business operations we have distriimplementation, available in 7 languages. Emphasis is placed on: buted a set of Tool box talk desk calenFurthermore, we have also included this • Experience and expertise (such as dars, where particular subjects are as part of the training to top management, industry, risk management, finance, defined as subjects for conversation the Advantage programme. financing, strategy, international each week. These calendars are available business, labour force management in 14 languages. Implementation activities started in 2015 and HR, management and leadership); to ensure that all ISS countries adopt For all our large global key accounts, we appropriate policies and procedures and • Diversity (including age, gender, new have initiated bi-monthly safety inspecconduct necessary training to ensure that talent and international experience) tions in 2015. These are performed by our ISS staff and ISS sub-contractors adhere to as well as diversity of perspectives operations staff using standardised temthis policy. This includes recruitment and brought to the Board or the EGM; and plates prepared by Group HSE and CR. The vetting procedures for staff assigned to audits are helpful in creating accountability positions with exposure to children or • Personal characteristics matching and transparency as results are reported vulnerable adults, training and induction ISS’s values and leadership principles. into ISS’s global IT-based HSE system. At programmes ensuring awareness of the same time the audits provide docuappropriate behaviour and knowledge In support of our commitment to gender mentation that we are living up to the HSE of policies and procedures, and approdiversity, the Board has adopted a target requirements included in contracts. priate procedures ensuring that sub-conof increasing the number of women on tractors adhere to no less strict policies, our Board elected by the general meeting Human rights procedures and training than ISS staff. from one to at least two members not The commitment to respect human rights In addition, new requirements covering later than at the 2017 annual general is part of the ISS Code of Conduct which Safeguarding Children and Vulnerable meeting. With the election of Cynthia in turn is part of the terms of employment Adults were also included in the InternaMary Trudell and Claire Chiang to the for all employees. Training in human rights tional Human Resources Standards. Board in 2015, both of whom have issues and related risks are part of the extensive and diverse management Advantage programme, which provides In 2015, because of security threats across experience and competencies, that target training for top and middle management. the world, ISS also initiated a countryhas been achieved, and the Board has by-country assessment of ensuring the now set a new target of reaching at In 2015, we conducted a human rights pre-employment checks of employees least 40% women on the Board by 2020. due diligence assessment. The process in countries to reaffirm the importance and outcomes of this is presented on the of safety for our employees and our In terms of international experience, the following pages. customers and their facilities. Board aims at all times to have sufficient international experience at all manageAt this point in time, we have focussed Competencies and diversity ment levels taking into account the size activities for safeguarding of children As one of the world’s largest private and activities of ISS. The Board considers and vulnerable people, diversity, labour employers and with operations in 48 that it has diverse and broad international rights/employee representation as well countries, we are committed to fostering experience. The EGM is considered to have as possible cases of discrimination. and cultivating a culture of diversity the necessary international experience 24 PEOPLE if half of its members have international ISS Australia announces WOMEN IN THE WORKFORCE experience from large international comformal commitment to employ panies. Presently, all members of the EGM Indigenous Australians TOTAL IN ISS have international experience. In order to promote, facilitate and increase 51% the number of women in management level positions at ISS’s global head office, The agreement covers: we continue leveraging the Diversity Policy adopted by our direct subsidiary • Employment is freely chosen; ISS World Services A/S which employs the global head office employees (ISS A/S • Child labour is not used; does not have any employees), which defines a number of initiatives. Our • Freedom of association and initiatives include ensuring that female the right to collective bargaining candidates are identified for vacant are respected; positions, developing succession plans aiming at identifying female successors ISS Australia has pledged over 1,000 • The right to represent workers; as well as tabling the matter of women jobs for Indigenous Australians, through in leadership at ISS for discussion at least a partnership with the Australian Govern• Living wages; once a year at the EGM level. Furthermore, ment. The partnership is part of the we ensure that women are adequately Commonwealth’s new Employment • Hours of work are not excessive; represented in various leadership developParity Initiative, which harnesses the ment programmes as well as in graduate goodwill of Australia’s largest employers • Working conditions are decent; programmes across EMEA and at the ISS to hire Indigenous employees to help global head office. them increase their Indigenous workforce • Respect for others at work; to a 3% employment parity, getting The appointment of Michelle Healy as 20,000 more Indigenous Australians • Education and Training; Group Chief People & Culture Office in into private sector jobs by 2020. ISS April 2015 to the EGM shows our comAustralia has launched their first ever • Employers’ obligations are respected; mitment to promoting gender diversity at Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) as executive management level. The amount a formal commitment to Indigenous • Respect for the environment. of women at management level at the Australians and provides stretch targets ISS Global head office increased slightly for their business across the key areas of The overriding purpose is the creation of in 2015 compared to 2014 and gender Relationships, Respect and Opportunities. a level playing field. It leads to an obligadiversity remains a focus area in 2016. tion on the part of UNI to disclose and work against companies evading tax payCollaborating with unions ments and social security contributions or on human rights in other ways disregarding basic standards Since 2003, ISS has been part of an agreeAs part of the agreement, a set of in the service industry. ment with UNI Global Union, an internashared goals is agreed: tional network of national labour organiInvesting for results sations. It is a mutually binding agreement • Fair competition and the highest With a Euro 100,000 annual contribucommitting both parties to work in favour possible standards in the service tion, ISS also co-finances a UNI-run of human rights and decent working condiindustry; project in Mexico City to improve tender tions. The commitment stretches beyond processes in the service industry, including our own company into industry and the • Foundations for financial growth working with the local government to communities where we operate. ISS, on and strengthening of the ISS ensure minimum wage. A new procureits part, is obligated to support the UNI’s service delivery; ment policy was initiated in 2015 with 12 fundamental principles based on the increased emphasis on workers’ condiInternational Labour Organisation’s (ILO) • A balanced achievement of financial tions and benefits. This work has been conventions. This is an important part of success on one hand, and secure and ongoing during 2015 and the project ISS’s commitment to human rights. adequately paid jobs on the other. has also trained approximately 1,200 PEOPLE 25 Stéphane Pavion ISS France 26 PEOPLE janitors from numerous cleaning compaISS France launches endowment Human Resources, and a session for nies in both private and public sector. to promote solidarity questions to management represented by the Group COO, Henrik Andersen. The project in Mexico City will enter into its final year in 2016 and build a similar All discrimination project in a different region of the world. claims investigated Future projects will be discussed and In line with the ISS Code of Conduct and assessed together with UNI. the International HR standards, ISS takes all claims of discrimination seriously. 25 Managing labour relations incidents were filed, investigated and In line with our respect for human rights, followed up with legal authorities in the we believe in the right for our employees countries in question. For each of these, to organise and negotiate collectively. ISS France has established the endowISS produces a position paper describing We collaborate with employee represenment fund ISS Solidaire as part of its the outcomes of ISS’s analysis of the facts. tatives at many levels of our organisation, contribution to society. The fund will with structured and dedicated approaches work in collaboration with French In the end, 14 incidents were settled and for each. See figure below. charity organisations. 11 were deemed to be without legal merit. We manage our employee relations for our ISS Solidaire has, as a first, partnered Human rights due European operations through the European with the French charity organisation, diligence assessment Works Council. This consists of quarterly Restos du Coeur (Restaurants of the In 2015, Group HSE and CR performed meetings between management and Heart), by donating EUR 10,000. The an assessment of ISS’s current level of union representatives and an annual donation enables Restos du Coeur to compliance in terms of inclusion of meeting for all union members and a give out 10,000 meals to the most human rights in our governance and number of management representatives. vulnerable members of society. ISS management documents. The assessSolidaire will launch several projects ment was based on the United Nations’ The annual meeting with participants in partnership with Restos du Coeur, Guiding Principles (UNGPs) for Business from 20 countries, represent over 49% starting at the 96 ISS offices in France. and Human Rights, which provides of our employees. companies with an international and At Christmas, the ISS fund was used authoritative human rights framework. In 2015, the focus of the annual meeting to support sick children at the Institut was on implications for employees of the Gustave Roussy through a donation to ISS and the UNGPs GREAT project, which is the vehicle for the association “Tout le Monde Chante In essence, the UNGPs ask companies bringing The ISS Way, our strategy, to life. Contre le Cancer” (Everyone Sings to do three things. Other subjects on the agenda of this twoagainst Cancer). day assembly were new ISS work wear, Commit – by creating a policy that outEmployee Engagement, Health and Safety, lines the company’s intended actions in ISS MANAGES TRADE UNIONS AND EMPLOYEE WORKS COUNCILS ON BEHALF OF THE CUSTOMER UNI Global Group Risk mitigation for our customers is a Union key part of our value proposition European Europe Region Having contacts on all levels enables us Works Council to efficiently communicate with the relevant stakeholders Local Union and Country Recognised by employee stakeholder Workers Council 1) European laws based on the European Union’s Acquired Rights Directive (ARD) proCollective Bargaining Agreements and Contracts tecting the rights of employees in a busiIndividual agreements ARD/TUPE 1) Legal Framework ness transfer situation, also known as TUPE. PEOPLE 27 Overview of 2015 people performance PEOPLE Action areaS tools APPLIED activities IN 2015 performance IN 2015 Health and safety • ISS Safety Rules • Personal safety action • Fatalities: 7 • Group HSE and plans for individual • Lost Time Injury Frequency: 5 CR Action Plan management members • Decrease in lost work time com• The ISS Groups HSE • Campaigns. pared to 2010 baseline: 55% Management Manual • The ISS Group HSE and CR Reporting Manual • HSE@ISS-IT system. Employee • Engagement survey. • Survey performed. • 344,900 employees reached. engagement • Survey available in 52 languages. • Four aggregate measures show continuous high performance with scores above four on a five point scale. Leadership and • Training and develop• Service with a Human • 4,500 supervisors completed the training ment programmes. Touch-training programme Service with a Human Touch pro• Leadership training gramme, 21 people graduated the programmes Leadership Mastery programme, and • Acorn programme. 70 finished the Acorn programme. • Front line employees received 6,149,122 hours of class room training in 2015, compared to 5,584,132 hours in 2014. This is equal to 13 hours per person in 2015. Subjects included health and safety, technical training, management, language training, leadership and supervisory, IT, security and fire prevention. White collar employees had 490,769 hours of training in 2015, up 49% from 2014 and equal to 20 hours per employee. Human rights and • ISS international • Human rights due • As a result of our due diligence resources Human Resources diligence assessment assessment, we are working on standards performed in accordance our changes to our CR policy, the (HR Standards) with the United Nations’ International HR Standards and the • Diversity policy Guiding Principles on ISS Supplier Code of Conduct. • Formalised union human rights and business. • Audits showed no major nonand works council’s compliances with the International co-operation. HR standards. • European Works Council conference. • Continued UNI Global Union collaboration. 28 PEOPLE their work to respect human rights. This outcome of this exercise should be public Complex developments policy must, amongst others, be publistatements of intended actions to mitigate in Indonesia cally available, approved by the highest these adverse impacts. level of management in your company and describe what you expect from See an overview of the ISS due diligence In relation to a cleaning contract at a employees and business relationships. assessment on the folowing pages. In conschool in Indonesia, six ISS employees clusion, ISS governance and audit system were convicted in 2015 in a case of The ISS Code of Conduct, revised in provides coverage of the majority of alleged abuse. We have taken note of 2013, adopted by the Board of Direcsuggested responsibilities in the UNGPs. the court’s ruling but do not share the tors expresses our commitment that ISS In some areas we need to make addicourt’s view of the evidence presented. respects, supports and promotes human tions to our governance documents to In support of our former employees’ rights as stated in the United Nations ensure that we cover all aspects included human rights, we continue to support Declaration of Human Rights and the Core in the UNGPs. In several areas we will their legal defense and financially Conventions of the International Labour need to investigate if our coverage and support their families. We do so as an Organisation. In addition, ISS states governance is sufficient. These follow-up expression of our values and sense of in the International Human Resources actions are set to be completed during responsibility for our employees. standards that ISS is committed to sup2016-2017. porting and respecting human rights The case has touched ISS management throughout our workforce. It is also the React – in cases of adverse impacts on deeply, because of the very serious intent to reinforce our commitment by human rights, recognition of these and allegations and because of the plight amending the ISS CR policy in 2016. possible offers of compensation should of the people working for us. It led be offered. At the same time, prevento the development of the policy for Implement – by identifying potential or tion measures should be implemented. safeguarding children and vulnerable actual negative impacts on the human Finally, you must establish a mechanism people, both established in 2014. rights of your stakeholders. This is referred for employees to voice their concerns to as ’human rights due diligence’. The and give you feedback on your efforts. PEOPLE 29 Hector Peña ISS CHILE 30 PEOPLE Overview of the UN Guiding Principles assessment HUMAN RIGHT RELEVANT included in follow-up TO ISS Iss governance actions Positive; please see story Right to Self-Determination Code of Conduct, Yes about ISS Australia on (Indigenous Peoples Rights) International HR Standards page 24. Code of Conduct, Right to Non-discrimination Yes International HR Standards Right to work Yes International HR Standards Right to equal pay for equal work Yes International HR Standards Right to a living wage (minimum wage) Yes International HR Standards HSE Management System, Right to safe and healthy working conditions Yes 3 ISS Safety Rules Right to equal opportunity for everyone Yes International HR Standards 3 to be promoted Right to rest, leisure and paid holidays Yes International HR Standards 3 Right to form and join trade unions and the Yes International HR Standards right to strike Right to social security, including social insurance Yes 3 Right to protection of mothers before and Yes 3 after childbirth Right to children's young people's protection Yes International HR Standards from exploitation (no child labour) Right to adequate food and its fair distribution Yes 3 Right to adequate clothing Yes 3 Right to adequate housing No Right to water and sanitation Yes International HR Standards HSE Management System, Right to health Yes 3 ISS Safety Rules Right to education Yes International HR Standards Right to take part in cultural life No Right to benefit from scientific progress No Right to material gains from inventions No Moral rights of authors (protection of copyrights) No HSE Management System, Right to life Yes 3 ISS Safety Rules Right not to be subjected to torture, cruel, inhuYes International HR Standards man and/or degrading treatment or punishment PEOPLE 31 HUMAN RIGHT RELEVANT included in follow-up TO ISS Iss governance actions Right to free, prior and informed consent to No medical or scientific experimentation Right not to be subjected to slavery, servitude Code of Conduct, Yes or forced labour International HR Standards Right to liberty and security of person Yes 3 Rights of detained persons to humane treatment Yes 3 Right not to be subjected to imprisonment for No inability to fulfil a contract Right to freedom of movement Yes International HR Standards Right of aliens to due process when facing No expulsion (seeking asylum) Right to a fair trial Yes Code of Conduct 3 Right to be free from retroactive criminal law No Right to recognition as a person before the law No Right to privacy Yes 3 Right to freedom of thought, conscience Yes 3 and religion Right to freedom of opinion Yes 3 Code of Conduct, WhistleRight to freedom of expression Yes blower policy and system Right to freedom of information Yes 3 Right to freedom from war propaganda No Right to freedom from incitement of racial, Yes 3 religious or national hatred Right to freedom of peaceful assembly Yes International HR Standards Right to freedom of association Yes International HR Standards Right to protection of the family and the Yes 3 right to marry International HR Standards, Right to protection of the child and right to Yes Policy on safeguarding acquire a nationality children and vulnerable adults Right to participate in public affairs Yes 3 Right to equality before the law, equal protection Yes International HR Standards of the law, and rights of non-discrimination Rights of minorities (Culture, religious practice Yes 3 and language) 32 PLANET Planet – managing our impacts Cleaning Excellence ISS manages our activities’ will further improve our value from certi– Case study environmental impact fication by applying their value adding audit approach Risk Based Certification® in through a focus on efficient every audit for ISS. ISS applies a documented process operations in our own and and management approach called our clients’ facilities. We are Expanding the Green ‘Cleaning Excellence’. increasingly moving towards Offices Programme certification of our facilities Since 2014, participation in the ISS Green It combines working methods and Offices Programme has been mandatory tools with procurement processes and and practices to the benefit for our own offices. The programme is cost optimisation, and obligates ISS of our customers. designed to reduce the environmental staff to identify potential improveimpact of our own offices. ments in terms of both the service The main environmental impacts from delivery and environmental impacts. our own activities comes from the use of We work through certification on three cars and air transport, energy consumplevels, bronze, silver and gold. By the We know from experience that tion in buildings and the use of energy, end of 2015, 144 certifications have Cleaning Excellence contracts can achieve water and chemicals in delivering our been issued to ISS offices (13 gold, 19 reductions in the use of detergents by cleaning services, which constitute silver and 112 bronze). We have also 75%, water consumption and disposal 51% of our commercial offerings. An offered the certification to client offices can be reduced by up to 70%. overview of our activities and 2015 peras a value proposition. formance is in the table at the right. An example is moving to concentrate For each level there is a checklist of comand using a dosage system for preparWe did not identify any significant nonpliance items. To become certified at least ing cleaning products. In the UK, we compliance with environmental laws 80% of employees must attest their have moved one of the product lines and regulations in 2015. We reported active participation in reduction measures, to this process. This has resulted in less again into the Carbon Disclosure Project required by the checklist. Certificates are stock being delivered (62%), reduction ISS received a disclosure score of 95 out administered by the country head of HSE in over use of the product and increased of a possible 100, compared to a CDP in collaboration with Group HSE and CR. safety. This has led to reduction in CO2 average score of 60. The assessment by 94% and a reduction in waste also looks at actions in the reporting In terms of programme content, the (packaging) by over 93%. year that contribute to climate change focus is on behavioural change as it mitigation, adaptation and transparency. relates to efficient use of resources and Amount The performance scores are expressed as waste disposal. 140 bands (ranging from A to E, where A is 120 the highest). ISS received a B where the No emissions from our CDP supply chain average was D. Global headquarters 100 ISS headquarters participates in a climate 80 Moving towards partnership programme with the Danish 60 global certification energy supplier DONG Energy. The proWe introduced an HSE Manual in 2011 gramme combines reduction initiatives 40 that ensures that we measure, monitor with investments in renewable energy 20 and continuously reduce our environmensources. In 2015, ISS progressed further on 0 tal impacts. In 2015, we have collaboreducing our headquarter consumption Annual Pallets rated with Det Norske Veritas (DNV GL) by over 68 Mwh through improvements Chemical to work towards global certification of and efficient use of the ventilation system activities in the HSE Manual and our HSE and the continued use of our energy surNormal methodology standard. By the end of the year, activiveillance system, Smart Flex. The savings Concentrate and Dosing System ties representing approximately 65% of achieved from these were applied towards ISS revenue had been certified. DNV GL the purchase of 584.9 MWh renewable PLANET 33 Overview of 2015 planet performance INDICATOR IMPLEMENTATION 2015 activities 2015 PERFORMANCE CO2 emissions Reductions achieved through 1. Driver Safety E-learning Vehicle emissions increased from leased cars leasing more fuel efficient cars 2. Continued leasing of more due to acquisition of Technical and changes in driver behaviour. fuel efficient vehicles. Services in the UK and first year reporting of ISS Kloak Service in Denmark. CO2 emissions We encourage more online 1. Use of webinars Emissions from business travel from business meetings to reduce air travel 2. ISS Travel policy. decreased from 15,691 tonnes in travel in particular. 2014 to 14,287 tonnes in 2015. We continue to encourage online meetings to limit travel. Chemicals We collaborate with suppliers to Further integration of an IT tool We have increased our use of develop and test environmentally to propose environmentally eco-certified chemicals to 18% in friendly products and materials friendly solutions. 2015 from 15% in 2014. that also offer reduced costs in use and increased productivity. Electricity (own) Mandatory certification Implementation of awareIn 2015, we consumed 54,600 according to the ISS Green ness and behaviour changing MWh of electricity compared Offices Programme. measures. 56,301 MWh in 2014. Water (own) Mandatory certification Implementation of awareIn 2015, we consumed 331,169 m3 according to the ISS Green ness and behaviour changing water, a decrease from 440,268 Offices Programme. measures. in 2014. 34 PLANET ISS UK Cooking Bus promotes energy certificates (RECS). With these Further to our collaborations, we require great food culture in schools certificates we have fully offset electriour suppliers and sub-suppliers to comply city consumption from our headquarter with the ISS Supplier Code of Conduct building and we can report zero CO2 that states that compliance with all emission from this facility in 2015. applicable environmental laws and regulations must be assured. Innovations with suppliers We continuously work with suppliers ISS has worked with our strategic supplier to develop and test new tools and proDiversey in developing an IT tool to processes that will reduce the environmenvide a cleaning methodology using tal impacts from cleaning. In 2015, we products and materials in alignment with focused on green innovation projects our Green Cleaning practices. This simple ISS UK has teamed up with charities such as: and user friendly tool allows our operatio‘Focus on Food’ and ‘School Food nal employees to recommend alternate Matters’ to bring the joys of cooking to • The Diversey SURE comprehensive solutions to our customers that incorposchool pupils, cooks and teachers across range of cleaning products is plant rate environmentally friendly products the London Borough of Redbridge. based and 100% biodegradable and materials that are recyclable, ergodesigned to deliver superior profesnomic, reduce the usage of water and ‘Focus on Food’ is a charity that sional results while being safe for electricity, reduce emissions, waste and supports people to develop skills for people and kind to the environment. storage and can extend the life of healthier futures. Their Cooking Buses The products are made with environthe surfaces. The solutions also offer – travelling kitchen classrooms – visit mentally friendly ingredients from improved cost in use and productivity. schools and come with a specialist renewable resources. team of people to train teachers and teach children essential cooking skills. • The 3M stone floor protector system, As well as getting kids cooking first where we have applied this process hand, the Cooking Bus visits are also to floors in our headquarters. The designed to provide adults with the benefits of the floor protector system skills and knowledge required to teach is that it features environmentally pupils about food. Eleven ISS school friendly components, and creates cooks took part in sessions that gave a high traction gloss that can help them the skills required to set up and reduce slips, trips, and falls. run afterschool cooking clubs in their schools. Teaching staff, who run cooking • The Pureti Clean and Fresh glass or afterschool clubs also participated in cleaner that keeps the glass cleaner the events. longer, makes it easier to keep clean, and destroys harmful VOCs and odor molecules in the air. PLANET 35 Marhlon Gray ISS UK 36 PROFIT Profit – ensuring good business practices AN Example of A business We describe how we operational risk assessment tool. Furtherintegrity case in 2015 perform and manage risks more, a global risk & compliance service function has been established within related to business perforGlobal Operations to support risk mitigaOur Swiss business was involved in a mance and integrity, by tion and compliance on major contracts. case of allegations of collusion over the presenting an overview of market for tunnel cleaning. Only three our financial performance, A coherent framework for providers of this service existed in the highlighting our principles good practices country and the level of interaction We manage the business integrity of ISS between these companies was deemed and activities related to through clear policies and guidelines, to be of a degree where these would business integrity in 2015. standardised tools and training activities be a violation of competition laws. for all relevant employees. However, as ISS had alerted authorities 2015 financial performance to this situation, we were only made to Our strategic initiatives have supported We train our managers through E-learnpay court costs. We immediately prohealthy organic growth and margin ing systems and courses about business vided training for everyone involved in improvements for the second conseintegrity and compliance in order to this part of our business on appropriate cutive year. This resulted in the highest raise awareness and to enable them to behaviour in relation to competitors. revenue and profit levels in ISS history. spot wrong behaviour. We encourage matters to be reported. Serious matters Group revenue improved DKK 5 billion can be reported through the Whistleto DKK 79.6 billion in 2015. Organic blower reporting system available on growth was 4.4%, driven by a continued the ISS websites. A Business Integrity strong performance in emerging markets, Committee reviews all material integrity large contract launches in Europe and issues including those reported in the our Integrated Facility Services (IFS) Whistleblower system. business in general. All regions delivered positive organic growth rates with In 2015, we reviewed our corporate Germany, Switzerland and Turkey as the governance policy for ISS legal entities principal drivers, supported mainly by IFS as part of our business integrity framecontract launches including Vattenfall work. It defines terms for organisation, and Swisscom. approval thresholds, values, conflicts of interests, top management employOperating profit before other items ment terms, expense account approvals, amounted to DKK 4,533 million in 2015 management and board composition, for an operating margin of 5.7% (2014: escalation guidelines and confidentiality 5.6%), the second straight year of improveagreements. It describes the hierarchy of ment in spite of the persistently challengpolicies and how to adopt these using the ing macroeconomic environment in tools provided. It is targeted towards highEurope and certain emerging markets. level management levels of each country in our organisation. The fiirst edition of Driven by the growth in IFS revenue this policy was established in 2010, and from global corporate clients (now at has now been aligned and updated. 9% of Group revenue) and key accounts, we experience increased risk awareness Improved risk management and growing demand for risk transfer Customer contracts over a certain monefrom our customers. To support assesstary value are subject to approval by the ment of the operational risk exposure on Board of Directors transaction committee, major contracts, we have rolled out an others by our executive group managePROFIT 37 ment, some by regional managers. This are forwarded to the relevant local deISS Denmark and Danish Red is an important process to manage of partments for further investigation and Cross provide relief for our risks – financial or reputational – and action. Of the reports in scope, 14 cases disadvantaged families these processes are enforced rigidly. were escalated to the ISS Group’s Business Integrity Committee (BIC) in 2015 As part of the continuing work to improve for further investigation. The BIC folour customer contract approval processes lowed a procedure whereby the BIC will for large customer contracts, we have discuss the nature of each case when it decided to broaden the scope for ISS’s is received and decide on the appropricontract risk assessment tool, CRAM. This ate action to be taken. This will involve is a step to continuously adjust the scope of consultations with country, regional or our processes to target key categories Group management, and in some cases of contracts and to understand our conengaging either GIA or external consulttract base. We have further taken steps ants in investigations of the matters. to align different approval processes to The cases are not closed until they have improve risk management and informed been addressed or investigated to the decision making, whilst maintaining the satisfaction of the BIC, following which ISS Denmark holds an annual ISS Holiday agility and entrepreneurship of ISS. this will be noted in the minutes of the Camp. The tradition consists of volunBIC meeting. teers from ISS and Danish Red Cross We have additionally improved the tool providing families with an unforgettable to facilitate the interaction between An illustrative example of how the stay with lots of enjoyable activities, changing customer demands and the Whistleblower system works in practice support, and new friendships. In recent development of internal functions to is the case of the verbal abuse by an ISS years, the number of disadvantaged ensure that ISS can continue to meet the security guard on a subway train in children living under conditions where increasingly sophisticated needs of our Taiwan. On the evening of November 11, they are not thriving is increasing. Since global customers. 2015, a well-known contributor to ‘You there is a need for additional measures Tube’ who had recorded a serious and for these children and their families, Addressing issues reported in unacceptable verbal abuse by an ISS ISS Denmark has again arranged the our Whistleblower system security guard uploaded a video on ‘You ISS Holiday Camp in collaboration with In 2012, we launched the ISS WhistleTube’ that quickly spread. ISS received Danish Red Cross. ISS provides disadblower system. It continues to serve as 50 reports through the Whistleblower vantaged children and their families a reporting channel for raising serious system that enabled ISS to react quickly with a break from their ordinary lives, and sensitive concerns, guaranteeing and take disciplinary action against our in addition to giving them the opporprotection from reprisals or retaliation employee in question. tunity for enjoyable experiences with for all persons who make complaints in other families with children. good faith. The system is open to all our We would like to see more reports stakeholders and available on our corcoming in from our employees and The participants consist of both disporate website and for more than 90% stakeholders, as a way of ensuring the advantaged and vulnerable families with of our employees reporting options are integrity of our business behaviour. In children, ISS families and volunteers. available in their own language. 2015, we investigated the establishDuring the three days, the programme ment of more options for reporting and featured various activities and enterIn 2015, 144 Whistleblower reports in 2016 we will implement a telephone tainment with everything from a twist were received through the system or reporting system. bread barbecue to waterslides, games, through other communication channels. songs and various surprises. The objecAs in previous years, the majority of The table on the next page provides tives are to provide disadvantaged families reports concern local human resources an overview of our framework and with a much-needed holiday experience, issues, which are outside the scope of 2015 activities in areas related to busiwhile at the same time, giving them the the Whistleblower policy. These reports ness integrity. opportunity to build relationships and personal as well as professional networks. 38 PROFIT Business integrity framework and activities in 2015 SUBJECT area POLICIES AND TOOLS IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES 2015 Behaviour Code of Conduct established in 2003 Code of Conduct is Began redesigning approach to by anyone and most recently revised in 2013. Areas referenced in all docuon boarding of employees working for, covered: Personal Conduct of Employees; mentation of contractual including induction to the ISS supplying Anti-Corruption and Bribery; Compliance relationships: Code of Conduct. or representwith Competition Laws; Business Partner suppliers, customers ing ISS Relations; Workplace Standards; and employees. Corporate Responsibility. Competition Competition Law policy adopted in 2014. Policy communicated In 2015, 659 people completed law Concerns risks such as: information and E-learning based E-learning based competition law sharing with competitors; market behatraining offered to training, from a targeted audience viour which might be perceived as price relevant staff. of leadership, sales and procurefixing; guidelines for participation in ment that might have an impact in industry associations; how to handle this area. inspections by authorities. Anti-corruption Building on the ISS Code of Conduct, the E-learning training 2015 was a year where we repeated ISS Anti-Corruption policy was established programme available in training in anti-corruption according in 2010. It states: six languages. Training to our three-year cycle. Therefore, • ISS is against any form of corruption of relevant staff, both as a total of 2,100 people completed and bribery and is committed to stand-alone requirements training in anti-corruption in 2015 combat such practices; and as part of two trainincluding all top managers at ISS • ISS competes for business on fair terms ing programmes: ISS (approximately 400 managers). and solely on the merits of its services; Advantage (leadership) • Regardless of local practice, any and Negotiation Process personal payments, kickbacks or bribes Framework (contract between ISS and customers, suppliers management). Training or public servants are strictly prohibited; repeated every third year. • It is unacceptable to receive gifts or other gratuities from business partners, unless customary in the environment, of modest nominal value and serves a business purpose. Contractual Established Negotiation and Contract Web-based tool to Revised our large customer contract risks Process Framework and contract risk assess contract risks. approval process and established assessment tool, CRAM. Applied in the conthreshold for approval escalation. tract approval process. Access to Whistleblower system established in 2012. The system is open to We received 144 reports through remediation It is a reporting channel for raising serious all our stakeholders and the Whistleblower system in 2015. and sensitive concerns guaranteeing all available on our corpoThe vast majority were matters that persons making complaints in good faith rate website. did not meet the eligibility criteria protection from reprisals or retaliation. (serious and sensitive concern) to be processed under the Whistleblower policy. The Business Integrity Committee investigated 14 matters in 2015. We investigated the establishment of more options for reporting via telephone and apptechnology to widen the choices. PROFIT 39 Thanakrit nateanong ISS Thailand 40 REVIEW STATEMENT Independent Review Statement To Management and broader A limited assurance engagement is sub• Reviewing ISS’s processes for deterstakeholders of ISS A/S stantially less in scope than a reasonable mining material issues to be included We have reviewed the 2015 Corporate assurance engagement. Consequently, the in the report and challenging the Responsibility Report (‘the report’) to level of assurance obtained in a limited material text statements in the report; provide limited assurance on the text assurance engagement is substantially and data therein. The report covers ISS’s lower than the assurance that would • Reviewing the processes, tools, global activities from 1 January to 31 have been obtained had we performed systems and controls for gathering, December 2015. a reasonable assurance engagement. consolidating and aggregating data Considering the risk of material error, at group level and performing analyManagement responsibility we planned and performed our work to tical review procedures and obtaining Management of ISS A/S is responsible obtain all information and explanations additional explanations of data perfor collecting, analysing, aggregating necessary to support our conclusion. formance from both group functions and presenting the information in the and from selected country sites; report ensuring that data are free from Our scope of work also included a review material misstatement, whether due to of the report against the requirements • Interviewing management staff across fraud or error. of sections 99a and 99b of the Danish various group functions, including Financial Statements Act (FSA), the UN internal audit and accounting; Auditor’s responsibility Global Compact Policy on Communicating Our responsibility is to express a limited Progress, the Global Reporting Initiative • Inspecting internal and external docuassurance conclusion based on our (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines mentation (including policies, action engagement with Management and in Version 4 (In Accordance – Core). plans, and media coverage) to verify accordance with the agreed scope of the extent to which they support the work. We have conducted our work in We performed our on-site review at information included in the report; accordance with ISAE 3000, Assurance the ISS A/S Head Office in Denmark in Engagements Other than Audits or November 2015 and in January and • Evaluating the overall presentation Reviews of Historical Financial InformaFebruary 2016. We have not performed of the report, including consistency tion and additional requirements under site visits or interviewed external stakeof information; Danish audit regulation to obtain limited holders. We have not performed any assurance about whether the selected CR assurance procedures on baseline data, • Reviewing the report for adherence to data are free from material misstatement. economic or financial data, except for the GRI principles for defining report reported “Income tax by employees”. content and ensuring report quality Deloitte Statsautoriseret RevisionsWe have not performed assurance proand the G4 disclosure requirements. partnerselskab is subject to International cedures on forward-looking statements, Standard on Quality Control (ISQC) 1 such as targets and expectations, or Conclusion and, accordingly, applies a comprehenon individual case stories disclosed in Based on our work, nothing has come to sive quality control system, including the report. Consequently, we draw no our attention that causes us to believe documented policies and procedures conclusion on these statements. that the 2015 Corporate Responsibility regarding compliance with ethical Report, in all material respects, has not requirements, professional standards Methodology been prepared in accordance with the and applicable legal and regulatory Considering the risk of material error, stated reporting criteria. We confirm requirements. We have complied with we planned and performed our work so that the report complies with sections the independence and other ethical as to obtain all information and explana99a and 99b of the Danish FSA, and it requirements of the Code of Ethics for tions necessary to support our concluconforms to the requirements for a UN Professional Accountants issued by FSR sion. We used the ISS Group Health Global Compact Communication on – Danish Auditors (Code of Ethics for Safety and Environment and Corporate Progress as well as the GRI’s G4 Professional Accountants), which are Responsibility Data Reporting Manual ‘In Accordance – Core’ level. based on the fundamental principles of and other internal reporting manuals integrity, objectivity, professional comtogether with GRI reporting criteria as an petence and due care, confidentiality appropriate basis for our engagement. and professional behaviour. Our procedures included the following: REVIEW STATEMENT 41 Observations Materiality and sustainability context Accuracy and reliability The report content reflects ISS’s ongoing commitment to We have found significant improvements in data quality, ensuring responsible business practices and to the steady following several years of investment in strengthening internal expansion of initiatives to support a strong governance and risk data collection and control procedures, particularly around management approach. The topics and performance results environmental data. We have found the Management of ISS presented in the report are aligned with the leadership team’s to be highly committed to continuous improvement of data priorities for addressing material Corporate Responsibility risks accuracy and reliability. and are framed within the overall organisational strategy and in a broader sustainability context. ISS continues to look to international standards such as ISO 26000 and SA8000 against Opportunities for Improvement which to benchmark its performance. We have submitted a number of observations and recommenCompleteness and timeliness dations to Management of ISS, which include: • Based on results of the human rights due diligence assessThe boundary and publication date of the report is the same as ment, consider further development of an ISS framework the annual report, providing timely disclosure to all stakeholders for managing human rights; on the company’s Corporate Responsibility performance. Within the reporting boundary and scope defined by the report, we have • Continue implementing the anti-corruption compliance not found any significant omissions of important information. system to obtain greater assurance around related risks; • Consider developing a formal and systematic Group-level Clarity and balance approach to community involvement e.g. in education; • In future reporting, consider showing how ISS’s operations The report provides a transparent and balanced presentation contribute towards realising the UN Sustainable Developof the company’s Corporate Responsibility results, highlighting ment Goals and how the company’s business objectives tie challenges and dilemmas within its performance. into the global goals. Stakeholder inclusiveness and responsiveness Copenhagen, 1 March 2016 The report presents the range of stakeholder engagement activities undertaken and provides relevant examples of the company’s responses to issues at a global level as well as local Deloitte engagements. The company appears committed to ensuring Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab global, consistent standards for e.g. human resources and Central Business Registration No. 33 96 35 56 investing in leadership development. The company monitors and updates its policies and practices in line with increased stakeholder expectations and international principles around e.g. human rights due diligence (UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights) and the handling of privacy and Anders Dons, Helena Barton, security risks. State Authorised Public Accountant Lead Reviewer 42 PRINCIPLES AND COMPLIANCE Reporting Principles and Compliance This report, the fifth comprehensive – Requirements’ as a basis of our analyThey are intended to guide data gathering Corporate Responsibility report prepared sis and reporting. ISO 26000 provides and reporting to ensure that the reported by ISS, covers activities under our operaguidance on the underlying principles of information fairly presents our HSE and CR tional control in the calendar year 2015. social responsibility, recognising social performance. The Group HSE Manual In 2015, we have not added new data responsibility and engaging stakeholders, requires that countries and other entities parameters. For divestments, data was the core subjects and issues pertaining collecting data manage their HSE and CR included up to the time of the divestto social responsibility and on ways to data quality systematically as part of their ment taking effect and not thereafter. We integrate socially responsible behaviour management system. In order to facilitate have focused on improving the quality into the organisation. The standard control and review of HSE and CR data, of our data. To improve the quality of emphasises the importance of results each reported parameter shall have an data, we have implemented a mandaand improvements in performance on audit trail. An audit trail is a clear tory HSE@ISS IT system, in countries social responsibility. The Danish Standard (documented) record of definitions, to report and investigate incidents in a DS 49001 is a management system assumptions, aggregation, calculations systematic approach. In addition, we standard based on the principles, and references that result in the final started calculating the environmental subjects and issues and stakeholder reported data. data two times a year. The development engagement described in ISO 26000. of data can be explained in a number of The manual specifies the data that shall countries due to divestments that have In addition, we also work with the prinbe available for monitoring performance taken place during the year. To further ciples of SA8000 pertaining to labour and for reporting on corporate responsiensure improvements in the quality of and human rights. The SA8000 Standard bility issues at Group level. data, we have also held webinars with is a tool for implementing international countries to explain the data parameters. labour standards to protect employees. Changes and future outlook However, we are on a journey of contiIn 2014, we started capturing lost time nuous improvement in terms of quality This is the statutory report on corporate due to occupational injuries in hours of our data. social responsibility cf.§99 a and §99 b (previously in days). As we have done in of the Danish Financial Statements Act. 2015, we will continue on improving the External principles quality of our data in 2016. In 2016, we and guidelines The reporting furthermore serves to fulfil will start calculating environmental data We have designed our reporting to be our obligation to communicate on profour times a year, an increase from two in line with G4 Sustainability Reporting gress (CoP) as required by the UNGC. times a year. Guidelines by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the world’s most widely Internal guidelines used sustainability reporting framework. As a basis for our reporting, ISS developed We have chosen to be in accordance a Group HSE and CR Reporting Manual in with the ‘Core’ option. An overview of 2010 to provide reporting principles and the GRI standard disclosures included in rules to ensure a consistent basis for this report can be found in the table on reporting. This Manual is reviewed and the following pages. updated yearly. We have also used the ISO Standard ISO The principles are derived from generally 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility accepted accounting and reporting prinand the Danish Standard DS 49001 ciples and include Relevance, Consistency, ‘Social responsibility management system Transparency, Accuracy and Completeness. PRINCIPLES AND COMPLIANCE 43 william palle and hirmet elezi ISS Denmark 44 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES GRI and UNGC Compliance Tables GRI content index General Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis Page G4-1 Letter to our Stakeholders 2 Organisational Profile G4-3 Organisation’s name Inside cover G4-4 Primary products and services Inside cover G4-5 Headquarter location Inside cover G4-6 Number of countries where ISS operates and countries Inside cover with significant operations G4-7 Ownership nature and legal form Annual Report G4-8 Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors, types of Inside cover customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of organisation Inside cover G4-10 Employee numbers Inside cover G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective 26 bargaining agreements G4-12 Supply chain description 11 G4-13 Significant changes in operations, capital structure or Annual Report suppliers during the reporting period G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle 32 G4-15 External commitments Annual Report G4-16 Memberships of associations Annual Report GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES 45 General Standard Disclosures Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Page G4-17 List of company entities and exclusions Annual Report G4-18 Process for defining the report content and implementation 6 G4-19 List of material aspects 6 G4-20 Report aspect boundary internally 7 G4-21 Report aspect boundary externally 7 G4-22 Effect of and reason for restatements 13 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting in terms of scope 42 and aspect boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 7 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders engaged 7 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 7 G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement and 7 company response Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 42 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle 42 G4-31 Contact point Back cover G4-32 GRI reporting option, content index and external 42 assurance reporting governance Page G4-34 Governance structure and responsibilities 7 ethics and integrity G4-36 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as 6, 7 codes of conduct and codes of ethics 46 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES general Standard Disclosures aspects in G4 short description of Indicator G4 Page (see G4 documents for precise title) indicator Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed G4-EC1 13 Energy Energy consumption within organisation G4-EN3 13 Reduction in energy requirements G4-EN7 13 Water Water withdrawal G4-EN8 13 Emissions Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) G4-EN15 13 Energy indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) G4-EN16 13 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) G4-EN17 13 Reductions of GHG emissions G4-EN19 13 Mitigation of environmental impacts G4-EN27 32 Supplier Environmental New suppliers screened G4-EN32 11 Assessment Negative impacts identified G4-EN33 11 Compliance Significant fines and sanctions G4-EN29 32 Transport Impacts of transportation G4-EN30 32 Occupational Health Work-related injuries, fatalities, etc. G4-LA6 21 and Safety Risk of occupational diseases G4-LA7 21 Health & Safety in formal union agreements G4-LA8 24 Training and Education Hours of training G4-LA9 13 Longterm skills management G4-LA10 19 Career development reviews G4-LA11 It is mandatory for all employees; however, we cannot report on all completed data as some are completed on hard copies and registered in files and we are still working on collecting the data. GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES 47 SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures aspects in G4 short description of Indicator G4 Page (see G4 documents for precise title) indicator Supplier New suppliers screened G4-LA14 9, 11 Assessment for Labour Practices Negative impacts identified G4-LA15 9, 11 Labour/Management Notice periods for operational changes G4-LA4 26 Relations Diversity Diversity of employees and governance bodies G4-LA12 23, 24 Non-discrimination Incidents and corrective actions G4-HR3 26 Freedom of Violations of rights G4-HR4 24, 26 Association & Collective Bargaining Child Labour Risk and measures taken G4-HR5 9, 11 Forced Labour Risk and measures taken G4-HR6 9, 11 Security Practices Security personnel trained G4-HR7 9, 11 Assessment Operations assessed for human rights G4-HR9 27 Supplier Human Rights New suppliers screened G4-HR10 11 Assessment Negative impacts identified G4-HR11 11 Human Rights Grievance Register of grievances G4-HR12 37, 38 Mechanisms Anti-corruption Operations assessed for risks G4-SO3 38 Communication and training G4-SO4 38 Incidents and actions taken G4-SO5 38 Product Responsibility Customer satisfaction G4-PR5 7 48 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES united nations global compact Human rights page Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the 3 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in 7, 23 human rights abuses. labour standards Read more on page Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 24 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 9, 11, 27 compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 9, 11, 27 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in 26 respect of employment and occupation. environment Read more on page Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 32 approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater 32 environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion 34 of environmentally-friendly technologies. anti-corruption Read more on page Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption 36, 37 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ISS AT A GLANCE Regional performance Western Revenue by country (DKK million) 40,894 DKKm Europe United Kingdom Switzerland 11,896 5,174 Israel Netherlands 1,826 1,731 Revenue France 4,794 Austria 1,647 51% Spain 4,198 Ireland 622 of Group revenue Turkey 2,787 Portugal 483 Belgium & Luxembourg 2,494 Italy 407 6.2% Germany 2,435 Greece 400 Operating margin 4% Organic growth 190,753 38% Employees of Group employees Nordic Revenue by country (DKK million) 14,738 DKKm Norway 3,944 Denmark 3,116 Revenue Finland 3,753 Iceland 130 Sweden 3,708 Greenland 87 19% of Group revenue 7.5% Operating margin 34,142 7% 1% Employees of Group employees Organic growth Asia Revenue by country (DKK million) 10,104 DKKm Hong Kong 2,316 Taiwan 364 Revenue Singapore 1,694 Philippines 255 Indonesia 1,511 Malaysia 107 13% Thailand 1,357 Japan 107 of Group revenue India 1,221 Brunei 40 China 1,114 Other countries 18 7.3% Operating margin 11% Organic growth 190,306 38% Employees of Group employees Design: almaco Production and print: almaco Copy-writer: Eva Harpøth Skjoldborg Printed in March 2016. ISS AT A GLANCE Pacific Revenue by country (DKK million) 4,478 DKKm Australia 4,217 Revenue New Zealand 261 6% of Group revenue 5.0% Operating margin 12,407 2% 5% Employees of Group employees Organic growth Latin Revenue by country (DKK million) 3,609 DKKm America Brazil Chile 1,310 944 Argentina Uruguay 501 97 Revenue Mexico 690 Other countries 67 5% of Group revenue 4.8% Operating margin 44,178 9% 5% Employees of Group employees Organic growth North Revenue by country (DKK million) 4,161 DKKm America USA 4,012 Revenue Canada 149 5% of Group revenue 3.6% Operating margin 15,355 3% 0% Employees of Group employees Organic growth Eastern Revenue by country (DKK million) 1,580 DKKm Europe Czech Republic Slovakia 393 232 Hungary Romania 144 141 Revenue Poland 225 Russia 118 2% Slovenia 179 Croatia of Group revenue Estonia 148 6.8% Operating margin 17,502 3% 2% Employees of Group employees Organic growth Elena Mitevska ISS Croatia Share your opinion We welcome your feedback as it is an important part of our dialogue with our stakeholders. You are welcome to contact Joseph Nazareth, Head of Group HSE and CR at +45 3817 0000 or write to us at: Head of Group HSE and CR ISS A/S, Buddingevej 197 2860 Søborg, Denmark ISS A/S www.issworld.com
