TO WA R D S TOMORROW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Content CONTENTS Sustainability Performance Highlights 4 5 About the Report Our Business Philosophy 7 8 From the Desk of CEO & Managing Director Corporate Governance 10 22 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Assessment 24 26 Aspect Mapping Table Economic Performance 27 29 Customer Centricity Product Innovation 31 40 Energy and Climate Change Environmental Stewardship 47 57 Human Resource Management Occupational Health and Safety 65 73 Value Chain Sustainability Community Development 79 85 Independent Assurance Statement Glossary 89 92 GRI G4 Content Index NVG Mapping 99 100 UNGC COP Mapping Awards and Recognition 102 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Sustainability performace Highlights Sustainability Performance Highlights ₹ 406.92 million invested towards ₹ 205.70 million spent on CSR environment protection initiatives ₹ 22.17billion invested in 55% procurement from Research and Development local sources 9.02% electricity from renewable 15% reduction in Lost Time sources as percentage of Injury Frequency Rate total electricity consumption compared to previous year Among 10 Indian companies selected on Dow Jones Sustainability “ Sustainable Plus Platinum Label for the year 2015 by ” Emerging Market Index 2016! CII Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development 4 Sustainability Report 2015-16 About the Report About the Report This is the twelfth Annual Sustainability report of Tata contents of this report have been aligned as per the Motors Limited (TML) following the previous 11th Indicator Protocol of GRI Guidelines while applying the Sustainability Report for the year 2014-15. It details our repor ting principles of materiality, stakeholder performance and achievements from 1st April 2015 to 31st inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness March 2016 (FY 2015-16). and also ensuring adherence to the Principles of This report of TML highlights the performance, initiatives Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. The report is and information of our operations at sites of Dharwad, linked to the nine principles de ned under the National Jamshedpur, Lucknow, Pantnagar, Pune and Sanand.The Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and report aims to disclose sustainability performance of India Economic (NVG-SEE) Responsibilities of Businesses in operations and in order to be more inclusive, reporting is India issued by the Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs, extended to include the performance of three subsidiary Government of India. companies and one joint venture (JV) which operate In order to obtain an objective and impartial assurance on outside the plant premises. The reporting scope has been the Report, TML has been seeking the same from third extended to Tata Technologies Ltd., Pune (72.32% direct party agencies on all its Sustainability Reports since it subsidiary); TAL Manufacturing Ltd., Nagpur and Tata started reporting. In the current year, authenticity of Marcopolo Motors Ltd., Dharwad in addition to the data and systems disclosed in Sustainability Report subsidiaries covered in the previous repor t-TAL 2015-16 and conformance with ‘in accordance’Manufacturing Solutions Ltd., Pune (100% direct comprehensive requirements of the GRI G4 guidelines has subsidiary); TML Drivelines Ltd., Jamshedpur (100% direct been veri ed by DNVGL Business Assurance India Private subsidiary) and Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd., Lucknow Limited as an independent third party assurance provider. (51%:49%, Joint Venture). They have conducted the assurance engagement as per TAL Pune manufactures machines, material handling Type 2 moderate level as set out in the AA1000 Assurance equipment and automation solutions required for Standard 2008, the statement of which forms a part of this manufacturing automobiles, TMLDL Jamshedpur Report. The assurance statement by DNVGL Business manufactures aggregates like axles and transmission and Assurance India Private Limited covers the summary of the TMML Lucknow builds the vehicle body on chassis rolled work performed, the manner in which the assurance out by TML. TTL is an Engineering Services Outsourcing engagement has been conducted, the extent to which and Product Development IT services Company providing TML has applied GRI G4 Guidelines and the conclusions on services to TML as well as to the global manufacturing the Report. industry Company Overview Key facts and gures regarding sustainability related data TML is the largest manufacturer in Indian automotive of all the three subsidiaries and joint venture are industry. It is the leader in commercial vehicles, and mentioned in the relevant sections but data on Economic among the top in passenger vehicles. This year we Performance, Product Responsibility and Supply Chain have been excluded for subsidiaries. Advancement in recorded a total turnover of ₹466.46 billion and total pro t sustainability journey will help us to expand our reporting after taxes accounted to ₹2.34 billion. During Fiscal 2016, boundary to include subsidiary companies, vendor parks, sales in the domestic CV industry registered a growth of JVs and supply chain partners. Entire company’s economic 9.6% in volumes and the domestic PV industry registered a performance, permanent workforce and de ned bene t growth of 7.6%, supported by growth in both passenger plan is reported in particular sections. cars and utility vehicles. The reporting principles and methodology are adopted as Our International market presence spans across several per the “‘in accordance’ -Comprehensive” option of the countries in Europe, Africa, the Middle-east, Southeast Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guidelines. The Asia, South America, Australia, CIS and Russia. The 5 Sustainability Report 2015-16 About the Report subsidiaries and associate companies have helped Cooperative Education Stuttgar t, Germany. Mr. company to expand its operations to UK, South Korea, Butschekhas more than 25 years of experience in Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia. international automotive management, holding functions This year Mr. Guenter Butschek was appointed as the New like production, industrialisation and procurement. He has Managing Director of TMLwith eﬀect from February 15, rich global experience of growing organisations and in 2016. Mr Butschek graduated in Business Administration developing new markets. and Economics with a diploma from the University of Our performance at a Glance Category Industry Sales Company Sales Market Share FY 2016 FY 2015 Growth FY 2016 FY 2015 Growth FY 2016 FY 2015 Commercial 704,440 642,641 9.60% 326,755 317,780 2.80% 46.40% 46.40% Vehicles Passenger 2,771,099 2,575,680 7.60% 127,118 136,653 -7.00% 4.60% 5.30% Vehicles Total 3,475,539 3,218,321 8.00% 453,873 454,433 -0.10% 13.10% 14.10% 6 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Our Business Philosophy Our Business Philosophy “ “ In a free enterprise, community is not just another stakeholder in business but is in fact the very purpose of its existence. Founder, Jamsetji Tata (1839-1904) 7 Sustainability Report 2015-16 From the Desk of MD & CEO From the Desk of CEO & Managing Director Guenter Butschek CEO and Managing Director “ Dear Stakeholders, There are multiple I am delighted to present you the Twelfth edition of our annual challenges before us, from Sustainability Report ‘Towards Tomorrow’. global competition to The report explains our performance towards the Triple Bottom Line covering Economic, Environmental and Social aspects. The contents climate change, supply chain of this report have been aligned with the globally accepted Global sustainability to urban air Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework and follows the latest iteration G4 quality concerns. In such of the same. complexities,Inclusivity and The year gone by has brought positive news for India with robust GDP Innovation are the keys to growth, making the nation one of the fastest growing economies sustainability. Inclusivity to worldwide. India is in the midst of a paradigm shift in the way people commute as private and commercial users of transportation are stakeholder’s expectations increasingly adopting alternate public modes of transportation. and innovation to deliver FY 2015-16 has been a year of recovery for Tata Motors with focus on sustainable mobility introducing exciting mobility solutions, keeping customers central to solutions! our plans.With deep insight into customer needs, we constantly ” innovated across passenger vehicles and our renewed focus in the passenger vehicles business has helped provide a wide portfolio of products. We are also recapturing the customer mind space which is helping us to strengthen our brand positon in the passenger vehicle market.We have formulated a new strategy to enhance quality and customer experience which has improved our rank in J.D Power 8 Sustainability Report 2015-16 From the Desk of MD & CEO Survey both for customer service (3rd rank) and Initial technology areas and our innovation strategy. We have Quality score (rank 7th from 12th a year back) for our adopted a Life Cycle Assessment as a proven and timepassenger vehicles.The launch of the new mid-segment tested decision-making tool to better understand the hatchback Tiago,has been well accepted in the market. We environmental footprint of our products across the value look forward to bringing more disruptive and exciting new chain and identify hot-spots as well as opportunities for oﬀerings for our passenger vehicle customers. improvement. In the Commercial Vehicle business, we pride ourselves I am also delighted to share that we have bagged a order as the country's largest Commercial Vehicle manufacturer, of 25 Diesel Hybrid electric buses from Mumbai with one of the most extensive range in the world, Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) constantly innovating and de ning the market, with new for the Ultra Electric Bus, the rst fully electric bus from Tata technologies and categories. We are geared to further Motors. strengthening our market leadership and are committed Energy is a material issue for our manufacturing plants and to striking the right balance between sustainable growth renewable energy is a key focus area from a cost and a and pro tability. We aim to be among the top 3 in the climate change perspective. Apart from sourcing wind world by FY 19 and we will continue to focus on adding power we are also utilizing existing rooftop areas for invalue to our customers through safety, enhancements in house solar power generation. Energy conservation productivity and economy of their operations. continues to be a key focus area from a cost and a climate We are gearing up to comply with new and current change perspective. regulations and government policies regarding increased We also closely work with our suppliers on enhancingtheir fuel economy, reduced greenhouse gases and exhaust sustainability initiatives and focus on their capability and emissions along with vehicle safety as part of future development. Project Sankalpwhich started in FY 14-15 strategy. has actively worked towards Supplier transformation with The community development agenda at Tata Motors is a focus on a 6 pillar approach of Cleanliness, Safety, Health strategically tied to competencies and business needs of and Hygiene, Data Management, Quality, Supplier issue the organisation while working on areas that matter the resolution. most for communities. Health, Education, Employability To summarize, Tata Motors is committed to improving the (also livelihood) and Environment continue to be core quality of life of communities and its stakeholders. The focus areas of the community development agenda. year gone by has commenced transformation and paved Through the Aﬃrmative Action (AA) initiative, we strive to way for our transition towards becoming a ‘FutuReady’ develop and deliver initiatives focused towards upliftment organization with the Mission, “to innovate mobility of certain disadvantaged sections of the society. solutions with passion to enhance quality of life” of our Climate change is a global concern and in order to stakeholders. A journey to leverage our global resources to minimise the impact resulting from our business activities, develop diﬀerentiated and wide-range of commercial and we have implemented a Climate Change Policy. We are passenger vehicle oﬀerings. working towards developing cleaner and more eﬃcient With the foundation of its rich heritage, Tata Motors today vehicles, reducing environmental impacts of is etching a refulgent future – ‘Towards Tomorrow’. I would manufacturing operations, and building awareness like to express my gratitude to all the stakeholders for among stakeholders. Our aim will not be just to comply being part of our sustainability journey. Your views and with the emerging regulations but be ahead of the suggestions on the report are important to us and we requirements. welcome your feedback. In order to ensurewe are aligned to current and future safety and environmental norms we have scaled up our investments to upgrade our production facilities with latest emissions controls and eﬃcient technologies while also taking up reduction targets as part of our sustainability agenda. Our Advanced Research group is working on various alternate fuel technologies like electric Guenter Butschek vehicles, hybrid vehicles and fuel cell technologies. This is CEO and Managing Director prioritized based on latest competitive analysis in the new 9 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Responsible and lawful conduct is an integral part of acceptable way. It monitors aspects including anti-bribery, corporate culture and fundamental to the success of any corruption, equal opportunities and human rights. TCoC organization. Our philosophy on corporate governance is serves as a guide to the Company, its directors and in line with the Tata group philosophy. We believe good employees and is supplemented with an appropriate corporate governance leads to eﬀective decision making mechanism ‘Whistle Blower Policy’ to report any concern and it supports formation of robust operations, nancial, pertaining to nonadherence to the said Code. risk and information management systems. We have been We have grievance redressal mechanism in place to practicing the principles of good corporate governance address Labour, Human Rights, Environment, Diversity & over the years and have laid strong emphasis on Equal Opportunity, Equal Remuneration and concerns i n d e p e n d e n c e , r e s p o n s i b i l i t y, t r a n s p a r e n c y, raised are suitably closed and corrective actions are professionalism, accountability and code of ethics to deployed. ensure adherence to the Tata ethos and value system. An Organization Chart depicting the relationship between We ensure that the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) is the Board of Directors, the Committees and the Senior followed throughout the organization and every Management functions as on March 31, 2016 is illustrated employee conducts himself / herself in an ethically below: SHAREHODLERS BOARD OF DIRECTORS CEO & MANAGING DIRECTOR BUSINESS COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE-EXCOM* BOARD COMMITTEES Commercial Vehicle business Commercial Vehicle (ED) Audit Committee Unit Steering Committee Quality (ED) Executive Committee of the Board Passenger Vehicle Business Unit Passenger Vehicles Nomination & Remuneration Steering Committee Committee Advanced and Product Human Resource Management Engineering Stakeholders Relationship Committee Committee Purchase & Supply Chain Diversity Council Safety, Health & Environment Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer CV & PV Product Review Committee Committee Chief Human Resource Oﬃcer DASC-Design and Styling Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Corporate Strategy and Committee Business Transformation Quality Review Management Risk Management Committee Corporate Committee** Risk Oversight Committee Special need based Committees OTHER DIRECT REPORTEES Chief Internal Auditor Company Secretary Government Aﬀairs Corporate Legal Collaboration & Imports 10 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance The Board of Directors at Tata Motors Ltd. comprises of The Board has constituted a set of Committees with eleven Directors of which eight are non-executive, speci c terms of reference/scope to focus eﬀectively on including one Woman Independent Director. The Board, the issues and ensure expedient resolution of diverse under the able guidance of Mr. Guenter Butschek (CEO and matters. The Committees operate as empowered agents of Managing director), periodically reviews the the Board as per their Charter/terms of reference. Targets organizational policies, procedures and performance set by them as agreed with the management are reviewed conducted by the Board. periodically and midcourse corrections are also carried For details regarding the composition of governance out. The Board of Directors and the Committees also take body, please refer to our Annual Report 2015-16. decisions by circular resolutions which are noted at the next meeting. Board Committees Functions The objective of the Audit Committee is to review the quarterly/annual ﬁnancial statements before submission to the Board. The committee also reviews adequacy of Audit Committee internal control systems with the management, external auditor and internal auditor and recommends improvements to the management. For further details please refer page no 169-170 of Annual Report 2015-16. The Committee oversees and reviews statutory compliance relating to all security holders. It further considers and resolves the grievances of security holders of the Stakeholders' Relationship company including complaints related to transfer of securities, non-receipt of annual Committee report / declared dividends / notices / balance sheets. The Company has a designated email id: inv_rel@tatamotors.com for contacting the Compliance ofﬁcer. For further details refer page no 172-173 of Annual Report 2015-16. The Committee recommends to the Board the set up and composition of the Board and its Committees including the “formulation of the criteria for determining qualiﬁcations, Nomination and positive attributes and independence of a director”. For details of the remuneration of Remuneration Committee Directors, Key Personnel and Employees, please refer to Page 106 of Tata Motors Ltd. Annual Report 2015-16. For further details refer page no 170-172 of Annual Report 201516. The committee was constituted with the objective of reviewing Safety, Health and The Safety, Health and Environment practices. The Committee comprises of two Independent Directors and two Environment Committee Executive Directors. For further details refer page no 174 of Annual Report 2015-16. The committee was constituted to formulate policies relating to the implementation of the The Ethics and Tata Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading (the Code), take on record the Compliance Committee monthly reports on dealings in securities by the “Speciﬁed Persons” and decide penal action in respect of violations of the applicable regulations/the Code. For further details refer page no 170-174 of Annual Report 2015-16. The committee formulates and recommends to the Board, a CSR Policy which shall indicate the activities to be undertaken by the Company as speciﬁed in Schedule VII. The Corporate Social committee also recommends the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the activities Responsibility Committee referred to in clause (a) of the CSR rules. It also monitors the CSR Policy of the Company from time to time. For further details refer page no 174 of Annual Report 2015-16. The committee assists the Board in overseeing the Company’s risk management process and controls, risk tolerance, capital liquidity and funding etc. and its periodic update Risk Management thereof to the Board. It is also responsible for reviewing the Company’s risk governance Committee structure, assessment, practice, guidelines etc. The Committee comprises of 4 Independent Directors. For further details refer page no 174 of Annual Report 2015-16. Annual Report 2015-16: http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/ nancials/71-ar-html/pdf/Tata-Motors-AR-15-16.pdf 11 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance The Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Committee has time Directors. During the year under review, one meeting been constituted with the objective of reviewing Safety, of the Committee was held on August 7, 2015 wherein all Health and Environment practices. The terms of reference the members were present at the said meeting. of the Committee include: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee has been Ÿ to take a holistic approach to safety, health and constituted by the Board in accordance with the environmental matters in decision making; Companies Act to: Ÿ to provide direction to Tata Motors Group in carrying Ÿ Formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate out its safety, health and environment function; Social Responsibility Policy which shall indicate the Ÿ to frame broad guidelines/policies with regard to activities to be undertaken by the Company as safety, health and environment; speciﬁed in Schedule VII of the Act; Ÿ to oversee the implementation of these guidelines/ Ÿ Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred policies; and on the activities referred to in the above point; and Ÿ to review the policies, processes and systems Ÿ Monitor the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of periodically and recommend measures for the Company from time to time. improvement from time to time. The CSR committee comprises of 2 Independent Directors While SHE committee oversees the formulation of and 2 Whole-time Directors. During the year under review, organisational approach and its eﬀective deployment, 3 meetings of the Committee were held. With respect to responsibilities have been delegated to respective subsidiaries & JVs, the TCoC concerns are addressed functions at every manufacturing location to ensure through respective managements and audit committees. adoption of policies and guidelines. Further details are All major concerns are also reported to TML audit presented in “Occupational Health & Safety” section. The committee. Committee comprises of 2 Independent Directors For details regarding the functioning of other committees including the Chairman of the Committee and 3 Wholelisted above, please refer to our Annual Report 2015-16. Tata Motors Investors Relations team gets Asian Recognition Tata Motors Investors Relations team got Asian Recognition at Institutional Investor 2015 All-Asia Rankings in the Autos & Auto Parts sector. Ÿ First place inBest Investor Relations Companies Nominated by the Sell Side Chandrasekaran Ramakrishnan Ÿ Best Analyst Days RankingOverall Second Place Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer Ÿ Chandrasekaran Ramakrishnan was awarded as the Best CFO at third placeNominated by the Buy side Ÿ Vijay Somaiya was awarded Best Investor Relations Professional at second placeNominated by the Sell side Vijay Somaiya VP & Head (Treasury & IR) 12 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Something doesn’t seem right? Something doesn’t feel right? SPEAK UP! ETHICS HELPLINE : 1800 103 2931 www.speak-up.info/tatamotors Tata Motors awarded by Ethics and Integrity Finance Asia The Company ensures compliance of ethical standards by Magazine its vendors and contractors through appropriate clauses in its work contracts to which they are obligated. Best Company Generally, the contract includes clauses in relation to Award from Human Rights Protection, Corruption practices and other things related to ethics. Training and awareness on TCoC is the Investors in provided to all employees and relevant stakeholders are March 2016. also made aware of the same from time to time. The Company also has a whistle blower mechanism, for ensuring conﬁdentiality and protecting the whistle The ethics helpline can be reached through ethics hotline blower from any harassment/victimization. The policy number (1800 224440 / 022-2287 1839) or oral reports. covers instances pertaining to any unfair practice like Oral reports will normally be documented by the Chief retaliation, threat or intimidation of termination/ Ethics Counselor/ Chairman of the Audit Committee suspension of service, disciplinary action, transfer, accessing the voice mail by a written transcription of the demotion, refusal of promotion etc. The Policy is directly oral report Written application to Ethics and compliance: monitored by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and All concerns can be reported to Chief Ethics Counselor/ the Chief Ethics Oﬃcer. Chairman of the Audit Committee in Hindi, English or any The Company has an ethics helpline where employees can regional language. place anonymous complaints against ethics violations. 13 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Tata Code of Conduct they need to act in a manner consistent with it. TML has an Ethics Framework in place in line with Tata The Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) was refreshed during FY Group values. This framework includes Board oversight of 2015-16 and launched on Quality day 29th July, 2015 with ethics programs and activities. As a part of reporting, the an objective to make it more relevant to a global business TML audit committee (Committee of the Board) agenda environment. While it has remained unaltered in its includes review of whistle-blower mechanism as well as essence, it has been amended over the years to stay status of TCoC concerns received & resolved.TCoC has aligned with changing cultural and regulatory norms been amended over the years to stay aligned with across the multiple jurisdictions in which we conduct our changing cultural and regulatory norms and also to match business. the needs and demands of the young dynamic force of the It explicitly references our group’s organization. Number of initiatives values, and linked with our group’s were performed for cascading and mission to improve the quality of life f o s t e r i n g t h e TC o C a c r o s s t h e of the communities we serve globally company which includes: through long-term stakeholder value Ÿ Sensitization/ communication creation, it clari es the duties and programs across locations responsibilities of Tata companies and including awareness sessions, colleagues in relation to these video messages of ExCom stakeholder groups. members, introduction of web TCoC accounts for all our stakeholders based training modules on TCoC i.e. employees, customers, etc. communities in which we operate, Ÿ New policies on “Gifts & value chain partners, joint venture Hospitality” and “ Anti-Bribery & partners, nancial stakeholders, Anti-Corruption” were government of companies in which communicated we operate and other group companies towards the eﬀective implementation and adherence of the groups Ÿ Revitalization of “Con ict of Interest” policy mission on environmental, labor practices, societal and Ÿ Ethics helpline was established to promote code of conduct aspects. This Code sets out our transparency and ethical behaviour in our business expectations of all those who work with us. We also expect and operations. This will oﬀer easy accessibility for our those who deal with us to be aware that this Code employees as well as our value chain partners to report underpins everything we do, and in order to work with us any ethical violations Awareness Sessions on Refreshed TCoC 14 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Concerns Received/Resolved by TML in FY 2015-16 FY 2015-16 TCoC Concerns Concerns Received (Nos.) Concerns Resolved (Nos.) Employee Relations 10 10 Environment, Health& safety 0 0 Diversity, Equal opportunity & Respect in the work place 2 2 Sexual Harassment 7 7 Financial Impropriety 14 12 Legal Compliance 1 0 Unfair Business practices followed 23 20 Total 57 51 Ethical Concerns Received/Resolved by Subsidiaries in FY 2015-16 TCoC TTL TAL TMLDL TMML Concerns Received Resolved Received Resolved Received Resolved Received Resolved Concerns other than Sexual 3 3 2 2 4 4 1 1 Harassment Sexual harassment 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 5 5 2 2 4 4 1 1 Anti-Corruption Authorities in FY 2015-16. Every plant has a safety committee with equal representation from management Prevention of corruption and commitment to fair and non – management employees. Government of India competition is one component of compliance eﬀorts. TML (GoI) legislation is followed with respect to forced and has an Ethics Framework in place in line with Tata Group child labour and hence do not allow or encourage the values. There have not been any incidents of corruption in same. Our established systems and procedures identify FY 2015-16. Appropriate disciplinary action proportionate and comply with regulations pertaining to marketing to the gravity of misconduct in line with the principles of communications. As a member of the Advertising natural justice is taken against the employees. We conduct Standards Council of India (ASCI) we follow its Code for regular trainings to all our employees on anti-corruption S e l f R e g u l a t i o n i n Ad ve r t i s i n g a n d M a r k e t i n g as per the TCoC for TML. Co m m u n i c at i o n s. We co m m u n i c ate w i t h i n t h e boundaries of 'Creative license' and none of our Regulatory Compliance advertisements and promotions mislead in terms of claims Appropriate systems are devised to ensure compliance and representations. We abstain from any kind of oﬀensive with the provisions of applicable laws and that such alignment or anti-social content in our marketing systems are operating eﬀectively. “Legatrix” has been communications. The National Fair Trade Regulator – implemented which is an online compliance tool that help Competition Commission of India (CCI) had initiated legal us to track and manage compliance of various regulatory actions for alleged anticompetitive behaviour against 17 and legal requirements. We comply with new and existing car manufacturers including Tata Motors. The matter is laws, regulations and policies regarding increased fuel currently subjudice before the Delhi High Court which has economy, reduced greenhouse gas and other emissions, stayed the penalty imposed by the CCI. There have not vehicle safety, taxes and pricing policies. We comply with been any monetary or non-monetary sanctions for regulatory requirements pertaining to emissions, safety, violations of regulatory norms regarding aspects of health product labelling and other clauses of the Central Motor and safety impacts of products and services; product and Vehicle Rules of India and Bureau of Indian Standards. The s e r v i c e i n fo r m a t i o n a n d l a b e l l i n g ; m a r k e t i n g product and service information are in compliance with all communications including advertising, promotion, and the standards that govern us. sponsorship; and provision and use of products and No monetary nes or non-monetary sanctions were levied services. We also conduct voluntary ‘product upgrade’ on the Company by the Environment Regulatory drives to provide customers with upgraded components. 15 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Management Systems with the national and global frameworks such as National Voluntary Guidelines by Government of India and the Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM) covers business United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. aspects that range from strategy and leadership, to safety At TML, we have Risk Groups identi ed with clarity on Risk and climate change. The core values and concepts of TBEM Owners and Risk Champions. This ensures that all areas are include leadership, strategic planning, customer focus, covered and ownership ultimately lies with the Group of measurement analysis and knowledge management, ExCom members. workforce focus, operations focus and business results. Our corporate governance philosophy is further As a part of annual exercise, the Risks were again reviewed strengthened with adherence to the Tata Business during the current year. The Risks are supported with Excellence Model (TBEM) to achieve better performance mitigation measures, KPIs, accountability and timeline. and improve levels of eﬃciency in our businesses and The eﬀectiveness of process is obtained through risk sustainability initiatives. awareness with all the Risk Owners and their driving initiatives to reduce residual scorers so as to reach target Enterprise resource planning system, supplier relations scores. management and customer relations management connect the company’s diﬀerent locations, dealers and As a process, Risks identi ed by the business are compiled vendors for reliable, consistent and accurate data /segregated to identify top 30 risks with signi cant exchange. To integrate our systems across the value chain business impacts and high likelihood. Post discussion with to deliver better service quality, CRM-DMS (Customer ExCom members, top 12 Enterprise level Risks are Relationship Management – Dealer Management System) identi ed for deliberations at Board level. Other Risks are is initiated. CRM-DMS is a unique initiative, implemented monitored by concerned Risk Owners through their through a centralized online system and deployed at all periodic reviews. the Company’s dealerships and oﬃces across the country. Based on the detailed exercise and interaction with ExCom This helps us integrate our systems across the value chain members last year, top 12 Risks were identi ed. One of the to deliver better service quality. top Risks is with respect to environment related to Diesel Business units and corporate functions address as a fuel option and emerging stringent Pollution Norms. opportunities and the attendant risks through an institutionalized approach aligned to the Company’s Public Policy Advocacy objectives through the enterprise risk management With a view to embed sustainability issues with the public programme. This is facilitated by internal audit. The policy, we are actively involved in advocating for a better business risk is managed through cross functional policy framework. We partner with policy makers/ involvement and communication across businesses industry associations and regulators on these issues All our manufacturing divisions are certi ed for ISO through our representations in several industry and trade 14001:2004 – Environmental Management System associations. Standard and OHSAS 18001:2007 S afet y and List of Membership and Associations Occupational Health Management System Standard. The We actively participate in the following National Pune CVBU, Jamshedpur, Lucknow, Pantnagar, Dharwad Committees which are working on formulating policies and Sanand plants are also certi ed for ISO 50001:2011 and regulations for improvement of environment energy management system standard. In order to ensure throughout the country. we have reliable and responsible suppliers for automotive We continually work with the steering committee of production and service parts, we have mandated that all National Hydrogen Energy Board to nd ways to harness our suppliers adopt the ISO 9001/TS 16949 quality hydrogen potential energy of future. India is a signatory management system frameworks. We also encourage our to the World Forum of United Nations of Economic dealers to adopt quality, environmental and safety Commission (UNECE) for Europe. Our experts are actively management systems. participating in the same for Harmonization of Vehicle We have aligned our sustainability policy and initiatives Global Technical Regulations related to pollution control 16 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance and safety. government to launch FAME scheme. Now we are We, at TML actively participate in all WP29 UNECE group building two type of hybrid and electric vehicles under activities and prepare in advance for any emerging Technical Advisor Group under R&D scheme. opportunities. Sustainability Risks and Opportunities Mr. Ravindra Pisharody, Executive Director (Commercial The automotive industry and the demand for automobiles Vehicles), has been elected as Vice President of Society of are in uenced by general economic conditions, rates of Indian Automobile Manufactures (SIAM). Similarly, we economic growth, credit availability, disposable income of have representations in the following National consumers, interest rates, environmental and tax policies, Committeesas members which are work ing on safety regulations, freight rates and fuel and commodity formulating policies and regulations for improvement of prices. environment including GHG reduction throughout the country; (a) Economic Risks Ÿ Standing Committee on Emissions (SCOE) Muted industrial growth in India in recent years along Ÿ Sub-committee on CO2 emission norms of Union with continuing higher in ation and interest rates Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport and Highways of continue to pose risks to overall growth in the market. India, along with Automotive Research Association of Furthermore, intensifying competition in the India (ARAI). premium automotive categories could materially and adversely aﬀect the Company’s sales.Risk is associated Ÿ Expert committee to de ne “Heavy Duty Vehicle Fuel with Company’s automobile nancing business in Economy Norms for India under Ministry of Shipping, India. In Fiscal 2016, the market share of the Road Transport and Highways of Government of India Company’s automobile nancing business, which (GoI) & Petroleum Conservation Research Association supports sales of the Company vehicles, declined to (PCRA). 23.0% from 24.0% in Fiscal 2015. Underperformance Ÿ Expert committee on Fuel Economy Labelling of of the Company’s distribution channels and supply Passenger Cars under Bureau of Energy Eﬃciency chains, increase in input prices of raw materials and under Ministry of Power (GoI). deterioration in the performance of any of the Ÿ Interministerial committee for upcoming emission subsidiaries, joint may have a material adverse eﬀect norms (BSV, BSVI) for Motor Vehicles of Ministry of on the Company’s sales, nancial condition and Shipping, Road Transport and Highways, Ministry of results of operations. Heavy Industries, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas (b) Social Risks (GoI). Private and commercial users of transportation Ÿ Working group on Quadricycle Emission Norms for increasingly use public modes of transportation other India. than the automobiles because of rising costs of Ÿ Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, GoI, is promoting automotive transport, increasing traﬃc density in and assisting technology development for GHG major cities and environmental awareness. A shift in reduction by way of increased usage of Biodiesel. We India’s consumer preferences away from private are engaged in this initiative of GoI and currently automobiles would have a material adverse eﬀect on running number of engine and vehicle programs to the Company’s general business activity and on its commercialize usage of Biodiesel as soon as the same is sales, nancial position and results of operations as made available to the general public by oil marketing well as prospects. Obligations under the World Trade companies. Organization agreement could reduce the present Ÿ Working Group on Energy for Subgroup on DST's XIIth level of tariﬀs on imports of components and vehicles plan on Technology Development Program (TDP). which could result in increased competition. Moreover, Company’s business and operations could Ÿ National Electric Mobility Mission Plan We have been be materially and adversely aﬀected by labour unrest. actively participating in forming hybrid performance Other factors like terrorist attacks, civil disturbances, criteria along with SIAM-FTG group and helped regional con icts and other acts of violence may 17 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance “ Sustainability is about widening our focus from pro ts to planet & people. As an automobile manufacturer, we will continue to contribute in delivering sustainable transport solutions and make this world a sustainable habitat! disrupt or otherwise adversely aﬀect the markets in which the Company operates, the Company’s ” Ÿ Mr. Ravindra Pisharody Commercial Vehicle Business unit New product launches in the coming year with Executive director, innovative features, design and competitive pricing business and pro tability. will better position the Company in new height. The ( c) Environmental Risks Company is focusing on increasing its oﬀerings in the defence sector from providing only pure logistics Customer preferences seem to be moving in favour of solutions to tactical and combat solutions. more fuel-eﬃcient and environmentally-friendly vehicles. Increased government regulation, rising fuel Ÿ Growing wealth in rural markets in India also provides prices, and evolving environmental preferences of an opportunity to expand sales reach and volumes. The consumers has brought signi cant pressure on the Company is focusing on reaching rural target market to automotive industry to reduce CO2 emissions. address demand in rural markets in cost-eﬀective ways. Compliance with new and current laws, rules, Ÿ Certain non-vehicular products and services such as regulations and government policies regarding s p a re p a r t s, a f te r s a l e s e r v i ce s a n d a n n u a l increased fuel economy, reduced greenhouse gas and maintenance contracts are also gaining popularity due other emissions and vehicle safety signi cantly to increased consumer awareness. The Company increases the Company’s costs and materially believes it is poised to address this growing need, decrease its net income. In order to comply with thereby providing additional sources of revenue current and future safety and environmental norms, Ÿ India has emerged as a major hub for global the Company may have to incur additional costs to (i) manufacturing with its advantage of lower input costs, operate and maintain its production facilities, (ii) availability of local supplier base and high domestic install new emissions controls or reduction demand. As an established domestic manufacturer, technologies, (iii) purchase or otherwise obtain the Company believes that is ideally placed to take allowances to emit greenhouse gases, (iv) administer advantage for targeting lucrative international and manage the Company ’s greenhouse gas markets, either through fully-built or complete knockemissions programme, and (v) invest in research and down exports development to upgrade products and Ÿ In addition, the Company believes it has the advantage manufacturing facilities. If the Company is unable to of strong in-house design and development facilities develop commercially viable technologies or is and professionals. Thus the Company believes that its otherwise unable to attain compliance within the research and development group is capable of time frames set by new standards, the Company could developing solutions for diﬀerent regulatory and face signi cant civil penalties or be forced to restrict emission norms in accordance with market demands in product oﬀerings drastically. Compliance with the timely manner. SEC’s rules for disclosures on “con ict minerals” may be time consuming and costly as well as result in Mitigating Climate Change related reputational damage. Risk Opportunities At TML, risks and opportunities are prioritized based on Ÿ Sales of M&HCVs in India is expected to grow in line frequency of occurrence, potential of recurrence and its with the continuing trend toward the replacement of history of occurrence. Also, risks and opportunities are ageing eet vehicles. analysed on their potential impact to the company and 18 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance their external in uence. Potential impacts are measured This is prioritized based on cost and eﬃciency. On the by a number of variables including reputation, operation, opportunities part, our Advanced Research group is revenue etc. With regard to climate change, risks and working on various alternate fuel technologies like electric opportunities vary from government regulations to vehicles, hybrid vehicles and fuel cell technologies. This is supply chain disruption. These are prioritized diﬀerently prioritized based on latest competitive analysis in the new based on frequency of occurrence, time to respond, technology areas and our innovation strategy. Our impact and external in uence. products are designed to deliver superior fuel eﬃciency We have adopted the Tata Group Climate Change Policy to for customers and thereby result in reduction of channelize our eﬀorts in mitigating and adapting to environmental impact during use phase. Alignment with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Build awareness The adoption of the Millennium Development Goals among (MDGs) signi cantly changed the discourse on stakeholders development from a focus solely on macro-economic growth to one based on improvements in the quality of life for poor persons. Having formally recognized the Reduce imperative to make poverty reduction the focus of world environmental impacts of eﬀorts, the Millennium Development Goals also created a manufacturing Develop cleaner unifying international agenda. As the Millennium operations and more eﬃcient Development Goals come to an end in 2015, global vehicles poverty has been more than halved and there has been important progress across all the goals. The UN Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), in June 2012 laid down the foundation stone of Three fold Approach towards Climate Change Action Sustainable Development Goals where UN Member States worked to create follow on from the Millennium climate change. We have developed action plans in line Development Goals. A nal document was adopted at the with this policy for our PVBU and CVBU operations. Our UN Sustainable Development Summit September 25–27, approach towards climate change mitigation and 2015 in New York, USA. The title of the agenda was pursuing low carbon growth is three-fold. Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable For operational eﬃciency, opportunities are driven Development which will form the blueprint for through ENCON initiatives and ‘Variable Conversion Cost' development policy and funding. It is a set of goals to end which looks into the eﬃciency of variable energy poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all as components of processes. part of a new sustainable development agenda. Each goal has speci c targets to be achieved over the next 15 years. 19 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance “ Over the last few decades, the world has seen societal issues not only persist but grow. We at Tata Motors, are committed to align our business practices with the SDGs, in line with our rich ethos of building businesses responsibly and improving the quality of life of communities we serve globally. Sustainability is an action, not fashion, nor any jargon! ” Arvind Bodhankar Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer 20 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance The Sustainable Development Goals takes forward the sector’s commitment to sustainable development; Millennium Development Goals which addresses the transparency and accountability in honouring sustainable issues of poverty, hunger, universal health coverage, development practices; responsibility to avoid harm, even universal primary education, universal access to modern if it is not prohibited; and partnership with government on energy services, sustainable cities, ghting climate maximizing co-bene ts of investment. The automotive change, protecting marine and terrestrial ecosystems and industry consumes a tremendous amount of materials, the universal need for development that works for all including steel, plastic and aluminium to make products people. The Sustainable Development Goals agenda is to therefore it becomes pertinent on their part to contribute help promote social policies that aﬀect how resources are to society and planet in a positive manner. employed and distributed. They will provide a framework The UN SDG agenda has 17 measurable and quanti able for the monitoring of socio-economic performance and a goals. Out of this, Tata Motors Limited is working on 15 tool for mobilising resources for sustainable development. goals which are strategically aligned with the Tata Group Protecting the planet is a shared responsibility where philosophy as well as business priorities. The graphic every entity be it Government, Large Conglomerates, demonstrates the alignment of Tata Motors’ Sustainable NGO’s or citizens of the country, all should come up and development framework with the SDGs. Tata Motors will take forward the agenda of sustainable development. All continue to work on Sustainable Development Agenda stakeholders should work together to achieve the 2030 by oﬀering sustainable mobility solutions, building Sustainable Development Goals and make our planet a fuel eﬃcient vehicles meeting the stringent emission better place. measures, eliminating wastes, maximizing resource use Private sector contributions can take two main forms; e ﬃ c i e n c y, i n u e n c i n g s u p p l i e r s t o i m p r o v e good governance in business practices and investment in environmental &working conditions and transitioning sustainable development. This includes the private towards a circular economy model. 21 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders play an important role in the success of our issues important for our stakeholder groups and to our organization and hence their perspectives are of extreme business and ideas for solutions to address these issues. importance. We recognize all those individuals and/or A detailed process of stakeholder engagement is done groups who are aﬀected by our business activities or those once in three years to understand concerns and who have the power and in uence to aﬀect our business expectations of varied stakeholders in detail. Stakeholder as our stakeholders. groups involved in this direct and detailed consultation To achieve our goal of meaningful engagement with included our employees, communities, suppliers, opinion stakeholder, we encourage adopting formal stakeholder leaders (road safety experts), media, customers, investors engagement which means the process by which people and shareholders, government authorities, dealers and who may be aﬀected by the decisions or can in uence the service stations. This helped us in identifying the critical i m p l e m e nt at i o n o f i t s d e c i s i o n s a re i nvo l ve d. issues and hasenabled us to focus on the topics that are of Sustainability performance is discussed by engaging with utmost importance to our stakeholders. stakeholders formally and informally which helps in We have multiple communication/engagement channels, ensuring business sustainability as well. Our approach which provide us with valuable feedbacks which are towards identi cation and prioritisation of stakeholders is incorporated in our business decision and results of which based on the time-tested values of Tata Group along with are shared openly. We evaluate a variety of sources in order our business approach. to obtain a precise picture of our stakeholders concerns. Formulation of strategy for achieving sustainability is This involves evaluating reader feedback, customer and shaped by stakeholder’s views, concerns and key employee surveys, specialist unit workshops and dialogs expectations. The discussions through stakeholder with individual stakeholder groups. engagement provide us with an insight into emerging Employees Communities Suppliers/ Service Opinion leaders Providers Dealers & Service Media stations Customers ` Investors and Government Shareholders Authorities 22 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement at TML Stakeholder Groups Engagement Mechanisms Frequency of engagement Key concerns Feedback assessment Sunrise and Sunset meetings; Horizontal Communications; Horizontal deployment; Annual; Communicating policy decisions and Weekly/Monthly reviews improvements Quarterly; s e e k i n g fe e d b a c k ; c o m m u n i c a t i n g Employee satisfaction survey; Employees Displays; HR Forum; Q12 Tool; Skip Level Monthly; performance; Media Reports, Labour Issues Appraisals; Internal Surveys M e e t s ; To w n H a l l s ; Fo c u s e d G r o u p Weekly Discussions Community development initiatives Meetings with local community; public Quarterly; Minutes of meeting; action plans; Communities communication; capturing societal hearing Daily feedback letters concerns Technology Days, Supplier meets, Joint Delivering quality products; time Suppliers/ programmes, Kaizen events, Participation in Annual; management; compliance to Tata Motor’s Vendor rating; Board reviews; Service Providers NPI, Competitor data and analysis; Vendor Quarterly code of conduct and other policies; Vendor Satisfaction Surveys Council; Vendor mentoring Following the regulations, complying with Opinion Leaders One-to-one meetings Need based Minutes of meeting, action plans the industry standards Communicating company’s performance Media Regular interactions Ongoing Minutes of meeting, action plans and seeking feedback Dealer meets, Joint programmes, Kaizen events, Participation in QFD and NPI, Annual; Building capacity and technical know-how; Dealers and improving and delivering better response Competitor data and analysis, Special Quarterly; Dealer Satisfaction Survey Service station Daily to customers; training Programmes; Dealers Council; Dealer visits; Audits Customer meets; Key account process; Understand product feedback; redress Customer Satisfaction Index; Customers Surveys; Feedback calls; Training Forums; Need based complaints; suggestions on product JD Power Survey Direct Visits development; Investor meets; Investor calls; Road Shows, Annual; Financial performance; broad future Investors and strategies; feedback and addressal of Shareholder / Investors Grievance Forum, Quarterly; Minutes of meeting; action plans Shareholders concerns Ethics Committee Need based Relationship building; appraising the Government One-to-one meetings; Meetings in Industry Need based government on industry constraints; Minutes of meeting; action plans Authorities Forums discussions on way forward 23 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Materiality Assessment Materiality Assessment “ Compassion and Materiality is the crux of Sustainability. We at Tata motors, are compassionate for the environment and take decisions which directly or indirectly have a positive impact on our ability to preserve environment and create social values for stake holders & for the society at large. We use materiality assessment to determine the priority of importance of these issues from the perspective of stakeholders. Materiality may be de ned as a threshold ” issues on the basis of their impact on the business and the 4. questionnaires. Satish Borwankar Executive Director, Quality the stakeholders through focused discussion and Aspects relevant to TML were categorized based on diﬀerent criteria impact on business, feedback beyond which sustainability topics become important received from stakeholders enough to be reported. While we report our sustainability 5. These criteria were then measured on a criticality performance on an annual basis, materiality assessment is scale (as shown in the materiality matrix below) conducted once every three years. During FY 2014-15, we which help isolate and prioritize the key material conducted a comprehensive materiality assessment to aspects identify and prioritize key sustainability issues from the stakeholders and business perspective. This assessment 6. Following prioritization, the material aspects were was based on the Reporting Principle and Guidance for reviewed by TML senior management and are De ning Content in the G4 Sustainability Reporting considered while making strategic decisions. Guidelines The matrix below is a representation of the outcome of our Materiality assessment process adopted by TML is as materiality assessment. Aspects have been rated on a scale follows: of low, high and critical and rated for the importance to b u s i n e s s a n d i m p o r t a n ce a s p e rce i ve d by t h e 1. Identi cation of aspects relevant to the company stakeholders. For each material aspect, the mapping to GRI through various channels. aspect along with reporting boundary for TML as well as 2. The assessment was against six materiality lters of the subsidiaries has been presented. The reporting nancial impacts and risks, legal drivers, internal boundary for each material aspect has been de ned from policy drivers, peer performance, stakeholder the materiality assessment as well as decision by the concerns and opportunity for innovation with management. Subsequent sections present the inputs from the senior management. management approach, monitoring mechanisms and 3. The assessment process gathered inputs from the all performance indicators for the aspects. 24 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Materiality Assessment Critical Customer Satisfaction Product Innovation Product Safety and quality Importance to Stakeholders Emissions Product to Air Usage of toxic substances Fuel Eﬃciency in auto components Competitiveness of Products GHG Emissions High Product sales and Service quality Regulatory Compliance Environment, Product Labeling Attrition Labor and Human Rights in Supply Chain Foreign Exchange Business Growth Fluctuations Reclaiming Systems for Reuse and Pro tability Occupational and Recycling and Health and Safety Recovery of Materials Biodiversity Gender Diversity Low Low High Critical Importance to Tata Motors 25 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Aspect Mapping Table Aspect Mapping Table TML Subsidiaries Reported Material Issues Material Aspects (GRI G4) Within Outside Indicators (GRI G4) TAL TMLDL TMML TTL Organisation Organisation Economic Business Growth and Pro tability G4-EC1 Economic Performance G4-EC2 Foreign Exchange Fluctuations G4-EC3 G4-EC4 Environment G4-EN3 G4-EN4 Fuel Eﬃciency of Products Energy G4-EN5 G4-EN6 G4-EN7 G4-EN11, G4-EN12, Biodiversity Biodiversity G4-EN13, G4-EN14 Emissions to Air G4-EN15 G4-EN16 Emissions G4-EN17 GHG Emissions G4-EN18 G4-EN19 G4-EN20 G4-EN21 Regulatory Compliance Compliance G4-EN29 Environment, Labor and Human G4-EN32, G4-EN33, Supply Chain Rights in Supply Chain G4-EN34 Social Attrition G4-LA1 Employment Gender Diversity G4-LA2 G4-LA3 G4-LA5 Occupational Health and G4-LA6 Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA7 Safety G4-LA8 G4-LA12 Society G4-SO1 Local Communities G4-SO2 Anti-Competitive Behaviour G4-SO7 Product Safety and Quality G4-PR1 Product Competitiveness Customer Health & Safety Product Innovation G4-PR2 Customer Satisfaction Reclaiming Systems for Reuse and G4-PR3 Recycling and Recovery of Materials Product and Service Product Sales and Service Quality Labelling Use of Toxic Substances in Auto components G4-PR4 Product Labelling G4-PR5 26 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Economic Performance Economic Performance The global macroeconomic landscape in FY 2015-16 was Fiscal 2015, however, the revenue (before interrough and uncertain and characterized by weak growth of segment elimination) increased by 12.8% to world output. The situation was exacerbated by declining ₹497.43 billion during Fiscal 2016, compared to prices of a number of commodities, turbulent nancial ₹441.18 billion in Fiscal 2015, due to a better markets and volatile exchange rates. The US economy product mix, primarily due to relatively more sales growth was stronger than expected with accompanying of M&HCVs as a proportion of overall sales in Fiscal job growth, resulting in the decline in the unemployment 2016 compared to Fiscal 2015. rate. Some of the key concerns that have signi cant impact 2. During Fiscal 2016, sales in the domestic CV on our industry are the increased geopolitical uncertainty industry registered a growth of 9.6% in volumes, in couples with some signs of economic slowdown in China. comparison to a decline of 8.4% in Fiscal 2015. The Indian Scenario recovery was driven by the continuation of demand India has registered a robust and steady pace of economic in case of M&HCV (Trucks), eet expansion by growth in FY 2015-16as it did in Fiscal 2015. India’s GDP for various State Regional Transport Undertakings and FY 2015-16 increased by 7.6% compared to 7.2% in Fiscal p i c k u p i n d e m a n d f ro m t h e m i n i n g a n d 2015. Growth in agricultural and industry increased by construction related sectors. In addition, the 1.1% while service sector growth increased by 9.2%. The industry also beneﬁtted from the implementation manufacturing sector showed a growth of 2%, electricity of BS-IV emission norms, which became mandatory services increased by 5.6% in Fiscal 2016. During Fiscal across North India and some nearby regions 2016, there was a robust and steady pace of economic starting in October 2015. The year also witnessed growth in the geographical markets in which the Tata and mandatory implementation of Anti-Lock Braking other brand vehicle segment has operations. The Indian Systems in M&HCVs and Uniform Bus Body Code in automobile industry experienced an increase of 8.0% in buses. Fiscal 2016, as compared to 2.4% in Fiscal 2015. Falling 3. Sales in the passenger vehicles industry in India crude oil prices, lower in ation, resumption of increased by 7.6% in Fiscal 2016, primarily manufacturing and mining activities, and lower interest attributable to reduced fuel prices, improved rates appear to be helping the Indian auto industry. consumer sentiments, and lower interest rates. The However, competitive pressures continued across all Company’s passenger vehicle sales in India major products in the Tata and other brand vehicles decreased by 7.0% to 127,118 units in Fiscal 2016 segment leading to a marginal decrease in vehicle sales from 136,653 units in Fiscal 2015, due to fewer new volumes. product oﬀerings by the Company as compared to Our Performance its competitors. India is the primary market for Tata and other brand 4. Industry sales of commercial vehicles increased by vehicles (including vehicle ﬁnancing). During Fiscal 2016, 9.6% to 704,440 units in Fiscal 2016 from 642,641 there was a robust and steady pace of economic growth in units in Fiscal 2015. Industry sales in the medium the geographic markets in which the Tata and other brand and heavy commercial vehicle segment increased vehicles segment has operations. by 30.3% to 302,532 units in Fiscal 2016, as compared to sales of 232,113 units in Fiscal 2015 1. Falling crude oil prices, lower inﬂation, resumption primarily due to replacements of ﬂeet vehicles, of manufacturing and mining activities, and lower lower diesel prices, higher quantities of cargo interest rates helped Indian auto industry but transported, a renewal of mining activities in the competitive pressures continued across all major states of K ar natak a and G oa, renewal of products in the Tata and other brand vehicles construction activities, and expectations of segment leading to a marginal decrease in vehicle increased investments in infrastructure and sales volumes. The Company’s overall sales of Tata manufacturing. Industry sales of light commercial and other brand vehicles decreased by 0.8% to vehicles reported a decline of 2.1% to 401,908 units 520,511 units in Fiscal 2016 from 524,522 units in 27 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Economic Performance in Fiscal 2016, from 410,528 units in Fiscal 2015, mainly due The present value of de ned bene t plan obligations for to lower freight transportation needs, ﬁnancing defaults the year 2015-16 stood at ₹7.53 billion. These are met by and tightened lending norms. plan assets whose value at the end of the year 2015-16 is Total expenditure on CSR activities in FY 2016 was estimated to be ₹6.65billion. This estimate has been ₹0.21billion which was higher than ₹ 0.19billion arrived at on the basis of independent actuarial expenditure in FY 2015. evaluation. Contributions towards de ned bene t plan obligations are made by TML as per the regulatory Operating & other Costs for FY 2015-16 includes ₹ 0.21 requirements. billion spent towards various schemes of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as prescribed under Section 135 of the The organization currently bene ts from excise duty Companies Act, 2013. No amount has been spent on exemptions for manufacturing facilities in the State of construction / acquisition of an asset of the Company. The Uttarakhand and other incentives such as subsidies or prescribed CSR expenditure required to be spent in FY loans from states where the Company has manufacturing 2015-16 as per the Companies Act, 2013 is Nil, in view of operations. Further details are on Page 128 of TML Annual average net pro ts of the Company being Nil (under Report 2015-16. section 198 of the Act) for last three nancial years. Economic Performance Table Economic performance (in ` billion) 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Economic value generated 415.91 414.13 487.80 Gross revenue 415.91 414.13 487.80 Economic value distributed 427.85 449.61 483.08 Operating costs 342.77 367.6 393.29 Employee bene ts and wages 28.78 30.91 30.27 Payments to providers of capital 20.05 16.12 15.54 Payments to government 36.26 34.98 43.98 Economic value retained -11.94 -35.48 4.72 Community Investments 17.33 18.62 20.57 28 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Customer Centricity Customer Centricity Customer centricity is intrinsic to our culture – develop, have benchmarked our performance with the industry deliver, delight. We continuously strive to provide best peers by using J.D. Power Survey. The survey is a street services to enhance our customer engagement. Customer recruitment and face-to-face interviewdone from May to service quality is met through integration of our Customer August every year over a spread of 30 cities. The survey Relationship management and Dealer Management sample are owners with 12-24 months of ownership and System (CRM – DMS). who have serviced their vehicle atleast once in the last 6 It is important to understand customers’ expectations and months. We have improved our J.D. Power Survey score for thus an ongoing dialogue with customers is maintained passenger vehicles to 849 in 2015 from 834 for 2014. through feedback surveys. It helps us to advance in the Testimony to our concerted eﬀorts, we have moved up to quality of products we develop. In view of providing third rank in the industry in the JD Power Customer consistent service, we have integrated feedback systems Satisfaction Index in India. There have been no cases of across the life cycle stages of customer satisfaction. We non-compliance or violation from our customer end. J.D. Power Survey Score J.D Power 2015 India Customer Service Index (CSI) Study Factors Comprising Overall Satisfaction 849 Services 834 initiation 11% Service 799 Advisor Service 14% Quality 44% Service Facility 14% 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Vehicle pick up 17% J.D. Power Survey Score The data security of our customers is ensured through a tracking of complaints are escalated to the Chairman, robust consumer privacy policy which tracks and President and Managing Director oﬃces till closure of the measures key aspects of customer dissatisfaction. All the complaint. If there are any complaints open for a long complaints are assessed for root cause analysis through duration the same is investigated by the CE team and the Complaint Management Process. We have a daily resolution intervention oﬀered wherever dashboard shared with the regional teams where Turn required/possible. Monitoring of key performance metrics Around Time (TAT) adherence is measured along with (CPTV, TAT adherence and Same Day Closure) is done by closure percentage and ageing of open complaints. There customer experience. Details of resolution, root cause is a mechanism in place to internally escalate complaints analysis and service load based analysis and performance to various members of the process chain if a complaint is tracked by the customer support team. We provide remains open beyond TAT. We drive closure of complaints feedback to the customers on the resolution of the from dealers end on the same day or the very next day with complaint. customer and this number is also monitored daily. Daily 29 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Customer Centricity “ Sustainability is about going beyond regulations & fences and minimizing ecological & social impacts of complete value chain including that of products and services. Keeping up the Group tradition & values, Tata Motors is committed to serve communities by oﬀering sustainable mobility solutions and ” contribute to the nation building. Mayank Pareek PresidentPassenger Vehicle Business 1 Billion DTC Kilometres TMLhave completed 1 billion kilometer with Delhi Transportation Corporation (DTC) in 7 years and have earned over 1 billion. TATA has a wide network of 2682 buses which operate from 22 bus depots across New Delhi and carr y over 30 lak h passengers every day. TATA buses comprising of low and semi oor types cover 4.70 lakh kilometer daily with a eet availability of 96%. The Company is cognizant of the customer requirements and clutch less vehicle is ideal for stop and go traﬃc and continually strives to innovate and improve its conditions. Tiago A Generation Next passenger vehicle products and services accordingly. Tata Starbus Fuel Cell has been Intelligently designed to incorporate 22 Utility and Tata Ultra Electric Bus World's rst commercially Spaces. It also has a Smartphone enabled Turn By Turn produced CNG Hybrid Bus are zero pollution, zero noise Navigation App and unique rear parking sensors. BS IV complaint vehicles. Tata MAGIC IRIS ZIVA a Gearless Product Recall The Recall Process is aimed at providing the frame work to address the vehicle recall due to Safety Defect in the TML has a well-de ned Recall Process which was reviewed vehicle due to design, manufacturing or assembly & approved in principle by CSC members in Feb 15. The problem and possess undue risk to the safety of vehicle or Recall Process has been framed based on global user. benchmark practices and recall related regulatory aspects of various countries. 30 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Product Innovation Product Innovation “ Sustainability is forward thinking! At product design & development stage, designers can anticipate & address environmental & social impacts of products over the life cycle; from sourcing – manufacturing – use – to end of life and develop sustainable products. With this precautionary approach, we are working on several product sustainability initiatives like; advance vehicles, eﬃcient engine technologies, renewable ” materials, low GWP refrigerant air conditioners and so on. Dr Timothy Leverton President and Head, Advanced and product engineering TML has always created value for the customer as a market We have the largest range of commercial passenger leader in the Indian market. TML has played an active role vehicles that supports the entire chain of mobility starting in India’s vision of sustainable mass transportation by from LMPT (Last Mile Passenger Transport) to BRTS in developing viable and cost eﬀective solutions including urban transportation. The portfolio starts with IRIS which alternate fuel power trains. Supplying and maintaining is a 4 seater, Vans covering upto 15 seater and a large range Biggest CNG eet of the world for Delhi since 2009 is a clear of buses with lengths as low as 6 m right upto 18 m. The example of this intention. TML is developing a eet of portfolio is further customized to suit the requirements of articulated buses with Janmarg to improve the mass diﬀerent customers’ school, staﬀ, urban mass transport, transportation eﬃciency. This will be the rst of its kind in Intercity transportation etc. The buses have been India on a BRTS route. customized to ensure the need of mobility e.g BRTS buses TML has never limited its development of technologies have oor height matching the BRTS platform where as based on the domestic market. It was the world’s rst to there are low oor buses as well enabling faster step-in develop a CNG Series hybrid and supply to EMT, Madrid in and step-out time required in urban scenarios. The buses Spain. TML has demonstrated its technology capabilities have been equipped with a host of ITS technologies by and running the CNG parallel hybrid during the integrating with eﬃcient transportation systems. commonwealth games in Delhi in 2010. After the NEMMP Apart from this, we are working on LNG and Dual fuel initiative in India a Diesel version of the same Hybrid is technologies which provide an alternative to pure diesel under development to meet the order of MMRDA. technologies. We have showcased the LNG truck and 5L TML has a large range of products in its goods and dual fuel in Auto expo. p a s s e n g e r t r a n s p o r t a t i o n p o r t f o l i o. D i ﬀ e r e n t During scal year 2016, TML led 116 Patent Applications technologies are needed to support future targets on and 37 Design applications. In respect of applications led GHG. We are evaluating several xEV options through in earlier years, 21 Patents were granted and 103 Designs diﬀerent technologies as part of its long term strategy. The were registered. Both ling and grant details include technologies vary from mild hybrids in one segment to national and international jurisdictions Fuel cell in others. TML has showcased the demonstrators During the reporting period, there were no signi cant in Auto expo from time to time. incidents of non-compliance related to health & safety We also engage with scienti c and educational impacts of products or those related to product labelling. institutions to support our cause of technologies suitable for Indian context creating value to our customers. 31 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Product Innovation At TML there are several initiatives to develop alternate Ÿ Tata Motors is developing a eet of fuel cell buses, fuel vehicles which reduce the impact of vehicles on the air again based on the series hybrid platform which can pollution as well as climate change. A list of the major provide clean public transportation in cities where initiatives is given below: hydrogen infrastructure will be available. Ÿ TMLhas delivered 10 CNG Hybrid buses to the city of Ÿ TML is developing electric vehicles based on small Madrid which are in operation since April 2013. From commercial vehicles like Tata Iris and Tata Magic, which the fuel consumption data available for the period are intended for last-mile public transportation applications. Ÿ TML is developing hybrid and range-extended-electric versions of its passenger car products like Hexa, Tiago and Nano for application in personal mobility. Ÿ TML External collaboration: ¡ Collaborating with other Industry OEMs to develop a common platform for hybrid and electric powertrain components under the xEVOne project funded under the Faster Adoption of (Hybrid and) Electric Vehicles (FAME) scheme by the Ministry of Heavy Industry, Govt. of India. ¡ Supporting several research projects by premier research institutions in India in alternate powertrain technologies funded through April 2015 to December 2015, the 10 hybrid buses have consumed 110 tonnes CNG compared to 123 tonnes CNG consumed by equivalent conventional CNG bus in operation in Madrid. This works out to an annual savings of 17 tonnes of CNG fuel and about 48 tonnes CO2 emissions. Ÿ TML has won an order to deliver 25 Diesel Series Hybrid buses to the city of Mumbai, India to be operated in the city center of Bandra-Kurla Complex as well as for connecting BKC to the Airport. Once the eet becomes operational by mid-2017, it is expected to save around 25% diesel fuel, with corresponding savings in Co2. Ÿ TML is developing an electric bus based on the 9-m long bus platform which will result in zero tail-pipe emissions. The vehicle would be ideally used as feeder services to Metro rail and BRTS routes. Uchhatar Avishkar Yojana (UAY) and Impacting Ÿ TML is also developing an electric trolley bus based on Research Innovation and Technology (IMPRINT) the series hybrid platform targeted for BRTS routes for programmes by the MoHRD zero emission mass mobility application. 32 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Product Innovation Reducing the environmental impact of refrigerants Ÿ Nano steering wheel 3D logo ARAI certi cation In Super Ace TCIC and Super Ace 1.4L Dicor BS IV we have Ÿ Tiago ARAI certi cation for safety tests implemented new type of compressors in the refrigerant Ÿ Bolt & Zest ARAI certi cation with VAVE design circuit which has resulted in reducing the quantity of high proposals GWP refrigerant by 95 grams. TML is part of a consortium Ÿ ARAI certi cation for 1516 facelift cab, 709, Ultra 15.5T working on alternate technologies for deployment of low for Under-run protection devices Global Warming Potential refrigerants in Mobile Air Conditioning systems. Ÿ TATA Xenon became rst Indian Pick-up rated 4 STAR in Australian NCAP (ANCAP) Developing Safe Mobility Solutions Meeting Homologation Requirements TML R&D team is committed to develop safe products incorporating latest technologies thereby ensuring Emissions & Safety regulations are increasingly becoming vehicle occupant and pedestrian safety. Our Integrated stringent. The entire country would become BS IV Safety Center is responsible for developing safe products Emissions level compliant from April 2017 onwards and across all range (from passenger cars to heavy commercial BSVI Emissions level compliant by April 2020 as per the vehicles). noti cation issued by the Government of India Our safety development team ensures that product Hence it requires phenomenal design, developmental, design meets latest regulatory norms, consumer group validation, calibration & launch eﬀorts concurrently for norms and due care norms in the area of safety. This both PV & CV business units. Also many of the existing Integrated Safety Centre is fully equipped to carry out models may not directly qualify for ful lling BS VI Emission diﬀerent types of tests like, full vehicle crash tests, sled compliance due to packaging, cost & technical barriers. In tests, Pedestrian protection tests, BIW strength and view of this, there is an inherent need to conduct business anchorage tests, Interiors evaluation tests, Material sensitivity analysis for assessing the sustainability aspects characterization tests, commercial vehicle tests, security of our business units from holistic perspectives. systems evaluation tests, Advanced Driver Assist System Also Government of India has promulgated CAFÉ Norms (ADAS) evaluation tests. for M1 category vehicles applicable from 1st April 2017 We also have dedicated CAE group who is responsible for and 1st reporting from April 2018 onwards. This would call developing vehicles structures and occupant restraint for establishing robust mechanism at a strategic level to system (airbags, seatbelts) meeting target crash safety review, track & modify the domestic product plans per for mance requirements. All projec ts under towards ensuring the sustainable compliance at the development are routed through physical and digital overall organizational level. validation process. Our facility is accredited by VCA As per sustainable development followed by TML, our (Vehicle Certi cation Agency), UK as well as ARAI wherein Passenger and Commercial Vehicles ful l all the applicable both agencies witnesses the tests at facility and provide regulatory requirements in the domestic market as per compliance certi cate. CMVR Certi cation. Our Passenger and Commercial Our achievements towards improving safety of vehicles: vehicles ful l the regulatory requirements of the export markets as per the applicable national requirements. 33 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Product Innovation Eﬃcient transport Light weighting of engine & sub-systems Fuel eﬃciency improvement initiatives Focus on new engine development in all Aluminium Ÿ We have been able to achieve 2% 3% fuel eﬃciency material continues with Tiago which has new improvement through advanced formulation used generation lightweight petrol engine. Light weighting in engine oil also improves fuel economy of engine by 1 -2 % compared to same engine in cast iron material. Similar Ÿ Similar initiative for axle and transmission oil has initiatives are also being taken in diesel engines in car & been initiated targeting fuel eﬃciency gain of 5% in utility vehicle segment without compromising on conjunction with abovementioned approach durability advantages with cast iron material. Ÿ Software features in engine management system & Enhancement in oil drain interval: vehicle level parameter optimization has resulted in fuel eﬃciency improvement. One such feature is the We have developed API CI4+ 15W40 engine oil Multi-DriveEconomy mode feature in Bolt leading to enhancing oil drain interval by 30% leading to 1-2% gain in fuel economy compared to normal enhanced customer delight. Improvement in engine oil mode to increase oil drain interval helps customer to reduce cost of ownership. It helps in reducing downtime and Ÿ Harnessing potential of Automated Manual less oil is discarded reducing environmental impact. Transmission (AMT) driveline for fuel economy This oil has been introduced on all heavy commercial improvement vehicles with 697 BS-IV engine. Ÿ Downsizing of gasoline engine from 4 cylinders to 3 cylinders for Tiago Ÿ Downsizing of diesel engine from 4 cylinders to 3 cylinders for Tiago 34 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Product Innovation Tata Motors Products Supporting the Cause of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan Tipper mainly used for household garbage collection from narrow lanes of cities Jetting cum suction machine for dislodging and removing obstructions and blockages from sewer lines Cesspit tanker for suctioning sludge/ slurry from sewers, septic tanks etc. Garbage compactor for safe and eﬃcient collection of waste Truck Mounted Sweeping Machine for cleaning colony roads, parking and other paved Areas 35 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Product Innovation Life Cycle Assessment for Holistic most importantly Magic Iris being available in Diesel, CNG and electric variant gave us opportunity to work on the Improvement in Sustainability same vehicle 3 diﬀerent engine con guration. We have Performance adopted framework laid out by ISO as per the ISO As part of our Sustainability program, a key initiative was 14040/44 standard for carrying out the LCA studies. taken by Engineering Research Center (ERC) to evaluate The results and insights gathered from this LCA study have the environmental footprint of our products. We have been used for internal benchmarking to strategize future found Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)1 to be a key enablerin sustainability improvements as well as for communication gaining holistic perspective on overall environmental to internal audience including manufac turing, impact of any product or process on the ecosystem. technology, marketing and leadership teams as well as During the FY 2015-16, we conducted LCAs of Five external audience like auditors for GreenCO rating. products which includes Zest-Diesel, Tiago-Petrol, Magic Iris-Diesel, Magic Iris-CNG & Magic Iris-EV . Advance Automotive Materials We had initiated the environmental assessment program a) In view of upcoming Indian regulatory requirements of the complete vehicles in 2012. After initial success of this for RRR & ELV, TML is working proactively on part approach with passenger vehicles it was decided to material marking for plastic parts for all upcoming & include commercial vehicles in the assessment. Tata Magic new models. TML is continuing to ensure meeting Iris is the smallest oﬀering from TML in CV segment and RRR & ELV requirements for European Export market. b) For all new M1 category models, TML parts are designed not to have presence of hazardous heavy metals Lead, Mercury, chromium & cadmium as per upcoming Indian Regulatory requirements. c) Being major Indian OEM & having experience from School Buses – Passenger vehicles -33 Seater Ambulance 30 seater school bus Ultra Passenger School Buses Used for Student Standard Passenger Buses Used Ambulances – Diﬀerent kinds of Transport: Carrying Students to to carry passengers. This type of ambulances are made ranging and from School. Last year TML buses used in City Transit Bus from Patient transportation to had supplied approx. 10000 nos. and Intercity transfer Bus. Last Life support ambulances. TML to Indian Market. Financial year TML had supplied has supplied close to 400 approx. 6000 nos. to Indian ambulances in FY 15-16. Market. 1 http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2015-09-29/news/66987475_1_nano-cng-tata-sustainability-group-tata-motors 36 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Product Innovation export especially European market, TML has given 3. Increasing drain period of the transmission oils inputs to Indian Ministry through SIAM on frame signi cantly. working of various upcoming regulations. 4. Energy saving initiative for car body paints by d) TML is working on following green technologies / adopting single cycle baking in place of multiple projects cycle baking. 1. Use of Air drying paint replacing conventional 5. Energy saving initiative by use of micro alloyed steels stoving paints oﬀering approx. 15-20 % energy for forging parts by optimizing heat treatment cycle saving 2. Use of green plasticizer, generated from waste stream in polymers replacing conventional plasticizers TML partners with Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay on engineering education and research collaboration TML and Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay have signed a ve year Memorandum of Understanding to create a technological partnership in areas of mutual bene t and interest with a focus to ensure the engineering needs of the future automotive industry. Series of interventions have been identi ed to cater to a future-ready organization, Joint R&D projects will also be undertaken for development of new technologies in various engineering domains. 37 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Product Innovation Case Study 1: Water Based Paints – An Eco-friendly paint instead of thinners. This not only helps to reduce the breakthrough harmful VOC emissions, but also helps in maintaining good In case of the existing approach of using Solvent base health of the employees within the plant. monocoat paints, there are several environment, health and Paint shop team interacted with suppliers about the issues safety related challenges. These solvents contain high levels with solvent based paints, procured samples of water based of VOC and emanate strong odour as well as generation of monocoat paints from outside India & conducted trials. hazardous sludge which is diﬃcult to treat. These solvent Results and performance were evaluated. Paint shop team based paints have ill-eﬀects on environment and also on concluded that all paint properties like excellent antihuman health apart from re hazardsmaterial storage, corrosive properties, paint adhesion, colour, gloss etc. were handling & during application. all as per required standards. We procured a batch of Water based monocoat protect the metal surfaces from monocoat black & hands on application training was given to rusting as they have excellent anti-corrosive properties. all operators working in the spare part painting area and These coatings are eco-friendly as water is used to thin the found it bene cial in all aspects. Environmental/Social Bene ts : Ease of painting and increase in comfort to employees as Cost of water based monocoat black is comparable to no foul odour is emanated during application. solvent based, with saving of only around 6000 ₹ per year. Cost of dilution and cleaning thinner is saved i.e. 72000 Eliminates health hazards during handling and (cost of thinner for dilution) + 40000 (cost for gun cleaning) application of paint. Easy cleaning process of equipment’s post application. =₹1,12,000 per year. Normal tap water is used for all purposes. Reduction of VOC by 97%. Total cost savings of around ₹1,18,000 per year Reduction of sludge generation Case Study 2: Introduction of sprayable chrome paint for chemical that has ill eﬀects on environment and human painting prototype vehicle addon parts instead of health. Detrimental eﬀects on human health includes lung chrome plating cancer & skin dermatitis. Chemicals used in chrome plating are Painting of vehicle add on parts like logos, emblems & interiors extremely ammable and therefore can pose a re risk as well. dashboards and door nishers are chrome plated as it imparts ERC Paint shop team has implemented a new chromium free decoration, anticorrosive and hardness properties. But Eco friendly Chrome nish paint. Parts like bumper grills, hexavalent chrome used in chrome plating is the most toxic mascots, fog lamps bezels, inner door handles that were 38 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Product Innovation chrome plated by suppliers for nal production, can be Environmental/ Social bene ts include the following: painted in-house, with cost, time bene ts and with a ¡ Chromium free, Non-Carcinogenic, hence Ecocomparatively very safe process for prototype and show car Friendly applications. ¡ No substantial harm to air, water & environment. Sprayable chrome nish paint consists of highly polished ¡ Less harmful eﬀects on human health with use of all aluminium pigments. The aluminium pigment get oriented Personal protective equipment’s. horizontally parallel on the painted surface after spraying & gives very good re ection of light resulting in to nish similar ¡ Air drying, No baking required. to chrome plating. Application of chrome painting is done by ¡ Exact representation of chrome nish on prototype mist spraying (fogging) of chrome paint on highly polished adds on parts. black /white surface depending on the intended chrome ¡ Supplier dependency negated, so all parts can be eﬀect. painted inhouse. Chrome paint applied on black surface develops dark chrome like nish, if applied on white surface develops in to bright chrome like nish, and if it is applied on white surface with more number of coats results in to Satin chrome like nish. This paint can be over coated by clear coat thereby giving it an additional protection for paint lm. Bright chrome (white base) Dark Chrome (black base) 39 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Energy and Climate Change Energy and Climate Change “ With changing times and market, improving our systems, products & services is the need of the hour. Sustainability is transformation of business to meet the changing needs of society! Building resilient infrastructure and promotion of sustainable industrialization is what we inherently vouch for. In line with the Tata Group Policy on Climate Change, Tata Motors has articulated its Climate Change Policy which ” Prasann K Chobe Senior Vice President, Head Manufacturing Operations, CVBU thereby reducing environmental impact during use phase. Cross functional teams are formed at plants to implement provides direction to our mitigation strategy on product climate change action plans. There are trained climate GHG Emissions Sources Triggers Measures Manufacturing facilities Scope-1 and company owned vehicles Energy eﬃciency and ENCON Initiatives Improved usage of and Cost savings Renewable Energy Scope-2 Electricity purchased Purchased goods and Services Sustainable Supply Capacity building of Chain Initiative Supply chain & Logistics Transportation and and improved eﬃciencies distribution Scope-3 Waste generated Improvement in Operational Eﬃciency during Operations Waste Management Emission Norms & Fleet fuel eﬃciency, Eﬃcient Use of sold products Fuel Eﬃciency/ Engine Technologies, Hybrids, CO2 Standard and awareness Alternate fuels, EV development, manufacturing and Supply Chain. Tata change champions across operations to steer forward the Motors is committed to providing sustainable mobility climate change agenda. These initiatives are extended to solutions which enhance organisational growth while supply chain by creating awareness among suppliers and reducing our dependence on fossil fuels and actively vendors on various environmental issues including energy adopting non-conventional and renewables sources of eﬃciency and management. Best practices and case energy. This strategy is being centrally through our R&D studies are regularly shared with suppliers and vendors Establishment – Engineering Research Centre @ Pune and through emails and during Supplier Meets. at all Plant locations. Tata Motors has a formal 3 pronged We manage our energy needs in a responsible manner and Broad Climate Change strategy to minimise our continually seek opportunities to improve energy organizational GHG footprint. eﬃciency and increase the renewable energy component We design products to deliver superior fuel eﬃciency in our manufacturing process. The conventional fuels 40 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Energy and Climate Change used to meet the energy needs are high speed diesel eﬃciency and management. Best practices and case (HSD), light diesel oil (LDO), furnace oil (FO), lique ed studies are regularly shared with suppliers and vendors petroleum gas (LPG), propane, compressed natural gas through emails and during Supplier Meets. (CNG), and natural gas (NG). Diesel and petrol are We manage our energy needs in a responsible manner and consumed as fuel for engine testing and transport continually seek opportunities to improve energy vehicles. For 2015-16, energy due to consumption of eﬃciency and increase the renewable energy component acetylene for TML is 2954 GJ while for the subsidiaries in our manufacturing process. The conventional fuels included in the reporting scope, it is 149.35 GJ. Due to used to meet the energy needs are high speed diesel changes in some of our operating conditions, we have (HSD), light diesel oil (LDO), furnace oil (FO), lique ed faced a minimal rise in our gross energy consumption. petroleum gas (LPG), propane, compressed natural gas Some of the changes included extra working shift at one of (CNG), and natural gas (NG). Diesel and petrol are our locations and addition of new assembly line for a new consumed as fuel for engine testing and transport product in PV range. For 2015-16, energy due to vehicles. For 2015-16, energy due to consumption of consumption of acetylene for TML is 2954 GJ while for the acetylene for TML is 2954 GJ while for the subsidiaries subsidiaries included in the reporting scope, it is 149.35 GJ. included in the reporting scope, it is 149.35 GJ. Due to We design products to deliver superior fuel eﬃciency changes in some of our operating conditions, we have thereby reducing environmental impact during use phase. faced a minimal rise in our gross energy consumption. Cross functional teams are formed at plants to implement Some of the changes included extra working shift at one of climate change action plans. There are trained climate our locations and addition of new assembly line for a new change champions across operations to steer forward the product in PV range. For 2015-16, energy due to climate change agenda. These initiatives are extended to consumption of acetylene for TML is 2954 GJ while for the supply chain by creating awareness among suppliers and subsidiaries included in the reporting scope, it is 149.35 GJ. vendors on various environmental issues including energy Energy Performance of TML Energy Consumption at TML (GJ) Energy Consumption per Vehicle Produced at TML (GJ/vehicle) 1,541,920 1,571,841 1,463,371 2.77 2.93 3.02 1.85 1.93 1.93 1,029,835 961,203 1,002,331 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Direct energy Indirect energy Direct energy Indirect energy Energy and GHG Performance of Subsidiaries Jamshedpur Energy consumption of TMLDL (GJ) Jamshedpur GHG Emissions of TMLDL (tCO2e) 343,713 78,290 228,906 15,226 Direct Energy Indirect Energy Consumption Consumption Scope 1 Scope 2 IPCC default net calori c values were used to convert the fuel consumption into standard energy units of Giga joules. 41 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Energy and Climate Change TAL Energy consumption (GJ) TAL GHG Emissions (tCO 2e) 26,968 6,143 2,895 214.5 Direct Energy Indirect Energy Consump on Consump on Scope 1 Scope 2 TMML Energy consumption (GJ) TMML GHG Emissions (tCO 2e) 29,743 6,774.80 9,418 648.73 Direct Energy Indirect Energy Consump on Consump on Scope 1 Scope 2 TTL Pune Energy Consumption (GJ) TTL Pune GHG Emissions (tCO 2e) 12,364 2,816 101 7.52 Direct Energy Indirect Energy Consump on Consump on Scope 1 Scope 2 Energy Conservation Initiatives and at other shops, use of portable small compressors for low compressed air requirement on holidays, Ÿ Waste Heat Recovery System to recover waste heat installation of Shut Oﬀ Valves in compressed air from exhaust ﬂue gases of surface& ﬁnish paint baking network, downsizing of motors and Delta to Star ovens, conversion of indirect ﬁred baking ovens into conversion of motors direct ﬁred burner of baking ovens, conversion of Ÿ Installation of variable frequency drives for various electrical heating into Natural Gas Heating System for applications like Blowers, Pumps & Air supply plants washing machines Ÿ Use of infrared sensors & timers for on-oﬀ control of Ÿ Use of energy eﬃcient 40W LED Batten ﬁttings for task industrial fans, lighting system of inspection booths lighting, 100W LED High bay for General Lighting, 19W and fresh air blower operation. Modiﬁcation in LED tube lights in oﬃce area, installation of 42W LED electrical logic for automatic switching on-oﬀ street lights, installation of 142W LED ﬂood light operation of hydraulic motors, coolant pumps, blowers ﬁttings etc., optimization of AC plant operations. Ÿ Elimination of pump operation by using gravity ﬂow Ÿ Through energy conservation eﬀorts such as just in system, resizing of hydraulic power pack pump time lighting and use of compressed air as well as timer Ÿ Compressed Air Pressure optimization at paint shop based air conditioning operation in oﬃces, TMML 42 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Energy and Climate Change Dharwad has been able to save about 1.8 lakh kWh Energy Conservation Highlights for electricity. TML Ÿ Energy saving initiatives at TTL such as adoption of passive lighting techniques and retro tting of existing Ÿ Electricity saved – 1.42 crore kWh CFL and uorescent xtures with eﬃcient LED lights Ÿ LDO saved – 6 KL has led to considerable saving of electricity to the tune Ÿ LPG / Propane saved – 586.32 MT of approximately 67 Mwh. Renewable energy consumption is mainly from captive Ÿ At TAL Nagpur, LED street lights have been installed as wind power plants and from third Party Power Purchase. well as Highbay ttings having higher energy During the year 2015-16, we utilised 1,30,016 GJ of eﬃciency have been used leading to saving of roughly renewable energy leading to avoidance of 35,099 tCO2e 27 Mwh. GHG emissions. CVBU Pimpri Plant utilized total wind Ÿ TTML Lucknow has converted EB energy to Green power generation of 2.35 crores units during the reporting Energy by using Wind Energy thus resulting in 6% period from ‘captive wind power’ projects of 21.95 MW lesser cost than EB power. This has resulted in reduction capacity. 21.95MW wind power project is registered under of carbon footprint from 614 to 90 tCO2 i.e. 85% REC Scheme. Cumulative 63,432 RECs generated in 2015reduction in carbon emission. 16; out of which 40,517 RECs sold through auction, cumulative bene t is of ₹5.85 crores (Please refer to Page 102 of our Annual Report 2015-16). Renewable Energy Consumed and Associated GHG Emissions Avoided by TML Renewable Energy Consumed at TML (GJ) GHG Emissions Avoided Due to Renewable Energy by TML (tCO2e) 372,443 84,834 117,398 130,016 32,121 35,099 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Renewable energy consumption dropped in FY 2014-15 due to regulatory restrictions on renewable power purchase. Bene ts Achieved through REC Year REC's generated REC's sold Cumulative Bene t (in `Crores) 2013-14 32,544 18,931 2.72 2014-15 58,558 28,829 3.14 2015-16 63,432 40,517 5.85 43 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Energy and Climate Change In-house Rooftop Solar Initiatives Production of electricity from fossil fuels emits more CO2 emissions and has more global warming potential. This results in increase in carbon footprint of the organization. To minimize the impact caused to environment through energy consumption, TML has explored onsite solar power generation possibilities. PVBU San and Plant utilized 0.8 crores kWh wind energy purchased through TPTCL (Tata Power Trading Company Limited). Roof Top Solar PV Power Plant of 1.8MWp capacity has been installed & commissioned on Oﬃce Blocks at Pune Plant (CVBU& PVBU). This has resulted in generation of 21.29 Lakh KWh electricity. In addition to this, Roof Top Solar PV Power Plant of 2.0MWp capacity was installed & commissioned on Oﬃce Blocks at San and on approximately 20,000 sq meters area. This has resulted in generation of 17.30Lakh KWh electricity. These initiatives will serve as a pathway to achieve RE100 initiative. Solar panel and inverters installation at Sanand plant GHG Emissions at TML Total GHG Emissions (tCO2e) GHG Emissions per Vehicle Produced (tCO2e/vehicle) 271,835 336,494 323,109 0.62 0.62 0.49 81,277 61,704 64,400 0.15 0.12 0.12 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Intensity ratios are calculated on basis of total vehicles manufactured Intensity ratios are calculated on basis of total vehicles manufactured Apart from GHG emissions arising from process heating Scope 3 emissions as a result of employee commute of our operations, our manufacturing operations also generate employees by Company owned transportation accounted process emissions from welding and metal cutting for 14,334tCO2e of GHG emissions. This value includes the operations. These have been quanti ed separately as their employees of our Subsidiary companies in our reporting quantum is directly proportional to manufacturing boundary this year. Going forward we are working on activity and does not oﬀer scope for mitigation. Scope 1 strengthening our systems for including data on other GHG emissions due to consumption of acetylene and solid Scope 3 emissions which are material to TML such as carbon dioxide are 206.9 tCO 2 e and 761.5 tCO 2 e upstream & downstream value chain, eet emissions and respectively for TML. Similarly, emissions due to acetylene business travel. TML intends to report on Scope 3 and solid carbon dioxide for Subsidiaries are 10.4 tCO2e emissions from all business travel in FY 2016-17. and 346.86 tCO2e respectively. 44 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Energy and Climate Change Energy Savings due to ENCON Initiatives at TML Energy Saved (GJ) Energy Saved per Vehicle (GJ/vehicle) GHG Emission Reduction (tCO 2e) 72,576 160,571 0.32 98,384 79,208 0.17 0.15 21,270 13,953 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 The ENCON initiatives have resulted in CO2 emission monitor air emissions from the production facilities reduction of 13,953 tCO2e for the year 2015-16. We have including an on-line monitoring and alarm system for solar PV installations at three of our manufacturing plants incinerator emissions. We use R134a which has zero ozone in India. This initiative will help us drive the development depleting potential as a refrigerant in our products. of a reliable and aﬀordable supply of renewable energy in During the year, we have used 158.74 kgs CFC-11 India and thus minimise the carbon footprint of our equivalent of ODS. operations. TML joins RE100 in drive for 100% renewable power We have become the second Indian company to join RE100 which is a global collaborative initiative of the world’s most in uential companies aspired to source 100% renewable power. The RE100 movement led by The Climate Group in partnership with CDP aims at speeding up the transition to renewable energy. Maximizing the use of renewable energy in our manufacturing operations will not only reduce carbon emissions but will also lead to long-term nancial savings. Currently, TML obtain around 9% of electricity from renewables and has its own ‘captive wind power’ project of 21.95 MW capacity. In our India manufacturing locations, Paint Shops are Air Emissions designed for use with solvent based automotive paints. Particulate matter (PM), oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and Paint Shops are equipped with appropriate emission sulphur dioxide (SO2) constitute major other air emissions control equipment to control emissions from painting and arising due to our manufacturing activities. We paint baking operations. Going forward, we intend to continually work towards reducing these emissions determine and quantify the extent and signi cance of through eﬃcient manufacturing process and use of volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions using cleaner fuels. Various steps are taken to eﬀectively methodologies as appropriate to each Plant. 45 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Energy and Climate Change ODS Consumption at TML and Subsidiaries ODS Consumption Air Emissions (MT) Quantity (CFC-11 eq.) (TML and subsidiaries) 138.97 138.97 103.49 2013-14 58.35 85.93 276.82 136.6 122.415 177.239 2014-15 64.69 144.01 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2015-16 158.74 TPM NOx SO2 Air Emissions at TML Subsidiaries Parameters Units TMML TTL Pune TMDL-JSR TAL Total Particulate Matter (TPM) MT 14.58 4.75 14.74 2.38 Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) MT 0.067 24.08 2.198 0.03 Sulphur Dioxide (SO₂) MT 0.061 10.14 3.045 67.6 46 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Environmental Stewardship Environmental Stewardship “ Environment is integral to our operations management and we are addressing associated environmental and social risks, to ensure sustenance of our operations and business. Sustainability is investing for a secure future! Environment conservation has always been a key priority for TML and we have consciously strived to minimise the ” Anil Sinha Vice President Manufacturing Operations, PVBU All Manufacturing Plants in India are certi ed to ISO 14001 Environment Management Systems. We aim to transition impact of our operations on the environment. With the to the new 2015 version of ISO-14001 progressively at all objective of embedding our commitment towards Plants over the coming 2 years. All CV and PV environment, we have established a board level Safety, Manufacturing Plants in India are also certi ed to OHSAS Health and Environment (SHE) Committee responsible for 18001 – Occupational Health & Safety Management m o n i t o r i n g a n d re v i e w i n g t h e e nv i ro n m e n t a l System. All CV Manufacturing Plants in India are certi ed performance across the business. SHE committee is also to ISO 50001 Energy Management System (EMS). At all responsible for approving and overseeing the plants level, we have undertaken several initiatives for deployment of action plan for environmental focus areas. resource conservation such as re-cycling of treated Composed of independent as well as executive directors, eﬄuents back to process, energy and material recovery SHE committee is empowered to take prudent decisions at from hazardous wastes and rainwater harvesting. Plants the highest level. At the business level, we have a SHE also generate in-house renewable power and source oﬀcouncil which reviews the environmental performance at site green power where available. Our the individual business levels. There were no signi cant expendituretowards environmental protection amounts environmental nes or sanctions during the reporting to ₹ 406.92 million in FY 2015-16 whereas for our period. subsidiaries the expenditure was ₹ 38.90 million. Environmental Protection Expenditure Breakup (TML) ` Million Environmental Expenditure (` Million) Treatment and disposal of waste 28.20 Depreciation and maintenance cost of equipment used 15.69 410.46 406.92 in pollution control External services for environmental management 267.09 232.16 External certi cation of management systems 1.27 Personnel for general environmental management 4.80 activities 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Extra expenditures for installing cleaner technologies 65.60 Other environmental costs 24.26 47 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Environmental Stewardship Raw Material Conservation Resource optimisation is critical from the business perspective for us in the sensethat reducing the weight of The raw materials we consume include metal in the form of vehicles leads to signi cant improvement in fuel eﬃciency sheets and plates, castings and forgings. Other thus leading to saving of fuel and reduction in GHG components include tyres, fuel injection equipment, emissions. Apart from this, we continually evaluate batteries, electrical items, rubber and plastic parts, paints resource conservation opportunities in our processes and thinners for manufacturing the vehicles. Our internal which not only helps us save cost but also reduces the production processes entail use of consumables such as generated waste in many cases. lubricants, welding consumables etc. Apart from in-house manufacturing, we also source auto components from our subsidiaries and suppliers which consist of axles, engines, gear boxes and cabs. Material Consumption at TML Material Consumed (TML) Units FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Steel Tonnes 1,14,185 96,882 1,04,432 Steel Tubes Tonnes 3 12 6 Non-Ferrous Alloys Tonnes 3,838 3,548 3,237 Ferrous Alloys Tonnes 2,740 3,408 3,449 Steel Melting Scrap Tonnes 50,456 59,185 63,436 Paints, Oils & Lubricants Tonnes 2,680 2,078 2,353 Kilo Litres 9,140 9,131 8,475 Tyres, tubes & aps Numbers 31,02,908 32,49,683 36,27,759 Engines Numbers 81,644 1,05,182 1,18,911 Sand Tonnes 20,161 51,468 66,726 Material Consumption at Our Subsidiaries TMLDL, Jamshedpur Units 2015-16 TMML, Lucknow Units 2015-16 Steel MT 342.92 Galvanized Steel MT 550 Paints KL 29.65 FRP ( ber Reinforced Plastic) MT 84 Oil KL 587.67 Plywood MT 230 Lubricants MT 576.21 Glass MT 174 Steel Shot MT 131.38 Plastic MT 35 Aluminium MT 42 48 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Environmental Stewardship Material Consumption at Our Subsidiaries TMML, Dharwad Units 2015-16 TAL Units 2015-16 Galvanized Steel MT 10,174 Steel including Forgings MT 62.85 FRP ( ber Reinforced Plastic) MT 164 Casting MT 332 Plywood m2 1,88,656 Paints & Thinner KL 16.95 Glass Nos 58,863 Oil & Lubricants KL 15.0 Plastic Nos 27,49,609 Wood CFT 32452 Aluminium MT 183 Composite Material MT 59.223 Thiner L 73529 Titanium MT 33.78 Paint Used L 213888 Aluminium KL 24.8 Integrating Principles of Circular Recover (R-R-R) to address emerging resource scarcity/security issues of the future and reduce the Economy environmental impac ts of our produc tion and Minimising environmental impacts, mitigating associated consumption. We are strongly propagating the need to risks and resource conservation are the driving principles implement R-R-R at our manufacturing locations as well as of Tata Group's Sustainability Policy. While we are by our suppliers. Through our Tata OK and Tata Assured complying with waste management laws in our respective initiative along with reconditioning business Prolife, we geographies, we have recognised great scope exists in are working towards extending the life of our products 'leading by example' in the area of waste management while ensuring optimum operational performance and and resource conservation. We are actively working minimizing usage of virgin materials. This is helping us in towards adopting the principles of ‘Circular Economy’ at lower the environmental burden, reducing the waste TML. This initiative will help us transform the way we look generation and improving resource conservation. at ‘Waste Management’ and will help us Reduce, Reuse and Prolife Our Prolife business division works in the area of reconditioning and remanufacturing auto components which have reached the end of their useful life. We oﬀer customers an option to extend the life of engines and other vehicle aggregates by bringing them to same as new condition in a manufacturing environment. Aimed at commercial vehicle owner, Tata Prolife aims at extending the life of vehicles and aggregates through systematicoverhauling leading to improved eﬃciency and optimum performance while also ensuring several added years to the life. 49 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Environmental Stewardship Reconditioning is done on vehicular aggregates which has whileremaining old wood was recycled. In the past four run one life, and by reconditioning they are infused with years, we have been able to bring down this fresh wood new lease of life, otherwise they would have gone scrap. consumption by nearly 30% through recycling practices. Reconditioning is done in a factory like atmosphere, with In terms of energy consumption, Prolife business has original speci cations, so that these aggregates again run utilised 49 kWh electrical energy per equivalent engine in with designed eﬃciency levels. Apart from engines, 2015-16 for reconditioning. This is a reduction of 30% over gearboxes, clutch pressure plates, Brake components, etc. past four years. are also reconditioned. In reconditioning activity, our main focus is to avoid These reconditioned engines need wooden boxes for scrapping of old parts. In order to achieve this, a separate packaging and transportation. The wood used in these function called ‘Salvaging’ has been created and is headed boxes are also recycled by Prolife. An equivalent engine by a Divisional Manager. needs 7 ft of wood for packaging, but in Prolife we have used only 1.9ft of wood per equivalent engine in last year Equivalent Engines Reconditioned Recycled Metal Scrap and Forgings (t) 41,149.80 23115 18673 18696 22,303.14 22,333.35 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 As part of Salvaging, new projects are continuously taken, such eﬀort is through recycling of metal and forging scrap for salvaging worn out parts by using metallurgical which is reused at our foundries in Pune and Jamshedpur. engineering. This salvaging helps in increasing the recycle Through this recycling we are able to partially oﬀset the content of engine. For example, an equivalent engine need for fresh metal. This recycling signi cantly weighs about 360kg and 2/3rdof its parts are recycled back contributes to reducing the environmental impact since by Prolife. the overall impact of substituting virgin metal with In an eﬀorts to cut down on waste, we are maximizing the recycled scrap avoids the detrimental eﬀects which would recycling opportunities at our operational locations. One have across the value chain in mining of ore, transportation and conversion to useable metal. 50 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Environmental Stewardship TATA OK Recognising that used Commercial Vehicles exchange hands 3-4 times in their life span of 15 years we have come up with TATA OK which is a platform providing single window solution for all those customers who want to exchange, sell or buy preowned commercial vehicles. Through scienti c way, proper processes and refurbishment, TATA OK has proven bene cial to customers who wish to sell old CV and purchase new ones or wish to get right price of their used vehicles. TATA OK stands committed to provide higher resale price and oﬀer reliable refurbished and certi ed vehicles to those who can’t aﬀord to purchase new CV but still want a right product at right price. TATA OK Highlights: Ÿ 53500 New Customers added since inception Ÿ Sold 43530 SCV, 6450 LCV & ICV, 3100 M&HCV Ÿ Network spread across India thru 409 Channel partners. TATA Assured Tata Motors Assured is the Pre Owned vehicle brand from TML. Launched in 2008, it oﬀers a one-stop solution to customers willing to exchange their existing cars for new Tata cars. Through Tata Assured, we have established stringent certi cation norms on make, age, mileage, previous owners and retro tting for vehicles in order to ensure that prospective customers have the best vehicles to select from. Buyers bene t from 1 year warranty on vehicles which have been refurbished as per 16 point refurbishment check list while certi ed as per 100 point checklist. Peace of mind is ensured through 3 free services and 24x7 road side assistance. We are fully aware of the impact of packaging materials on Being part of an industry where we engage with large the environment and we have been undertaking several number of suppliers, we have been educating and interventions to reduce our packaging requirements. We encouraging our suppliers to adopting reusable have been traditionally using wood for packaging in form packaging options and minimise the use of packaging of crates and pallets. This has now been considerably wherever possible. Through our periodic interactions with substituted with either corrugated boxes, plastic or metal. vendors and suppliers, we create awareness about the We are further looking to minimise the use of corrugated environmental impacts of the packaging materials and the boxes and increase the use of reusable packaging mitigation options. Through this proactive engagement, materials which can utilised multiple number of times. For we are con dent of propagating change at larger level internal movement of parts and components we have ensuring sustainable operations in automobile industry. nearly done away with non-reusable packaging options and this has helped us cut down on packaging waste which is generated at our manufacturing locations. 51 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Environmental Stewardship Water Management Water Consumption of TML (m ) Water consumption has been identi ed as one of the key 7,046,701 sustainability issues for us and we have set up a comprehensive strategy in order to manage the water 5,421,855 resources in our operations. The water demand at nearly all 4,833,437 of our operational locations is signi cant owing to water intensive processes such as painting, casting, forging, fabrication etc. Apart from this, large quantity of water is used for non-industrial activities resulting out of the large number of workforce that we employ. 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Recognising the importance of this issue, we have formed cross functional teams drawing members from Utilities, Manufacturing, Support Services, Human Resource and The manufacturing locations of TML receive their water Technical Servicesamong other divisions in order to from various sources. Water at Pune is supplied completely identify the areas of improvement and select appropriate by municipality while for Sanand and Jamshedpur, we water conservation projects and technologies to reduce draw water from rivers / surface water sources. At water intensity. If fact, water conservation features among Pantnagar and Lucknow, we are dependent on ground the key selection parameters while evaluating any new water for our water requirements. In order to reduce our technology and we aim to make maximum impact right dependence of precious ground water resource, we have from the inception stage in order to derive greater established rain water harvesting facilities at Pantnagar bene ts. and Lucknow. At Dharwad, water is sourced from mixed sources which includes municipal supply, ground water It goes without saying that the commitment towards withdrawal and harvested rain water. We have carried out conservation of critical natural resources needs to be studies in the past to determine the water related risks at embedded within the organisational culture and has to our operations and none of our plants draw water from percolate from the top decision-making level right down sources which signi cantly aﬀects the water availability. to the shop oor. With this objective, we have taken several initiatives to raise awareness amongst employees and At the Sanand plant, the rain water was washed as runoﬀ workers regarding the urgency of action required towards till now with ver y little rainfall percolating the water conservation. Through attractive posters and underground water table. Looking at the cost incurred for banners displayed at key locations such as washrooms, we purchasing fresh water, we decided to develop three water have tried to communicate the message regarding the retention ponds of 78 crore litres capacity. This step was need to conserve water and step to achieve the same. We taken to enhance water availability in and around the even encourage people at our manufacturing facilities to plant area by coming up with a viable & cheaper solution report any observed leakage through a formal compliant to collect the precious water drops falling from the sky and management system which is then attended on priority diverting maximum possible water to the ground water by basis by a dedicated team. suitable rainwater harvesting structures. Some of our technological approaches towards water These water retention ponds have been designed in such a conservation are: way that all rainwater and runoﬀ generated within plan is going to accommodate in them. This has led to ultimate Ÿ Maximising the use of treated eﬄuent through increase in the water table in and around the plant ltration, Ultra Filtration, Reverse Osmosis premises and has helped in reducing evaporation loss of Ÿ Variable frequency drive for optimization of pump lake water while also diminishing ooding during peak operation monsoon. Ÿ Use of low ow faucets to reduce water consumption 52 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Environmental Stewardship Water Consumption at TML Subsidiaries for 2015-16 takes place provision for rain water harvesting is made. The harvested rain water not only helps us oﬀset the Subsidiary Water Source Quantity (m ) withdrawal of water from surface / river / ground, it also helps us realise cost savings. Going ahead we are exploring TAL Municipal Water 1,20,719 the potential to increase the amount of rain water we can TTL Ground Water 1,49,767 harvest and utilise it in an even better way. Another approach for reducing the withdrawal of fresh TMML Ground Water 1,25,376 water is by recycling and reusing the eﬄuent generated KIADB Water 16,890 from processes and domestic use. While the norms as laid out by regulatory authorities are now becoming stringent, TMLDL Surface Water 5,15,254 we have always given high importance to treating the eﬄuents and using them in lieu on fresh water. All TML Eﬄuent Treatment through Reverse plants in India comply with Zero liquid discharge Osmosis at Pune conditions except Jamshedpur where treated wastewater is partly used for cooling tower makeup/gardening and The rising cost of industrial raw water, legal conditions rest is discharged outside the plant premises into natural regarding ‘zero discharge’ and the need to conserve water sources. We have reused2,41,933 m3 eﬄuent back to – a precious natural resource has provided compelling manufacturing process after tertiary treatment at Pune, reasons to recycle industrial eﬄuent and sewage back for Pimpri and Pantnagar, while at Jamshedpur 3,27,116 m3 re-use in process. Currently, various technologies are wasrecycled as top up for cooling process. Together, they available for tertiary treatment of eﬄuent, of which represent nearly 13.22% of our fresh water withdrawal for Reverse Osmosis using diﬀerent kinds of membranes is the year 2015-16. At other locations, we are using eﬄuent widely used. However, high energy cost, variability in feed post treatment for gardening. (treated eﬄuent) characteristics, high cost of membranes, skilled manpower for operation are some challenges faced in adoption of the technology. Water Recycled at TML(%) TML has overcome these challenges for setting up eﬄuent recycling system at Pune by collaborating with reputed OEM who has set up a containerized RO Plant which uses 13.22% their patented plate and tube type of membrane instead of conventional spiral wound membrane. Permeate from 12% RO plant is blended with raw water from utility and re-used in manufacturing process. In FY 2015-16 a total of 1,00,672 m3 of treated eﬄuent was re-cycled back into the process 2014-15 2015-16 leading to signi cant cost savings. In order to reduce our fresh water intake, we have taken up rainwater har vesting in big way across all our In our journey towards reducing our water footprint we manufacturing plants. We have setup channels and drains have added capacity to the Reverse Osmosis (RO) plant at so as to make maximum utilisation of the available plant Lucknow and also upgraded our ETP infrastructure at area to harvest rain water. For any new construction that Jamshedpur. 53 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Environmental Stewardship Waste Management With a strong strategic drive to divert hazardous wastes away from such destructive disposal which adds to Our waste management practices place emphasis on environmental burden, a number of re-cycling options reducing waste generation, reusing/recycling waste have been explored and implemented. Going forward we generated and disposing waste in an environmentally committed to increase this quantum and aim for “Zero sound manner. Our manufacturing Plants are vertically waste to Common Waste Disposal Facilities”. Some integrated and a number of manufacturing operations initiatives include – energy recovery from high calori c from pressing / stamping, fabrication, painting, value wastes through co-processing route with cement machining, assembly and testing of aggregates to nal industries, solidi cation / stabilization of ETP sludge as assembly of vehicles are carried out in-house. Our pavers and conversion of paint sludge into industrial requirement of critical-to-quality castings (both iron and primer. aluminium) are met in-house through captive foundries at Pune and Jamshedpur. TML Hazardous Waste Data for FY 2015-16 Waste Category Waste Description Unit Quantity 5.1 Used/Spent Oil MT 202.17 5.2 Oily Wastes & Residues MT 380.77 12.5 Phosphating Sludge MT 200.99 15.1, 15.2 Asbestos containing scrap MT 2.21 20.1, 20.2 Contaminated/Spent Thinners & Solvents MT 162.96 21.1, 23.1 Paint Sludge & Residues, Sealant residues, Pattern MT 2825.54 waste from R&D Activity 33.3 Discarded containers of Haz. Chemicals MT 98.91 34.1 Chimney Soot MT 0.76 34.2 Spent DM Plant Resins MT 18.82 34.3 ETP Sludge MT 955.43 34.4 Oil and grease skimming residues from waste MT 21.3 water treatment 35.2 Spent catalyst from Heat Treatment Shop MT 0.10 36.2 Incineration Ash MT 38.59 As per Schedule II Shot-blasting dust MT 20.45 As per Schedule IV Non-ferrous metal scrap MT 144.73 Used Oil for recycling MT 8.32 Scrap Lead Acid Batteries MT 141.47 Reference of Regulation E-Waste ⁴ MT 148.89 As per The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling & Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2008 as amended. As per The Batteries (Management and Handling) Amendment Rules, 2010 as amended. ⁴As per The E-waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2011 as amended. 54 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Environmental Stewardship TML Hazardous Waste Data for FY 2015-16 TMLDL Waste Category Waste Description Unit TAL Jamshedpur TMML TTL Pune 5.1 Used Oil MT 0.42 5126.56 1.20 0.20 5.2 Grinding Sludge MT 0 72.16 0 21.1 Paint Sludge MT 0 237.76 167.73 0 34.3 ETP Sludge MT 0 Common with TML 108.66 0 TML & SubsidiariesNonHazardous Waste 2015-16 Sr. No. Waste Description Unit Quantity 1 Canteen waste⁵ MT 4443.83 2 Sold to Scrap Dealers⁶ MT 52279.98 3 Foundry waste sand⁷ MT 66725.80 Total Waste Disposed by End Disposal Method at TML Disposal Method Quantity (t) CHWTSDF Land ll 1291.06 CHWTSDF Incineration 2566.18 In-house Incineration 271.28 Recycle for material recovery 129.33 Co-processing (energy recovery) 261.07 Co-processing (material recovery) 38.59 Sale to Authorized Re-cyclers 869.14 Composting 285.95 Biomethanation 1257.80 Municipal Land ll 2900.08 ⁵⁶Canteen waste and scrap is inclusive of subsidiaries covered in our reporting boundary this year TAL Pune, TML Drivelines, TMML Lucknow as these are operating out of our manufacturing plants ⁷Foundry waste sand data is only for TML Foundries at Pune & Jamshedpur 55 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Environmental Stewardship Waste Disposed at TML Waste Disposal by End Disposal Method (%) 13% CHWTSDF Land ll CHWTSDF Incineration 29% In-house Incineration Recycle for material recovery Co-processing (energy recovery) 26% Co-processing (material recovery) Sale to Authorized Re -cyclers Composting 13% Biomethanation 3% Municipal Land ll 1% 3% 3% 9% 0.4% Hazardous Waste Disposed at TML (MT) Non-Hazardous Waste Disposed at TML (MT) 108934 6917 6081 5427 55196 46581 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Biodiversity Management Our manufacturing locations in India are not located presence of these fauna within and adjacent to our plant within the vicinity of any identi ed / noti ed bio-diversity premises is indicator of a stable ecology. While the animal hotspots or protected water bodies. We have created species observed at Lucknow are classi ed as 'Least water bodies / wetlands within our manufacturing Concern' <LC> in the IUCN Red List, the Painted Stork is locations using storm water runoﬀ as a water conservation classi ed as 'Near threatened' <NT>. We are working on measure. A variety of avian fauna are seen throughout the developing a “Biodiversity Management Plan” with the year and migratory birds are seen in the winter. help of experts across Pune, Lucknow and Jamshedpur At Pune Plant, a colony of Painted Stork (Mycteria locations in FY 2016-17. We also intend to leverage our leucocephala) nest throughout the year at the wetland presence in local communities where we are already created adjacent to plant. At Lucknow Plant, Blue buck engaged in Social Responsibility initiatives to identify and (Nilgai), wild boar, common jackal and Indian porcupine help conserve local and indigenous varieties of cereals and are seen as they are commonly found in that region. The food grain. 56 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Human Resource Management Human Resource Management “ Sustainability is about raising the bar and connecting the dots! Our workforce is our biggest asset. Our organization is transforming and we have already set some path-breaking goals related to gender diversity, equal opportunity and decent work ” conditions to meet the changing business needs. Gajendra Chandel Chief Human Resources Oﬃcer Dedication and technical expertise of our employees is the gender and ethnicity. The remuneration for any employee root of our success. We put our best eﬀorts to keep and is strictly based on merit and is governed by the pay scale attract the best people. In order to achieve this, we oﬀer of particular grade. our people attractive and secure jobs, comprehensive We oﬀer all statutory bene ts to our employees such development and training opportunities, and good longpension, gratuity, insurance and health bene ts. TML term prospects. Our systematic career management for employees can also avail accommodation in plants where high-potential and managerial staﬀ fosters and enhances we maintain our own townships. At Jamshedpur, for the professional development, enabling us to ll key example, we operate schools, hospitals and other public positions throughout our locations with quali ed amenities which can be availed either free or at a nominal specialists. cost by TML employees and their family members. We work together to explore how people’s career and Our permanent workforce headcount at the end of FY personal needs change as they move through diﬀerent 2015-16 was at 26,375 compared to 27,998 during the last stages in their lives and how these changes can be scal year. Asour industry is experiencing a downturn we managed. We strive towards strengthening diversity and right-sized manpower across locations, functions & providing development opportunities. As part of our employee grades by implementing employee separation human resources (HR) planning, we annually determine scheme during reporting period. The rate of hiring the skill sets we need based on our corporate and represented as total permanent employees hired as locational strategies and we align our young talent and percentage of total permanent workforce for 2015-16 further training programmes as well as our hiring plans stood at 5.8% while rate of attrition for the corresponding accordingly. Being an equal opportunity employer, we do period was 11%. not discriminate between any employees on cast, creed, Workforce Breakup at TML As on 31.03.2016 Employee by Category (TML) <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 785 291 1039 37 Middle Management 1982 5327 728 7599 438 Junior Management 920 1797 403 2897 223 Non-Management 1763 9610 2769 14018 124 Temporary Workers / FTCs 10368 3542 137 13274 773 Apprentice/Trainees 11493 135 0 11045 583 57 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Human Resource Management Permanent Workforce Pro le by Gender at TML 28625 27127 25553 941 871 822 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Male Female Improving Gender Diversity members, ExCom and other senior management representatives. They constantly review the change in Our mission statement is “ To facilitate a work the diversity ratio and analyse the factors responsible environment that encourages diversity and is inclusive, for the alteration whether positive or negative. Also re s p e c t f u l a n d a p p re c i at i ve towa rd s a l l o u r diversity related issues are tackled by the council which employees”.To constantly guide our eﬀorts towards includes the complaints registered as well as measures diversity in work environment, TML Diversity Council implemented to sort out the issues. has been formed which comprises of the board of SheInspires-International Women's day Contest SheInspires-International Women’s day Contest was organized to develop and boost self con dence in the female employees. Also this contest helped employees to introspect new talents within themselves. Great interest and response was shown by the employees showing that the motive behind the program was achieved to an extent. Traditional mindset that women cannot work in We have proposed a strategy in order to nd out a remedy manufacturing sector has hindered women from getting for this problem, in which they will be hiring 10th and 12th technical education. As a result of this, fewer women enrol pass students directly from their villages instead of relying to study in Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), as they don't on just the ITIs. This step is initiated to reduce our reliance see themselves getting jobs in manufacturing companies. on ITIs for workers and aims to train people in its own Another misconception regarding this sector is about the training centres. We have signed a memorandum of complexity of job. It is assumed that women can't work in understanding (MoU) with the government-recognized manufacturing as there is a lot of heavy lifting involved, Automotive Skill Development Council (ASDC) for a but actually everything is mechanized and there are hauls collaborative skill development program in the and lifts that do all the lifting. With these technical automotive sector. This partnership will help us develop advancements, women can be easily trained to work in skill development centres across our six plants in India. manufacturing plants. Central government's recent step to amend Factories Act to allow women to work night shifts will also provide a boost to TML' initiative. This will help to improve the proportion of women in TML' shop oor from 3% to 20% in the next two years. 58 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Human Resource Management Workforce Breakup at TML Subsidiaries-TAL As on 31.03.2016 Employee by Category <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 23 10 33 0 Middle Management 6 40 62 106 2 Junior Management 376 35 49 360 100 Non-Management 0 55 62 117 0 Temporary Workers / FTCs 4 0 0 4 0 Apprentice/Trainees 67 0 0 67 0 Average Contractual Labour 69 28 0 92 5 Workforce Breakup at TML Subsidiaries-TMLDL Employee by Category As on 31.03.2016 (Jamshedpur) <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 16 12 26 2 Middle Management 58 124 29 206 5 Junior Management 212 146 86 434 10 Non-management 4 1013 517 1521 13 Temporary Workers / FTCs 17 237 12 228 38 Workforce Breakup at TML Subsidiaries-TMML As on 31.03.2016 Employee by Category <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 4 0 4 0 Middle Management 19 105 4 128 5 Junior Management 121 89 1 211 12 Non-Management 967 475 0 1442 2 Temporary Workers / FTCs 208 8 2 218 3 Apprentice/Trainees 460 1 0 461 18 Average Contractual Labour 150 95 0 245 0 59 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Human Resource Management Workforce Breakup at TML Subsidiaries-TTL As on 31.03.2016 Employee by Category <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 86 38 121 3 Middle Management 1 715 42 706 52 Junior Management 1631 1655 21 2878 429 Non-Management 0 0 0 0 0 Temporary Workers / FTCs 325 127 17 392 77 Apprentice/Trainees 0 0 0 0 0 Average Contractual Labour 0 0 0 0 0 In FY 2015-16, for TML 51 female employees took unionized employees. We communicate major changes in maternity leave while 54 female employees resumed work our management to the labour union as agreed to in the from maternity leave. This includes employees who had collective agreement or relevant legislation. The union gone on leave in the previous year. Of the total number of and management discuss key issues through a employees who returned from maternity leave, 55 are still management-labour council meeting to nd solutions. employed after 12 months of resuming, indicating 100% We also hold management brie ngs on a regular basis to retention rate amongst employees who took maternity keep the labour union up to date on the market situation leave. For the subsidiary TTL, 263 male employees and 30 and business practices. female employees availed parental leave during 2015-16. At our Sanand plant, section of Permanent workmen went For other subsidiaries including TAL, TMML and TMDL on a month long strike in Feb-Mar 2016 demanding Jamshedpur, 3 people took leave and all of them joined reinstatement of 2 workmen suspended for misconduct in back to work. There are crèche facilities as well as Dec'15 and 26 were further suspended during the strike. superannuation allowance that help cater to the needs of a The strike ended with an agreement reached between diverse workforce. Union and Management in presence of the labour We respect the dignity of every individual and our code of department, Gujarat. Further the enquiries of these 26 conduct and Human Rights Workplace Policy embody our workmen are being conducted by independent enquiry company's policy to deal fairly and honestly with our oﬃcers ensuring fairness in the matter. Management associates. We fully recognize the freedom of association, continues to engage positively with the union for smooth the right to organize, and the right for collective running of operations and long term participative bargaining. 53% of total permanent workforce in TML are management. New Hires at TML 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016 New Hires (TML) <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 59 14 71 2 Middle Management 748 409 11 1082 86 Junior Management 24 9 0 29 4 Non-Management 40 221 2 242 21 Total 812 698 27 1424 113 60 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Human Resource Management Attrition at TML 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016 Attrition <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 54 59 112 1 Middle Management 609 721 104 1329 105 Junior Management 148 127 63 304 34 Non-Management 30 151 854 1009 26 Total 787 1053 1080 2754 166 New Hires at TML Subsidiaries-TAL 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016 New Hires <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 11 9 20 0 Middle Management 7 12 62 79 2 Junior Management 180 7 49 140 96 Non-Management 0 55 62 117 0 Total 187 85 182 356 98 Attrition at TML Subsidiaries TAL 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016 New Hires <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 6 4 9 1 Middle Management 5 3 18 24 2 Junior Management 88 0 12 96 4 Non-Management 0 0 10 10 0 Total 93 9 44 139 7 New Hires at TML Subsidiaries-TMLDL 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016 New Hires (Jamshedpur) <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 0 0 0 0 Middle Management 24 6 0 28 2 Junior Management 27 1 0 27 1 Non-Management 0 0 0 0 0 Total 51 7 0 55 3 61 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Human Resource Management Attrition at TMLSubsidiaries TMLDL 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016 Attrition (Jamshedpur) <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 1 3 4 0 Middle Management 14 7 3 20 4 Junior Management 13 3 8 24 0 Non-Management 0 15 102 114 3 Total 27 26 116 162 7 New Hires at TML Subsidiaries-TTL 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016 New Hires (Pune) <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 2 2 4 0 Middle Management 0 51 1 49 3 Junior Management 705 109 0 669 145 Non-Management 193 34 0 192 43 Total 898 196 3 914 191 Attrition at TMLSubsidiaries TTL 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016 New Hires (Pune) <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 11 2 13 0 Middle Management 23 110 0 119 14 Junior Management 288 62 0 304 46 Non-Management 0 0 0 0 0 Total 311 183 2 436 60 New Hires at TML Subsidiaries-TMML 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016 New Hires <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 0 0 0 0 Middle Management 4 7 0 11 1 Junior Management 32 3 0 35 1 Non-Management 0 0 0 0 0 Total 36 10 0 46 2 62 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Human Resource Management Attrition at TMLSubsidiaries TMML 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016 Attrition <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 0 0 0 0 Middle Management 3 15 0 18 0 Junior Management 31 15 0 46 3 Non-Management 25 14 0 39 0 Total 59 44 0 103 3 At TMML Dharwad, section of Permanent workmen under forward step taken by the employees to give a written the in uence of some external personnel, undertook undertaking on the maintenance of conduct and some disruptive actions tarnishing the image of the discipline lock out was lifted with eﬀect from 7 t h company during Jan'2016 demanding reinstatement of 2 March'2016. workmen dismissed for committing serious misconduct, Thereafter, management took various proactive steps in revoking the suspension of few workmen who were restoring the normalcy in the plant operations and involved in serious misconducts, apart from going on a continued the pending disciplinary cases. Later ash strike on 31st January'2016. In response to this, as a commenced the negotiations with the registered trade demonstrative approach management noti ed the union representatives and signed long term wage suspension of operations from 2nd to 5th February 2016 to settlement for a duration of 4 years and maintained an prevent any untoward incidents. As there was no open and transparent approach in all the transactions improvement in the overall situation, management was apart from enhancing shop wise periodic constrained to declare lock out with eﬀect from 6th communications, which enabled us to run the plant February. Subsequently, based on the intervention of operations in a normal manner. District administration, Labour department and the Labour Grievance mechanism employee-friendly policies at all times, but do not tolerate any indiscipline and coercive methods for unreasonable We strictly adhere to our policy of having no child labour demands.All our employees at the time of induction and forced labour. All the security personnel have been receive training on our Company's policies and trained to ensure no underage workers enter the plant procedures which include references to human rights. All premises and even our contractors are giving strict our security personnel are trained on TCoC including instructions which prohibit them to employ underage human rights aspects before they begin their duties as workers. For any operation the only exceptions to the 18 part of their induction procedure, a process managed by years age bar are those who are part of government the Employee Relations (ER) department. We have approved apprenticeship schemes and internships. We conducted 22,670 hours of training on human rights remain committed to our well-established principles of topics for while collar employees of the organisation strong and cordial relationship with our people, with fair, covering 57% employees as part of the training. Training and Skill Development We provide a broad range of internal and external, formal, and other learning opportunities, including knowledgeDeveloping targeted recruitment and training campaigns, sharing systems, coaching, and mentoring. building capacity and understanding in recruitment As a means of ensuring business relevance and value of companies, and ensuring active engagement of line learning oﬀered, eﬀorts are taken to closely align learning managers early in the recruitment process to ensure their & development with business needs and priorities buy-in are some of the activities that we have undertaken. 63 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Human Resource Management through a learning governance body called as Learning culture of self-learning and make the learning process Advisory Council (LAC). We have a multi-tiered LAC more inclusive and eﬃcient. Our workforce undergoes structure which has extensive and high quality formal formal performance management and development training and development programmes, at the corporate reviews on an annual basis. The remaining number of unit and locational levels, covering speci c functional employees have access to a range of opportunities aimed skills, and broader business and leadership issues. LACs at developing a workforce with the right skills, experience play a threefold role namely – designing, implementing and training. Performance management among this and reviewing the learning agenda. All the employees of segment is largely team-based. We also provide adequate TML have their performance reviewed on annual basis. assistance to superannuating employees in order to help Tata Motors Academy launched E-learning oﬀerings for them better manage career endings. our managerial population and dealerpersonnel to drive a Average Training Manhours at TML Average Training Manhours (TML) Male Female Senior Management (EG and Above) 11.9 7.5 Middle Management (TM1 to TM5) 6 6.3 Junior Management (TM A/B/C) 48.4 41.9 Non-management(Permanent Blue Collar) 14.84 6.95 Temporary Workers / FTCs 63.66 23.88 Apprentice/Trainees 96.03 138.17 Average Training Manhours at TML Subsidiaries TMLDL TTL TMML TAL Average Training Manhours Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Permanent Employees 5.35 6.85 0.1 0.1 14.6 5.1 5 10.3 Contract Labour 0.32 0.13 0 0 7.1 2 1.7 0.8 Temporary / Fixed Term Contract 1.29 2.05 0.1 0.1 14.8 4 1.0 0.0 Trainees / Apprentices 23.71 15.00 0 0 24.3 6 1.3 0.0 64 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety We are committed to provide a safe and healthy working all the plant locations. The standard operating procedures environment for our employees and associates. A at sites inculcate safety rules and procedures ensuring company-wide occupational health and safety policy awareness and compliance at all levels. Every task exists in order to ensure increased vigilance and undertaken at the site has its own set of safety hazards and awareness on health and safety. A SHE committee of the hence speci c safety procedures for these have been Board of Directors is formed which meets on a quarterly developed.Plant level sub-committees functionally report basis and reviews the SHE performance. It reviews the SHE to corporate level sub-committees. Each CVBU plant head performance. A dedicated team for safety and health is heads the corporate level sub-committee. instrumental in developing safer work procedures across SHE review at diﬀerent levels Senior Management Level Plant Level / Unit Level Factory Level Board of Director’s Meeting, Apex Committees, Factory Implementation SHE Committee of BoDs, Plant Sub-Committees, Committees ExCom, StaﬀCom, Safety Committees SHE Council, Steering Committee, Corporate level Sub-Committee Emphasis is laid on creating a participatory governance communication with business/ channel partners (regional model. SHE Councils are formed for the business units suppliers' meets/ dealer meets), contractors meet. headed by Executive Director for CV business and the Our culture of putting employee welfare at the heart of our President for PV business. At the plant level, Apex operations helps to ensure a high degree of safety norms. committees are formed which are chaired by the Plant We place equal emphasis on safety processes and Heads. A total of 100 safety committees (Factory behavioural safety and we strive to create a positive safety Implementation Committees) have been institutionalized culture towards achieving the ultimate goal of 'zeroacross all the CV plants that meet on a monthly basis to injury'. review and improve the safety management system. Safety is a primary focus area in daily management and Similarly, for PV there are 27 committees running to take parameters are part of the scorecard for senior leaders. on safety culture transformation agenda. Administrative oﬃcers, customer service heads, national Safety Committees have been formed for warehouses and dealer heads and warehouse heads get personally oﬃces and focused audits are being conducted as per the involved in taking safety initiatives in their respective plan by the Safety coordinators/ line managers which are areas. We continually strive to per form beyond in turn reviewed by the Safety Committees respectively as compliance whilst positively in uencing our value chain well as in the Steering Committees. members to improve their safety standards. There is an Various communications also cover Safety through increased focus on areas like training and awareness, address of Business Heads & Plant Heads, town hall safety observations, audits etc. to drive a positive safety meetings, mailers, reviews, videos etc. This also includes culture. 65 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Occupational Health and Safety AIM DRIVERS Enhance the safety standards at TML and develop a Engagement at all levels positive safety culture across the organization with Ÿ Senior leadership commitment an endeavour to be the best in safety and health in Ÿ Rewards & Recognition automobile industry in India Ÿ Training and awareness Ÿ Sharing and learning KEY TARGETS Ÿ Engaging & In uencing channel partners Governance Ÿ Audits and assessments Ÿ SHE Review Meetings Robust processes Ÿ Consistent safety standards Ÿ Timely incident reporting and investigations Ÿ Stringent target of 10% reduction in Lost Time Ÿ Horizontal deployment of learnings from incidents Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Ÿ Achieved LTIFR= 0.17 as against target of 0.18 Safe behaviour culture Ÿ Our target for FY 16-17 is taken on TRCFR Ÿ Road/ Driving Safety which is 15% reduction from last year. Target Ÿ Focused safety observations Total Recordable Case Frequency Rate (TRCFR)= 1.27 KEY INITIATIVES Ÿ Initiated Jagruti – Safety Awareness Building Campaign for Workshop Managers Ÿ Safety Infrastructure improvements in warehouses Ÿ Robust Audit Mechanism Ÿ Increased our scope of Campaigns(like road safety week, National safety month, etc.) for engaging our channel partners and supplier fraternity Ÿ Continuous communication & awareness on lifestyle/ wellness, health promotional activities Focus on contractor safety management, evaluation prior to awarding contract, reward and recognition, audits on eld safety, communication. Creating an Organisational culture been implemented for all levels of employees and associates. and Instilling Safe Behaviour Our Safety Excellence Journey has transformed the Safety We are moving to the next stage of implementation where culture. This journey focusses on: the employees’ behaviour is being targeted. Seniors are Ÿ Continued engagement of senior leaders and middle involved in safety observation process, incident management in Safety meetings and initiatives investigations, etc. which sets a good example to the employees of the commitment from the leaders. Ÿ Identifying, developing and implementing High Risk Employees are recognized for their contribution to safe Standards work environment. We have rolled out ‘Guidelines on Ÿ Propagating Safety Observation culture through a Consequence Management for ‘Safety Noncompliance’. structured approach This guideline aims to establish a framework for Ÿ Fatality potential observations are closed with highest progressive disciplinary decision making, thereby ensuring priority a fair and transparent process for initiating such actions, which are intended towards changing behaviour. The kind Ÿ Training and capability building on Safety aspects of actions taken include training, coaching and counselling Ÿ Enhancing Contractor Safety Management for diﬀerent scenarios. A structured process of training has 66 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Occupational Health and Safety Safety Excellence Journey We have developed eighteen standards addressing the managerial, cultural, behavioural and technical aspects of safety. These standards include: SubCommittee Phase-1 Phase-2 Phase-3 Standards Standards Standards Standards Ÿ Safety Observations Ÿ Lockout Tagout Ÿ Lifting and Supporting Ÿ Con ned Space Standard Ÿ Electrical Safety of Loads Ÿ Machine Guarding Ÿ Incident Investigation Management Standard Ÿ Permit to Work / Hot Ÿ Material Handling Ÿ Contractor Safety Ÿ Working at Height Work Ÿ Hazard identi cation & Management Ÿ Safe Driving, Vehicle & Ÿ Job Safety Analysis & Risk Assessment (HIRA) Traﬃc Safety Take2 Ÿ Emergency Ÿ Personal Protective Ÿ Management of Preparedness Equipment Change Ÿ Fire Safety Management We have successfully completed second party audit for all CV plants for 5 Phase 1 standards. First party audits have been completed for 5 Phase 2 standards as well and second party audits are in progress. Defensive Driving Training(DDT) Safety Review and Monitoring The safety and health aspects are governed within the organization at diﬀerent levels from the senior leadership level to shopoor level. There is an online reporting system in place for safety observation process and incident investigation due to which there is an enhanced data integrity, speed and governance. Safety standards and procedures are available on the centralised portal for easy accessibility. Major incident announcements and High Potential incident (HIPO) announcements are sent to the 'Serious Incident Info' group that comprises of senior leaders. Employees are encouraged to report incidents that occurs and an inProject Defensive Driving is one of the biggest training depth incident investigation is conducted, learning of projects in the Indian automobile sector with a focus to which is shared with all employees. We have initiated improve safe driving behaviour of employees and learning & sharing for serious incidents and fatalities which contractors. TML aims to build a safe driving culture among happen in other Tata group companies. For Horizontal its employees and contractors. Since the inception of the Deployment, as a way forward, we are working structurally, campaign in 2011, thousands of employees and associates where we'll use the capabilities of our incident have been trained on defensive driving through number of investigation online portal to communicate, track and sessions across the organization. A 'Train the Trainer' close lessons learnt/ recommendations from incident program was conducted to train employees so as to build investigations of intra-plant & inter-plant incidences and internal capacity to carry this training forward. TML was Tata group fatalities. The continuous eﬀorts towards awarded by Occupational Safety & Health, India Safety creating a positive safety culture have contributed towards Innovation Award as part of the OSH India annual reducing the overall lost time injuries. international conference.Vendor and supplier drivers are also being trained However, we had one fatality during the year, which took place as a road incident during business travel of a sales personnel in Rajasthan. The fatality was investigated and 67 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Occupational Health and Safety appropriate mitigation measures have been put in place to Pune, total number of recordable cases were 8 and no avoid recurrence of such incident. For our subsidiary TTL fatality was recorded. Senior Management Level Business Level Plant Level / Unit Level Factory/Department Level SHE Committee of Board of SHE Council, Steering Plant SHE Apex Committee, Factory Implemenatation Directors, Corporate Steering Committee, Corporate Plant Sub-Committees, Committees Committee (CSC) Sub-Committees Safety Committees Plant / site level committee: Broad based team – standard team de nes activities, BBT converts to detailed implementation plan and shared with FICs. Examples of guidelines – mobile policy, CCTV, etc. Safety Performance of TML TML Safety Performance FY 2012-13 FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Lost time injuries (Nos.) 122 59 31 27 Lost time injury frequency rate (per million manhours) 0.68 0.39 0.2 0.17 Total recordable cases (Nos.) 448 228 295 236 Total recordable cases frequency rate (per million manhours) 2.49 2.23 1.91 1.49 Fatalities 1 1 1 1* *Road Fatality of a sales employee during business travel Safety Performance of TML Subsidiaries Lost time injury Total Total recordable Safety Lost time frequency rate cases frequency recordable Fatalities Performance injuries (Nos.) (per million rate (per million manhours) cases (Nos.) manhours) TMLDL FY 13-14 7 0.72 35 3.61 0 Jamshedpur FY 14-15 4 0.33 40 3.25 0 FY 15-16 3 0.2 59 3.92 0 TMML FY 13-14 1 0.39 5 1.94 0 Lucknow FY 14-15 1 0.37 12 4.42 0 FY 15-16 0 0 5 4.48 0 TAL Pune FY 13-14 1 0.46 1 27 0 FY 14-15 0 0 0 0 0 FY 15-16 0 0 0 0 0 TAL Nagpur FY 13-14 0 0 0 0 0 FY 14-15 1 11.10 2 14.23 0 FY 15-16 0 0 3 3.39 0 TMML Dharwad FY 13-14 6 0.66 152 16.78 0 FY 14-15 2 0.2 133 13.33 0 FY 15-16 0 0 16 3.37 0 68 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Occupational Health and Safety LTIFR& LDR at TML and Subsidiaries Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Lost Day Rate (per million manhours) (per million manhours) FY 2015-16 Employees Contractors Employees Contractors Pune 0.17 0.21 4.21 5.88 Jamshedpur 0.22 0.09 5.14 5.98 Lucknow 0 0.21 0 12.79 Pantnagar 0 0 0 0 Dharwad 0.52 0 67.33 0 Pune PV 0.33 0.27 1.34 6.13 Sanand 0.52 0.36 6.81 3.62 TAL Pune 0.00 0 0 0 TAL Nagpur 0 0 0 0 TMLDL Jamshedpur 0.23 0 7.85 0 TMML Lucknow 0.98 0 0.78 0 TMML Dharwad 0.19 0 45.83 0 Warehouse Safety Lead Indicators at TML (FY 2015-16) Parameters (↑Better) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total No. of Safety Meetings 29 30 30 31 120 No. of Safety Trainings 61 57 68 92 278 Near Misses Reported 197 202 219 231 849 Mock Drills 13 9 18 17 57 A consensus has been built with union that Safety of Plant, will wear the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and Equipments & the employees is of utmost importance and follow the safe working practices and not to violate any is as much the responsibility of the Union as of the safety norms as may be xed by the management from Management to implement safe procedures and practices. time to time. We have introduced a new Variable Payment The Union agrees to co-operate wholeheartedly with the Linked Performance scheme which is designed to pay the management in making Tata Motors Plant sites an Injury bargainable employees according to the performance of Free Organization. The union shall suppor t the employees on Safety, Productivity and Quality parameters Management to reach higher standards of Safety and along with company performance measured in terms of Health by recognizing Safety as an integral part of the Operating Pro t operations. The union further agrees that all the workmen As stated in the TML Health & Safety policy, 'we also play an 69 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Occupational Health and Safety in uential role in upgrading the Safety standards of our TML is helping the workshops to improve Safety, Health business partners' that includes dealers, vendors, etc.; In and Environmental (SHE) practices in their workplace, with this line, TML had a strategic partnership with M/s Castrol to a special focus on Safety. Minimum Mandatory Safety improve the level of understanding of Safety of its dealer Standards have been developed to be followed by all Dealers workshops. Regular training and workshops are conducted for all the dealers across India. Also, there is a 7point checklist which identi es 7 critical controls (Fatality potential mitigation actions) to be present mandatorily in all dealer workshops. For this particular initiative, TML was awarded in ‘Gold Category’ by “Occupational Safety & Health, India Safety Innovation Award” as part of the OSH India annual International Conference . Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate at TML (per million manhours) 0.68 workshops. Jagruti – Safety Awareness Building Campaign for Workshop Managers is a yearlong campaign focused on 0.39 0.20 building Awareness on Safety and understanding of Tata 0.17 Motor’s expectations on Dealers Workshop Safety (Safety MMS Manual). This programme is collaboration of TML, FY 2012-13 FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Castrol and training partner ICECD. The yearlong campaign aims to cover works managers/representatives of 2000 workshops (CV & PV) across India by January ’17. As a part of this project, till date 693 workshops across India have been covered. In the vendor meet, as a part of Sustainable Percent Reduction in LTIFR at TML supply chain the process of communicating SHE 48.72 % expectations has been initiated by putting the expectations in the Supplier Relationship Management portal. 10.65 % 15.00% Jagruti Awareness Sessions Region Total Workshops FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 % Covered Workshops Covered CVBU North 425 199 199 For RSOs and warehouses, safety norms have been formed. Dedicated Safety Managers report to the head of South 335 117 117 Warehouses with functional reporting to Corporate SHE. East 327 59 59 Safety Committees have been formed in all the warehouses West 397 147 147 and focused audits are being conducted as per the plan by Total 1484 522 522 the Safety Managers which are in turn reviewed by the Safety Committee of the Warehouses as well as the PVBU Steering Committees. The performance of warehouses in North 176 38 38 safety is monitored in Spare Parts Division’s & Customer South 185 70 70 Service’s monthly review meeting. East 88 20 20 As a support from TML to improve the safety performance West 149 43 43 of these focused vendors, a baseline audit was conducted, Total safety awareness trainings were imparted and awareness 598 171 171 campaigns were run for Road Safety Week and National 70 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Occupational Health and Safety Leading Indicators Training Man hours – Employees & Contractors Lagging Indicators Number of Safety Inspections Number of Fatalities Number of Safety Observations Round Number of Lost Time Injuries (LTI) Number of Safety Audits Number of Restricted Work Cases(RWC) Number of Near Miss Reports Received Number of Medical Treatment Cases (MTC) Number of Mock Drills Number of First Aid Cases (FAC) Number of Industrial Hygiene Activities Number of High Potential Incidents (HIPO) Number of Total Recordable Cases(TRC) Safety Month. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate(LTI-FR) TML has created a list of Indicators that are tracked to Total Recordable Case (TRC-FR) gauge Safety performance. A list of these is given below. Number of Road Related IncidentsInternal & External These Leading and Lagging indicators are collated and the same in the form of monthly Safety performance are sent to Number of Fires – Major & Minor all the stakeholders. These are then reviewed in the various Number of Property Damage forums like SHE Council, Apex meetings, Sub-Committee meetings, etc. Types of analysis that are used are trend Number of Spills charts, why-why analysis, root cause analysis, frequency Number of Occupational Illness Reported rate monitoring. Based on these performance reviews Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR) speci c projects and actions are taken to improve Safety performance. expert agency is engaged for 3rd party audits at plants. Robust Audit MechanismTML has First Party Audits Plant SHE Apex monitors the timely closure of these audit (Intra-plant), Second Party Audits (Inter-plant) & Third Party ndings. The ndings of 2nd party audit are also monitored Audits (External) system in place. 1st Party & 2nd Party by Corporate Standards & Procedures Sub-Committee and audits are conducted basis SHE Audit Standard. External SHE Council. Health Checkups We have medical centres across all plant locations and external tie-ups with hospitals. It complies with statutory PUnder preventive Occupational Health (OH) requirements such as biannual health check-ups for interventions, speci c check-ups are conducted and employees at plants. Workplace assessments by external complimented by awareness sessions through lectures agencies result in proactive actions such as preventive and exhibitions. Enabling immunization, imparting rsthealth check-ups and awareness programs. aid and CPR (once in month for Jamshedpur's own 'HealthPlus Because you matter!' is launched to run its employees and contractors) training and creating general health initiatives. Series of initiatives like awareness health awareness amongst employees is an ongoing sessions, mailers (E.g.World Heart Day, World Health Day, activity across the plants. Employees exposed to hazardous World Diabetes day, National Occupational Health day) etc. processes such as those working in paint shops or have been conducted under this brand name. The Health foundries are subjected to six monthly check-ups on and Wellness manual is a comprehensive manual not only speci c tests like audiometry and spirometry. Apart from to create awareness on matters related to health issues and this, we also conduct work at height vertigo test for workers services but also to provide a framework for dealing with who are to work at elevated locations. No workers were these areas. identi ed to have occupational disease. Several sessions and health talks by experts and specialists Health index is implemented across the manufacturing are organized on chronic and lifestyle diseases, example sites and it is eﬀectively used for improving health of the Swine Flu, Ebola, Know your Heart, etc., for the bene t of employees by way of providing special attention and employees, especially women employees and their counselling. We have initiated an occupational health families. Health measures are reviewed at the top most portal which monitors and records the health mapping and level i.e. Board of Directors', CSC level as well as plant level surveillance at Jamshedpur plant. and SHE apex level. 71 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Occupational Health and Safety Health Sessions at TML Health Sessions Plant Wise (↑Better) FY 2012-13 FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Pune CV 20 18 80 88 Pune PV 2 1 5 10 Jamshedpur 20 24 24 22 Lucknow 18 25 27 30 Pantnagar 11 6 10 20 Sanand 16 21 24 20 Dharwad 21 27 45 42 Total 108 122 215 232 Health Sessions for Women Employees at TML Health Sessions for Women (↑Better) FY 2012-13 FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Pune CV 4 4 4 6 Pune PV 2 0 3 3 Jamshedpur 0 0 4 2 Lucknow 2 2 2 4 Pantnagar 4 3 4 6 Sanand 1 2 2 2 Dharwad 1 6 7 3 Total 14 17 26 26 Health Index at TML Health Index Plant Wise (↑Better) FY 2012-13 FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Pune CV 10.51 10.49 10.86 11.71 Pune PV 11.36 12.13 11.42 11.86 Jamshedpur NA NA 10.35 12.18 Lucknow NA NA NA 12.97 Pantnagar 12.63 12.31 12.58 12.10 Sanand NA 12.87 12.48 11.00 Dharwad NA NA 12.12 12.31 72 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Value Chain Sustainability Value Chain Sustainability Value chain describes the full range of activities which are impacts of its activities, product and services. TML has required to bring a product or service from conception, increasingly developedfuel eﬃcient vehicles to minimize through the diﬀerent phases of production (involving a the environmental impacts during entire life cycle of the combination of physical transformation and the input of vehicle. Development of next generation green vehicle is various producer services), delivery to nal consumers, central to our 'FutuReady' strategy for meeting the future and nal disposal after use. Automobile manufacturers requirement of our stakeholders. It strives to optimally have evolved from vertically integrated business models utilize the resources and due consideration is taken to in which major manufacturing activities are carried out inensure maximization of recovery, reuse and recycling of house, to an assembly type business model in which most various materials during the end of life of vehicle and is components are sourced from the supply chain. ac tively suppor ting suppliers to become more Automobile Supply Chains can be broadly classi ed into competitive by supporting in development of new Direct Material Suppliers (auto components tted on technologies while increasing the productivity. Producing vehicle) and Indirect Material Suppliers (consumables safe and convenient automobiles with the highest quality such as paint, pre-treatment chemicals gases, etc. used in is the core of TML's business operation and prompt service the manufacturing process as well as other materials support given to customers matching their satisfaction required for supporting processes). Automobile supply requirements. Continuous eﬀorts are undertaken to chains are characterized by technology driven suppliers of increase the fuel eﬃciency and develop innovative proprietary components (fuel pumps, tyres, adhesives, mobility solutions to reduce the GHG emissions. Dealers sealants, electronic controls etc.), well established tier are supported to the fullest extent to build their structure inherent to manufacturing sector and large knowledge and capacity to perform sales and also number of Small & Medium Enterprises (SME's). communicate to customers eﬃciently about our product TML has a comprehensive environmental management and brand. TML places strong focus to improvise its system in place which enables the company to produce logistics system which leads to reduced cost and improved high quality vehicles while minimizing the environmental eﬃciency. Ÿ Concept to launch Product Ÿ In-house design of Vehicles, Aggregates and Integration Development Ÿ Excludes design of proprietary parts Ÿ Source between 70-80% of parts tted in vehicles Parts and Ÿ Supplier base includes Direct, Indirect Material Suppliers and Service Providers. Aggregates Ÿ 2 Dedicated Vendor Parks at Pantnagar and Sanand. and Raw Materials Ÿ 7 manufacturing plants within India Manufacturing Ÿ Press, Weld, Paint, Aggregate Manufacture, Assembly Ÿ Customer touch points across India Sales & Ÿ Domestic Business Dealers, Direct Sales Distribution Ÿ International Business Distributors Ÿ Service Dealers and Tata Authorized Workshops After Ÿ Includes spareparts, aggregates, Annual Sales Service Maintenance Contracts, Prolife (Aggregate Reconditioning) 73 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Value Chain Sustainability TML Value chain comprises of ve main components M anufac tur ing, Technical S er vices, Produc tion ranging from Product Development, Parts & aggregates Engineering and Kaizen are nominated as a Supplier and Raw Materials, Manufacturing, Sales & Distribution Improvement Team (SIT) to closely engage and work with and After Sales Service. Product development deals with identi ed suppliers through capability building, waste in-house design of vehicles, aggregates and Integration. elimination (rework, rejections, transit damages, etc.), This step does not include design of proprietary parts. resource conservation and improving work environment, Another component is Parts & Aggregates and Raw hygiene and safety. Every plant is engaging their suppliers Materials which includes direct, indirect material suppliers for this Capacity Building Programme. and service providers. There are 2 dedicated vendor parks Project Sankalp brought 90 supply points under coverage at Pantnagar and Sanand. Manufacturing component in 2015-16 as part of Supplier transformation journey. The includes 7 manufacturing plants in India which program continued to focus on its basic approach of manufacture both commercial and passenger vehicles. transformation through 6 pillar approach of Cleanliness, The main operations included are Press, weld, paint, Safety, Health and Hygiene, Data Management, Quality, aggregate manufacture and assembly. The other key Supplier issue resolution. component of the Automobile value chain includes Sales In addition to the above, the program additionally & Marketing and After Sales Service to ensure a superior involved 4 major interventions as a supplement to ensure customer experience through dealers and service touch the delivery of its planned objectives. The program points. Our large and diverse supplier base is periodically encouraged the supplier partners to induct female rationalized on the basis of performance and market employees primarily in supervisory and quality areas to requirements. TMLengages with dealers through an leverage their strength in “Eye for Details” and integrated CRM-DMS, which enables us to monitor “Orderliness”. Some of the suppliers who noticeably nances and inventory at dealer level, and services, spares bene ted through this diversity approach are SFL, Youth and complaints at the customer end. India, Samarth, etc. Supplier capability building through Welder Quali cation process has been used as a major tool Project Sankalp to develop skills and ensure we have a quali ed pool as a part of 4M compliance. The program involved both Project Sankalp is a supplier transformation initiative theoretical and practical inputs. Each of the workmen was undertaken by TML in FY 2014-15. TML has several expected to prepare a sample as per the protocol of ASME. suppliers and there are numerous complaints from all These samples were tested in TML to see that the product plant heads, manufacturing heads and quality heads met its quality requirements. Workmen who could not regarding the poor quality of parts being supplied by the pass went thru retraining and repeat of the quali cation suppliers across all locations. This may be due to weak process. This has been a major foray to enhance the skill processes control at suppliers end. Suppliers are not able with coverage of more than 100 welders so far. to resolve quality issues due to lack of robustness in manufacturing process in addition to lack of technical Another method used was knowledge enhancement of knowhow. Besides this willingness to change, poor Foundries through community approach of learning and infrastructure, problems arising out of nancial health & sharing. A total of 28 foundries were brought under a frequent design changes also results into part quality branded program “Project Vihaan – A new beginning” in issues. Careful introspection concluded that there is need three batches at Jamshedpur, Pantnagar and Pune and to change the mindset of suppliers and to take this this was speci cally designed by analysing the data that forward, Project Sankalp was kicked oﬀ. showed most of the foundries have issues around sand and metallurgical composition. The program envisaged an Project Sankalp is intended to bene t those Supplier SME speaking to the technical team of these foundries and Partners who are at the bottom of the pyramid in terms of creating a forum where the Foundry as a community can quality, productivity and pro tability through capability learn and share from each other. The program saw intense building, elimination of waste (rework, rejections, transit discussion and found solutions to the problem through damages, etc.) conservation of resources and a better the community approach. work environment thereby ensuring the business continuity.Cross functional teams which pools the Another initiative was that the suppliers were enabled to expertise of several in-house functions such as Quality, know the relevant technical information including 74 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Value Chain Sustainability drawings of the product without seeking any help from Project Sankalp is planned to conclude by March 2017. For anybody in the value chain. The program provides a secure Pantnagar plant, project Sankalp was awarded at PERP direct access to all the ~1300 supply points concurrently 2015. through the SRM platform. The time-bound program of Project Sankalp at Sanand At Sanand plant, Project Sankalp is being run by a cross functional team. Sanand team has identi ed 3 suppliers for which they have initiated diﬀerent capacity building programs.The bene ts of these suppliers has been ₹ 8,72,700. The training program included skill development of Manual Painting, Safety Flame-De-Flashing and Blower Implementation at TACO site; Suﬃcient Lux Level, Blower Implementation and Safety at Wield Shop at Rucha site and Blanking line Reduction of Rejection at Caparo site. Total savings generated by suppliers is mentioned as follows: Category Potential Savings No. Supplier Details of Initiatives savings (in `) of Initiatives Space saving by shifting obsolete tool & dies 350 Sqmetres 1 JBM 3,68,700 (114nos)shifting TML space saving Material /Space Nano My 13 Wheel arc liner Frt& RR -Drawing calls for 2 TACOIPD Material saving 2,88,000 (Area) Saving Recycled PPCP Usage virgin PPCP Material saving realisation through small piercing 12 Ton scrap 3 Rucha 2,16,000 scrap collection collection Total Savings 8,72,700 TRAINING-Skill development in manual Training of selected manpower painting & Inspection-TACOIPD from Rucha at TML Training was given to Caparo manpower about the value of KAIZEN 75 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Value Chain Sustainability Project Sankalp at Lucknow Lucknow team has identi ed 4 suppliers (M/s Sharada Industries, M/s LD Joshi, M/s Mitter Fasteners and M/s Berry Auto) for which they have initiated diﬀerent capacity building programs. The capacity building programs includedProductivity/Rework reduction, House keeping, Out Bound Logistic, Energy conservation, Production, planning & control and Process Improvement.The bene ts of these suppliers has been ₹ 6,745,000. Savings No. Supplier Category of Initiatives (in `) Productivity/Rework reduction, House keeping, 1 SHARADA Industries 3,351,000 Out Bound Logistic and Energy conservation Productivity/Rework reduction, House keeping, 2 LD Joshi 1,401,000 Production, Planning & Control and Energy conservation 3 MITTER FASTENERS House keeping & Energy Conservation 549,000 4 BERRY AUTO House keeping & Process Improvement 2,845,000 Total Savings 8,146,000 In addition to project Sankalp, Lucknow team has also implemented followingGreen Supply Chain initiatives: Ÿ Implementation of logistic initiatives such as optimization of vehicle loads, direct shipment to TML/warehouse, routing of distribution and reverse logistics Ÿ Consolidation centres have been developed to maximise truck utilization and minimise vehicle movement and carbon foot print in the plant Ÿ Vehicle Fitness and Pollution Certi cates are checked by our Security Dept. at Gates and then only vehicles are allowed to enter the TML premises. Ÿ Elimination of plastic packaging by introducing dedicated Binsin various bracket Parts family. Con icts Mineral Management Packaging & Logistics Management The United States Dodd-Frank Act, Section 1502, is a Integrated packaging design process arises as one key landmark legislation that requires manufacturing factor that could contribute in increasing the eﬃciency and companies to identify and disclose to the U.S. Securities sustainability of supply chains. This approach is called and Exchange Commission (SEC) the source of 3TG “packaging logistics” which means the process of planning, minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) used in their implementing and controlling the coordinated packaging products when those minerals originate from or around system of preparing goods for safe, secure, eﬃcient and the war-torn region of the Democratic Republic of the eﬀective handling, transport, distribution, storage, Congo (DRC). retailing, consumption,recovery, reuse or disposal As a Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) registrant, we combined with maximizing consumer value, sales and need to be in compliance with the requirement of the hence pro t. aforesaid section. In this regard, we have developed P&SC has initiated global actions centrally for optimizing company-wide Con ict Minerals Policy and have a Con ict logistics, packaging, cost, and reducing damages to auto Minerals Compliance Program in place to implement our components. Several factors such as labour, material ow, Con ict Minerals Policy. This is necessitated since auto pull systems, layout, cost, safety, ergonomics etc. are components/sub-systems sourced by TML may have 3TG considered before nalising the design of packaging and minerals. labelling. Returnable type of packaging such as 76 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Value Chain Sustainability polypropylene boxes is gaining more importance over Sustainable Supply Chain single use type of packaging. This is done to achieve reduction of expendable packaging dunnage for To increase the awareness among suppliers on components such as fender, rear wall, dashboard, fuel Environmental, Social and Governance issues, and to tanks etc. For heavier components, returnable and foldable improve the Sustainability performance, Sustainable steel bins, pallets, trollies, plastic bags are used. Also wood Supply Chain Initiative has been taken up. In the month of packing is replaced by steel rack packing design. January and February workshops were conducted on Carbon Footprint Measurement &Mitigation at Pune and Other step in this direction included setting up of Lucknow plant which was attended by more than 230 consolidation centers at key geographical locations across suppliers. During the last quarter of the year more than 150 the country to streamline material receipt in-line with suppliers were made aware of the importance and production plans. 'Milk Runs' for local runs were expectations of Sustainability in Supply Chain in Passenger established in Kolhapur region for Pune CV, Pune Belt for vehicle and Commercial Vehicles Vendor Meets. This year a Pune PV, TML Dharwad from Pune etc., in which transport GHG Tool spreadsheet was shared with suppliers for CO2 vehicles collect components from suppliers as per estimation for their own units and so far 6 suppliers have requirement and transport to our manufacturing plant, come up with their GHG data. TML has planned to monitor which avoids use of multiple vehicles and material and track sustainability performance of selected critical handling. To optimize number of trucks entering the suppliers in next 2-3 years. manufacturing plants, special containerized vehicles (32' & 52') were introduced for optimum payload utilization. CII-GreenCo initiativea Green Company Rating System framework created by CII to assess and evaluate the “Green supply chain” initiative was taken up as a part of CII environmental performance of an organizationwas taken GreenCo Assessment in 2014 to evaluate the forward this year to supply chain by identifying 2 Suppliers environmental performance of the organization. Energy and handholding them for GreenCo implementation. and environment related data were collated from selected suppliers and analysed which provided an insight into best Value Chain Engagement practices in environment management. In future we aim to increase our reporting boundary to include our suppliers With the launch of Tata Motors Integrated Supplier Quality sustainability performance and evolve supplier selection Manual, the supply quality process is further strengthened. criteria to include sustainability parameters. Selected The manual provides a common 16 step process to ensure suppliers will be encouraged to undergo CII-GreenCo that TML requirements are complied with by all partners assessment through resource conservation and improved and highest quality standards are achieved. TML have also pro tability. established vendor councils in 4 regions-North, South, East and West of India. These councils provide a platform for top TML among top four of India level management and suppliers to interact. Periodic vendor meets are also held at every location to Responsible Business Forum (IRBF) communicate on key issues likesupply schedules, quality Index, 2015 and vendor ratings. IRBF Index 2015, an initiative by Oxfam India in partnership On-site vendor audits are carried out in which safety, health with Corporate Responsibility Watch, Praxis and Partners in and environmental issues are taken into account. Change, evaluated inclusiveness of suppliers/vendors in Engagement with dealers is done through periodic the sustainability journey of organization with focus on National Dealer Council, Regional Dealer Councils and priority to local sourcing, safety, health, environment and Annual Dealer Conference and these interactions serve as a ethical work practices at suppliers end. TML was ranked platform for discussing strategic and tactical plans for fourth out of 99 companies evaluated by IRBF⁸. business growth. ⁸ http://www.livemint.com/Companies/xzYxZpbtBtCvqoLqlhwupO/India-Incs-policies-for-supply-chain-not-robust.html 77 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Value Chain Sustainability Location wise Local Procurement 50.60% Pantnagar 25.53% Lucknow 39.51% Sanand 58.86% Jamshedpur 75.61% Pune % Local Procurement 56.03% 23.63% Dharwad 55.09% 54.62% 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Local Sourcing 7 manufacturing plants across India source material from hubs located in north, west and south of the country and hence promote the local industry and community. To establish the supply chain base at greeneld locations, vendor parks were set up at Sanand at Pantnagar. All these steps have resulted in the growth of the local economy and have reduced logistic complexities and have minimized pack aging and transpor tation. I n FY 2016, our manufacturing plants sourced 55% of materials and services by suppliers based within the state where our plants are located. company assets and reporting violations mentioned under the Supplier Code of Conduct. In addition to all the above TCoC for Dealers and Suppliers mentioned principles, Dealer code of Conduct includes the TML has a dedicated code of conduct for suppliers as well aspect of Fair competition as well. TCoC has been as dealers. All the suppliers are expected to adhere to communicated to dealers and suppliers and are expected thePrinciples of TCoC such as products & services, to ensure compliance. Dealers and suppliers can notify TML regulatory compliance, bribery & corruption, human about their ethical concerns and grievances to rights, gifts & hospitality, health & safety, environment, ethicsoﬃce@tatamotors.com con ict of interest, third party representation, protecting 78 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Community Development Community Development The values of corporate citizenship for TML are derived Through regular consultation with internal & external from the parent Tata Group. The journey of our community stakeholders and participatory approach, we develop development programs began with the commencement comprehensive sustainable solutions for the communities. of our rst manufacturing operations at Jamshedpur in Our community intervention aims to solicit active 1950s. Going ahead on the same path, we facilitate various participation from local communities, government and developmental projects for the communities in which we NGOs. To achieve this, we form multi-stakeholder operate. partnerships which helps us in developing robust and high Our four pillars of community development; Health impact CSR programs. Our strong commitment to CSR is (Arogya), Education (Vidhyadhanam), Employability further visible from our Aﬃrmative Action program. It is (Kaushalya), and Environment (Vasundhara) have been primarily focused on facilitating direct/indirect strengthened in this year by increasing the scope and reach employment for the SC/ST personnel thus encouraging of our CSR programs. These programs are aimed at building their positive discrimination. Also to further improve our human capital and bringing in an inclusive growth for the CSR performance, we undertook the SROI study for our communities. The focus of our programs has been to programs. Through our strategic partnerships with NGOs, increase the eﬃciency and eﬀectiveness of the CSR technical training institutes and the concerned programs through inclusive innovation. The projects are government departments, we aim to remove the social designed and implemented to make the rural areas selfinequalities in the communities thus enabling their overall reliant to meet their basic needs and lead a quality life. development. 12th of May 2016 was a proud moment for Ms. Y. Shailaja, Oﬃcer, CSR (Health) who was conferred with prestigious Florence Nightingale Award from Honorable President of India. She was nominated from state of Jharkhand for her services in community health. Florence Nightingale Award is one of the most prestigious award in area of nursing instituted by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India. After 20 years of dedicated service in various departments of Tata Motors Hospital , Ms.Y.Shailaja opted for community based health services through CSR function of Tata Motors, Jamshedpur. Since 2011 she is working in area of leprosy eradication and rehabilitation of leprosy patients, Her sel ess service for leprosy patients ranges from, nursing care of old age ANTYODAY HOME inmates to mainstreaming of children of leprosy patients with formal schooling and vocational skill building. She is also involved with David and Lucile Packard Foundation supported “RISHTA” project for awareness and life skill education among youth and adolescents. She is actively involved in academic initiatives as well. Her scienti c paper on the “Issues and challenges faced by rural nurses in delivering eﬀective nursing care” was selected for Biennial Conference of National Trained Nurses Association of India. Another Technical Paper from her, alongwith 2 other nursing supervisors, on the eﬀective Kangaroo Mother Care for low birth weight babies presented at CII National Supervisory Skill competition in 2011 received 3rd prize. She is also a recipient of ACES award from the hands of the then MD, Tata Motors in May’13 for initiating employability enhancement training programme for deprived youth of the community. Arogya (Health) Development Foundation (SMDF). Through our previous experience of running Malnutrition treatment centre Our Approach to improve health in communities are aimed (MTC), we developed comprehensive program for at providing preventive & curative health services in the malnutrition treatment and prevention. We extended our community, focusing on maternal & child health for curative and preventive services through medical camps malnutrition treatment and prevention and provision of and health awareness programs. In FY 2015-16, more than sage dr ink ing water under Suman Mulgaonk ar 178,200 people bene ted from our health programs. 79 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Community Development Malnutrition Treatment Centre A 16 bedded malnutrition treatment centre in partnership with department of health and family welfare is functional under TML CSR initiative. Severely malnourished children from nearby villages are referred by frontline health workers. These children are provided with specialized treatment and care to attain a healthy status during their stay of 15-20 days at malnutrition treatment centre. In year 2015-16 total 131 children were treated at this centre and more than 800 children are treated till now since its inception. Health initiatives for Drivers Drivers community being one of the most important stakeholders, were included in CSR initiatives after conducting a dip stick survey. During the survey it was a nding that more than 60% of drivers have never undergone any health check-up. Simultaneously, more than 70% of drivers, had tobacco and alcohol consumption history. Under Arogya program health camps for drivers were organized where more than 900 drivers underwent health checkup during year 2015-16. They were given a health card with details of their health status based on key health indicators. TML and Swachh Bharat Abhiyan In response to Honourable Prime Minister's appeal of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, TML committed itself for construction of toilet blocks in three schools, covered under Vidyadhanam. Focusing on girls sanitation, Agarkar Girls High School was identi ed as one of the needy school by 'Swa-Roopwardhinee' (partner NGO for implementing Vidyadhanam programme). A participatory process was put in place where the design of the toilet block, colour of tiles etc was nalized after interaction with teachers and students. A partially functional toilet block was converted into a fully equipped toilet block. 8 toilet blocks were constructed costing 5.50 lakhs. As a part of 'Karyanubhav' all students were taught to prepare detergent and sanitizer which will be used for maintenance. AmrutdharaSafe drinking water Vidyadhanam (Education) project at villages This initiative aims to improve the quality of education in This initiative, implemented through SMDF is aimed at schools by suppor ting for infrastruc ture, sk ills resolving the drinking water issues and providing development, training and scholarships. The Adult literacy customized solution to communities on priority basis.The classes at Beyangbil, Jamshedpur has helped women to contribution from member employees and TML is used to learn the basic alphabets enabling them to form self-help fund the identification and deployment of high impact group. Vidyadhanam scholarships are awarded to students projects in local communities. The measure of our success belonging to disadvantaged social and economic is evident from 100% membership for SMDF for all our 6 background. Our approach to improve education includes: manufacturing locations. Under the National Rural • Providing necessary physical infrastructure in schools. Drinking Water Scheme, we are making concentrated • Scholarship assistance to meritorious and deserving efforts to bring water to the water scarce villages of the students. country. Till date, we have provided potable drinking water • Conducting special coaching classes for students to solutions to 130,000 people living in 315 villages across the develop expertise in particular subjects country. This program has made available drinking water to drought prone villages and also eased the life of villagers • Conducting co-curricular activities for overall affected by scarcity and accessibility of water. personality development. During the year, 51000 students were benefitted through our education program. 80 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Community Development School for special children A school for special children ASHA KIRAN is being supported by TML under Vidyadhanam Asha Kiran was established in 1978.The school is being managed by AIWC(All India Women's Conference) a women's organization. The students are taught in the school till they attain an age of max. 19 years while they undergo life skill education to lead a meaningful life. After that they undergo a vocational skill training at skilling center to attain vocational skills to earn their livelihoods. TML and NTTF launch Skill Development Program under NEEM TML in association with Nettur Technical Training Foundation (NTTF) launched the 'National Employability Enhancement Mission (NEEM) – a nationwide skills enhancement initiative of Government of India. This initiative oﬀers 2 year – certi cate programme in automobile manufacturing, under the aegis of AICTE. The initiative aims to enhance employability through an objective of learn and earn, under which TML will bear all the expenses of training cost, fees of the selected candidates during the period of training. Mr. Gajendra Chandel, Chief Human Resources Oﬃcer, TML, said, We are keen to see the Indian industry becoming globally competitive with TML playing a signi cant role in building right set of talent pool for the Engineering & Manufacturing Industry and to promote employability through on-the-job training. TML is committed to build worldclass skills including a mind-set of best-in-class quality, benchmark productivity, safety and discipline. The NEEM program, keeping in line with Indian Government’s ‘Make in India’ initiative and our commitment to development of the local communities, will focus on building up the technical skill levels of fresh students and create industry-ready, skilled candidates. Kaushalya (Employability) mechanics and driver training, partnered with reputed NGOs having previous experience of running skill Considering the fact that our country faces a considerable development program, build capacity of partners through skill development challenge, we embarked our skill train-the -trainer and management development development journey in partnership with wide range of programs and provide practical exposure to students stakeholders to enhance employability of youth mainly in through on-the-job trainings and industry visits. automotive trades. Our approach focuses on developing We have developed one-year training programme to train partnerships with NGOs and it is to oﬀer technical training youth as mechanics. During this programme, students not assistance, capacity building through train the trainer only undergo classroom training but they also get practical program, skill development of communities in agriculture hands-on experience of working in TML' authorised dealer and allied activities and training of youth in automobile workshops. These students are paid a stipend which is and other demanding vocational trades. suﬃcient to cover training expenditure. To enhance training quality, we have developed During the year, we have skilled 73000 youth in various standardized course content for automotive trades – marketable vocational trades. Lab to Land CSR Team of TML has identi ed 7 tribal dominated villages to be developed as model villages. Villages being primarily dependent on agriculture and allied activities for their livelihood are in search of such opportunities where the farming practices could be taken to the next level where mere livelihood option could turn into ways of prosperity. TML supported Flora Horticulture Society with technical expertise in horticulture and agriculture and allied activities came forward with their willingness to transfer technical know-how to these farming community. Utilizing this opportunity 7 divisions of TML Jamshedpur eager to contribute for social causes through volunteering came forward to adopt these 7 villages to mentor these farming communities to build a path of prosperity. The initiative has been named as “TML Lab to Land” Program. The project is bene tting more than 200 farmers from 7 identi ed tribal villages. 81 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Community Development TML Trains over 200 School Bus Staﬀ in Pune campaign for over 200 school bus staﬀ of VIBGYOR school branches in Pune. An interactive training program, 'Hamare Bus Ki Baat Hai' includes sessions to sensitize school bus staﬀ on the importance of their duties, how to act in case of an emergency, including softer aspects of personal hygiene and how to better interact with parents and their kids, while on the job. The program also aims at sensitizing school children and their parents on how to prevent and minimize accidents school bus travel. TML has trained over 10,700 school bus staﬀ, across 47 cities, from 224 schools, through 226 sessions, under the 'Hamare Bus Ki Baat Hai' school bus safety program. Additionally, TML also conducted activities for children, to make them aware Furthering the company' nationwide initiative to train about the importance of safe school bus travel through school bus staﬀ on aspects of safety during school bus two other initiatives – 'Dream it to Win it' and 'Safety travel, TML conducted its 'Hamare Bus Ki Baat Hai' Hamare Bus Mein'. Vasundhara (Environment) Improving village infrastructure Our Approach to improve environment included The CSR team constructed 470 metre of drainage and 810 promotion of renewable energy, tree plantation to metre of pavement in partnership with the village increase green cover, construction of water conservation panchayats. These initiatives have improved structures and building awareness amongst the interconnectivity among the villages andhave ensured community members. 67000 saplings have been planted greater cleanliness. In the last 10 years, the plant has and our various programs under this initiative and 12600 constructed around 7000 metre of paved roads and 1500 people participated in environmental awareness metre of drainage system in the villages. programs. 82 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Community Development Model Villages In 19 villages of Jamshedpur and Potka blocks, 16485 people were covered from 4622 households through door to door survey. Approximately 49% of population from these villages belongs to SC/ST community. Data pertaining to 3 focus areas of CSR i.e. Health, Education and Employability were collected and collated. The nal analysis of data, led to a conclusion that 7 of the villages with more than 80% tribal population (minimum 72.07% and maximum 100%) and more than 50% of BPL households (minimum 40.7% and maximum 92.9%) would be focused for impactful interventions in rst phase. 3 thematic areas i.e. Health, Education and Employability are the key areas of intervention for 3 years. Based on the baseline data a development index was devised and the initiatives were so designed so as to achieve a threshold of 8/10 index value at the time of withdrawal after 3 years. During the baseline study the cumulative index value of these 7 villages was 3.1 which have gone up to 5.9 after two and half years of intervention. Lift Irrigation East Singhbhum villages are primarily inhabited by farming community. During a base line study and while referring secondary data, lack of perennial irrigation (less than 7% of farming land) was found to be key problem for farming community.13 Lift irrigation facility as a solution for perennial irrigation were provided to more than 500 farmers and providing perennial irrigation to more than 520 acres of land including 2 lift irrigation projects implemented in 2015-16, bene tting 72 farmers and covering 68 acres of land. The initiative resulted in an average 4-5000/month increase in income of bene ciary farmers. Other Initiatives Seva (Employee Volunteering Program) TML has continued its vibrant culture of volunteering by employees and their families. Our employees volunteered to visit tribal schools, old age homes, NGOs, conducted safety sessions in schools, Under the Tata Engage program, 25% employees of the company have participated in the community development programs. We won awards in the Tata Volunteering Week for Maximum Number of Activities Conducted, highest percentage of employee participation and Highest Number of Volunteering Hours. SevaTaking Volunteering a step Ahead Team of volunteers from JLR GSO (UK) and GDC renovated kitchen at Manavya which is a home for HIV +ve children. The project is joint venture of volunteers from JLR GSO(UK), team from GDC and construction department. Volunteers from GDC regularly visit Manavya and conduct recreational sessions and vocational guidance session. Theme based relationship building activity “GDC Knows my children” is in progress , wherein GDC team members would interact with assigned children and mentor them in their elds of interest. Aﬃrmative action program – Towards Education inclusive Growth During the year we have given 911 scholarships to SC/ST Our Aﬃrmative Action Program is developed on the lines of students and 1 FAEA scholarship for higher studies. 14,350 Tata Group`s Aﬃrmative Action Policy which specially SC/ST students bene tted from school support program focuses in mainstreaming marginalized communities-SCs including coaching classes, teacher's training, co-curricular and STs. Education, Employability, Entrepreneurship and activities and infrastructure development. Employment are the four focus areas of our Aﬃrmative Action program. 83 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Community Development Educational Excellence TEAM CSR in association with TQMS has started the Journey of Excellence for the schools supported by Shiksha Prasar Kendra under the banner of Tata Education Excellence Programme (TEEP). TEEP is a three tier excellence journey for schools at diﬀerent levels viz. Application writing, Basic Workbook and Saral Workbook. The Mission of TEEP is to continuously strive to develop intellectual and moral virtues in every student. TEEP framework helps the school plan, perform, measure results and lead towards becoming better by embedding the act of excellence. The framework has been benchmarked with the best body of knowledge available worldwide in the area of education. TEEP assessment was conducted in 8 semi urban and rural schools for promoting Educational Excellence. All of the schools improved upon their last year's score and 3 Hindi Medium schools from basti could graduate to next level of educational excellence journey Employability Way Forward Poor academic performance and lack of exposure leads to A unique feature of our CSR strategy is that our initiatives many times SC/ST youth not selected for our in-house help and individual to grow at every step of his or her life. In apprenticeship training program. This year we started coming year, we sim to augment the quality of our CSR coaching students appearing in in-house apprenticeship programs. To enhance the impact of our programs, we have training exam. Due to persistent eﬀorts by training division, taken some measures like introducing technology to presently 24% of apprentices recruited under various monitor, document and increase eﬃciency of our schemes are from SC/ST community. During the year we programs. have trained 9652SC/ST youth in various skills, such as To reach out to people in need, it is imperative for us to mechanics, driving, tter, and beautician. forge new collaborations, be it technical, educational or implementation. With an aim to draw from each other's strengths, such partnerships go a long way in developing Entrepreneurship sustainability of our programs, touching greater number of lives. We have successfully continued our partnership with DICCI (Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry) to identify goods and services that can be procured from SC/ST vendors. We have initiated benchmarking process to set long term (3-5 years) for extending amount of business to SC/ST entrepreneurs against overall business extended to TML suppliers. During this year we associated 10 new SC/ST vendors in our supply chain and extended business of ₹ 979 lakhs to them. 84 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Independent Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement 85 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Independent Assurance Statement 86 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Independent Assurance Statement 87 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Independent Assurance Statement 88 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Independent Assurance Statement 89 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Glossary Glossary AA Aﬃrmative Action IMPRINT Impacting Research Innovation and Technology ADAS Advanced Driver Assist System INR Indian rupee ARAI Automotive Research Association of India IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change CAE Computer Aided Engineering ISO International Organization for Standardization CCI Competitive Commission of India ITI Industrial Training Institute CFC Chloro uorocarbon JV Joint Venture CFT Cubic Feet KL Kilo Litre CII Confederation of Indian Industry KPI Key Performance Indicator CNG Compressed Natural Gas KWp Kilowatts Peak CRM Customer Relationship Management LAC Learning Advisory Council CSC Corporate Steering Committee LCA Life Cycle Assessment CSR Corporate Social Responsibility LCV Light Commercial Vehicle CVBU Commercial Vehicles Business Unit LDO Light Diesel Oil DDT Defensive Driving Training LED Light Emitting Diode DMS Dealer Management System LMV Light Motor Vehicle ELV End of Life Vehicle LPG Lique ed Petroleum Gas EMS Energy Management Systems LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate ENCON Energy Conservation MCV Medium Commercial Vehicle ER Employee Relations MEG Mono Ethylene Glycol ERC Engineering Research Centre M&HCV Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicle ETP Eﬄuent Treatment Plant MMRDA Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development FO Furnace Oil Authority FY Financial Year MoU Memorandum of Understanding GDP Gross Domestic Product MT Metric Tonne GoI Government of India MTC Malnutrition Treatment Centre GHG Green House Gases MW Mega Watt GJ Giga Joules MWp Megawatts Peak GRI Global Reporting Initiative NG Natural Gas HCV Heavy Commercial Vehicle NGO Non Governmental Organization HIPO High Potential Incident NPI New Product Introduction HR Human Resources NSI Net Satisfaction Index HSD High Speed Diesel NVG SEE National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, IITB Indian Institute of Technology Bombay Environmental and Economic 90 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Glossary NOX Oxides of Nitrogen SRM Supplier Relationship Management ODS Ozone Depleting Substance SROI Social Return on Investment OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer TAL TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd OH Occupational Health TAT Turn Around Time OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment TBEM Tata Business Excellence Model Series TCoC Tata Code of Conduct PCBU Passenger Car Business Unit TDP Technology Development Programme PCRA Petroleum Conservation Research Association TML Tata Motors Limited PM Particulate matter TMLDC Tata Motors Limited Distribution Company QFD Quality Function Deployment TMLDL Tata Motors Limited Drivelines Limited R&D Research and Development TMML Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd REC Renewable Energy Certi cate TPM Total Particulate Matter RRR Recovery, Recycling and Reuse TTL Tata Technologies Limited SEC Securities Exchange Commission UAY Uchhatar Avishkar Yojna SCOE Standing Committee on Emissions UK United Kingdom SIAM Society of Indian Automobile Manufactures UN United Nations SIT Supplier Improvement Team UNECE United Nations of Economic Commission for SHE Safety, Health and Environment Europe SMDF Sumant Mulgaonkar Development VCA Vehicle Certi cation Agency Foundation VOC Volatile Organic Compound SO2 Sulphur Dioxide 91 Sustainability Report 2015-16 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures Description Page No. Strategy & Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 8-9 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 17-18 Organisational Pro le G4-3 Name of the organization. 5 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 5 G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters. End Cover G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 5 major operations or that are speci cally relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Annual Report page 98 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers. 5 /bene ciaries) G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization. 6, 28, 57 G4-10 The total number of employees by employment contract and gender 57 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 60 G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 73 G4-13 Signi cant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 5 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 16 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 19-20 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international 16-17 advocacy organizations Identi ed Material Aspects & Boundaries G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated nancial statements or equivalent Annual Report documents Page 95 G4-18 The process for de ning the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 5 G4-19 All the material Aspects identi ed in the process for de ning report content 25-26 G4-20 For each material aspect, whether the Aspect is material within the organization 26 G4-21 For each material aspect, whether the Aspect is material outside the organization 26 G4-22 The eﬀect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons No for such restatements restatements G4-23 Signi cant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 5, 26 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 22-23 G4-25 Basis for identi cation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 22 92 Sustainability Report 2015-16 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures Description Page No. G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 23 engagement by type and by stakeholder group, G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how 23 the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report Pro le G4-28 Reporting period (such as scal or calendar year) for information provided 5 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 5 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) 5 G4-31 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents End Cover G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen, the GRI Content Index for the chosen 5 option, the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for 5 the report Governance G4-34 The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest 10-12 governance body G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from 10-12, 65 body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions 10-12 with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on 10-12, 65 economic, environmental and social topics. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 10-12 G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive oﬃcer Annual Report Page 106 G4-40 The nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees Annual Report Page 170 G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure con icts of interest are avoided an Annual Report d managed Page 110 G4-42 The highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, Annual Report and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, Page 174 and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective Annual Report knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics Page 174 G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to Annual Report governance of economic, environmental and social topics Page 174 G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identi cation and management of economic, Annual Report environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Page 174 93 Sustainability Report 2015-16 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures Description Page No. G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the eﬀectiveness of the organization’s risk Annual Report management processes for economic, environmental and social topics Page 174 G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and Annual Report social impacts, risks, and opportunities Page 174 G4-48 The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s Annual Report sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered Page 174 G4-49 The process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body Annual Report Page 174 G4-50 The nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the Annual Report highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Page 174 G4-51 The remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives Annual Report Page 171 G4-52 The process for determining remuneration Annual Report Page 171 G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, Annual Report including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals Page 171 G4-54 The ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid Annual Report individual in each country of signi cant operations to the median annual total Page 106 compensation for all employees G4-55 The ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s Annual Report highest-paid individual in each country of signi cant operations to the median Page 106 percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees Ethics & Integrity G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as 14 codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful 13 behaviour, and matters related to organizational integrity G4-58 The internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or 13 unlawful behaviour, and matters related to organizational integrity 94 Sustainability Report 2015-16 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index Speci c Standard Disclosures Speci c Standard Disclosures Description Page No. Economic Economic Performance DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 27 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, 28 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities 18-19 due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's de ned bene t plan obligations. 28 EC4 Signi cant nancial assistance received from government. 28 Procurement Practices DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 77 EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at signi cant locations of operation 78 Environment Materials DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 47-48 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 47-48 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 49 Energy DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 39-40 EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 40-41 EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation 43 EN5 Energy intensity 40 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 41-42 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 34 Water DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 52 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 52 EN9 Water sources signi cantly aﬀected by withdrawal of water. 52-53 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 52-53 Biodiversity DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 56 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 56 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of signi cant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 56 in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 56 EN14 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with 56 habitats in areas aﬀected by operations, by level of extinction risk. 95 Sustainability Report 2015-16 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index Speci c Standard Disclosures Speci c Standard Disclosures Description Page No. Emissions DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 44-45 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 41-42, 44 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 41-42, 44 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 44 EN18 GHG emissions intensity 44 EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 45 EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 45 EN21 NOx, SOx, and other signi cant air emissions by type and weight. 45 Eﬄuents and Waste DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 52-54 EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 53 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 54-56 Products and services DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 31-39 EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent 31-39 of impact mitigation. EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. No Packaging Reclaimed Compliance DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 47 EN29 Monetary value of signi cant nes and total number of non-monetary sanctions 47 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Overall DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 47 EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 47 Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 57 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, 57, 60-61 gender, and region LA2 Bene ts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 57 part-time employees, by major operations. LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 60 Occupational Health and Safety DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 65-66 LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health 65 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and 96 Sustainability Report 2015-16 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index Speci c Standard Disclosures Speci c Standard Disclosures Description Page No. safety programs. LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of 68-69 work-related fatalities by region and gender. LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 70 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 65-68 Training and Education DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 63-64 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by employee category. 63-64 LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 63-64 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 63-64 reviews by gender and employment category Equal Remuneration for Women and Men DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 55 LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category, by signi cant locations 57 of operation Human Rights Investment DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 14-15 HR1 Percentage and total number of signi cant investment agreements and contracts 14-15 that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human 14-15 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 15 HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 15 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 15 HR4 Operations and signi cant suppliers identi ed in which the right to exercise freedom of 15 association and collective bargaining may be at signi cant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labour DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 15 HR5 Operations and signi cant suppliers identi ed as having signi cant risk for incidents 15 of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. Forced and Compulsory labour DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 16 HR6 Operations and signi cant suppliers identi ed as having signi cant risk for incidents 15 of forcedor compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. 97 Sustainability Report 2015-16 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index Speci c Standard Disclosures Speci c Standard Disclosures Description Page No. Security Practices DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 63 HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures 63 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Society Local Communities DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 79-84 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 79-84 impact assessments, and development programs. SO2 Operations with signi cant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 79-84 Anti-Corruption DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 79-84 SO3 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption 15 and the signi cant risks identi ed SO4 Communication and training on anti¬corruption policies and procedures 15 SO5 Con rmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 15 Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 33 PR1 Percentage of signi cant product and service categories for which health and safety 30, 33 impacts are assessed for improvement PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 31 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labelling DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 32-33 PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of 32-33 signi cant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 31 concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 29 Marketing Communications DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 15 PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 15 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 15 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Compliance DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 31 PR9 Monetary value of signi cant nes for non-compliance with laws and regulations 31 concerning the provision and use of products and services. 98 Sustainability Report 2015-16 NVG Mapping NVG Mapping Principle Description Page No. Principle 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency 13-16 and Accountability. Principle 2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute 31-39 to sustainability throughout their life cycle. Principle 3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees. 57-64 Principle 4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all 19-23 stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized. Principle 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights. 14-15 Principle 6 Business should respect, protect, and make eﬀorts to restore the environment. 40-41, 47 Principle 7 Businesses, when engaged in in uencing public and regulatory policy, should 16-17 do so in a responsible manner. Principle 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development 79-84 Principle 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and 29-30 consumers in a responsible manner. 99 Sustainability Report 2015-16 NVG Mapping UNGC COP Mapping Area Advanced Criteria Page Reference Criterion 1: Details on our high-level sustainability strategy can found in Managing The COP describes key aspects of the company’s highDirector's Statement (Page 8) and Material Issues (Page 25) sections of Strategy, Governance and level sustainability strategy in line with Global Compact the report. principles Criterion 2: Details on eﬀective decision-making processes and systems of The COP describes eﬀective decision-making processes governance for corporate sustainability can be found in Corporate Engagement and systems of governance for corporate sustainability Governance (Page 10) of the report Criterion 3: Details on engagement with all important stakeholders can be found in The COP describes engagement with all important Stakeholder Engagement section (Page 22) of the report. stakeholders We have implemented Policy on Human Rights, Policy on Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination in Employment, Environmental UN Goals and Issues Policy, Green Building Policy, Policy on Bribery and Corruption in Criterion 4: support of broader UN goals and issues. The COP describes actions taken in support of broader UN Actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issues can be found in goals and issues Corporate Governance (Page 10), Economic Performance (Page 27) Product Innovation (Page 31), Energy and Climate Change (Page 40), Environmental Stewardship (Page 47), Human Resource Management (Page 57) and Community Development (Page 79) sections of the report. Criterion 5: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or Human Rights Implementation policies in the area of human rights Criterion 6: We have implemented Policy on Human Rights, Policy on Equal The COP describes eﬀective management systems to Opportunity and Non-Discrimination in Employment, Environmental integrate the human rights principles Policy, Green Building Policy, Policy on Bribery and Corruption in support of broader UN goals and issues. Details on Human Rights Criterion 7: Implementation can be found in Corporate Governance (Page 10) and The COP describes eﬀective monitoring and evaluation Human Resource Management (Page 57) sections of the report. mechanisms of human rights integration Criterion 8: The COP describes key outcomes of human rights integration Criterion 9: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or Labour Principles Implementation policies in the area of labour Criterion 10: The COP describes eﬀective management systems to Details on Labour Principles integrate the labour principles Implementation can be found in Corporate Governance (Page 10) and Human Resource Management (Page 57) sections of the report. Criterion 11: The COP describes eﬀective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labour principles integration Criterion 12: The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the labour principles 100 Sustainability Report 2015-16 NVG Mapping UNGC COP Mapping Area Advanced Criteria Page Reference Criterion 13: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship Environmental Stewardship Details on Environmental Stewardship Implementation can be found in Criterion 14: Corporate Governance (Page 10), Product Innovation and Safety (Page The COP describes eﬀective management systems to 31), Energy and Climate Change (Page 40) and Environmental integrate the environmental principles Stewardship (Page 47) sections of the report. Criterion 15: Implementation The COP describes eﬀective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship Criterion 16: The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the environmental principles Criterion 17: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anti-corruption Anti-corruption implement Criterion 18: The COP describes eﬀective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle We have implemented Policy on Bribery and anti-Corruption in support of broader UN goals and issues. Details on implementation can be Criterion 19: found in Corporate Governance (Page 10) section of the report. The COP describes eﬀective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of anticorruption Criterion 20: The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the anti-corruption principle Value chain Criterion 21: Details on Value Chain Implementation can be found in Corporate The COP describes implementation of the Global Compact Governance (Page 10), Stakeholder Engagement (Page 22) and Value principles in the value Chain Chain Sustainability (Page 73) sections of the report. implementation Criterion 22: Details on company's pro le and context of operation can be found in Transparency and Veri cation The COP provides information on the company’s pro le Company Pro le (Page 5) and Corporate Governance (Page 10) sections and context of operation of the report Criterion 22: The COP incorporates high standards of transparency and This report uses GRI G4 ‘Core’ Reporting Guidelines. disclosure Criterion 23: This report is independently assured by M/s DNV GL The COP is independently veri ed by a credible third party 101 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Awards and Recognition Awards and Recognition Plants Ÿ Tata Motors' Jamshedpur and Lucknow plant received the Srishti Good Green Governance Award Ÿ TML Pantnagar plant won the Golden Peacock Award 2015 Ÿ The Jamshedpur, Lucknow, Dharwad and Pune plants all won Excellent Energy Eﬃcient Unit Awards Ÿ TML Dharwad Plant has been awarded rst prize at National Energy Conservation Award 2015 in the Automobile Sector, by the Bureau of Energy Eﬃciency (BEE)⁹ Mr. K Mohan Kumar – Plant Head, Tata Motors, Dharwad received the National Energy Conservation Award 2015 from the Hon'ble Minister of state for Power, Coal and New & Renewable Energy, Shri Piyush Goyal, at Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi on December 14, 2015 Jamshedpur Plant won 1st prize in Industry's category of Jharkhand by Jharkhand State pollution Control Board (JSPCB) for best Environmental Initiatives 9 http://m.overdrive.in/news/tata-motors-dharwad-plant-wins-national-energy-conservation-award-2015 102 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Awards and Recognition Corporate Ÿ Tata Motors won the Tata Aﬃrmative Action Programme Jury Award, for exemplary work in positive discrimination and aﬃrmative action towards underprivileged communities in India Ÿ CII-GBC has recognized Tata Motors as industry best in the category of LCA and presented the Best Practices Award in LCA during the function held in Jun’15 at Mumbai ⁰ TML received the Excellence in Sustainability Innovation Award for innovatively applying the holistic approach of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) for driving sustainability11 ASSOCHAM adjudged Tata Motors WINNER of Tata Motors received Global CSR Excellence & Leadership Responsible Organization Excellence Award 2015-16 for Award in Accounting for Climate Change during the Global our sustainability performance. CSR & Leadership Conference held in Mumbai on 18th Feb'16. 10 http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2015-09-29/news/66987475_1_nano-cng-tata-sustainability-group-tata-motors 11 http://www.worldcsrcongress.com/Global%20CSR%20Awards%20Winners%202016.pdf 12 http://www.business-standard.com/article/companies/m-m-tata-motors-among-most-sustainablerms-116031401273_1.html 103 At Tata Motors, we value our stakeholders, and your views are important to us. Please send in your valuable feedback to: Mr. Arvind Bodhankar Head Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability Email: arvind.bodhankar@tatamotors.com, sustainability@tatamotors.com Our Registered Oﬃce: Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001, India.
