Communication On Progress of Index Power & Energy Ltd. Whatever the situation, whoever the opponent, today, success in business is almost impossible without collaboration. You need to work with someone who knows and understands you, someone who listens to what you really need and with you, defines realistic objectives and the ways to reach them. Someone who will share with your knowledge, practices, risks, and results. Discover the collaborative business Experience, discover INDEX, a partner you can count on day after day, a partner who is committed to helping you achieve faster, better and more sustainable results, and puts it on paper. CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) In its new Communication view points, the Index Power & Energy Ltd has put ahead a simpler definition of CSR as “the responsibility of enterprises for their impacts on society and outlines what an enterprise should do to meet that responsibility. The main function of an enterprise is to create value through producing goods and services that society demands, thereby generating profit for its owners and shareholders as well as welfare for society, particularly through an ongoing process of job creation. Although there is no onesize-fits-all and for most small and medium-sized operations of Index Power & Energy Ltd, the CSR process remains informal, complying with legislation and collective agreements negotiated between social partners is the basic requirement for Index Power & Energy Ltd to meet its social responsibility. Beyond that, Index Power & Energy Ltd has intake a process in place to integrate social, environmental, ethical human rights and consumer concerns into their business operations and core strategy in close cooperation with their stakeholders. The aim to the view is:  To maximize the creation of shared value, which means to create returns on investment for the company's shareholders at the same time as ensuring benefits for the company's other stakeholders;  To identify, prevent and mitigate possible adverse impacts which Index Power & Energy Ltd may have on society afterwards.  Recognition of the importance of core business strategy. This is consistent with the approach taken by Index Power & Energy Ltd for which social responsibility and sustainability have become an integral part of its business model.  Development of the concept of “creating shared value”. This refers to the way in which enterprises seek to generate a return on investment for their owners and shareholders by means of creating value for other stakeholders and society at large. This links CSR strongly to innovation, especially in terms of developing new products and services that are commercially successful and help to address societal challenges.  Explicit recognition of Human rights and ethical considerations in addition to social, environmental and consumer considerations. Priority CSR Concerns of Index Power & Energy Ltd Voluntary Social Investments Social investment or impact investment of Index Power & Energy Ltd is the provision of capital for a social and financial return. It's a concept that in recent years has attracted much interest from national government, local authorities, social innovators and of course social sector organizations typically charities and social enterprises. Why is this worth considering? – For one thing, Index Power & Energy Ltd assumes itself could be a reasonable source of capital for charities and social enterprises, complementing government initiatives. It is more clearly understood by Index Power & Energy Ltd that, if a fraction of this could be turned into investment thereby allowing money to be 'recycled' on repayment for use by other charities and social enterprises, the social impact of this capital could be multiplied many times over. The story behind the unbelievable rapid socioeconomic development of Bangladesh that has already amazed the global economists underlies in the strong co-operations of the business & corporate entities in the socioeconomic developments of the country. And here, Index Power & Energy Ltd is one of the front liners to participate in the national socio-economic development growth which is an untold story . We took part shoulder to shoulder of millions of rural people in their smiles & cries. Up to February 2014, we, Index Power & Energy Ltd, under the banner of its different concerns, have rehabilitees of 1864 homeless families in the greater Khulna coastal areas, Tangail, Chittagong, Mymansing and other areas of the country. Investing in Education and Training for growth and jobs From the very beginning of the making its CSR Strategy, the Index Power & Energy Ltd has been valuing lifelong learning and this continuing effort to promote a holistic approach to education and training has been mainstreamed in the corporate version. The Index Power & Energy Ltd is of crucial importance to improve education and training systems across the country gradually. Over the last couple of financial periods, the this fund of Index Power & Energy Ltd has enabled key actions to support the Education & Training Work Program and Strategic Framework in line with the emphasis on human capital recommended by the company’s CSR Strategy. The Index Power & Energy Ltd has been a major funder of lifelong learning in its last two programming periods; that is focusing on young people, low skilled and older workers who has been employed after having benefited from the Fund. Index Power & Energy Ltd strongly believes that, investing in education and training is not only cost-effective because high education attainment leads to more employment. This phenomenon has also many multiplier effects that are to a certain extent beneficial for public finances. The Index Power & Energy Ltd assessed that educated individuals are highly profitable for the country as they contribute to support welfare policies more than they benefit from them. Indeed, the more educated citizens are, the more they consume, the more they earn, the more they pay taxes including Social Security and the less they need public spending to raise their children, finance their pension schemes, etc. Besides, Index Power & Energy Ltd concluded that higher education attainment also leads to better health conditions and longer lives, higher levels of societal engagement and democratic participation and lower criminal activity. For the educational development, around 142 educational institutions are given financial donations for infrastructure development. In 2009, we established a complete educational complex for 100% free of cost studies in Tangail naming Foyaz-E-Rabbaniya Complex. The complex comprises a kinder garden school, a primary school, a madrasa, a college and a vocational training institute. Establishment of an old home and medical college is on process. Around 3000 students are provided free of cost study facility with a large team of highly educated and well-trained teaching stuff team. Besides, more than hundreds of mosques and temples are given financial support for physical infrastructure development in greater Dhaka, Chittagong and Mymansing region. Community Development Community development is a way of strengthening civil society by prioritizing the actions of communities, and their perspectives in the development of social, economic and environmental policy. It seeks the empowerment of local communities, taken to mean both geographical communities, communities of interest or identity and communities organizing around specific themes or policy initiatives. It strengthens the capacity of people as active citizens through their community groups, organizations and networks; and the capacity of institutions and agencies (public, private and non-governmental) to work in dialogue with citizens to shape and determine change in their communities. In short we define Community Development as a process where community members come together to take collective actions and generate solutions to all prevailing common problems. Community wellbeing (economic, social, environmental and cultural) often evolves from this type of collective action being taken at a grassroots level. It plays a crucial role in supporting active democratic life by promoting the autonomous voice of disadvantaged and vulnerable communities. It has a set of core values/social principles covering human rights, social inclusion, equality and respect for diversity; and a specific skills and knowledge base. Index Power & Energy Ltd believes, good community development is the action that helps people to recognize and develop their ability and potential and organizes them to respond to problems and needs which they share. It supports the establishment of strong communities that control and use assets to promote social justice and help improve the quality of community life. It also enables community and public agencies to work together to improve the quality of government. Index Power & Energy Ltd promotes best practice in community development using the following model: Purpose: People want to live in healthy communities. These are communities in which they:  feel able to be who they are  have positive prospects for their future  experience respect and equal and fair treatment Focus: To achieve this people want to be in a community that:  creates wealth and gives everyone access to its benefits  cares for all its members, when they need it, throughout their life span  provides an environment that is safe and attractive  enables people to express and celebrate their creativity and diverse cultures  enables everyone to participate in decisions that affect their lives Methods: To support them to contribute to the creation of such a community, community development promotes:  Opportunity for people to learn and develop their own skills  Reaches out to and involves those who may be excluded or disadvantaged  Helps communities to create organizations that can tackle their needs and represent their interests  Works to promote engagement and dialogue between communities and agencies that affect their lives. Our vision is to create awareness regarding CSR for the organization with its primary stakeholders and extended enterprise the benefits of social compliance and sustainability. And our mission statement in this regard is to be a partner for sustainable growth and development. We encourage good citizenship by supporting organizations that cultivate meaningful opportunities for civic engagement by our employees and members of the community, whether as volunteers, donors, voters or patrons. We also serve our communities by supporting immediate and long-term relief and recovery efforts to help victims of natural disasters. Funding also goes to support preparedness programs that allow relief agencies to be better equipped in responding to emergencies as they occur. Healthcare An obligation to do well is the calling of a good heart that beats for humanity. Healthcare programs and charities of Index Power & Energy Ltd is the umbrella under which most of the societal ‘Not For Profit’ initiatives are carried out through different activities and initiatives. The main focus of Index Power & Energy Ltd however is Charity and Philanthropy. In recent years, the importance of the Corporate Social Responsibility’ (CSR) by companies and the Giving Back Initiative’ (GBI) by individuals are being extensively discussed. Being an organization involved in the activities of human healthcare, Index Power & Energy Ltd has witnessed the difficulties faced by the less privileged to even access basic healthcare due to lack of resources in many places of the country. Besides from its healthcare related charitable activities, Index Power & Energy Ltd is actively campaigning through different emerging adolescent, child and maternity healthcare awareness workshops by partnering government organizations in Bangladesh. The organization provides financial support to several NGOs and individuals, and is also involved in activities like Village Adoption programs for local empowerment. The recognition of the sad state of affairs of the marginalized sections of the society makes one realize that in the businesses intake by Index Power & Energy Ltd, CSR is not a fashionable cliché but an absolute obligation. Index Power & Energy Ltd believes that people, with material and intellectual resources should address these issues to the extent they can, though this will only be just touching the tip of the iceberg. We believe it will set examples for others to follow. Index Power & Energy Ltd has pledged a substantial part of its wealth to be used for this. The resource shall be utilized for improving the healthcare delivery of the poor in deserving part of the country. Though the definite plans for the proper utilization of the resources are not yet evolved, the areas targeted are the most remote and ultra-poor rural part of the country by addressing affection and contamination of serious diseases like Arsenic, HIV/STD, Diarrhea etc. Apart from this, the Index Power & Energy Ltd is also actively involved in Preventive Healthcare and awareness Campaigns, which are very important to reduce the occurrence of illnesses, and improve health:  Extending Health & Safety Awareness Programs, Free Medical Screening, through its various CSR activities and campaigns through Govt. Strategic Partnership’s.  Establishing Mobile Clinic to reach remote areas and extend Health Awareness and Screening.  Establishing Early Diseases Detection Centers (ECDCs) and Cancer Care Programs, absolutely free for public for a healthier society.  Extend Free or Subsidized Medical Aid to underprivileged for advanced and complex Surgeries and other medical support.  Social Empowerment Program, Adoption of Villages for Healthcare, Social Uplifting and Educational Developmental Activities and running a school for Mentally Handicapped at the deserving rural and urban areas. Moreover, almost 50 awareness campaigns made through the last couple of years that covered health awareness, sanitation access, girls’ education, women empowerment and so on across the country. From 2012, Index Power & Energy Ltd stepped into the sports development of the nation and achieved tremendous success. Currently, Index Power & Energy Ltd is proudly sponsoring the following local sports and youth groups. Social Integration Index Power & Energy Ltd sees Social Integration as a dynamic and principled process where all members participate in dialogue to achieve and maintain peaceful social relations. Social integration does not mean coerced assimilation or forced integration. According to our view, social integration focused on the need to move toward a safe, stable and just society by forming and mending conditions of social disintegration social fragmentation, exclusion and polarization; and by expanding and strengthening conditions of social integration including towards peaceful social relations of coexistence, collaboration and cohesion. Such an inclusive society is equipped with mechanisms which accommodate diversity, and facilitate/enable people’s active participation in their political, economic and social lives. As such, it over-rides differences of race, gender, class, generation, and geography, and ensures equal opportunities for all to achieve full potential in life, regardless of origin. Such a society fosters, at the same time, emanates from wellbeing of each individual, mutual trust, sense of belonging and inter-connectedness. Disabilities Index Power & Energy Ltd works to advance the rights of persons with disabilities in society and development, with mandates stem from the Standard Rules (1994) and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (2006), as well as other relevant human rights and development instruments. We focus our work on supporting intergovernmental bodies servicing to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Promoting international normative framework on disability; implementing international norms and standards relating disability at national, regional and international levels; technical cooperation; mainstreaming disability in development agenda and other internationally agreed development goals. Strengthening social development to fight poverty through the use of new technologies. New technologies are powerful tools for poverty eradication, economic, sustainable and social development. They help disseminate valuable information on public services, health care, education and training, livelihoods and rights, and also connect individuals and groups with one another, thereby improving social inclusion; and facilitating citizen participation. By using new technologies, poor people have experienced benefits in the form of for example increased income; better health care; improved education and training; access to job opportunities; engagement with government services; contacts with family and friends; enterprise development opportunities; increased agricultural productivity, and so on. The objective of our panel is to discuss how the digital innovations can be used to strengthen the social pillar of sustainable development and reduce poverty and inequalities through the use of new technologies. Cooperative Services Index Power & Energy Ltd recognized the importance of cooperatives in the peoplecentered approach to development. The concept assumes in utilization and development of the potential and contribution of cooperatives for the attainment of social development goals, in particular the eradication of poverty, the generation of full and productive employment, and the enhancement of social integration. Our principle cooperative approaches:  Cooperatives and poverty reduction: Cooperatives, as self-help organizations, contribute to the eradication of poverty through the economic and social progress of their members and employees and by stimulating the economies and enhancing the social fabric of the communities in which they operate.  Cooperatives and employment generation: Cooperatives help to create, improve and protect the income and employment opportunities of their members by pooling the limited individual resources of members to create business enterprises that enable them to participate in production, profit-sharing, cost-saving or risk-taking activities.  Cooperatives and social integration: Cooperatives promote social integration and cohesion in the face of inequalities in social capabilities by empowering and giving voice to the poor as well as marginalized groups and by promoting the organization of state government and alliances. In addition, cooperatives play an important role in an increasingly integrated global economy as well as in fostering peace building among peoples, communities and nations.  Cooperatives and globalization: Cooperatives work towards fair globalization one that is fundamentally inclusive, sustainable and people-centered by creating business entities that promote solidarity among peoples, greater accountability, deeper partnerships and fairer rules and standards that offers equitable opportunities for all.  Cooperatives and post crisis/conflict, reconstruction and reintegration in disaster areas: Cooperatives through their economic model which stresses selfhelp and mutual aid, promote local economic and social development. Cooperatives also help facilitate social and political reconciliation, and provide access to financial services and spur employment. Addressing Issues of Poverty Reduction Poverty entails more than the lack of income and productive resources to ensure sustainable livelihoods. Its manifestations include hunger and malnutrition, limited access to education and other basic services, social discrimination and exclusion as well as the lack of participation in decision-making. Various social groups bear disproportionate burden of poverty. Index Power & Energy Ltd identifies poverty eradication as an ethical, social, political and economic imperative of mankind and called on governments to address the root causes of poverty, provide for basic needs for all and ensure that the poor have access to productive resources, including credit, education and training. It is strongly believed by us that, a social perspective on development requires addressing poverty in all its dimensions. It promotes people-centered approach to poverty eradication advocating the empowerment of people living in poverty through their full participation in all aspects of political, economic and social life, especially in the design and implementation of policies that affect the poorest and most vulnerable groups of society. Our Poverty and Social Impact Analysis has been developed to serve as a tool to assess both the economic and social impact of reforms on different social and income groups. Properly conducted analysis contributes to national debate on policy options and helps to promote national ownership of development strategies and could contribute to the effective implementation of government policies and reform action initiatives. Addressing Emerging Environmental Issues Bangladesh is experiencing serious environmental degradation. In many respects, the situation has reached crisis proportions. Several factors make Bangladesh particularly vulnerable to environmental damage. There are examples showing that the goals of environmental protection and economic growth can be complementary. Understanding this fact, Index Power & Energy Ltd has taken addressing the emerging environmental issues at its prior concern in making corporate CSR policies. The Necessity for Policy Intervention: The expert research team of Index Power & Energy Ltd has identified that, there are several factors that make Bangladesh particularly vulnerable to environmental degradation. The fragile ecology, delicate flora and fauna, wetness of land, high density of population, reliance on foreign capital for industrialization, poverty of the masses are few such factors. This vulnerability enjoins Bangladesh to make extra efforts to protect her environment. The Necessity for a Social Movement: Based on the findings of the research study in R&D of Index Power & Energy Ltd, there are some efforts Index Power & Energy Ltd can adopt to deal with the environmental problems in line with the government as a partner in support. Index Power & Energy Ltd in line with the government agencies and in collaboration with other allied organizations is implementing several donor-financed environmental projects. However, it is clear from the continued environmental deterioration that these efforts are not proving adequate for the challenge that Bangladesh faces. The efforts have to be raised to an entirely different level. It needs to be recognized that eradication of environmental problems has two dimensions. One is finding the technical solution to the problem. The second is adoption of the technical solution as a policy and effective implementation of that policy. Index Power & Energy Ltd is providing its support bridging the gap between these factors and helping government and partner NGO’s to put these two major issues into effective action. Human Rights The human rights capacity development project of Index Power & Energy Ltd is a project formed enlightened by the National Human Rights Commission Act 2009. The project serves as one the major national human rights partner to the government, monitoring implementation of state obligations to respect protection and the fulfillment of the rights of every citizen of society. The human rights capacity development project of Index Power & Energy Ltd is a support towards building the institutional strength of the government and allied commissions, and establishing it as an effective, efficient and credible policy capable of fulfilling its entire mandate. The project intake by Index Power & Energy Ltd is implemented in partnership with the NHRC, and focuses on achieving the following 3 key outcomes:  Institutional development.  Human rights awareness development, education and training.  Human rights research and support in policy development. Sports: We are proud sponsor of countries famous Clubs to encourage the youth.  Bangladesh National Women Cricket Team  Mohammedan Hockey Team.  Mohammedan Women Cricket Team.  Mohammedan Chess Team.  National Kabadi Federation.  Dhaka Mariners Club.
