PETROCHINA COMPANY LIMITED 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Address: 9 Dongzhimen North Street, Dongcheng District, 2015 SUSTAINABILITY Beijing, P.R.China Post Code: 100007 E-mail: csr@petrochina.com.cn REPORT Website: www.petrochina.com.cn PetroChina Company Limited ENERGIZE HARMONIZE REALIZE Integrity and Compliance-based Corporate Governance CONTENTS Material Topics 08 Sustaining Steady Development 09 Solidifying Governance Framework Business ethics P14 11 Optimizing Management System Corporate Governance framework and mechanisms P9-14, 60-61 14 Upholding Business Ethics Governance Compliance management P12 14 Communicating with Stakeholders Low oil prices P4, 6 Technological innovation to enhance quality and efficiency P18-22 SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY Sustained Natural gas P21-22 19 Consolidating Our Resource Base Energy Supply Alternative Energy P22 21 Developing Clean Energy International Cooperation P23, 50, 56 23 Pushing Forward Pipeline Network Construction One Belt and One Road Initiative P23, 56 23 Deepening International Cooperation 24 Ensuring Stable Supply Carbon capture and storage P34 Energy conservation P33 SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION AND OPERATION Climate Change Carbon management P34 26 Improving HSE Management Low-carbon technology P34 28 Enhancing Operational Safety 29 Ecological Protection Pipeline hazard control P28 33 Promoting Energy Conservation Safety Hazardous chemicals management P28 33 Response to Climate Change Oil spill management P28 Atmospheric environment P7, 21, 29, 32 CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET SERVICE Water management P30-31 36 Enhancing Quality Management System Environment Rehabilitation and land restoration P31 38 Focusing on Product Innovation Biodiversity and environmentally sensitive areas P29, 32, 33 38 Providing High-Quality Products 41 Delivering Considerate Services Business ethics P14, 43 43 Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Supply chain management P43 Management Supply chain safety P28 “PEOPLE-ORIENTED” EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Human rights and employee rights P44-51, 60-67 44 Protection of Employee Rights 47 Occupational Health Employee and Occupational health P47 01 Material Topics Human Rights Localization and diversification P50 48 Establishing a Platform for Employee Development 50 Local Staff Development 02 About PetroChina Employee development P49 51 Strengthening of security in Overseas Operations 04 Message from the Chairman 06 Interview with the President Oil product quality upgrading P7, 38-39 Product Product safety P37 GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY 60 Investor FAQs 52 Promoting Local Development Poverty alleviation P52-55 68 Performance Statistics 53 Poverty Alleviation Social Tax payment according to law P58 70 Objectives and Plans 54 Supporting Education Contribution Community development P56-59 71 GRI and IPIECA/API Index 56 Volunteer Activities Inclusive Economy P52-55 72 Global Compact and Us 56 Contributions to the Development of Overseas Communities 72 Approach to Reporting 2015 Sustainability Report About PetroChina 02 03 About PetroChina Core Business PetroChina Company Limited (PetroChina, hereinafter also referred to as “the Company”, Our Mission Energize, Harmonize, Realize “we” or “us”) was established on 5 NovemUpstream Our Vision To be a world first-class international ber, 1999, upon the restructuring of China energy company Oil and Gas Exploration, Development and Production National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). PetOur upstream business includes the PetroChina takes a leading position in domestic oil and gas exploration and development roChina was listed on the NYSE (ADS code: Resources, Markets, Internationalization, exploration, development and probusiness. We operate in a number of major oil and gas producing regions such as Daqing, Business Strategy Innovation PTR) and the HKEx (stock code: 857) in April duction of crude oil and natural gas. Changqing, Xinjiang, Liaohe, Tarim and Sichuan. In 2015, we produced 971.9 million barrels 2000 and on the Shanghai Stock Exchange Guidelines of Steady Development of crude oil, 3,131 billion cubic feet of marketable natural gas, and 1,493.9 million barrels of (stock code: 601857) in November 2007, Development oil and gas equivalent. respectively. Our Values Honesty, Innovation, Safety and Distinction PetroChina is one of the major oil and gas Mid-Downstream producers and distributors in China, ranking among the leading international oil companies. to oil and natural gas and provides sustainable energy for socio-economic development. We pursue Our midstream and downstream It engages in a wide range of activities related harmonious relationships between energy, the environment and the society. business includes refining, transportaRefining and Marketing of Crude Oil and Oil Products tion, storage and marketing of crude We owned 8 ten-million-ton-level refining bases. In 2015 we processed 998.1 million barrels oil and oil products, as well as proof crude oil, produced 91.933 million tons of oil products. We are operating over 20,000 gas duction and marketing of basic, destations covering 31 provinces (municipalities and autonomous regions) and the Hong Kong rivative and other chemical products; SAR of China, and undertook the supply of about 40% of China’s oil products. and transportation and marketing of 2015 Summit natural gas. Production, Transportation and Marketing of Petrochemical Products Forum of Chinese The Company is engaged in producing six categories of chemical products-synthetic Enterprises’ Overseas resin, synthetic fiber and raw materials of synthetic fiber, synthetic rubber, urea, organic Image and inorganic compounds with thousands of trademarked products. Our production Shanghai Stock Top 20 Best capabilities of products such as ethylene, synthetic resin and synthetic rubber ranked Exchange The Image in among the best in China. In 2015, we sold over 25.22 million tons of chemical products, information disclosure Overseas Platts Energy and produced 5.032 million tons of ethylene. Market appraisal for listed companies 5th in Top 250 Transportation of Natural Gas, Crude Oil and Oil Products, and global energy Distribution of Natural Gas PetroChina got A PetroChina is mainly responsible for transportation and marketing of natural gas, and Rating companies storage and transportation of crude oil and oil products. The Company operated 78,000 km of pipelines in China, covering 29 provinces (municipalities and autonomous regions) IR Magazine International and the Hong Kong SAR in China. Golden Prize Business of the Top 50 IR Enterprises BrandZ We are engaged in oil and gas exploCo-Secretary Mr. Mao Zefeng th was granted “Global IR 4 in Top 10 ration and production in nearly 30 countries and have trade relations International Business Currently, we have established five international oil and gas cooperation zones in the Award for lifetime Oil & Gas brands with more than 80 countries. Middle East, the Central Asia, the Asia-Pacific, the Americas and Africa, and three oil and achievement Forbes gas operation centers in Asia, Europe and the Americas. The expansion and growth of our 8th in global top international oil and gas cooperation has been substantial in terms of size and scope, with operational quality improving greatly. In 2015, overseas oil and gas equivalent production 2,000 enterprises reached 203.5 million barrels. Message from the 2015 Sustainability Report Chairman 04 05 Message from the Chairman Thank you for reading this report and for your continued support and concern for PetroChina. We strengthened safety and environmental protection and integrated them into our Guided by the policy of steady development 2015 has proven to be a year of profound changes and severe challenges. The United Nations’ foundation for future development. We respect life and nature. Therefore, we strictly obeyed and the strategy of resources, markets, 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development officially came into force, creating a defining relevant Chinese and international laws and regulations, and never crossed ecological red internationalization and innovation, we will moment in history and setting global goals to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure lines. We gave top priority to risk prevention and control, improved our platform for online make every effort to adjust our structure, prosperity for all. The Paris Agreement within the United Nations Framework Convention on monitoring of pollution sources, and developed technological solutions. As a result, we avoided strengthen our weak areas, cut costs, and Climate Change (UNFCCC) was adopted, marking a milestone in the process of global climate major and worse-than-major safety and environmental accidents and laid a solid foundation for guard against risks. In addition, we will governance and a major step towards sustainable development for mankind. green, low-carbon development. attach greater importance to business We contributed to livelihoods and society and shared the fruits of development. We deployment and structural optimization, the At the same time, the complicated international political and economic situation and pursued common development goals and the sharing of value between businesses and deepening of enterprise reform, openness substantial changes in the international oil and gas markets have severely affected the business society. We emphasized employee development. Through initiatives such as “double-sequence” and cooperation, innovation in technology, of oil and gas companies. As China’s economic development entered the era of the New reform, we helped scientific workers and engineering and technical personnel broaden their management and business models, and Normal, it suffered slower growth in its oil and gas demand and intensified market competition. space for career development. We took targeted measures to help the poor and people in green and low-carbon development, so as We took the initiative to adapt to these changes, concentrating on refashioning our good economically underdeveloped regions lift themselves out of poverty, so as to contribute to the to build a world-class international energy image and on pushing forward with our steady development. We vigorously promoted global efforts in poverty reduction. Through improved communication with communities, we company. reforms and fostered innovation. In doing so, our own growth boosted the prosperity and helped enhance their self-sustaining capability and in return, we won social recognition. progress of our partners and communities, and we achieved joint, coordinated and sustainable development in tandem with society. In response to the complicated international situation, we established our development strategies and objectives for the coming period based on in-depth analysis and summary. To adapt to We promoted steady development and supplied clean energy. We actively responded the New Normal in China’s economic development and tide over the difficult period of low oil to the challenges brought about by low oil prices through improving the quality and prices, we must unswervingly promote transformation and upgrading, which is our strategic efficiency of development. To this end, we focused on our core businesses of oil and gas choice. Guided by the policy of steady development and the strategy of resources, markets, exploration and development, acquired large-scale, high-quality reserves and promoted costinternationalization and innovation, we will make every effort to adjust our structure, strengthen effective production, resulting in record highs in oil and gas output domestically and abroad our weak areas, cut costs, and guard against risks. In addition, we will attach greater importance to and allowing the stable growth of all business lines. We optimized our business structure, business deployment and structural optimization, the deepening of enterprise reform, openness accelerated the efficient development of unconventional resources, increased the output and cooperation, innovation in technology, management and business models, and green and of green, low-carbon energies, cut carbon dioxide emissions, and joined the global effort in low-carbon development, so as to build a world-class international energy company. tackling climate change. We saw rapid growth in the natural gas business, with natural gas accounting for 34.9% of our total oil and gas equivalent in 2015 and an average annual growth At present, China remains an important engine for global economic growth, and its of 7.1% in natural gas output from 2011 to 2015. domestic demand for energy, especially for oil and gas, will see steady growth. The Chinese government has proposed the concept of an “innovative, coordinated, green, open and We intensified our efforts in reform and innovation and boosted growth momentum. shared” development, the national strategy of promoting energy production and consumption At PetroChina, we spared no efforts in promoting innovation, which has been our business revolution and the “One Belt, One Road” initiative, and measures such as expediting the supplystrategy and essential to our overall development. We strived to introduce technologies to side structural reform and oil and gas system restructuring, which, clear in objectives and break through the bottlenecks that hold back our development, so as to provide technical firm in belief, are very likely to yield remarkable results in promoting the transformation and support for healthy development at a time of low oil prices. To broaden sources of income, development of energy enterprises. reduce expenditure, control costs and enhance profitability, we planned and embarked on a range of initiatives to strengthen management so as to unleash our potential. We adhered Standing at a new starting point, PetroChina will, in a spirit of openness, mutual benefits to our performance-based compensation scheme to give full play to the incentive role of and win-win situation, play a constructive role in a responsible manner and share resource performance evaluations. We further enhanced quality and profitability, amended relevant value and development achievements with all stakeholders, so as to become an excellent standards for product quality, energy conservation and consumption reduction, and improved corporate citizen! management efficiency and effectiveness. We promoted business integrity and legal compliance to build an enterprise governed by law. We unswervingly enhanced our governance system and control capabilities, promoted consistent improvement and integration of fundamental management, improved rules and regulations, emphasized compliance management, advocated competition in the market on equal footings, and operated with integrity and in legal compliance. As a result, our compliance Wang Yilin and corporate governance have been further enhanced. Chairman of the Board Interview with the 2015 Sustainability Report President 06 07 Interview with the President What measures has PetroChina taken in response to plummeting international oil prices, How will PetroChina realize low carbon development in tackling climate change? what results have been achieved, and what other plans does the Company have for the future? Energy conservation and emission reduction are essential to the sustained development The risk of low oil prices has posed a common challenge to oil companies throughout the of the petroleum industry, the stability of the national energy supply and the reduction of world. Nevertheless, we were motivated to perfect internal work, strengthen management greenhouse gas emissions. PetroChina has developed the Action Plan for Green Development, and improve quality. We adjusted our production and business strategies in a timely manner, promoted green and sustainable development as our business strategy, and has taken the strengthened the coordinated development of production, transport, sales, storage and trading, initiative to adapt to the trend of global low-carbon development. The Company adjusted organized production and operations in an orderly and effective manner, took pertinent its business structure to promote clean energy development, launched a great number of measures to broaden the sources of income, cut costs, promote light assets and reverse losses. campaigns for associated gas recovery in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and As a result, we have maintained stable production and operations, and minimized the negative carried out energy conservation technology research, research and development of lowfinancial impact caused by low oil prices. carbon technologies, active development of carbon sinks, and promotion of carbon emission It is expected that oil will remain in ample supply in the international market for the foreseeable reduction throughout China. future, and it will take time to strike a new balance between supply and demand. Nevertheless, What achievements have been made in oil quality upgrade in recent years? efforts in China including deepening reform, environmental governance and the “One Belt, One China has recently intensified its efforts in environmental governance, putting forth higher Road” initiative and other major deployments and strategies have all provided much room for requirements for clean energy and oil product quality. We keep accelerating oil quality our growth. Oil and natural gas will remain the leading energy sources for a fairly long time to upgrading and boosting green and clean development in strict accordance with China’s come. Guided by the policy of steady development, we will endeavor to grow steadily, make general requirements for the quality upgrade of refined oil. structural adjustments, improve weak areas, enhance profitability, focus on deepening reform and technological innovation, and take measures to broaden the sources of income, reduce We have intensified our efforts in technological innovation, increased our investment in expenditure, control cost and enhance profitability, so that our core businesses can maintain equipment upgrading, established major technological projects specifically for oil quality healthy development. upgrading, and conducted proprietary research and developed a series of technologies for clean gasoline best represented by DSO and GDS, and technologies for clean diesel best What are the Company’s plans for promoting future innovation? represented by ultra low sulfur diesel hydrotreating (PHF) and Low-grade diesel hydrotreating Innovation is essential to our development and future. Therefore, we make innovation a (FDS). Among them, the “development and application of complete sets of clean gasoline strategic priority in our overall development and a driving force behind our development. To production reaching the National IV Standard for vehicle emission” won the second prize of the this end, we keep enhancing our proprietary innovation capabilities and seeking more leading“National Science and Technology Progress Award” in 2015, providing strong technical support edge, innovation-driven development. for gasoline and diesel quality upgrading. Between 2010 and 2015, PetroChina successfully In the future, we will intensify our efforts in science and technology to promote original completed the upgrade from the National III standard to the National V standard. There was a innovation, integrated innovation and re-innovation based on introduction and absorption. We substantial increase in the oil quality standard. There was a substantial increase in the oil quality will promote the combination of production, teaching, research and applications, accelerate standard. Oil quality in areas including Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei, the Yangtze River Delta and the the reform of scientific systems and mechanisms, improve the mechanisms to promote the Pearl River Delta basically reached the level of developed countries, making great contributions transformation of scientific and technological achievements and the benefit sharing policy, to promoting air pollution control. and play a supporting and leading role in responding to low oil prices, and promoting cost We actively responded to the Plan for the Acceleration of the Quality Upgrading of Refined Oil, reductions and enhancing profitability. spared no efforts to promote the implementation of projects for production capacity expansion We push forward innovation in concepts, system, management, culture and business model, and technological transformation of clean energy products in refining enterprises, and secured optimize our investment decisions and project management through modern strategic the supply of motor gasoline and diesel of National V standard in 11 eastern provinces and management tools, and optimize resource allocation, production and operations by following directly administered cities by 2016 and throughout China by 1 January, 2017. As of the end of the principles of the market and profitability. We will also promote innovation in management 2015, nine refineries committed to the supply of motor gasoline and diesel to the 11 eastern and business models through information technology, and intensify our efforts in standardizing provinces and directly administered cities had completed the task of upgrading motor gasoline qualitative and quantitative measurements. and diesel to the National V standard, more than two years ahead of schedule. All of the motor gasoline and diesel produced by our domestic refineries have reached the National IV standard. We will stimulate the vitality of talented personnel, encourage innovation across all employees, Among them, 22.2% of motor gasoline and 9.4% of motor diesel have reached the National V implement major talent development projects and attract innovative talent from across the world, standard. Thus, we are committed to a sustainable supply of clean energy to our society. in order to staff the company with a great number of high-caliber, high-quality and sophisticated talent. We also do our utmost to promote strategic personnel restructuring, improve our evaluation and incentives and service support system, create favorable conditions to attract, make the best use of and retain talented personnel, launch diversified and differentiated vocational training, and establish a competent and efficient workforce. Wang Dongjin Vice Chairman of the Board and President Integrity and Compliance-based 2015 Sustainability Report Corporate Governance 08 09 Integrity and Compliancebased Corporate Governance The rule of law, integrity and compliance are the foundation of an enterprise’s sustainable development. At PetroChina, we always advocate the rule of law, which calls for the supremacy of law, responsibility commensurate with authority, procedural compliance, honesty and trustworthiness, and justice and impartiality. We regularize our corporate and employee behavior through compliance management. We are guided by the rule of law and improve our capability of corporate management by law. We strive to achieve, mainly through institutional constraints, the modernization and internationalization of the corporate governance system and control system. We will make unremitting efforts to explore strengthening the scientific nature and operability of our corporate governance and will optimize the long-term mechanism for operating the company in compliance with all legal requirements. SUSTAINING STEADY DEVELOPMENT SOLIDIFYING GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Sustainable development, as an indispensable internal need, runs through the Company’s Focusing on growth quality and efficiency, Soon after its establishment, PetroChina set up a corporate governance framework in compliance with regulatory requirements and international entire production and operational process. As international oil prices continue their sharp the Company links the compensation of rules, clearly outlining the authority and responsibilities of the annual general meetings of shareholders, of the board of directors and its expert decline and China’s economic development has entered a new normal, we are integrating persons-in-charge and employees to their committees, of the supervisory committee, and of management answerable to the president. Such management structures provide checks and sustainable development into our overall strategies and adhere to the principle of steady environmental and safety performance, balances to one another, cooperate closely and are highly effective. The Company’s internal management and operations are further standardized development. Centering on quality and efficiency improvements, we balance short-term and exercises its veto right against personsand the management level keeps improving. and long-term goals, harmonize development scale, speed, quality and efficiency, move in-charge who have violated safety or PetroChina keeps on optimizing the legal final decision-making mechanism, strengthening the evaluation and grounds for decision making, and reforms forward while maintaining stability, and manage relations with stakeholders. Thanks environmental regulations. An assessment maintaining a system that tracks the responsibility for decisions made and holds decision-makers lifelong accountable. The Company keeps improving to all these efforts, the Company has maintained promising stable operating results, has of enterprises that are advanced in terms the supervision and restriction mechanism for the exercising of power, and following the principle that responsibility is commensurate with authority, kept all kinds of risks under control, has reinforced a stable and harmonious environment of production safety and a comparative it clearly delineates the limits of each authority at different managerial levels with detailed requirements on their authority and responsibility. Moreover, for development, and steadily improved its corporate image. Its steadier, healthier and more appraisal of advanced entities and advanced by planning as a whole all resources for internal supervision — such as legal affairs, internal control, auditing and supervision and inspection —, sustainable development has made PetroChina into a globally respected company. individuals are carried out annually. The PetroChina reinforces self-supervision, supervision by dedicated departments, and supervision between superior and subordinate departments, advanced enterprises and individuals are Top management pays attention to major issues in the Company’s development through and accepts public supervision, in order to achieve well-grounded decision making, appropriate authorization, controlled exercise of power, and commended and receive an award. careful planning. It vigorously develops information channels. Through face-to-face meetings, accountability for abuses of power. site visits, special reports, etc, it engages in in-depth investigations and research and solicits In 2015, affiliates of the Company where suggestions from all the related parties. In doing so, it establishes the strategic goal of incidents related to environmental Shareholders’ and Annual General Meeting (AGM) building a world-class international energy company and it sets out the growth strategy of protection & safety and quality measurement The general meeting of shareholders is the top authority in the Company and it exercises its functions and powers in accordance with the law. “resources, market, internationalization and innovation”. In addition, the Company has set occurred were punished with deductions in PetroChina’s general shareholders’ meetings are held annually and PetroChina ensures that all shareholders enjoy equal privileges to exercise their up a committee tasked with compiling the sustainable growth report. Such committee is performance evaluation scores. In particular, rights. As the controlling shareholder of PetroChina, CNPC will – in order to ensure fairness – abstain from voting when a connected transaction is made up of the main persons in charge of relevant departments, and matters concerning innovation incentives were increased in the presented to the general meeting for consideration. sustainable development are verified and externally disclosed. performance evaluation. Integrity and Compliance-based 2015 Sustainability Report Corporate Governance 10 11 Supervisors of PetroChina, laying down the method and content of performing the duties of the Company’s Supervisors, and the requirements and evaluation criteria for performing such duties. All Supervisors are urged to supervise the Company’s finances and monitor the legality and Corporate Governance Structure compliance of the manner in which directors and senior management of the Company perform their duties, in line with their responsibility to all shareholders. As of the end of 2015, the Company’s Supervisory Committee had nine members, four of which were employees of the Company. General Meeting of Shareholders Executive Body Audit Committee The Company’s executive management body consists of a Vice President and a CFO presided over by the President. They are appointed by and accountable to the Board of Directors. They carry out the Board’s resolutions and organize the day-to-day production and business operations of the Company in accordance with the Company Law of the PRC and the Articles of Association and as authorized by the Board of Directors. Evaluation & Remuneration Supervisory Committee Committee The Company has a two-tier executive governance organization for the headquarters and regional offices, and a three – tier business structure Board of Directors consisting of the headquarters, subsidiaries and regional operations. The Company has four core business segments that are run by four dedicated Investment & Development subsidiaries, namely: exploration and production, refining and chemicals, sales and marketing, and natural gas and pipelines. Committee Health, Safety and Environmental OPTIMIZING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Protection Committee Executives & Managements The Company stresses intensification, specialization and integration and has established a management system where responsibility is commensurate with authority, and that is scientifically sound, lean, efficient, and vibrant so as to strengthen the restrictions on and the supervision of the exercise of power. The Company aims to have clear control objectives, effective integration of resources and optimal efficiency and effectiveness, in order to improve corporate social responsibility performance and achieve sustainable growth. Board of Directors and Affiliated Board Committees The directors are elected by the general meeting of shareholders and are accountable to shareholders. Under the board are several committees: the Audit Committee, Evaluation & Management System Remuneration Committee, Investment & Development Committee, the Health, Safety and Boosting integration of basic In 2015, we supplemented and perfected Environmental Protection (HSE) Committee – all of which advise the board on its decisions. We management systems our basic system of corporate governance. In never cease formulating, improving and effectively implementing the work systems and work accordance with capital market regulations, Since the end of 2012, the Company has procedures of the Board of Directors and affiliated board committees. We have formulated we set up the Nomination Committee of been advancing pilot programs to consolidate the Board Diversity Policy, so that members of the board are considered based on the actual the Board of Directors. We developed rules documents on quality, HSE, measurement, situation of the Company, its own operational model and the specific work requirements, of procedure for the committee, convened energy, internal control, legal risk prevention Compliance while taking into account the candidate's age, educational background and professional a committee meeting , considered the and control w ith other management Management experience. There are four non-executive independent directors in the board of directors. proposed appointment of vice president documents, resolving the overlapping , System These independent directors are from different countries and technical backgrounds, including and CFO nominated by the president, and duplications and contradictions between petroleum and petrochemicals, accounting, finance, international investment and financing formed the committee’s resolution and them. Now the Company runs smoothly management. In 2015, the board of directors strengthened the management of investment appointment comments to the board of within the framework of a single set of Corruption Internal Control decisions, learned about the implementation of the system of Administration of Authorization directors, making our corporate governance management documents, improving its Punishment and and Risk Management in Acquisition Projects by PetroChina as reported by the management, and timely adjusted even more perfect. overall managerial efficiency. In addition, the Prevention System System and optimized the term for the administration of the authorizations as well as the period Company further integrated its management covered by the report, according to the actual operational situation. There was an increase in practices based on the ERP application the number of site investigations and research at grass-roots units and overseas oil and gas integration project. The headquarters has built cooperation projects conducted by independent directors. In 2015, the Company organized a management practices platform information on-site investigations and research by independent directors on seven occasions. Independent system, realizing unified query, exchange and directors were timely and regularly informed of the Company’s important productions and HSE Quality sharing of systems, standards and procedures. operations, achieving good communication effects. Management Management System System Supervisors and Supervisory Committee The Supervisory Committee is accountable to the Shareholders’ Meeting. In accordance with the Company Law of the PRC and the Articles of Association, Supervisors attend Supervisory Committee meetings, attend Board Meetings as observers, report back to the Shareholders’ Meeting and submit the Supervisory Committee reports and related matters. The Supervisory Committee formulated the Measures for the Administration of the Performance of Duties by Integrity and Compliance-based 2015 Sustainability Report Corporate Governance 12 13 Compliance Management System Compliance Management Mechanism of PetroChina and 2015 Key Actions Integrity and compliance are the bottom line of our business operation and the cornerstone of the Company’s development, and take precedence to business systems and economic interests. We have a zero tolerance attitude to rule violations and strictly comply with System and process Implemented the Integrity and Compliance Guidelines applicable laws, regulations and procedures in operational activities. The growth of the Company hinges on compliance management, Prevention Risk evaluation and Included compliance as the featured content into trainings at various levels, organized all-staff which is incorporated into the whole process of our production, construction and operations management assessment. We enhance warning online training, superior-to-subordinate training, on-board training, etc. to ensure that Training employees have understood the compliance requirements. process control while focusing on prevention, and strive to build a compliance management system with complete regulations, scientific procedures and proper execution to cover all staff, the entire process and all positions. Compliance registration We adhere to the value of honesty and integrity, implementing the same compliance policy and guidelines as CNPC. The Integrity and and reporting Established compliance evaluation and filing system, to comprehensively record and evaluate Control Compliance audit of compliance & due diligence performance of employees, with the evaluation results as the basis Compliance Guidelines issued by CNPC in 2015 clearly regulating the basic requirements, codes of conduct and prohibited matters in important matters for promotion and incentives. external relations, professional ethics, handling internal relations, safeguarding the interests of the Company, taking social responsibility, etc. Compliance archives It established a registration and reporting system for conflicts of interest matters to guard against and avoid the risk of non-compliance. Compliance reporting Conducted due diligence investigations upon business partners and related transactions It set up a compliance evaluation and filing system to comprehensively record and evaluate employees’ performance of due diligence and investigation Established compliance information sharing-based linkage mechanism, and shared information compliance serving as the basis for promotion and incentives/punishment; and conducted compliance investigations over business Compliance evaluation Supervision in compliance risk assessment, investigation and treatment of non-compliance cases, etc, partners and related transactions. Moreover, it built a compliance information sharing and linkage mechanism. By applying the compliance Compliance audit through the application of compliance management information platform and cooperation management information platform, there was collaboration with auditing, supervision and internal control departments and information and testing with audit, inspection, internal control and other departments. was shared about compliance risk assessment, compliance case investigation etc. to prevent violations. Compliance training was provided to ensure that all employees understood the compliance requirements of the Company and were able to act upon these. Punishment and Specified that persons-in-charge of the headquarters and affiliates are the first persons rectification responsible for compliance management Accountability Corresponding system and Included compliance management requirements into performance evaluation and rigorously procedure amendment live up to them 04 Integrity and Compliance Guidelines Notes to Users 05 INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE GUIDELINES issued in 2015 How Employees Abide by the Guidelines All CNPC employees should fully understand the guidelines and Notes to Users specific provisions thereof, abide by the requirements in their daily work, and make a commitment. CNPC executives at all levels should build an integrity and compliance culture, and act as role models. They must encourage We have set up a telephone hotline and an Internal Control and Risk Management System the integrity and compliance of all personnel through their own demonstration, guide and supervise their subordinates in email address to receive reports of irregularities. In 2015, the Company continued to improve its internal control system and revised the Internal Control Management Manual combining complying with the provisions of the Guidelines. Managements Why the Guidelines Are Prepared To carry on CNPC’s fine tradition, convey and implement the must have regular communications and exchanges with employees regarding their integrity and compliance performance, Employees can report cases of irregularities reforms with adjustments to the institutional mechanisms and both strengthening and optimizing the internal control system. It deepened philosophy of integrity and compliance, and adapt to increasingly and take an objective attitude towards employees’ concern and demanding compliance requirements, it is necessary to formulate a uniform code of conduct. The code will guide employees to suggestions. using their real names or anonymously. its comprehensive risk management and creatively established procedures for optimizing business operations procedures and for risk How to Use the Guidelines perform their duties in a disciplined manner and with higher ethical standards so as to effectively protect the Company’s reputation and promote its sustainable development. The Guidelines outlines a basic code of conduct for employees to We will seriously investigate and give feed evaluation, strengthening the management of assessing major risks and control as well as dynamic analysis and early warning, and pushed follow. In addition, employees should also abide by CNPC’s other Who Must Abide by the Guidelines rules. For specific rules and related contents, please refer to the “Rules and Regulations” column at the CNPC portal. Employees back to the one who reports, and keep the for the building of a risk system. By effectively playing up the role of internal control and supervision, the Company focused on risks may also contact superiors or responsible departments for help The Guidelines apply to CNPC and all of its employees. CNPC representatives (or agents) or any personnel conducting any work and assistance. identity of informants confidential. inherent in the fields of tendering and bidding, major project investment, asset management, fund management, contract management, How to Report Violation of the Guidelines in the name of CNPC, must abide by the relevant provisions of the Guidelines. CNPC has set up a report hotline and electronic mailbox to accept Hotline: (86-10)-62094741 engineering management, etc. and assessed and rectified each problem found through testing so as to effectuate a closed-loop error Companies in which CNPC holds a controlling equity should also reports. You may thus deliver reports orally, in paper writing, or by execute the Guidelines through legal procedures. CNPC also encourages and suggests companies in which it participates to do email, either on your real name or anonymous basis. CNPC will seriously investigate the case, provide you feedback of the results, Email: jcbjb@petrochina.com.cn correction. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors convened four meetings throughout the year, learned about the internal control the same. and keep the identity of the informer undisclosed. work progress, and made recommendations for improvement. In 2015, the Company’s internal control and risk management system successfully passed external audit for the tenth consecutive year. Corruption Punishment and Prevention System Have you established codes of conduct for management, employees and contractors? If yes, how do you communicate We treat our business partners, customers, suppliers, contractors and counterparts with integrity, respect and equality. We oppose any these codes to them? How to measure compliance with these codes? form of commercial bribery and require our business partners to follow the Company’s anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies, with no We have developed the manual of the Integrity and Compliance Guidelines which specifies that enterprises, employees, agents (agencies) or personnel engaged in abuse of one’s position in signing business contracts for one’s own personal gain or for the benefit of friends or family or to obtain personal various activities in the name of the Company shall comply with relevant provisions of the Manual. When cooperating with external partners, we help contractors, benefits. We have developed the Punishment Regulations for Management’s Violations and Non-compliance, Compliance Management subcontractors and suppliers understand the Company's code of conduct and ethical requirements, and strengthened contacts with business partners who obey the Measures, Material Supplier Management Measures, etc, to regulate behaviors of employees and the Company. laws and regulations and respect the Company’s values and code of conduct. We have also formulated specific standards and procedures to choose business partners. Realizing the importance and urgency of taking a firm stance against corruption, we made unremitting efforts to combat corruption. We Each employee of the Company has signed a written commitment to comply with the Manual. The Manual has been translated into English, Russian, French, developed and implemented a series of systems and regulations to improve our work style and strengthen discipline. We deepened the Spanish, Arabic and Uighur. reform of anti-corruption institutions and mechanisms to promote full coverage of strict internal inspections. We maintained a posture The Company has established a liability mechanism for violations committed by the management. Management failing to implement compliance management of high-pressure investigations, explored special audits and supervision of major investment projects, and conducted more thorough requirements or to provide compliance training to employees who violated regulations shall be held accountable. electronic surveillance to establish an honest and positive corporate culture. Through compliance, internal control, auditing, monitoring and supervision and other management functions, we regulate business procedures and employee behavior, strengthen business practices’ compliance audits, and vigorously investigate and treat violations, to ensure that we are in compliance with the law and regulations in our operations. Integrity and Compliance-based 2015 Sustainability Report Corporate Governance 14 15 UPHOLDING BUSINESS ETHICS We strictly comply with the applicable laws and regulations, abide by business ethics Anti-Commercial Bribery In 2015, PetroChina launched the Experience for Refueling Season and adhere to the principle of honesty and credibility, in order to promote transparent III· Tibet activity. We invited reporters from more than 20 media such Commercial bribery is an act of using trading and maintain fair and impartial competition. We fight against commercial bribery as Xinhua News Agency, China News Agency, CCTV network and d e v i o u s m ea n s to o b ta i n b u s i n e ss in any form. We oppose monopolies and do not abuse our dominant market position. We some network celebrities to join the activity. Departing from Lhasa, they opportunities or other economic benefits. fight against unfair competition in any form and comply with trade restrictions. We never interviewed some refueling stations on the snow-covered plateau, oil Commercial bribery seriously disrupts conduct, participate in or support any forms of money laundering. We conduct faithful, depots and poverty alleviation projects of PetroChina in Tibet within one the market order of fair competition and honest and legal external transactions. week, helping the public to understand oil and enhance mutual trust. The is prohibited by law in each jurisdiction. picture is the group photo of the media reporters, some network celebrities The Company firmly opposes commercial and Bange refueling station employees of PetroChina Tibet Marketing bribery, and strictly prohibits the giving COMMUNICATING WITH STAKEHOLDERS of benefits to others to obtain business Company. Gaining our stakeholders’ trust and support is fundamental to the building of a sustainable opportunities or other advantages. We business. We worked hard to improve quality and efficiency to maximize returns to also prohibit employees from receiving From Lhasa, Nagqu, Shigatse, to the world's highest Shuanghu Service Station, most service stations didn’t have appreciable amount of oil our shareholders and value for our stakeholders, and to achieve our common goal of or soliciting benefits from others in our sold, but they ensured the local supply actually. ……It is not easy to stay in the highlands. But every effort and dedication gives a richer harmonious and mutually beneficial growth. business activities. The prohibited behaviors meaning to the words that PetroChina is Always with You. mentioned above not only refer to the We actively performed our obligation to disclose information. In accordance with the ——Chen Pu, reporter from Chinanews.com. direct giving and receiving of benefits, but laws, regulations and regulatory requirements of the place where the Company is listed also to the sort of behaviors via a third party. and in accordance with the Articles of Association, we built a multi-level mechanism The benefits hereby include, but are not to communicate with stakeholders, through periodic reports, interim reports, media limited to: cash, gifts, marketable securities, communications, interviews and visits, and interactive communication. We amplified and physical assets, kickbacks, free traveling perfected the management and related systems for the disclosure of major events so CNPC International (Indonesia) released its sustainability report. It and entertainment, and also non-property as to report the Company’s situation in full and on time to the public. We also organized systematically introduces the key points of the company and progresses benefits such as employment opportunities. non-deal roadshows and site inspections for investors, met visiting investors, and invited in relation to stakeholders, economic indicators, corporate governance, individual shareholders to attend the AGM, etc. The top managerial personnel of the human resources, community development, and environment, health Company frequently attended high-level conferences and forums and delivered speeches, and safety. in order to improve mutual trust between stakeholders and the Company. The Company kept improving its website and developing new media communication channels to provide more information, understand and respond to investors’ questions in a timely Over the years, we have been making fashion. It collected and organized every opinion and suggestion, and channeled them to dividend distribution in strict accordance relevant departments, so that the Company was aware of the needs of the stakeholders. with the Articles of Association and relevant In 2015, we strengthened the confidentiality of inside information before the disclosure regulatory requirements. To protect the of the formal annual report, implemented information disclosure regulations and insiders interests of minority shareholders, the In May 2015, we initiated an activity named Wonderful Trip of One registration management system, etc., and increased the accountability of the persons Articles of Association clearly stipulate that the Drop of Oil – Internet celebrities discover a new state-owned enterprise . responsible for the annual report information disclosure. proportion of cash dividend shall not be less We invited more than 30 people, including netizens and media reporters, than 30% of the net profit attributable to the To address investors’ concerns, we deeply communicated with investors and listen to their to cross through the Qaidam Basin and travel more than 2,000 kilometers parent company realized in the year. Since views on the development of the Company. We also organized various public inspection in six days. They paid field visits to the whole process from oil exploration its listing, the Company has strictly abided activities such as Gas Station Open Day and Wonderful Trip of a Drop of Oil, and invited the to petrochemical products, showing the complete oil industry chain to by its relevant commitments in the H-share media and netizens to Tibet, Arctic Village, Qinghai etc. to enhance their understanding of the public. prospectus to adopt a stable dividend the oil industry. Our regional companies in Indonesia, and other regions published regional policy. At present, the Company pays corporate social responsibility reports to comprehensively communicate with local dividends to shareholders in accordance communities. with 40% to 50% of the annual net profit. The Company's stable and active dividend policy is welcomed by shareholders for fully safeguarding the interests of minority For more details, please scan the QR code shareholders. on the left. Integrity and Compliance-based 2015 Sustainability Report Corporate Governance 16 17 Stakeholder Expectations Communication Approach Key Actions Stable energy supply Behave legally and ethically, and abide by the applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate Offer company expertise Harmonious economic and social Stabilize oil and gas supplies Attend to public concerns and improve corporate behavior Governments development Participate in discussions organized by the government on climate change, energy conservation and emission reduction Launch strategic cooperation with relevant departments Leading role of brand and technology Promote local employment and cultivate local talents Attend seminars and forums Tax payment according to law Pay taxes according to law Fulfill requirements on statutory information disclosure Operate in a responsible manner to maintain a good reputation Standardized corporate governance Organize roadshow and reverse roadshow activities, such as field visits Convene annual general meetings Shareholders Stable business growth Issue reports and announce results performance on a regular basis Equal treatment of shareholders, and value opinions of both small and medium-sized shareholders Sustainable development Launched an “Investor FAQs” mailbox to receive public opinions Hold dialogues with investors and shareholders in various ways Enhance employee training and skills development Elect employee representatives to join the Supervisory Committee Organize vocational skill competitions Basic rights guaranteed Establishment of trade unions at all levels Conduct occupational health checks Employees Professional development Convene employee representatives’ meetings and make reports Promote local employment in overseas operations Growth in wages and benefits Organize employee training programs Provide a career development platform for employees Set up a complaints and feedback system Protect employee safety in overseas operations Enhance quality management Provide safe, environmentally friendly, Carry out activities to protect consumers’ interests high-quality products and services Improve service quality at refueling stations Publicize commitment to quality services Consumers Constantly improve the quality and Increase the supply of clean fuel, such as natural gas, high-standard gasoline and diesel variety of services Provide hotline services Secure oil supplies for disaster relief and agricultural production Operate with integrity Conduct customer satisfaction surveys Organize Refueling Station Open Day activity Hold tendering meetings Hold large cross-border business negotiations and technical Strengthen centralized procurement management to provide suppliers with equal opportunities exchange meetings Enhance communication and coordination with contractors and strengthen the HSE management of contractors by creating a safe and healthy Fair and transparent procurement Use the electronic trading platform working environment Business partners Win-win cooperation Engage in sharing managerial practices and technical standards Improve security measures and the emergency response network Conduct contract negotiations and routine meetings Open the investment field Hold training for business partners Organize PetroChina-Siemens Strategic Cooperation Summit Conduct daily operation meetings Submit a progress report to the UN Global Compact Improve sustainable management Share the Company’s experiences Attend to external concerns through various forms of communication NGOs Perform social responsibilities such as Participate in NGO activities poverty alleviation and environmental Play an active role in participating in and supporting international environment and standardization initiatives protection Promote international communication Participate in a wide range of forums and conferences Participate in disaster relief and reconstruction, and provide financial support for education and poverty alleviation Promote employment growth Hold dialogues with local communities Support and drive local economic growth through large projects Protect community environment Organize community visits Supply clean energy, e.g. natural gas, to remote Regions Communities Promote economic development in the Conduct social and environmental impact assessments of projects community Hold volunteering activities among employees Promotion of education Respect cultural traditions of the Procure locally, where the business is carried out community Increase information disclosure Provide job opportunities and training for the local community 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY 18 19 SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY Energy is essential to socio-economic development. Our mission is to develop a safe, stable, diversified and clean energy supply s ystem, thereby promo ting sustainable economic growth and social progress. Tarim Oilfield 55% CONSOLIDATING OUR RESOURCE BASE Energy is closely related to human life and sustainable development. UN data show that billions A Safe, Stable, of people in the world still cannot enjoy a basic energy supply. Population growth, urbanization, and economic development will continue to drive growth in global energy demand. Oil and Oil and gas exploration and development are the basis and foundation of our development. It Diversified and gas will remain the world’s main energy source for the foreseeable future. However, the supplyIn 2011-2015, our total newly added oil has become more difficult and more expensive to explore and develop the remaining oil and demand imbalance in the global energy market and the environmental impact of climate and gas reserves equivalent accounted for gas resources, and oil prices have continued their slide. Under such unfavorable circumstances, Clean Energy Supply change has become a common challenge to the global energy industry. The sustainable over 55% of the national newly added oil we have made exploration breakthroughs and consolidated our resource base through development of the global community can only be ensured by balancing the relationship and gas reserves equivalent reported in the technology and management innovation, enhancing our capacity to provide the society with System between the development and use of energy on the one hand and regions, the economy, the same period. economical, stable and sustainable energy. environment, humans and communities on the other. Stable Growth in Domestic Oil and Gas Reserves At PetroChina, we are proactively changing the ways we produce energy. With an innovative, In 2015, we implemented in-depth exploration at favorable zones and strata, we optimized harmonized, green, liberal and co-shared development concept, we build a safe, stable, pre-exploration and venture exploration targets and the deployment of solutions and we diversified and clean energy supply system. We never cease consolidating our resource strengthened the geological evaluation in key areas. By doing so, we discovered a number base through technological and managerial innovations. With an eye on sustainable energy of large-scale, high-quality reserves that can be developed in the near future. According to supply in the future, we are accelerating natural gas development, exploring unconventional domestic standards for reserves calculation, our newly added proven oil reserves exceeded 600 energy, deploying new energies, and supplying more energy that is clean. In addition, we are million tons for ten years in a row, while our newly added proven gas reserves exceeded 400 expanding international cooperation and optimizing our global businesses in order to play a billion cubic meters for nine years consecutively. The proven oil and gas geological reserves leading role in supplying cleaner and greener energy and to provide sustained momentum to equivalent exceeded 1 billion tons for nine consecutive years. socio-economic development. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY 20 21 60% Increasing Oil and Gas Production Efficiency DEVELOPING CLEAN ENERGY Against the background of declining oil prices, PetroChina increased its technological innovation, with the focus changing from production scale to quality and efficiency. The risks that climate change and air pollution have brought to global ecological and social Specifically, we strengthened the dynamic adjustment of oil and gas production, implemented systems are gradually emerging. Only by increasing the development and use of clean and From 2011 to 2015, PetroChina continued to maintain its leading position in the domestic optimization of capacity deployment, cut inefficient and low-efficiency projects, expanded efficient low-carbon energy and by reducing the carbon emissions caused by the use of energy market, with the oil equivalent produced the application scale of horizontal wells, and tapped deeper to reach the potential of matured can the global target be met of carbon dioxide emissions peaking soon and of effectively domestically accounting for about 60% controlling the rise in the earth's temperature. Natural gas is generally recognized as a highof the national total, consolidating the areas, thus effectively controlling the natural progressive decrease. The capacity building at the resource base for PetroChina’s steady oil and Longwangmiao Formation gas field in Moxi area in southwestern China was completed. Daqing quality clean energy and is the most realistic option to adjust the energy structure, control gas supply. Oilfield continued the development of water flooding technology and EOR technology and air pollution and reduce carbon emissions at present. When generating the same amount pushed forward ASP flooding technology, with the recovery rate breaking through 50% in main of energy, the burning of natural gas generates 56% and 71% the amount of carbon dioxide produced by coal and oil respectively; 20% the amount of nitrogen oxide emissions of coal Establishment of Changqing 50 blocks. Changqing Oilfield developed key technologies to explore and develop tight oil and MMT Oil Equivalent Production gas in super-low permeability reservoirs, created a model for scale development of tight gas and oil respectively; and almost negligible amounts of emissions of sulfur dioxide and dust fields, and produced more than 50 million tons of oil equivalent for the third consecutive year particles. China’s Energy Development Strategy Action Plan (2014-2020) proposed to increase 5% in 2015. In 2015, we produced 1,493.9 million barrels of oil equivalent, while the total oil and gas the proportion of natural gas use to more than 10% in primary energy consumption in 2020, so production cost dropped 3.18% from 2014. there is a great future for natural gas development. Reduced dependence on oil imports by 5% Proportion of natural gas in primary energy consumption around the world 2011 -2015 Oil Equivalent Production of PetroChina (million barrels) 51.0% 40 1,343.1 1,400.0 1,450.4 1,493.9 1,286.0 32.9% 30.8% 34.9% Secured industrial and residential gas supply 25.9% of more than 40 major cities such as Beijing, 22.0% Tianjin, Xi’an and Yinchuan 12.3% 5.9% North Middle & Europe and Middle East Africa Asia-Pacific China America South Eurasia America Source: National Bureau of Statistics of China, CNPC ETRI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In 2015, contribution of natural gas to our total oil equivalent output reached 34.9%. Currently and for the foreseeable future, fossil fuel will remain the driving force of world economic development. Against this background, PetroChina is eyeing the sustainable First prize of the National Science supply of future clean energy, and considers natural gas as a strategic and growing business. and Technology Progress Award It is increasing investment in natural gas exploration and development, accelerating the Zhai Guangming, a member of Chinese Academy of Engineering: construction of cross-border gas pipelines and the domestic gas pipeline backbone network The exploration and development of 50 Scientific innovation is the driving force for exploration and development facilities, advancing the development of unconventional gases such as tight gas, coal bed million tons super-low permeability tight in the Ordos Basin methane and shale gas, pushing forward the development and use of natural gas, researching, 72.7% oil and gas fields and major theoretical Covering a total area of 360,000 square kilometers, the Ordos Basin is composed of continental developing and promoting the development and use of new energy, in order to meet demand and technical innovations developed by strata in the upper part and Paleozoic marine strata in the lower part. Due to the inadequacy of by society for clean energy. PetroChina set an example of low-cost the technologies at the time, such a large-scale oil and gas basin remained undeveloped until the development of unconventional oil and gas 1970s. Paleozoic marine strata have always been the issue that Chinese geologists were anxious to Increasing Natural Gas Exploration and Development fields. It also provided quotable technical overcome. We have continued to increase efforts in the exploration and development of natural gas, with reser ves and a low-cost development domestic proven geological reserves of natural gas maintaining peak growth. In particular, we model for the effective scale development The successful development of oil and gas resources is inseparable from the progress in science discovered Longwangmiao reservoir in Moxi area in the Sichuan Basin, the largest monomer of China’s more than 20 billion tons superand technology. During the 12th Five-Year (2011-2015) period, new breakthroughs were made PetroChina’s domestic natural gas marine uncompartmentalized carbonate gas reservoir so far in China, which has provided a low permeability tight oil and 21 trillion in various exploration methods and development technologies. Advanced technologies helped output accounted for about 72.7% of the national total. resource protection for an increase in natural gas production. We actively advance capacity cubic meters tight gas resources. It won the to break open tight oil and gas formations, and build Changqing Oilfield into the largest oilfield in building in four natural gas production areas: Changqing, Tarim, Southwest, and Qinghai, with first prize of the 2015 National Science and China with a production of 50 million tons of oil equivalent. With the E&P technology progress, oil new supporting capacity of 11 billion cubic meters each year built in 2015. The Company’s Technology Progress Awards. production in Ordos Basin is expected to increase. natural gas production increased by 7.1% per year on average in the period 2011-2015; and domestic production of marketable natural gas was 2.90 trillion cubic feet in 2015, showing that the Company’s natural gas production and supply capacity continues to increase. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY 22 23 New Energy With an eye on future business, we develop geothermal energy, solar energy and other renewable energy sources, and actively explore the development and use of resources such as situ leached uranium mineralization and natural gas hydrates, aiming to give full play to the role of new energy in the building of a sustainable energy supply system. Geothermal energy Solar energy Biomass energy Pipeline Construction carried out studies on supplied energy to established complete development and use of oil wells by applying solutions for scaled-up geothermal resources in photovoltaic and intensive planting and oilfields of Huabei, Liaohe and technology in oilfields harvesting, raw materials Establishment of Piped Gas and Offshore LNG Transport Pattern Xinjiang; and worked with in Xinjiang and Jilin; and processing and storage, and Kenya's Ministry of Energy and completed a full solar oil refining and filling, which We have established a safe and steady system to supply natural gas. The system has resource Petroleum to develop local station in PetroChina provides scale production 49,000 km diversity, flexible scheduling and efficient operations, makes the resource allocation more geothermal resources with our Beijing Marketing and supply capacity of fuel efficient and is better able to ensure market supply. With the commissioning of a number of technological advantages. Company. ethanol gasoline. key projects including Line C of Trans-Asia Gas Pipeline, Second West-east Gas Pipeline and The natural gas pipelines western section of Third West-East Gas Pipeline, the natural gas pipelines run by PetroChina run by PetroChina extends extends 49,000 kilometers long and through 29 provinces (directly administered municipalities PUSHING FORWARD PIPELINE NETWORK 49,000 kilometers long and autonomous regions) and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, forming a gas CONSTRUCTION network crisscrossing the country and connecting to abroad that benefits a population of over We continue to expand the building of the oil and gas pipeline network to reduce oil and gas 500 million. Moreover, we established and commissioned 11 gas depots and 3 coastal LNG terminals, further enhancing our peak-shaving capacity. transportation costs, boost our capacities in transportation and allocation, and optimize the market allocation of resources. Promoting the Development of Unconventional Gas Improving Domestic Pipeline Backbone Network 28.3% We continued to increase efforts in exploration and development of tight gas, shale gas, coalbed gas and other unconventional natural gas resources, realizing a new phase of largescale development of tight gas and coalbed gas and entering the rapid development of shale In 2015, we made further improvements to our key oil and gas pipeline networks and a number of domestic oil and gas pipelines were completed and put into operation, including Tianjin In 2015, our tight gas harbor-Huabei Petrochemical and Tieling-Jinxi double-track crude oil pipelines, Shenyangoutput accounted for gas. For tight gas development, we worked hard to improve development efficiency and change the development mode towards multi-well types, cluster wells, factory-like operation Changchun natural gas pipeline, etc. The construction of the east section of the Third West-East 28.3% of the Company's domestic total gas and multi-layer development. In 2015, our tight gas output reached 27.02 billion cubic meters, Gas Pipeline and Jinzhou-Zhengzhou refined oil pipeline progressed smoothly. As a result, the output Company’s oil and gas supply and regulating capacity was further enhanced. accounting for 28.3% of the Company's domestic total gas output. For shale gas, we vigorously pushed forward the construction of national demonstration zones in Changning-Weiyuan and Zhaotong, and made important initial results in geological knowledge, development of Expanding Transnational Oil and Gas Transportation Channels technologies, organization and management, etc. The development cost of single horizontal In 2015, PetroChina continued to expand its transnational oil and gas pipelines. There was the wells dropped, while production increased dramatically. By the end of 2015, the Company ceremony to mark the commencement of work on the China-Russia Eastern Route Natural Gas completed the supporting capacity of 2.8 billion cubic meters per year, and produced 1.3 billion Pipeline while work on the China-Russia Crude Oil Pipeline II progressed smoothly, significant cubic meters in 2015. For coalbed gas, China’s largest Baode mid-low rank coalbed gas field both to optimizing China's energy structure and improving the atmospheric environment. became operational. Studies on key technologies for coalbed gas exploration and development and a special project on demonstration & application technologies supported the growth in DEEPENING INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION reserves and the development of scale of the two large coal gas demonstration areas in Qinshui and eastern Hubei. The coalbed gas international standard “Method of Determining Coalbed Gas We adhere to the international cooperation principles of “mutual benefit and joint Content ISO18871” was first released, indicating our coalbed gas development technology has development” and comply with the laws, regulations and energy policies of the host countries. reached the international advanced level. Based on our advantages in funding, technology and management, we have contributed to the global oil and gas market supply with our partners. Utilization of Natural Gas and Alternative Fuels PetroChina has actively expanded the use of natural gas in such areas as city gas, gas-fired Overseas Energy Development power generation, public transportation, shipping, etc. In regions heavily affected by air pollution such as Beijing, Hebei and Xinjiang, we promoted coal-to-gas projects to improve the 203.5 million barrels In 2015, we deepened cooperation with countries related to China’s One Belt and One Road initiatives such as the Middle East, Central Asia and Russia, optimized and adjusted the production environmental quality in winter. In regions such as the Bohai Rim, Yangtze River Delta, Sichuan, We achieved a net overseas rhythm of Aktobe and PK etc. projects in Kazakhstan, and maintained production and efficiency Chongqing and Lhasa, we promoted the use of LNG vehicles in, among others, city buses, oil and gas equivalent increase in oil and gas projects in Iraq, Chad, etc. Besides, we steadily pushed forward the output of 203.5 million long-distance passenger transport, logistics and transportation sectors, and built LNG filling optimization of oil and gas operations in North America, Canada, Australia and other developed barrels stations and other transportation facilities. There are currently nearly 100 CNG and LNG filling markets. Now, the Canadian oil sands project phase I is advancing steadily. Over the course of the stations operational in Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei and serving nearly 10,000 new energy vehicles, whole year, we achieved a net overseas oil and gas equivalent output of 203.5 million barrels. effectively improving the atmospheric environment. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY 24 25 Promoting Oil and Gas Cooperation with International Partners We continue to make steady progress on cooperation with international partners in developing oil and gas resources in China. In 2015, we successfully took over the operating 6 Measures for Safeguarding Gas Supply in Winter rights of Zhaodong Project in Dagang and the operating rights of Changbei Project Phase I in Changqing. The Northeast Sichuan Gas Project Phase I developed jointly with Chevron became operational, which will supply more natural gas to Sichuan and Chongqing regions. 1 Domestic gas fields produced at full capacity 2 Emergency deployment of LNG 3 Increased gas production of gas depots Vigorously Expanding International Trade We optimize the global allocation of resources and serve the international oil and gas market. We have basically established three oil and gas operations centers in Asia, Europe and America, 40% Yield increase of 7 million m 3/d in Tarim Oilfield Emergency increase of LNG spot purchase, adjusted external transport volume of three LNG Gas production of owned gas depots increased by 181.3% providing trade, processing, storage and transportation services to international markets. Our In 2015, our refined oil Yield increase of 5 million m 3/d in Qinghai Oilfield terminals to the maximum China-V standard motor gasoline was exported to Australia for the first time, meeting the supply accounted for about 40% of the national Faster docking and unloading of requirements of the international high-end oil market. Yield increase of 3 million m 3/d in market share ships carrying imported LNG Changqing Oilfield Increased the external gas transport ENSURING STABLE SUPPLY volume of 5 million m3 in Tangshan 70% LNG Terminal PetroChina sees ensuring stable supply as an important social responsibility. To this end, we are strengthening coordination and organizational efforts in order to establish a long-lasting An increase of 10 million m3 LNG in Dalian LNG Terminal mechanism and give back to society. During peak agricultural periods in the spring, summer In 2015, our natural and autumn (at the time of spring plowing, summer planting, summer harvesting, summer gas supply accounted An increase of 2 million m3 LNG in field management, fall harvesting, fall plowing and fall sowing), during critical moments when for about 70% of the Jiangsu LNG Terminal national market share natural disasters strike such as earthquakes, heavy rainfall and snowfall, important periods Collected 69.2 billion m3 available when events are held, and during winter months when gas consumption peaks, we actively natural gas resources, up 18.3% year mobilize our resources, optimize transport capacity, strengthen on-site services, and ensure a on year continuous oil and gas supply in our service stations. In 2015, our refined oil and natural gas supply accounted for about 40% and 70% of the national market share respectively. 4 Optimized network operation, and increased 5 Safeguarded gas consumption by residents 6 Swapped resources with domestic oil and gas CASE STUDY Stable Gas Supply for Securing a Warm Winter the gas intake of pipeline enterprises network in North China In the peak time of gas supply in Within the scope of our gas supply, the population using gas exceeds 500 million throughout 30 provinces (or directly municipalities, autonomous regions and special winter, companies such as Ningxia Swapped resources with Sinopec administrative regions) in China. Due to the large seasonal fluctuations in gas consumption and insufficient peak-shaving facilities, protecting the user demand for Internal supply through important Petrochemical Company and and CNOOC for safeguarding gas natural gas in winter is not only a matter of responsibility for the people's livelihood, but also a test for the Company. In particular, in late November 2015, extreme cold pipeline network nodes, and Dushanzi Petrochemical Company supply and easing the contradiction weather hit most areas of China, and the northern areas suffered rare cold weather that had not been encountered for 64 years. In addition, smog control exacerbated gas allocated resources to the regions operated at low load between supply and demand in that are most in need of gas regional markets consumption. As a result, gas sales in November 2015 increased by 13.9% year on year. In November and December of 2015, we supplied 27.3 billion cubic meters of gas to the market, an increase of 11.4% year on year. Made more efforts to transfer gas stored in gas pipelines from west to east On January 24, 2016, Shaanxi-Beijing What are the difficulties of safeguarding gas supply in winter? gas pipeline supplied a record 109 million m3 of gas per day to Beijing, As an efficient and clean energy, natural gas has seen rapid growth in recent years. Same with water and electricity consumption, there are peaks and valleys in and the daily gas consumption in gas consumption in different periods. During the heating period in the first and fourth quarters of every year, natural gas consumption sees a substantial increase northern areas broke through 166 compared with that in the second and third quarters. In 2015, a difference of about 120 million cubic meters in the average daily gas consumption between million m3. the heating period and non-heating period occurred, accounting for 37% of annual average daily gas consumption. One major way of dealing with seasonal Central Asia-China Gas Pipeline fluctuations in gas consumption is underground gas depots. In more mature natural gas markets overseas, the level of gas stored is rather high and the adjustment transported a record 114 million m3 mechanism works fine. In the US, a volume equivalent to 18% of the total natural gas consumption sits in gas depots to be used in peak shaving. In Europe that of gas per day on average volume exceeds 20%. By the end of 2015, China had built 18 gas depots, 17 of which can be used by PetroChina for peak shaving. They store 5.2 billion cubic meters, which is a mere 2.7% of the national natural gas consumption. SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION 2015 Sustainability Report AND OPERATION 26 27 SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION AND OPERATION The natural environment is essential for humans. Therefore, we incorporate care for people’s lives and environmental protection into our corporate mission. Upholding the principles of “people-centred, preventiondr i ven, f ull s t a f f p ar t ic ip ation and continuous improvements”, we endeavor to build ourselves as a resource-conserving, environmentally friendly and safely producing business with the goals of “zero injuries, no pollution and zero accidents”. Production and operation in harmony with the environment Improving HSE Management Promoting HSE Standardization at Grassroots Level Work safety and environmental protection is a prerequisite which secures our steady Content of safety and environmental Goals of HSE Standardization at To ensure HSE management keeps pace with our daily production and operations, development. In 2015, we attached great importance to health, safety and the environment protection performance appraisal Grassroots Level we carried out HSE standardization at the grassroots level, which covered compliance (HSE), gave top priority to safety and environment in our operations, and reinforced our HSE with management and operation procedures, equipment integrity and worksite system. By improving the management system and implementing stricter inspection of According to our schedule, more than 80% Duty perf assessme ormance Capability cleanliness. We emphasized the importance of risk management & control, focused responsibility fulfillment, PetroChina closely monitored workplace safety results , strengthened nt of our teams at grassroots level will complete nt assessme on the enhancement of execution capability, and standardized our procedures in hazard control, and endeavored to enhance HSE management performance. As a result, our HSE standardization by 2020, whereby we order to ensure our staff at grassroots level pass the assessments, promote advanced overall HSE performance was stable and improved in 2015. generally achieve scientific and standardized Assessment of safety Assessment of safety HSE management concepts and methods to them, and facilitate the continuous HSE management, ensure the integrity and and environmental and environmental Improving HSE Management System protection capability: to improvement of HSE at the grassroots level. reliability of our on-site equipment and protection performance: The Company carries out system audits covering all units twice a year. In 2015, we set up to review employees’ review the employees’ facilities, and ensure the compliance of job Management System and Performance Appraisal performance in safety capability in safety an audit team to conduct on-site audits, make recommendations and rectify problems. We specifications by employees, and production and environmental and environmental In 2015, we made and revised safety management regulations and mechanisms, initiated quantitative management of the HSE system, organized the preparation of Criteria and operation risks are fully identified and protection, with the protection, with the including the Administrative Measures for Production Safety Risk Control. We for Quantization Review and Evaluation of the HSE Management System, and helped affiliates effectively controlled. assessment results assessment result serving as a reference strengthened the implementation of the safety and environmental protection in benchmarking against advanced standards to improve their management level. Using included in performance appraisal. for determining if the responsibilities of all employees, and carried out an appraisal of their capabilities the scoring system, the Criteria not only includes laws and regulations and the Company’s employees changing to perform safety and environmental protection duties. As a result, our companysystem requirements, but also reflects the HSE best practices of outstanding enterprises. It also positions are qualified for wide, clearly defined safety management system showing the various levels of combines priorities and weaknesses, including rated risk prevention and control, contractor the jobs. responsibilities continued to become more effective. management, risk control, and pollution reduction. SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION 2015 Sustainability Report AND OPERATION 28 29 Enhancing Operational Safety process management on their access, selection, training, use, evaluation and assessment, in order to prevent and reduce the number of accidents caused by suppliers and contractors. PetroChina sticks to the principles of “people-centred safety management”, and believes that “safety comes from accountability, design, quality and prevention”. Therefore, we have adopted production safety as one of our core values, and implemented this concept in all our sectors 50 % Road Traffic Safety We strengthened the traffic safety system development and continued to promote the and all our production and operation processes. No major work safety accidents occurred In 2015, the number of construction of the vehicle management system which integrates monitoring, control and accidents decreased by throughout the year. 50% over the previous scheduling functions. The system was first implemented at seven subsidiaries including year. Liaohe Oilfield Company and Xinjiang Marketing Company, which enabled us to implement Pipeline Hazard Control dynamic real-time vehicle safety management and control, and thus effectively prevented the We attach great importance to hazard prevention and control, in order to effectively improve occurrence of major traffic accidents. the intrinsic safety of the Company. In 2015, we carried out targeted hazard investigation and remediation, and jointly promoted pipeline hazard control in cooperation with local HQ Specialized companies governments. We have developed a platform to track the rectification of hazards found in oil Analysis of Macro monitoring Safety examination and Regulatory and gas pipelines, and implemented real-time tracking of the rectification of hazards. performance indicators Accident handling evaluation 53 % reporting Regional Tracking of the rectification of hazards Hazardous Chemicals Management companies found in oil and gas pipelines We exercised centralized management over the production, operation, packaging, storage, Personnel deployment Process monitoring Traffic violation Indicators analysis Examination and handling transportation, use and disposal of hazardous chemicals. We learned a lot from the fire and In 2015, the accident evaluation fatality rate decreased Drivers and explosion accident at Tianjin on August, 12, 2015. We conducted safety inspections and 53% over the previous passengers targeted rectification of hazardous chemicals and inflammable and explosive materials in order year. Task tips Task Services for special Risk early-warning Driving behavior Security level evaluation weather, road and offending tips analysis examination Implementation of to rectify various problems and hazards on a timely basis. conditions and disasters Information whole-process management on source work safety incidents Emergency Management GPRS/GSM Wired network Vehicle terminal Wireless base stations Vehicle management system By adhering to the principle of “putting emergency preparedness first, and combining Emergency preparedness emergency preparedness with emergency rescue”, we constantly improve our emergency Functions of Vehicle Management System management mechanism and strengthen emergency rescue capacity building. In 2015, we Monitoring formulated the Measures on Work Safety Emergency Management, revised emergency plans, and Ecological Protection launched pilot program on the application of an emergency response card for all grassroots Early warning posts. In addition, we carried out a joint emergency response mechanism, improved the Our oil and gas exploration and development projects, long-distance pipeline projects and location and storage of emergency supplies in key areas, and participated in oil spill response refining facilities may involve certain environmental risks. PetroChina respects and protects Emergency response and rescue exercises and maritime search and rescue. As a result, our accident prevention and emergency the environment and strictly complies with relevant international and domestic laws and response capacity has been on the rise. regulations. We take the initiative to evaluate the environmental impact of our decisions and Emergency evaluation activities, step up efforts in hazard control and environmental protection during production in Supply Chain Safety order to safeguard our land, water and biodiversity, and reinforce ecological restoration of the We included suppliers and contractors in our safety management and conducted wholeenvironment. By doing so, we endeavor to grow in harmony with the environment. In 2015, the Company reported no major environmental pollution or ecological damage accidents. Strict screening process Environmental Risk Management ● Implement safety qualification screening system for Capacity building contractors and suppliers ● Promote the holding of “dual certificates” by We assess and identify environment risks, implementing a risk prevention and control ● Establish safety performance records contractors' management personnel management model focusing on environmental forecasting, early warning and monitoring. ● Provide training on HSE system development , ● Regularly publish the list of qualified contractors, and audits, and management We began the environmental risk management at an earlier stage, and established a sound risk remove unqualified contractors from it PetroChina Supply management mechanism featuring management in tiers, prevention and control by level . Chain Safety Environmental management is implemented in the whole process of construction projects. Management Evaluation and assessment For each construction project, the facilities for the prevention and control of pollution and Process control Process ● Establish safety performance evaluation system other damage to the environment are required simultaneously with the main project in the ● Strictly implement the safety supervision responsibility ● Carry out safety capability assessment, daily safety process of design, construction and operation, to ensure full control of environmental risks. of contractors, based on the principle that “those performance evaluation, and comprehensive safety undertaking, supervising and implementing the project We reinforced the environmental monitoring capacity, completed the installation and data performance assessment are held responsible” networking of online monitoring equipment for waste water and waste gas, and performed ● Strictly hold those who violate national workplace safety laws ● Conduct targeted safety inspection of contractors‘ and regulations and contracts accountable real-time monitoring and early warning of discharges from major pollution sources, to ensure oversight ● Remove contractors responsible for accidents from the qualification list treatment at the source and control over the production process. SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION 2015 Sustainability Report AND OPERATION 30 31 Water Resource Management Covering the Entire Industrial Chain 2 In our oil and gas development activities, equal importance is given to water pollution prevention & control and water recycling. After the oil-water separation and filtration treatment of the recycled wastewater, oil 3 recovery and water reinjection were realized, preventing groundwater and surface water contamination. By 9 1 PetroChina Environmental Monitoring the end of 2015, more than 97.7% of oil extraction wastewater in all oil and gas fields was treated. Station Exploration and 1 4 We carried out water system maintenance and reconstruction, improved the water qualification rate, 2 Daqing Oilfield Environmental Development optimized operation programs, and upgraded waste water discharge and treatment processes to reduce Monitoring Station production water discharge, and promoted the application of new technologies for water treatment to 8 7 3 Jilin Petrochemical Company maximize water conservation. In 2015, the comprehensive water qualification rate of the Company’s oilfield Environmental Monitoring Station wastewater reached 94.08%, and water discharges were reduced by 30% year-on-year. 5 4 Liaohe Oilfield Environmental Monitoring Station 6 5 Changqing Oilfield Environmental We focused on managing the impact on water resources of construction projects and the risk of leakage Monitoring Station Pipeline accidents during pipeline operations. Environmental impact assessments (involving water environment) were 6 Chuanqing Drilling Engineering Operations conducted, and water conservation and protection concepts were assimilated into construction activities. Company Safety Supervision Institute 7 Lanzhou Petrochemical Company Environmental Monitoring Station We improved water use efficiency by promoting clean production processes, saving water from the source, 8 Qinghai Oilfield Environmental and optimizing water systems. We increased the concentration ratio of circulating water to reduce water Monitoring Station Refining & supplement; and strengthened steam condensate water recovery to realize water saving. In addition, we 9 Dushanzi Petrochemical Company Chemicals emphasized wastewater treatment and reuse to reduce sewage discharge and improve the industrial water Environmental Monitoring Station recycling rate; and enhanced plugging of underground pipelines to get lower groundwater loss rate. Continuous improvement of environmental monitoring capacity effectively improved our ability to respond to spills of hazardous substances. Decommissioning and Land Restoration The PetroChina Pollution Sources Online Monitoring System has 45 functions falling into six modules. It can monitor, calculate and analyze the emission data We optimized the design of our project to reduce land occupation during the preparation Legally acquire Overall planning of each monitoring point accurately in real time; monitor emissions from key sources regularly in real time and assess the operating results of environmental land and use it for economical period for oil & gas exploration and development projects, pipeline construction projects, and protection facilities. It collects and analyzes data of alarms that are sounded. By the end of 2015, 298 key monitoring points of PetroChina completed data in a standard and intensive refining & chemical projects in accordance with the requirements of economical and intensive networking. way land use land use. For newly added service stations, we rationalized the distribution of stations to Land management maximize land utilization. For projects that occupy farm or forest land, and projects that affect principles ground attachments during pipeline construction, we actively adopted advanced technologies Strengthen for land reclamation and provided reasonable compensation to relevant parties. PetroChina has done a lot of work in strengthening environmental management and control. Its online monitoring of pollution sources complies Effectively use supervision and with national requirements and has reached a first-class level, providing strong support for corporate environmental management decisionand reasonably maintain land dispose of land rights and making. We hope that PetroChina will keep improving the pollution monitoring system and broaden the range of its applications, and endeavor to interests play a greater role in environmental law enforcement and management, and corporate environmental information disclosure. —— Wang Dongqing, Deputy Director of Environmental Supervision Bureau of China’s Ministry of Environmental Protection Water Management PetroChina endeavors to improve water utilization efficiency throughout its production and 16.83 million operation activities. It has introduced new technologies, new processes and new equipment, in order to implement wastewater recycling, reduce the use of freshwater, and realize the 1,200 hectares To realize the common development of oilfields and wetlands, Yingtai Oil Production Plant of Jilin Oilfield sustainable utilization of water resources. In 2015, we improved water management by using 16.83 million cubic The Company saved formulated the Yingdong Operation Area Site and Wetland Restoration Work Proposal, aiming to restore meters of water saved. wastewater treatment and reclaimed water reuse technologies to reduce freshwater usage. 1,200 hectares of land vegetation within two years on 1.2 million square meters of bare land occupied by 332 old wells. As of Annual freshwater consumption decreased by 1.07%, with 16.83 million cubic meters of in 2015. 2015, the first phase of the demonstration project has been completed, restoring 333,600 square meters of water saved. vegetation. The calamagrostis angustifolias planted on the old well sites are growing lushly. SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION 2015 Sustainability Report AND OPERATION 32 33 Waste and Emission Management Successful experiment of China’s We strictly monitor the waste and emissions generated in the production process and first set of high-performance strengthen waste management to reduce air, land and water pollutant emissions. water-based drilling fluids for “Maintaining the local ecological horizontal shale-gas wells In 2015, the Company carried out a special audit on pollution reduction to report and rectify problems found. All pollution reduction projects supervised by the government have been put balance is our responsibility too. Fish in Currently, drilling fluids used in shale gas into operation. And “zero coal burning” was realized in oil and gas fields and refineries in Beijing, the river is an integral part of the local development include oil-based drilling Tianjin and Hebei. In addition, we carried out a study on the ratification of water pollutant emissions, ecosystem. The living environment fluids and water-based drilling fluids. Oilenforced integrated control of volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions, and completed the is harsh here, so a broken link in the based drilling fluid recycling is a major construction of a VOCs integrated information management and control platform for refining and ecological chain will affect other living issue as according to the National List of chemical enterprises. The Company modified service stations for oil & gas recovery and treatment things. This is all included in our HSE Hazardous Wastes, oil-containing cuttings on a large scale. Instructions.” are hazardous waste and thus subject to PetroChina vigorously beefed up its innovation of pollution control technology. The State ——Xu Wei, Safety Officer hazardous waste management and disposal regulations. In the United States, oil-based Key Laboratory of Petroleum and Petrochemical Pollution Control and Treatment was drilling fluids are generally recycled at a approved for construction, promising a number of leading technologies and technical factory. With the implementation of China's achievements in petroleum and petrochemical wastewater treatment and reuse, turning new Environmental Protection Law, the solid waste into resources, detection and recovery of VOCs, and site contamination risk In Iraq, to protect the ecological environment of the Suwaib river during construction, we migrated the fish between dams, and wrapped the pump control and repair. The “high concentration organic wastewater and alkali waste treatment inlet with gauze to prevent smaller fish from being sucked into the pump when performing diversion cofferdam crossing construction. We buried requirements on the environmental impact diversion culverts to ensure that the works would not interrupt the downstream water source. caused by oil-based drill cuttings have technology for refining & chemical sector”, a process package developed by Dagang become more stringent. In 2015, China’s first Petrochemical, has completely solved the problem of alkali waste and water treatment. The experiment with a set of high-performance oily sludge microbial treatment technology and supporting system of Changqing Oilfield is water-based drilling fluids for horizontal capable of reducing sludge by about 23,000 tons per year. Promoting Energy Conservation shalegas wel ls was successf ul . The We intensified our efforts in energy conservation and energy efficiency enhancement, reduced Agreed that the increase Company’s independently developed waterthe environmental pressures arising from energy consumption, and endeavored to build of global temperature based drilling fluid is roughly equal to oilMain Measures for Pollutant Emission Reduction has to be controlled ourselves as a resource-saving and environmentally friendly enterprise. We strengthened based drilling fluid in terms of performance, under 2℃ Projects Measures China's National energy source management, and carried out energy-saving assessment at the stage of the but with a significantly improved rate of feasibility study for newly-developed, revamped and extended projects. We reinforced energy Program to Address penetration (ROP), without accidents, at a Upgrading project of advanced Assessment: Four pollutant emission National Plan on Climate Change use management in the production process, conducted monitoring and evaluation of energy low cost, strong in safety and environmental wastewater treatment of Jilin control targets incorporated into the Climate Change and water-intensive devices and equipment, and substituted oil with alternatives such as protection, simple preparation and Petrochemical performance appraisal of person in (2014-2020) electricity, gas and solar energy. We carried out energy-saving technological transformation, maintenance, and recyclable. For these charge of the enterprise Upgrading project of acrylic fiber waste and implemented 50 energy-saving projects in 2015, including energy-saving transformation of reasons, safe drilling can be achieved by the water treatment of Daqing Petrochemical Pollution reduction process control: oilfield pumping systems and ethylene cracking furnaces. We boosted the efficiency of heating completely replacing oil-based drilling fluid Pollution reduction review, supervision Thermal power plant denitration project furnaces in oil and gas fields, implemented refining energy system optimization technology, over and dialogue with enterprises whose with water-based drilling fluid. of Daqing Oilfield progress in pollution reduction is rather and promoted continuous improvements in energy efficiency. In 2015, the Company saved Thermal power plant upgrading project of Dushanzi Petrochemical slow We support 1.04 million tons of standard coal equivalent. Dushanzi Petrochemical Company and Ningxia Automatic online monitoring and Petrochemical Company were awarded the title of Energy Efficiency Leader and Benchmarking FCC regenerator flue gas desulfurization management system: Real-time Enterprise among energy-intensive products in the Petroleum and Petrochemical Industry by and denitrification renovation project of monitoring and early warning on key the China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Federation. Stop natural gas flaring Hohhot Petrochemical wastewater discharge ports and exhaust etc. gas ports Near-zero carbon We tried to stop natural gas flaring in the operation through increasing capital emission demonstration projects Response to Climate Change investment and conducting technical research. Conservation of Biodiversity and Natural Habitats Technical Develop Climate change has become a global concern. It leads to global warming, rising sea levels Regarding the venting of associated gas during We take full precautions to avoid environmental impact caused by our production operations Routes ment PetroChina goals and the frequent occurrence of extreme weather events which have a significant impact the exploration and development of Tarim and activities, and work hard to revert the environment to its original state in case of any impact. Low-carbon on the natural ecosystem and become pressing issues to be solved in today's society. Oilfield, the skidded associated gas recovery In 2015, we carried out a comprehensive investigation and rectification of environmental Development The signing of the Paris Agreement on climate change will promote the development process was adopted, and a gas recycling pollution and ecological damage issues and rigorously assessed projects in sensitive areas. Roadmap Carbon Carbon of clean energy and facilitate the establishment of a global carbon assessment system. Furthermore, we reduced the impact on the ecological environment through noise reduction, emissions inventory network with an annual recovery capacity of Emission As a responsible energy company, we strictly comply with the Chinese government’s emission reduction and other means. We invested a lot of efforts in the conservation of soil and Reduction 990 million cubic meters was established to Measures requirements on greenhouse gas emission reduction, and actively support and cooperate reduce light hydrocarbon emissions. water and in restoring the vegetation, working hard to restore the ecological environment and with the international community in the formation of policies and action to address climate protect the biodiversity of our operation areas. SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION 2015 Sustainability Report AND OPERATION 34 35 Forest Carbon Sequestration We actively support China’s forest construction and afforestation activities such as carbon sinks. In Changqing Oilfield, we joined hands with the local government to carry out the Qingyang carbon sink base construction project in Gansu province. PetroChina Daqing Petrochemical Company, adjacent to a wetland area, operates in harmony with the environment change. As the founding member of the Oil and Gas Climate Change Initiative (OGCI), we take the initiative to reduce carbon emissions and sequestrate carbon to address climate change challenges together with the international community. Mohe-Daqing Xinjiang Ningxia Carbon Emission Management With its excellent per formance in Crude Oil Pipeline Oilfield Petrochemical We paid close attention to greenhouse gas emissions and have addressed climate change in green, lowcarbon development, PetroChina was named a China Low12,000 mus of land Continued the Undertook our development plan. We began to formulate the roadmap for low-carbon development was rehabilitated, development of desertification carbon Model Enterprise” for the and started to establish the carbon emission control system. Specifically, development goals, fifth consecutive year at the Sixth replacing 680,000 m2, forests dedicated to control in deserts emission reduction measures and technical routes are set, with a primary focus on carbon “Low-carbon Development • Green and creating 16,900 carbon sequestration with an area of Life” Charity Exhibition and the Press mus of green land. with an area of 3,000 mus. footprint verification, carbon emission reduction and the construction of near-zero carbon Conference on 2015 China Low-carbon 100,000 mus. emission demonstration projects. Additionally, we will strengthen greenhouse gas management Model Enterprises organized by China and control, plan and mitigate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions from the News Service and China News Weekly. sources, production process and product use, and conduct carbon inventories and reporting in accordance with international practice. We have participated in CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) and submitted a questionnaire to disclose carbon management information. Development of Clean Energy We actively developed natural gas, coal bed methane (CBM), shale gas, biomass and other How will the implementation of In 2015 we invested RMB 92.95 million for environmental protection low-carbon energy, produced and supplied clean products, and worked hard to achieve clean the carbon trading scheme in production of the products and consumption process (see Chapter 2 for details). China affect the Company? Has the Company set any objectives Development and Application of Low-carbon Technologies In 2014 we planted 4.87 million trees. in this regard? What is its impact As the application of science and technology plays a significant role in controlling greenhouse on the Company ’s long-term In 2013 we planted 700,000 trees. gas emissions and addressing climate change, we carried out studies on carbon dioxide strategy? flooding and storage and other key carbon lowering technologies. PetroChina’s “Study on Key China is carrying out a pilot program for Technologies for CO2 Enhanced Oil Recovery and Carbon Dioxide Storage” project under the carbon trading. It is expected that carbon In 2012 we supported the Beijing Plain Afforestation National 863 Program passed national acceptance in 2015. Moreover, we established China’s Project and developed a carbon sink forest of 200 mus. trading will be implemented throughout first CCS (carbon capture and storage) base in Jilin Oilfield which covers the entire value chain, the country in 2017. The impact on the including carbon dioxide separation, capture and flooding in. Furthermore, a memorandum of Company is being evaluated. PetroChina understanding was signed with GE on technology and R&D cooperation which promotes our In 2010 we established the China Green Carbon will strictly comply with the relevant Foundation in conjunction with the State Forestry collaboration in carbon capture, storage and utilization, and low-carbon and environmentally Administration, to support China’s development of forestry regulations of the national carbon trading friendly technologies. carbon sequestration. scheme, standardize the development of carbon inventories, and actively participate Market-based Mechanism for Carbon Saving In 2008 we jointly launched the carbon in carbon trading. We will ensure that our We actively participate in global carbon trading activities, in order to achieve carbon emission sequestration forest project with the State Forestry Administration and seven provinces and operations fulfill the requirements of relevant reduction targets through market-based mechanisms. Before signing contracts for overseas cities. national laws and are consistent with the investment and M&A projects, we will fully consider the carbon constraints and requirements practices of international oil companies. for total greenhouse gas control in the local area. We are the co-founder of the Tianjin Climate Exchange, the first comprehensive emission trading institution in China. In 2015, we completed the largest CCER (Chinese Certified Emissions Reduction) transaction in China, with a trading volume of 506,125 tons. CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SERVICE 36 37 CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET SERVICE Petrochemical and natural gas products play a vital role in China’s economy as well as in the lives of the Chinese people. The Company attaches great importance to the environment, safety, and quality, and puts people first and adheres to the principle of “honesty, quality and a quest for excellence”. Its target is zero accidents and zero defects, being a leader domestically and first-class internationally. It vigorously promotes management and technological innovation and makes its best efforts to provide a diverse range of quality products and services to consumers. Located at an altitude of 4,200 meters, Yuzhufeng gas station is the highest gas station along the Qinghai–Tibet highway, and has helped to fulfill the pledge to provide one gas station every hundred kilometers along the highway from Golmud to Lhasa Enhancing Quality Management System We consider quality to be the lifeline of an enterprise. At PetroChina, quality is always the top Quality supervision and inspection Ensure product safety priority. We have put into practice the State Council’s Quality Development Program 2011-2020 We carried out supervision and spot-checks on the quality of the products we produced, and continually improved our quality management system, enhancing how we define, measure sold, procured and used, as well as the construction in progress. We reported quality Stage Measures and standardize quality, in order to better our product and service quality, and to ensure our hazards of major projects in the Quality Risk Warning Bulletin and adopted zero tolerance products’ quality, safety, environmental friendliness and efficiency. In 2015, we continued to Provide safe and reliable against unqualified products. enhance the quality management system, focusing on updating quality standards, supervisions Design protective equipment and supplies and inspections, and nurturing a culture of quality. Enhancing the level of measurement Our Chengdu, Guangzhou and Urumqi branches of the national oil and gas large flow 287,000 Development and revision of standards Avoid the use of rate measurement station finished running tests, construction standards assessment and R&D hazardous chemicals Strictly implemented mandatory standards, actively upgraded corporate standards, construction work respectively. and participated in development and revision of national and industry standards We organized training activities with Our “High-Pressure Natural Gas Flow Standard and Value Transfer Method” was awarded Take measures to warn participants of 287,000 person-times We developed and revised 104 corporate standards in the whole year. the Second Prize for 2014 Science and Technology Progress by the Chinese Society for Sales consumers about foreseeable risks Improving fuel quality standards: We developed the internal control targets for motor Measurement. gasoline, diesel and ethanol-gasoline blending components and other corporate standards. Nurturing quality culture encompassing all staff, the entire process and all positions 8,800 Regulating handover measurement of oil products and liquid chemical products: We formulated regulations for the handover measurement of oil products and for measuring We carried out the Quality Month activities, convened 4,043 quality analysis meetings, liquid chemical products with mass flowmeter, and other corporate standards. and organized more than 8,800 quality training activities with participants of 287,000 We organized more than 8,800 quality The Method of Determining Coalbed Methane Content and other two international standards person-times. training activities led by PetroChina were released. CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SERVICE 38 39 Focusing on Product Innovation accelerated oil product quality upgrading, responded enthusiastically to the National Program for Accelerating the Quality Upgrading of Oil Products, formulated upgrading work plans and Focusing on the development of our main business, we endeavor to make key project-commissioning timetables, and accelerated the quality upgrading and replacement 3,266 technological breakthroughs and develop new technologies, new processes, new equipment and new materials to upgrade our current production facilities. We carry out of China-V gasoline and diesel. Besides, we promoted the use of our proprietary upgrade technologies. In particular, our Development and Application of Complete-set Clean Gasoline product innovation based on market demand to provide consumers with a diverse range Production Technologies Satisfying the National Phase-IV Vehicle Emission Standards project was In 2015, we applied for of quality products. awarded the second prize of 2015 National Science and Technology Progress. We promoted 3,266 patents at home and abroad skid-mounted diesel exhaust gas purification devices in refueling stations, contributing to the In 2015, we produced 1.12 million tons of petrochemical products of 75 new brands. reduction of diesel exhaust pollutants NOX emissions. By the end of 2015, all of our gasoline and Particularly, our new polyolefin products had significant progress in the development diesel produced by domestic refineries reached the China-IV standard, among which 22.2% of and application of medical materials and gas pipe materials, with new products of 24 vehicle gasoline and 9.4% of vehicle diesel reached the China-V standard. brands developed accumulatively. 1,831 Providing High-Quality Products Gasoline quality upgrading Diesel quality upgrading We make continuous improvements in our product mix and upgrade our product quality. Our technologies include: technologies include: In 2015, we applied for products — including gasoline, diesel, lubricants and chemical products of different grades — 1,831 invention patents at home and abroad are widely used in many different fields, such as automobiles, building materials, electronics, FCC gasoline selective Ultra low sulfur diesel hydrotreating Click to view PetroChina Oil Products Quality pharmaceuticals, printing, household appliances and daily-use chemicals. hydrodesulfurization (DSO) technology (PHF) technology Upgrade Report FCC gasoline selective desulfurization Low-grade diesel hydrotreating (FDS) Continuous Upgrading of Oil Product Quality http://csr.cnpc.com.cn/csr/xhtml/PageAssets/ hydroupgrading (GARDES) technology technology We have built a strict quality management system and ensure the entire-process quality ypzlsjbg2014.pdf control of gasoline and diesel through our oil and gas recovery units covering our refueling 2,537 stations, in order to provide society with high-quality, safe and clean oil products. In 2015, we Upgrade Route In 2015,we obtained 2,537 granted patents CHINA CHINA CHINA CHINA CHINA I II III IV V 17 Reduction of olefins, aromatics ary 1, 20 Lead-free Reduction of sulfur content and other contents PetroChina Oil Product Quality Upgrade Action Janu PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 July, 2000 July, 2005 to January, 2010 January, 2017 January 1, 2016 Sulfur content ≤800 ≤500 ≤150 ≤50 ≤10 (mg / kg) China-V motor gasoline and diesel quality standards to be implemented in 11 provinces and directly China-V motor gasoline and diesel quality standards will Targets administered municipalities in eastern China from be implemented across China from January 1, 2017. Gasoline Quality Standards of China and Other Countries January 1, 2016. Sulfur content (μg/g) New demand expected 90 million tons of motor gasoline and diesel 120 million tons of motor gasoline and diesel 30 America (Other Regions) Taiwan, China Dalian Petrochemical Company, Liaoyang Jilin Petrochemical Company, Fushun Petrochemical Company, 25 Petrochemical Company, Fushun Petrochemical Lanzhou Petrochemical Company, Dushanzi Petrochemical Refinery quality Company, Liaohe Petrochemical Company, Jinzhou Company, Jinzhou Petrochemical Company, Jinxi 20 upgrade Petrochemical Company, Jinxi Petrochemical Petrochemical Company, Daqing Refining & Petrochemical America (California) Company, Dagang Petrochemical Company, Company, Harbin Petrochemical Company, Sichuan 15 Huabei Petrochemical Company, Guangxi Petrochemical Company, Changqing Petrochemical Company, Japan Europe Beijing, China Petrochemical Company Yumen Refinery, Golmud Refinery 10 Total quality 5 upgrade projects 28 57 implemented Total 2003 2006 2008 2009 2011 2012 investment RMB12.8 billion RMB 12.7 billion Source: CNPC ETRI CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SERVICE 40 41 Karamay Petrochemical Company Providing High-Quality and Environmentally-friendly Chemical Products Petrochemical Company were named the Distinguished Brands in 2015 by the China Petroleum We cultivate high-quality brand products, and provide consumers with environmentally and Chemical Industry Federation (CPCIF) because of their outstanding product quality. friendly and diversified solutions. The ABS products from Jilin Petrochemical Company enjoyed PetroChina was honored as China’s New Green Benchmark Brand Enterprise at the 2015 continuous quality improvement and made great progress in the domestic market for highConference on Green Development and Creating a New Ecological Civilization Benchmark & end white goods; emulsion polymerization rubber prepared by substances free of nitroso the Second Urban Development and Ecological Balance Forum. compounds or nitroso precursor was adopted in the production, processing and use of environmentally friendly SBR, boosting its environmental performance. Long-life turbine oil, Products named “Distinguished Brands” by CPCIF extreme pressure long-life turbine oil and extreme pressure combined-cycle turbine oil from Kunlun Lubricant Company were certified by GE, meeting the requirements of international Year Product Name Manufactured by companies. Heavy traffic road asphalts from Karamay Petrochemical Company and Liaohe 2015 ABS Jilin Petrochemical Company Heavy Traffic Road Karamay Petrochemical Company 2015 Asphalts Liaohe Petrochemical Company Jointly designed and launched by the Delivering Considerate Services Customer Satisfaction Testing Center of China National Institute of Standardization Giving priority to customer satisfaction and upholding a customer oriented concept, we and China Business Research Center of are making great efforts to expand the coverage of our service network and functions and Tsinghua University, China Customer to enhance our brand influence and customer acceptance, so as to provide a satisfying Satisfaction Survey is China's authoritative customer experience. customer satisfaction index evaluation method and has a history of 11 years. In Optimizing Service Network 2015 China’s customer satisfaction survey, We keep optimizing our service network. In 2015, with the development of an aggregate of 306 PetroChina service stations got a score of refueling stations, including 15 oil and gas stations, our service network covered 31 provinces, 76, ranking the first among companies in the municipalities and autonomous regions, as well as the Hong Kong SAR of China. In Chawalong same industry for the third consecutive year. township, Chayu county, Linzhi city, Tibet Autonomous Region, we set up a temporary refueling Employees performing quality inspection service point for local oil products preparation, to address the local refueling inconvenience. CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SERVICE 42 43 Improving Customer Experience In 2015, we launched the “Smart Service Station” project in keeping with the “Internet+” trend. With big data, cloud computing, Internet of Vehicles (IoV ), Internet of Things (IoT), mobile payment and other Internet technologies, we combined the offline consumer experience with online orders and built comprehensive service stations themed on “People, Car and Life”, aiming to achieve a transformation from oil sales to automotive lifecycle services. PetroChina's Smart Service Station Customer Satisfaction Survey and Feedback We continually carry out custom satisfaction surveys and feedback to improve our service level and create a specialized customer retention Fast refueling system. In 2015, we conducted spot checks on and paid unannounced visits to more than 430 refueling stations in 17 provinces (municipalities) Users can get any oil product of any grade at any refueling machine. And and regularly reported the rectifications, enhancing the quality of refueling stations. Our 95504 customer service centers accepted 926,000 different colors of hoses and oil guns are set for different grades of oil, so users can customer calls, resolved 700,000 customer inquiries, and handled more than 10,000 customer complaints. quickly find a suitable parking place to enhance the refueling efficiency on the site. The average wait time during peak Logistics hour was reduced by 3-5 minutes. Auto services Supply Chain Management Send and receive Auto beauty, At PetroChina, we actively promote the sustainable development of the supply chain and provide the public with high quality products and couriers; users can inspection, insurance take delivery of agency, maintenance services in a respectful, communicative, honest and cooperative manner. A unified supplier database was established, and through open tenders, goods at the fair competition and online transactions, we provide suppliers with fair, transparent and competitive opportunities. “Open business, controlled nearest refueling processes, fully documented, and permanently traceable” are the watchwords with which we ensure the quality of procured products and services. station from their home We have also established a complete supplier quality management mechanism which covers quality approval, quality inspection, supervision and spot-checking, and on-site supervision of the manufacturing of major products. Through the use of information technology and Internet tools, we implemented supervision and inspection of different units, different positions and different stages in the same process of the same business, to minimize dishonest behavior. Moreover, at various stages — during the supplier admission, supplier assessment, strategic supplier development, materials and service procurement, tender invitations and tender evaluations — we clearly pointed out to the suppliers our specific Online Route supplier requirements in terms of business ethics, human rights, HSE, quality standards and public responsibility. We have also developed a green payment planning procurement policy, including material and supplier management regulations, to review our partners’ environmental performance. We developed Services of “Smart 99 kinds of ways a green procurement policy involving materials procurement management, supplier management, etc. We carried out a comprehensive Enter a destination on Service Station” to pay, including environmental review for suppliers, aiming to build a responsible supply chain of petrochemical products. fuel card, WeChat the large touch and Alipay screen, and then an optimal route Supply chain management measures will immediately show up Centralized, two-level Strict access, dynamic Establish a unified System construction management management shared resource library The headquarters is responsible for Build a supplier management system Establish performance Apply materials procurement management of suppliers of materials framework to regulate supplier appraisal system, management information Online shopping Bill payment within the Class-I materials directory evaluation, graded and classified implement “survival of system, to realize supplier More than a thousand kinds Reservations, withdrawals, management, and supplier evaluation the fittest” and dynamic resource sharing and of products are available at The supplier management payment of water and management management to weed out computer-based wholeour PetroChina Online Mall departments of affiliates are in charge electricity charges unqualified suppliers process management convenience stores in of the rest Supplier Management Measures and service other regulations “PEOPLE-ORIENTED” EMPLOYEE 2015 Sustainability Report DEVELOPMENT 44 45 “PEOPLE-ORIENTED” EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT At PetroChina, employees are our most valuable asset. The all-round development of employees is one of our important development targets. We protect employees’ rights, care for their health and well-being and create a platform for their development. We continue to promote the hiring of local staff, and have been strengthening security at our overseas operations. We endeavor to create an inclusive, equal, mutually trusting and cooperative working environment, and to ensure v a l u e i s a l i gn e d t o b e n e f i t b o t h employees and the Company. Employee Outward Bound Training Protection of Employee Rights and constantly improves it. We are committed to providing equal opportunities and fair treatment to all employees regardless of their nationality, ethnicity, race, gender, religion and We remain committed to a people-first philosophy in treating our employees with respect culture. We prohibit the employment and use of child labor and reject all forms of forced or and equality while protecting their legal rights. We endeavor to resolve the practical issues that compulsory labor. We emphasize the employment of local residents, women, ethnic minorities most concern our employees and make sure that all employees can equally share in the fruits and college students in order to increase job opportunities for local communities. We strictly of our development. implement regulations on female employees’ confinement and lactation to protect their rights and interests. In 2015, the Company didn’t make any layoffs for economic reasons despite Fair Treatment of Employees the continued decline in the price of oil. We improved labor efficiency through increased job We strictly abide by international conventions approved by the Chinese government training and other measures. We continued to recruit fresh college graduates through the Workforce by Profession including the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and Discrimination online recruitment website “Recruiting Platform for College Students”, without restrictions (Employment and Occupation) Convention, domestic laws including the Labor Law of the Workforce by regarding applicants’ ethnicity, gender or religion. We also established a WeChat recruitment People’s Republic of China and the Labor Contract Law of the People's Republic of China, and Education platform to make information public to the applicants. relevant laws, rules and regulations of the host countries. We have established a fairly complete Administrative staff 15.4% employment management and policy system to regulate employment practices according to the law. The system incorporates employment contract management, remuneration insurance and benefits, leave, performance appraisals and vocational training. Through self-inspection of 31.6 % 4.7 % Female Staff accounted for 31.6% of the Female Administrative Staff accounted for Technical staff 13.3% our employment practices in compliance with the law, we provide effective protection of the Company’s total employees. 4.7% of the Company’s total employees. Master's Degree and above 3.3% Production staff 59.0% legal rights of employees. 6.5 % Bachelor’s Degree 29.7% Sales staff 7.5% College Degree 23.3% We acknowledge the importance of protecting human rights and support the UN Convention Financial staff 2.4% Technical Secondary on human rights. We respect and protect human rights in conjunction with our business Others 2.4% School and below 43.7% Ethnic Minority Employees accounted for activities. PetroChina also communicates with its employees about the Company’s policy 6.5% of the Company’s total employees. “PEOPLE-ORIENTED” EMPLOYEE 2015 Sustainability Report DEVELOPMENT 46 47 Remuneration and Benefits Occupational Health 100 % The Company has further improved its performance appraisal and remuneration system, promoted 98 % the mechanism to link payroll with performance, established a compensation scheme that pays We abide by the Prevention and Control of Occupational Diseases Act of the People’s Republic attention to the value of a position, the job performance and the innovative results of employees of China in our occupational health management, focusing on the prevention and control of In 2015, the rate of while matching the particularities of all staff operations, ensuring that employees’ compensation grows occupational hazards as well as the implementation of related measures. We give top priority employees returning to work to employee health and personal safety by emphasizing occupational health management and In 2015, the rate for physical synchronously with the Company’s business development and labor productivity. The compensation exams for occupational and keeping their posts after protection at field operations, adopting mechanized production to reduce labor intensity and taking maternity/paternity system continues to favor researchers, front-line employees, and those in difficult and key posts, so that health remained at leave was 100%. each employee can realize their full potential. In addition, we are steadily extending employee coverage improve working conditions, and caring for employees’ mental health. 98% of social security programs in accordance with the Social Insurance Law of the People’s Republic of In 2015, we improved our occupational health management system, carried out studies on the China, and we have improved supplementary medical care and insurance, corporate annuity and occupational health management models and systems of Chinese and foreign oil companies, living allowance schemes to ensure employees’ interests are addressed. We are adjusting overseas risk formulated the Regulations on Occupational Hazard Informing and Warning Management, allowance standards according to the risk levels to ensure the standards are more reasonable and fair. and compiled programs including the Classification and Evaluation of Noise Hazards during the Drilling Process and Recommended Practices for Prevention. We strengthened health Democratic Participation management at frontline workplaces, introduced mobile drinking water treatment system on The Company attaches great importance to employee democracy and their legal rights and construction sites in the field and enhanced the working and living conditions for employees. EAP has effectively promoted organization employees play a role through democratic management, democratic participation and democratic We investigated employees who once encountered occupational hazards and the employees’ system regulation and overseas employee oversight. Apart from establishing trade unions, PetroChina has put in place a democratic style of occupational history when they were transferred to other posts, in order to better control management regulation. A number of management and a transparent system to deal with matters at its plants, through its Employees’ occupational hazards. Special rectification activities were also carried out to further improve indicators affecting the mental health Congress system, to ensure employees are well-informed and have the means to participate in and employees’ occupational health conditions. In 2015, the rate for physical exams for occupational of overseas employees have improved supervise corporate management. We have further standardized the content, procedures and model health remained at 98% and the detection rate for occupational hazards in the workplace was significantly. For example, the proportion of our open system for matters at its plants by clarifying rights and obligations, the organizational above 98%. of suicide attempts by workers engaged in system, and working processes for the employee representative congress. We pay close attention to our employees’ mental health. We implemented the Employee high-risk jobs dropped from 4.9% to 1.1% How does the Company determine The Company has established multiple channels to communicate with employees and has continued Assistance Program (EAP), set up a hotline and a website for psychological counseling, and after intervention. the existing and potential risks to to implement democratic procedures. We communicate across different levels of the Company, carried out various forms of training on mental health knowledge, in order to encourage employees’ rights and the relative Zhang Jie, GM of the counseling and conduct multi-level communication through meetings with staff representatives and online employees to establish a positive and healthy attitude. We also hired counselors to deliver impact on its operation and company which has provided discussions, to encourage employees to participate in the management of production and operations. lectures on cultivating a healthy mind and relevant knowledge to frontline employees working collaboration activities? PetroChina with EAP services for eight in saline wastelands, deserts or other harsh natural environments, in order to help them release consecutive years In addition to the existing systems that Case Study Mailbox for Dialogue with Employees stress and live a healthy and happy life. protect employees’ rights, the Company’s Su p er v i s i o n De par t m ent , Pe t i t i o n To maintain close ties with the employees and understand their concerns, Wuqi Operation Area of Changqing Department, as well as the Trade Unions Oilfield No. 3 Oil Production Plant has set up a mailbox and kept a log book for the timely acceptance and at all levels solicit employees’ opinions on recording of letters from employees. Employees are welcome to put forward their suggestions on production a regular basis. Through the Employees’ and operation management, and will receive feedback to resolve the issues raised. It was praised by the Congress system, employees can voice frontline station staff. their demands at Congresses of all levels. The Company's senior management visits frontline employees each year to get to know their concerns. There are also relevant departments in both the headquarters and subsidiaries responsible for maintaining employees’ interests. The Company obtains information on employees’ rights and interests through a variety of channels. Our international partners, such as BP and Exxon Mobil, adopt normative systems and policies with regard to human rights. All of our joint venture projects have developed robust systems to protect employees’ safety, health and other rights and interests. EAP training for employees of the Kazakhstan branch of Trans-Asia Gas Pipeline Company “PEOPLE-ORIENTED” EMPLOYEE 2015 Sustainability Report DEVELOPMENT 48 49 national competition for hazardous chemical incidents rescue skills, the second national petroleum and petrochemical system “CNOOC Cup” vocational skills competition, and the seventh petroleum and chemical vocational skills competition, and obtained excellent results. Provide continuous Career Development Channels With a corporate culture that values moral integrity as well as professional competence, we have developed a selection process that is democratic, open, competitive and merit-based in order to create a positive workplace atmosphere that enables the recognition and best use of talent. We attach great importance to career planning and endeavor to expand career development space for employees to maximize their potential. In 2015, we implemented the parallel managerial and technical system (double sequence) reform that is suitable to the characteristics of technical professionals in all our research institutes, to provide our technical professionals with an independent, continuous and stable career path. To help the technical experts reach their potential, we aim to establish a skill heritage network led by national skill master studios and demonstrated by the Company’s skilled expert studios. We have accumulatively established 54 skilled expert studios, of which 13 were selected to be national skill master studios. By the end of 2015, we had 12 academicians at the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Chinese Academy of Engineering, 1,017 experts entitled to the Government Special Allowance, New recruits from college at Jilin Oilfield Company as well as 153 senior technical experts, 254 skilled experts, 3,809 senior technicians, and 21,417 technicians. Establishing a Platform for Employee 2016 Staff Training and Development Development Program How is the compensation of technical professionals in the “Double Sequence” 163 system determined? We adhere to modern corporate concepts and advocate innovation in creating space and Based on the job evaluation and performance appraisal of technical professionals, we work to establish a mechanisms for employee development. We have improved our training centers and network fair, rational, standardized and orderly performance compensation system, oriented to the labor market, and address our employees’ need for career development at different stages by providing In 2015, PetroChina and reflecting the position’s value, level of ability and work performance. The compensation is mainly career planning services. We strive to develop innovative employees and provide a stage for headquarters organized 163 training composed of post salary, allowances and subsidies, and performance-related pay. employees to develop their self-worth. programs Operating staff skills promotion plan Employee Training By applying modern enterprise training concepts, we continue to improve the construction of our training bases and training network. We have carried out diversified and differentiated vocational training for employees through knowledge training, professional training, job training, off-the-job training, etc, in order to achieve positive interaction between employee growth and the Company’s development. Innovation and On the basis of promoting all-staff training, we have implemented training projects focusing efficiency on four types of talent including the management personnel, technical experts, operational improvement personnel and international talents. In 2015, we sent a number of outstanding management program personnel and key professional technical staff to domestic and foreign well-known universities and training institutions to attend training in language, international business, business administration, law, etc, in order to develop their international perspective and international operational capabilities, and promote their comprehensive and healthy growth. We believe that contests play an important role in encouraging training and enhancing Petroleum Experts employees’ professional skills and literacy. In 2015, we held a refining and chemical vocational Development Program The Skill Master Studio at Fushun Petrochemical Company led by Diao Kejian has invented skill competition, revealing a number of high-skilled talents. We also encourage our employees innovative products such as an intelligent fire and explosion suppression device and fire to participate in national and world-class skill competitions. In 2015, we took part in the first fighting robot, which are all national leading technologies “PEOPLE-ORIENTED” EMPLOYEE 2015 Sustainability Report DEVELOPMENT 50 51 Local Staff Development At PetroChina, we embrace a respectful, open and inclusive culture and are committed to 91.3 % selecting more local talents overseas, upgrading their professionalism and making them more responsive to market forces. We abide by all laws and regulations of the host country. We have formulated Protocols on Local Employee Management in Overseas Operations and have established an optimal system for hiring, deployment, performance appraisals, incentives In 2015, international and penalties. We work hard to attract and train top local talent and to provide a working employees and local employees accounted environment more conducive to employee development. for 91.3% of our overseas workforce. Local Hiring We actively recruit and train local employees and do not discriminate against local candidates for managerial positions, providing local people with job opportunities. We have hired professionals in over 30 countries and regions to work in exploration and development, project construction, international trade, finance, accounting, and human resources at overseas projects. In 2015, our technical R&D center in Houston organized a Recruitment Open Day to attract local talent. In Iraq, the Rumaila Oilfield project has set up an education and training fund to provide training for local employees, and organized more than 10 training programs in 2015. Respect for Cultural Diversity PetroChina fully respects cultural diversity and local customs. We promote communication between employees from different cultural backgrounds and advocate respect for different values and traditions, in order to foster cross-cultural cooperation in a culturally diverse workplace. In 2015, we held development training for both Chinese and foreign staff in the An employee outward bound event in the Americas enhances employees’ understanding of different cultures Americas, to enhance mutual recognition and understanding. In Iraq’s Al-Ahdab project, we respected local customs, and made reasonable time arrangements for local staff during the month of Ramadan, and celebrated with them after the end of Ramadan. Case Study Project in Chad Held Training Courses for Operating Staff Strengthening of Overseas Security Risk Management (four levels) security in Overseas In 2015, our project company in Chad held training courses for the operating staff. Specifically, it provided Operations Risk Level Management Measures training on petroleum geology, oil production, automation, HSE, operating equipment and Chinese language The safety of our employees has always for 60 trainees. From 2007 to 2015, the project company recruited 902 local employees accumulatively, and been an overriding priority in our overThe Company sets out clear and unified security management many excellent local employees have become senior technicians and middle managers. seas operations. We steadily promoted Extremely high risk requirements and implements intensified security security management systems, continumanagement policies. ously enhanced emergency response capabilities, and eliminated securityBefore project implementation: carry out security risk related fatal incidents. assessment and formulate an effective security program, the project is not implemented until it is examined and approved In 2015, we formulated Security ManageHigh risk by the Company. During project implementation: keep ment Regulations for International Busiimproving the security program and revising the emergency ness, carried out an appraisal and review response plan according to changes in local security situations, of overseas social security management and organize drills to ensure personnel safety system performance, and implemented risk assessment and counter-terrorism security Carry out risk assessment, formulate an emergency response training. All these measures have effectively Medium risk plan and implement security measures before project responded to the impact of terrorist threats implementation to the safe operation of overseas projects, and contributed to the improvement of the Low risk Implement necessary security measures overseas security management level. 2015 Sustainability Report GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY 52 53 GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY As a company rooted in society, we have a duty to give back. Our ultimate goal is to promote socio economic development, so we attach great importance to the well-being of people and social advancement. We expand cooperation with the private sector through joint ventures, enhance local development capabilities, give donations to impoverished students and organize our staff to join volunteer activities and community service. Through our efforts, we strive to build a harmonious society. Summer camps in local communities are held by the Aktobe Munaigas in Kazakhstan Promoting Local Development Poverty Alleviation PetroChina’s development is inseparable from the support and help of governments, Poverty alleviation is an important topic in sustainable development around the world and also “I have been looking for ward to this “Such training (on tourism) comes as a communities and the wider public. While providing continuous and stable energy supply for one of our key concerns. We have responded positively to the initiatives of the United Nations’ moment for a long time, as three years great relief. It incorporates both theoretical economic development, we insist on the principle of “open cooperation for mutual benefit”, 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and to the Chinese government’s policies on have passed since I came to PetroChina to learning and practical study. And the many expanding our joint-venture cooperation with state-owned capital, social capital and foreign poverty alleviation targeted at the improvement of people's livelihoods, industrial development discuss the matter in December 2012. This innovative cases are enlightening.” capital in the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors. During the process of developing and intellectual development. By combining our business strengths with local resources and is an exciting moment, because we witness and running our projects, we help to nurture local suppliers and contractors, thereby creating ——Ma Li, Director of Tourism Bureau market advantages in the areas receiving assistance, we have innovated the models of poverty the birth of such a JV enterprise serving the jobs, driving the growth of related businesses, and giving back to local people. of Yanqi County, Bayingolin, Xinjiang alleviation, have taken targeted measures to help the needy and have helped them develop general public.” Uygur Autonomous Region the local economy on their own. In 2015, we continued to carry out targeted and pairing PetroChina actively developed a mixed ownership economy in 2015. We established Fujian ——Lin Jinben, President of Fujian assistance programs for poverty alleviation with our controlling shareholder China National Natural Gas Pipeline Network Co, Ltd jointly with Fujian Energy Group Co, Ltd, helping to Energy Group Co., Ltd. Petroleum Corporation, which included clean drinking water supply, road and educational promote local socio-economic development and continuously improve people’s livelihoods. In facility construction and the provision of medical services in rural areas in 14 counties (districts) addition, we made steady progress in the development of a number of joint venture projects of eight provinces (directly administered municipalities and autonomous regions) including such as Xinjiang Marketing Company and the oil and gas exploration project in the western Xinjiang, Tibet, Qinghai, Henan and Jiangxi. part of Tazhong. We have sought to introduce the concepts of Internet marketing and the urban-rural sharing Since its completion and operation, the South Xinjiang Gas Supply Project has supplied natural economy to areas with appropriate conditions, in order to help foster the development of gas to people of all ethnic groups living in southern Xinjiang, benefiting more than four million local industry and markets. In areas with abundant natural resources but lacking marketing urban and rural residents in 42 cities and counties, and 20 areas surrounding the Tarim Basin. channels and expertise, we worked with the China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) The project plays an increasingly important role in improving people’s livelihoods, improving in 2015 to provide E-commerce training and build communication and cooperation platforms the environment and developing the local economy of southern Xinjiang, and was granted the for relevant personnel in counties including Fanxian county and Taiqian county of Henan 2014-2015 National Quality Engineering Award. province, Xishui county of Guizhou province, Hengfeng county of Jiangxi province, and Kaixian 2015 Sustainability Report GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY 54 55 30,000 38,000 20,000 Case Study “Xuhang” Bursary Program PetroChina built roads in mountainous The project in Fanxian county in Henan The student cafeterias renovation project Since high school education is not compulsory in China and high school students are not eligible to national bursaries (which are mainly earmarked for poor areas in Xishui county of Guizhou province enabled the access to safe in Taiqian county and Tongbai county students from ordinary undergraduate colleges/universities and higher vocational schools), some high school students in underdeveloped areas are still burdened province, which facilitated access by drinking water by 38,000 people who of Henan province improved the dining about 30,000 people and created indirect were long plagued by drinking highconditions for 20,000 students. with heavy education costs. In 2015, PetroChina and CFPA co-sponsored the “Xuhang” Bursary Program to help high school students from poor families to economic value in excess of RMB1 million. fluorinated and brackish water. complete their studies. 11,000 20,000 2,000 One million visits at service stations participating in donation matching program The Sipu Waterworks in Hengfeng The “Happiness Road” built in Hengfeng PetroChina supported the development PetroChina made use of its service stations to support the “Xuhang” Bursary Program. For every liter of gasoline refueled by its customers, the Company would give RMB county of Jiangxi province provided safe county of Jiangxi province promoted the of Agricultural Plantation in Lenghu drinking water to 11,000 local residents industrialization of agriculture with unique County of Qinghai province, which 0.01 to help poor students complete their studies through the CFPA. As of the end of 2015, a total of 50 service stations in Zhengzhou of Henan province and Chengdu and nearly a thousand students and features and transportation of agricultural once completed will produce 75 tons of Sichuan province participated in this charitable activity, with a total of more than one million refueling visits to these stations. teachers. products in the surrounding areas, which of pollution-free green vegetables of has directly pushed up local farmers' 10 varieties annually, thus solving the incomes. Over 20,000 people in surrounding problem of 2,000 local residents who had How does the “Xuhang” program help students? Shangrao and Qianshan counties found it difficult to consume vegetables benefited from increased mobility and the for 60 years. Financial aid Support group Counseling transportation of agricultural goods. Students in need normally receive financial PetroChina helps set up support PetroChina organizes various comprehenaid of RMB 2,000 per year for their studies at groups for aid-receiving students, sive, interactive activities to lighten the school, and one-off financial aid of RMB 5,000 which enables them to help each psychological burden on students: to help county of Chongqing, and enhanced their understanding of and capabilities in E-commerce. other, and fully develops their them accumulate knowledge and broaden would normally be given to students in need Cooperating with E-commerce companies such as Alibaba and Suning, we help people in respective strengths in management, their horizons: and to clarify where they are who are admitted to colleges and universities. Xishui county and Hengfeng county to sell rural products in the urban market through the learning and daily life, etc. heading and establish ideals, all in a relaxed Internet. In Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, we offered training to people in charge of the atmosphere. local tourism industry in Tacheng, Bazhou, Turpan and the Second Farm Division of the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, etc, to improve their awareness and capability in terms of the packaging of local tourism products. Who participated in the “Xuhang” program? In addition, we financed the safe drinking water project in Guyuan city in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, which enabled local people to have access to clean drinking water. In “At the key moment of my schooling, PetroChina's 'Xuhang' bursary program lent a helping hand. I would like to express my gratitude to PetroChina and the Xingmin town of Guizhou province, we provided free medical check-up services, treating and community for their kind support. It has rekindled my passion for life and my hopes for further studies. University is my new starting point. I will redouble my advising about 560 patient visits. In recognition of our outstanding contribution to charity and efforts to study and continue to spread benevolence.” poverty alleviation, PetroChina was named the “Most Charitable Business” at the ninth China ——Mr. Liu, a graduate from Xinxian High School in Xinyang city, Henan province. With the help of the “Xuhang” program, he finished high Charity Awards by the Ministry of Civil Affairs of China in 2015. school education successfully and was admitted to China Youth University of Political Studies in 2015. “Since my family couldn't afford my school fees when I was a child, helping poor students has always been my dream. The ‘Xuhang’ program gives me an Supporting Education opportunity to help others, and I fully support it.” It takes ten years to grow trees, but a hundred to rear people. The Company believes that ——Mr. Xu, a regular customer at PetroChina service station supporting education is important for social progress and development. Therefore, it set up “For those of us who dream of becoming “My hometown is Zhumadian in Henan province where the economy is not well developed. However, there are many children eager to learn and they do scholarships, offered grant loans and subsidies to students from underprivileged families, and racing drivers, a stage is needed to well at school. Previously I provided financial support to a high school student until he graduated from college. The donation matching program launched at supported relevant competitive activities in order to give young people equal opportunities showcase our intelligence, imagination and PetroChina's service stations can help more poor students to complete their studies. I lend my full support to it and will be actively involved in it.” for education and help them to pursue their goals and personal growth. It teamed up with 13 creativity. PetroChina Kunlun Lubricant tertiary institutions, including China University of Petroleum, Tsinghua University and Peking ——Mr. Xie, the owner of Zhengzhou Zotye Auto 4S Store provides us such a stage on which we are University, to set up the PetroChina Scholarship. In recent years, it has stepped up efforts to free to let our dreams fly and realize our assist high school students from poor families, particularly in the early years of their secondary potential.” education. From 2011 to 2015, it awarded scholarships of RMB 19.95 million to 3,175 students What are the effects of the “Xuhang” program? and 150 teachers. The “Xuhang” Bursary Program was launched with the aim of helping students ——A contestant who have finished high school and are receiving relatively little social support. We have also The first batch of bursary funds from the “Xuhang” program worth RMB 200,000 in total has been given to 200 students in their third year at four high schools: at sponsored the Formula Student China Kunlun Lubricant Cup (FSC) for five consecutive years, Bazhong Tongjiang Middle School and Aba Prefecture Xiaojin Middle School in Sichuan province, and Zhumadian Shangcai No. 1 Middle School and Xinyang Xinxian aiming to create a platform for industry-academia-research collaboration to nurture talent for Middle School in Henan province. Among them, 145 students (72.5%) scored results higher than the college admission requirements in the 2015 Higher Education the automobile industry. Entrance Examination. The “Xuhang” program will continue to sponsor 600 students in four high schools. 2015 Sustainability Report GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY 56 57 Volunteer Activities Case Study Protecting the Tropical Rainforest in Ecuador PetroChina has made continued efforts to improve the voluntary service system. It encourages Andes Petroleum Ecuador Ltd is a JV company jointly established by CNPC and Sinopec, with CNPC acting and supports employees to devote their personal time, skills and expertise to participate in as the project operator. The oilfield is located in the hinterland of the Amazon Rainforest, with over half of the volunteer activities, to serve the community and show their care. 2015 marked the fifth year for PetroChina to provide free food and gasoline at the Company’s 157,000 project’s oil zones overlapping with nature reserves. Its special geographical location and diverse ecological environment have made this place a global level environmentally sensitive area (ESA), drawing the attention of environmentalists all over the world. service stations along the national and inter-provincial highways to migrant workers who did In 2015, the Company not manage to buy a train ticket to return to their hometowns during the Spring Festival and had 5,832 youth Putting the environment first: The EHS department plays a key role in the project company. We place volunteer teams with had to ride motorcycles instead. Now this service has been extended to 62 service stations in environmental protection as a top priority and have enforced strict safety and environmental protection rules 157,000 members. 4 provinces, including Fujian, Jiangxi, Hunan and Hubei, helping over 100,000 person-times. and procedures in accordance with the best practices of the industry. In recognition of our unwavering efforts, we were presented the gold award in the Contest Stakeholders’ participation in environmental management: A risk matrix approach is used to rank EHS of the Second Chinese Volunteer Service Project held by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and risks, and EHS related parties are evaluated and ranked according to the analysis, so that we can determine other institutions, and the Best Corporate Social Responsibility Practice of Large State-owned the focal points of the company’s EHS efforts. From the perspectives of managers, persons in charge and Enterprises in 2014. In addition, the Volunteer Public Service Center of Changqing Oilfield contractors, a systematic formulation of EHS management mechanism ensures that the EHS duties are Company launched charitable programs at some supermarkets, which made donations in 379,000 specifically designated and interlinked, and can be fully implemented by all parties.. proportion to their sales. Charity sale corners are set up in some supermarkets to receive donated items from consumers who are then eligible to buy products at preferential prices. Environmental impact monitoring: The GIS geographic information system is used to monitor the In 2015, we had 5,832 youth volunteer teams with 157,000 members. They provided 379,000 environmental and social impact of the exploration and development activities, and provide support to 379,000 hours of hours of volunteer services to 1.446 million beneficiaries. volunteer services decision making in location selection, positioning of pipeline leaks, wetland analysis, analysis and monitoring of nature reserves, and analysis of the traffic network. Contributions to the Development of Reliable professional team: Managerial personnel are designated to be in charge of security, medical service, Overseas Communities environmental protection, and operational safety at the worksite, with dedicated HSE personnel accounting for more than 8% of the workforce. We respect the cultures and conventions of the host countries in which we operate as part Environmentally friendly operation: The drilling cuttings and mud receive innocuous treatment before of our efforts to develop long-term stable partnerships with them and promote their sociodisposal. All associated gas produced is used for power generation. And the ground surface is reverted to its economic development. original state in the shortest possible time after operation. Enhancing Communication with Local Communities Numerous Awards: We have set up environmental protection and community relations coordination departments It was shortlisted by World Oil Magazine as a top three candidate for the “Best HSE/Sustainable in many overseas areas to promote cooperation with local governments, NGOs and community Development Award”, and was nominated for the “Environmental World Award” by the Energy Institute in the representatives. By holding conferences, issuing reports and paying visits, we strengthen United Kingdom. communication and coordination and achieve a win-win situation in cooperation. For the Awards for environmental protection and management innovation from BIZZ and other world famous Canadian project, we have set up a counseling office and held senior official meetings, institutions. leadership committee meetings, community advisory group meetings and environment meetings, in order to communicate with members of the local community, and enhance their An award for Excellent Work in Technology Transfer and Development of the Oil Industry in Ecuador from understanding of and support for the project. Ecuador’s Ministry of Non-renewable Natural Resources and the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE). Local Environmental Protection Developing Local Economy We stress the importance of striking a balance between business development and PetroChina places strong emphasis on reliance on local resources and procurement environmental protection. Therefore, we strictly comply with the laws and international of local products and services, strengthening cooperation with local enterprises in standards on environmental protection in the countries in which we operate, protect technical services, logistical support, catering and logistics to boost and promote the local ecological environment and strive to minimize the impact of our operations on the development of local SMEs and create more income and employment opportunities environment. In Ecuador, our Andes Project received recognition from the United Nations for the local communities. In Kazakhstan, a local company has seen the number of Development Programme and the State Council’s State-owned Assets Supervision and employees growing by seven times during the decade of serving the Aktobe project, Administration Commission in the PRC, for its efforts to protect the local tropical rainforest and has grown into a modern company with advanced equipment, extensive experience where it operates. In order to reduce NOx emissions at the Kazakhstan-China Gas Pipeline in geological logging and nine fully-equipped geological teams. Project and show our care for local natural environment, we increased investment to install the new gas turbine compressor units equipped with advanced drying low-emission technology. 2015 Sustainability Report GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY 58 59 Tax payment according to law Awards in PetroChina strictly complies with the laws and regulations in the countries where it operates, makes lawful and transparent tax payments to local governments, and makes due contributions overseas communities in 2015 to local economic development. In countries where the EITI (Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative) standard is implemented, such as Iraq and Mongolia, our local companies actively Oman project was named the “Outstanding Company for Social Responsibility” participate in the multi-stakeholder groups and publish information on our projects and tax in Oman payments, as required by EITI with the content beyond EITI’s minimum disclosure requirements. The Oman project vigorously protects the environment, promotes local employment and carries out public In Iraq, we joined EITI stakeholders group meetings, were included in Iraq’s EITI Committee welfare activities. In 2015, it was granted “2014 Outstanding Company for Social Responsibility Award”. together with Shell, ExxonMobil, etc. and participated in the improvement of the EITI report The project has strengthened the management of hazardous chemicals, contaminants, and reduces exhaust outline. In Mongolia, we also joined the EITI national committee and working group, and gas emissions, solid waste and wastewater discharge, in strict accordance with local laws and international contributed funds to local education and environmental protection programs. practices. Its recycling rate of industrial wastewater has reached 98% and industrial solid waste recycling and bio-safety treatment rates have reached 100%. The project strengthens local employment and training to create Community welfare more job opportunities for local people. Over 92% of employees of the company are local hires. What’s more, We take an active role to help improve the living conditions of local people, give donations it actively participates in social welfare activities in order to improve the quality of life of local communities, by to education, healthcare and other public welfare programs in order to achieve harmonious offering grants to excellent students of local petroleum and engineering colleges, improving local infrastructure and mutual development. In 2015, the Kazakhstan-China Gas Pipeline project company and improving living standard of the local people. assisted 27 Kazakh students to study at the Kazakh-British Technical University. The Aktobe project company organizes summer camps every year to enhance the education level Aktobe Munaigas was granted “2015 Presidential Award for Corporate of local children. In Chad, we have built 24 water wells in Koudalwa where we operate, Responsibility” in Kazakhstan benefiting 20,000 residents in 21 nearby villages. We also launched joint education projects Aktobe Munaigas attaches great importance to the fulfillment of its social responsibilities. The company has with local higher petroleum institutes to provide internship and training opportunities. In designed and set up a 2 bcm/a gas processing plant according to the actual situations of oil and gas fields. It addition, we assisted local government in implementing the youth employment program, has greatly improved the utilization of oilfield associated gas and gas cap gas, and guaranteed the gas supply to and have recruited over 40 graduates in our refinery. residents of Aktobe Province and southern Kazakhstan, making it an excellent enterprise in the utilization of natural gas in Kazakhstan. Protecting Indigenous rights Before the construction of a project, we conduct assessments of the social and economic PetroChina Indonesia was granted two safety management awards by the impact, such as the requirements of the indigenous people, human rights, cultural heritage, Indonesian Ministry of Energy And Mineral Resources involuntary resettlement, etc. We try our best to protect all the rights and interests of PetroChina International (Indonesia) has considered safety and environmental protection the highest priority the indigenous people. We uphold standard operation in land compensation, and make ever since it entered the Indonesian oil and gas market. The company strictly complies with the relevant laws compensation plans by referring to the opinions of the local governments, our partners, and “2015 Presidential Award for Corporate and regulations of the local government, executes high safety and environmental protection standards, the the local villagers. Specifically, compensation is paid before land use, and the compensation Responsibility” granted by Kazakh contractor safety management system (CSMS), and operation standards and processes that meet safety and information is released timely in order to ensure operational transparency. government environmental protection requirements. By doing so, it strives to eliminate hazards in oil and gas production, minimize the environmental impact caused by operations, and protect the local ecological environment together with its employees, contractors and the local community. Children’s Summer Case Study Camp in Aktobe The Aktobe Munaigas in Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the development of children, and has invested a lot to improve relevant facilities. Every year, it organizes summer camps in the local communities for over 2,000 children, making it a paradise for the children in Aktobe. 2015 Sustainability Report Investor FAQs 60 61 Investor FAQs combating and preventing corruption, the Company has developed a series of rules and Could you provide a brief outline of PetroThe Company implements the health, safety and environment management system (HSE regulations, and built relative monitoring and inspection mechanisms. China’s general sustainability management management system) which is geared to international standards and widely accepted by the setup – organisation and governance We believe that PetroChina remains a trustworthy company with investment value. We will petroleum industry. Following the PDCA management model, our HSE management system procedures – by addressing stakeholder make continuous efforts to run the enterprise according to the law, keeping to operational comprises seven key elements. Through the process of PLAN, DO, CHECK and ACTION, we keep engagement, materiality assessment, and compliance and promoting sustainable development, to yield sound returns for our enhancing our HSE management and performance. For the details of the system, please refer communication/reporting? shareholders. to the graphic on page 26 of the 2014 Sustainability Report. In terms of policies, internal control and To improve the corporate governance structure and ensure the compliance of the election PetroChina and a few of its subsidiaries are Regarding PetroChina’s progress in fighting corruption, the Company has a firm commitment internal audit systems, what progress has of directors, senior management and the operations of its Board of Directors, PetroChina involved in allegations of corruption. Please against corruption and has adopted a series of anti-corruption measures. These include: been achieved so far in 2015 and what are has set up a board nomination committee, consistent with the best standards in corporate provide us with information about ongo1. The Company wants to achieve good corporate governance. PetroChina has always placed the plans for the future? governance. The Nomination Committee was established in August 2015, along with its ing investigations and court procedures in China or elsewhere regarding allegations of a priority on safety and environmental protection, harmony and stability, and anti-corruption relevant rules of procedure. A more transparent and complete nomination process has thereby corruption against former and/or current as three fundamental projects, as well as taken a firm stance against corruption. As a company come into being. employees of PetroChina and relevant subthat is listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange and the sidiaries which are controlled by PetroChina. Shanghai Stock Exchange, PetroChina has a well-established corporate governance structure Are systems for internal performance The Company has formulated and implemented incentive schemes such as Standards for as well as an open and transparent information disclosure system, in compliance with all measures and reporting in place, and what Senior Management Share Option Scheme and Remuneration Standards for Senior Management. applicable listing rules and related policies. Since becoming a member of United Nations Global are the intentions with regard to improving The selection and appointment of regional deputy managers of the Company have been Compact (UNGC) in 2007, and as one of the pioneer Chinese corporate participants, PetroChina performance in that respect? conducted either on a competitive basis when the number of candidates exceed the positions has been reporting its progress in social responsibility, including anti-corruption, in compliance on offer, or on the basis of company-wide competition. The policy of appointing the best with the Ten Principles of the UNGC. candidate through competition has been implemented in the headquarters of the Company, 2. The Company views anti-corruption as one of the key initiatives for the management. which has improved transparency in recruitment and formed an open, just and fair mechanism PetroChina has established an anti-corruption leading group led by its Chairman, and for selection and appointment. formulated a system and work plan for corruption penalties and prevention, to continuously promote the functioning of the disciplinary mechanism for corruption. The government’s investigation into bribery As the investigations and proceedings are still under way up to now, we are not in a position to allegations among state-owned enterprises comment further. PetroChina resolutely supports the central government’s decision and fully 3. The Company has developed comprehensive mechanisms, rules and procedures to is still ongoing. Could the Company give supports the investigation and punishment of a small number of former senior management combat corruption. PetroChina has further enhanced and reinforced its systems, promoted an overview of the situation so far, and for serious breaches of discipline. The Company's normal operations have not been affected. As management innovation, strengthened its fundamental work, ensured the proper exercise what have been the reactions towards the a Company listed in Hong Kong, New York and Shanghai, we will ensure the timely disclosure of management authority, clearly defined the delegation of power, developed a compliance investigation and recent sentencing of of information in accordance with the relevant regulatory requirements. management system, stepped up the supervision of its overseas businesses, and strengthened former PetroChina management? its supervision and accountability system. Since 2012, the Company has implemented a series Does PetroChina own any assets or project PetroChina has no assets in Sudan or South Sudan. of measures and regulations, including the 2013-2017 Work Plans to Establish and Improve stakes in Sudan? the Systems for Punishment and Prevention of Bribery, Anti-corruption Guidelines for Overseas As a subsidiary of China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC), PetroChina has been carrying Businesses and Views on the Implementation of Anti-Corruption Training of Senior Management. out production and operations independently since its listing in April 2000. This is in compliance These aim to create a long-lasting, effective mechanism which can close loopholes, and prevent with the Company Law, the Articles of Association of the Company, and the regulatory rules and resolve problems. stipulated by the listing venues. With the operational guidelines of maximizing enterprise value and shareholder value, PetroChina conducts extensive oil and gas production in China and Please find below information on ongoing investigations into former employees: abroad, and respects local religions, customs and culture, emphasizes environmental protection, 1. Several of PetroChina’s former employees were suspected of bribery and other acts of and maintains stable production. To comply with the relevant regulations of the United Nations, corruption. China’s regulators have made clear that the suspected corrupt conduct of these and to respect the principles of the United States and some other Western investors that former employees was limited to the individuals concerned. PetroChina and its affiliates or prohibit investing in companies operating in conflict-prone and sensitive regions, PetroChina subsidiaries have not been implicated in any allegation of corruption. neither owns assets nor project stakes in Sudan, South Sudan and other conflict-prone and 2. The former employees under investigation are mainly facing allegations of bribery, abuse of sensitive countries. As CNPC and PetroChina are two separate legal entities, PetroChina has no power, misconduct and violating the internal discipline of the Communist Party of China. Once influence or control over the investment decisions of China National Petroleum Corp. their cases of violating China’s laws have been confirmed, China’s procuratorial organ will file a suit against them in court. At present, some of the suspected employees have been tried and PetroChina has been identified as a comWe would like to take this opportunity to clarify our position on these issues: relevant information has been published, while the rest remain under judicial investigation. The pany which conducts active business opera1. Considering the concerns of our shareholders and investors, PetroChina, as a listed company, Company has no further knowledge of the matter. tions in Iran, so it may become subject to does not have any contact with or ties to the government of Iran. PetroChina has not engaged divestment. Please clarify PetroChina’s Iran3. PetroChina takes a zero-tolerance stance on corruption. With our relentless focus on related activities. in oil and gas exploration, development or production investment in Iran. We have not 2015 Sustainability Report Investor FAQs 62 63 maintained any joint ventures, offices or employees, or engaged in the sales of any products or 1. We will strengthen the democratic management of our employees, improve the system of provided any services in Iran. employees’ congresses, clarify rights and obligations in a comprehensive manner, and ensure that major issues of the Company and matters related to the vital interests of employees are 2. China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC), PetroChina’s holding company, owns assets and reviewed and approved by the employees’ congress. operations in Iran. However, we must emphasize that CNPC and PetroChina are two separate legal entities. PetroChina has no influence or control over the business activities of its parent and 2. We will standardize the construction of systems for employee directors and employee controlling shareholder, nor any involvement with its parent’s business activities in the region. supervisors, thereby allowing them to get fully involved in decision making, safeguarding employees’ rights and interests, and strengthening supervision. Please provide a clarification about the PetroChina attaches great importance to the protection of investors’ interests and always 3. We will further promote transparency in industrial affairs and standardize the content and nature of your business in Iran’s energy respects their choices. Therefore we avoid investing and operating businesses in politically manner of our open system for industrial affairs, to ensure employees are well-informed and sector and your future plans for operations sensitive areas. In countries and other jurisdictions under UN sanctions and sanctions by the have the means to participate and engage in corporate management. in this industry. governments of our listing markets (such as Iran), we do not have any oil and natural gas 4. We will deepen harmonious labor relations and further improve the performanceexploration, development, production and investment projects at present. We also do not based remuneration mechanism, to simultaneously promote income growth, corporate have any joint venture companies, representative offices and staff or provide any products and development and labor productivity. Our compensation and benefits policy will acknowledge services in these areas. PetroChina does not communicate or have relationships with these the contributions of scientific research personnel, as well as employees in arduous front-line countries and governments. We handle our investment and business activities in politically positions and those with heavy responsibilities in key positions. sensitive regions in a prudent and responsible manner. We always take the protection of our shareholders’ rights and respect for our investors’ choices into consideration. 5. We will implement all national labor standards, and actively improve safety and sanitary conditions and the working environment, to ensure the safety and health of our employees. China National Petroleum Corp. (CNPC), PetroChina’s holding company, owns assets and operations in Iran. However, we must emphasize that CNPC and PetroChina are two separate 6. We will handle all petitions and appeals to higher authorities in accordance with the law, and legal entities. PetroChina has no influence or control over the business activities of its controlling properly manage stakeholder needs. shareholder, nor any involvement with its parent’s business activities and investments in Iran. 7. We will promote the construction of projects related to people's livelihoods and help employees to improve their living conditions through diversified channels. We will also tap What is PetroChina’s view on employee At PetroChina, employees are a valuable asset. We respect and protect their rights, and strive the government’s policies of helping people to promote the construction of multi-level oldrights? to promote their overall development, and to enhance the value of both employees and the age service system at the staff communities, and the poverty alleviation mechanism, thereby Company, so as to make sure that all employees can share the fruits of our development. According improving our employees’ overall happiness and safety. to the relevant domestic laws and regulations, employee rights include the following items: The majority of our partners are large international companies with best compliance practices. 1. Equal rights of employment and vocational selection. During our partner selection process, we have made specific requirements regarding our 2. The right to receive remuneration. The payment should be paid monthly in currency. The contractor’s qualifications, technologies, environment protection and protection of human employer should not default or deduct the payment without any reason. The employee is rights in accordance with relevant policies and regulations, in order to protect the rights and entitled to holiday pay, including statutory holidays, marital and funeral leave, and community interests of our partners’ employees throughout our partnership. service leave. How does the Company f ulf i l l the In terms of national policy, the Company strictly complies with the Labor Laws of the PRC, 3. The right to take leave. The employer should ensure the employee can enjoy at least one commitment to uphold staff rights through keeping with the spirit of the Decisions by the All-China Federation of Trade Unions (ACFTU) on day of rest per week, work not more than eight hours per day and the average working hours its risk management system and strategies? Strengthening the Coordination of Labor Relations, Earnestly Safeguarding the Lawful Rights and should not exceed 44 hours per week. If the employer needs to extend the working hours for What internal policies, procedures and Interests of Workers, and Promoting the Development of a Harmonious Socialist Society and the production, prior negotiation is required and should not extend beyond three hours per day. management systems are put in place to Guiding Principles of the Chinese Energy and Chemical Workers’ Union on Promoting the Spirit of 4. The right to workplace safety and hygiene. safeguard staff rights? the Fourth Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee and the Enhancement of Workers’ 5. The right to employee training for professional skills. Interests. 6. The right to raise a formal grievance to resolve labor disputes. As for the Company, we have put in place various systems to protect staff interests. Our risk management system attaches great importance to the protection of their interests, which lays a 7. The right to enjoy social security and benefits. solid foundation for the successful implementation of our development strategies. The Company has 8. The right to turn down work of a dangerous nature. developed different systems to ensure their interests are protected during operations. For example: 9. The right to join a legal trade union and independently initiate legal activities. 1. Mechanism for trade union participation. The Company puts in place a mechanism to allow 10. The right to negotiate fairly with the employer through the employees’ congress or by other workers at different levels to participate in the trade union, to offer them channels to express means, in respect of participating in democratic management or protecting legal labor rights their views, and to create a platform for the timely settlement of major labor and trade union according to the law. issues. (Some of business units have established the “System for Joint Meetings between Workers and Management and the Opinions on Implementation of Fair Discussion and Collective What are the Company’s commitments to Employees are the key driver of an enterprise’s development and reforms. We have always Contracts , which clearly demonstrate the crucial role of the trade union.) employees, partners and other stakeholders placed people first and effectively protected the rights of our employees. We have made the 2. Coordination system for grassroots workers. It enables the trade union to fully discharge on their rights? following commitments: its supervisory role and to ensure the Company enters into and implements employment 2015 Sustainability Report Investor FAQs 64 65 contracts according to the legal requirements. Moreover, it helps define how the company hires 7. Mechanism to assist needy workers in trade unions. The Company has established the agency staff. Some business units have established a series of supporting systems, including the Regulations for Management of the Funds to Support Needy Workers. Every year, we earmark System for Supervision and Inspection of Collective Contracts, the Management System for Labor funds to assist needy workers at each business unit. To ensure the relief funds go to the workers Dispute Mediation, the Rewards Management System, the Management System for Performance who really need them, some business units have established a four-tier alleviation network at Appraisals and the Temporary Working Hours Measures to protect the legal interests of workers. the corporate level, the plant level, the workplace level and the production team level, so that the latest status of needy workers can be tracked and relayed to the management. As a result, 3. Workers’ democratic management system. The Company has issued the Opinions on the needy workers will receive aid at the earliest possible opportunity. Work of Democratic Leadership for the Workers’ Representatives Conference at Business Units of Oil Enterprises. We focus on making the workers’ representatives conference a platform for implementing a democratic management system, and undertake continuous efforts to improve How will the employees responsible for huThe trade unions are mainly responsible for handling the human rights issues of the Company’s it, thereby enabling workers to elect their representatives, make decisions, and implement man rights issues coordinate with other relatdivisions and business units. Those divisions and business units will cooperate with the relevant ed departments (Other departments include departments, striving to protect the rights and interests of the employees. management and supervision roles in a democratic manner. This further enhances workers’ rights Human Resources, Procurement, Business to know, participate in and supervise the Company’s affairs, and to elect their representatives. 1. The trade unions cooperate with the Human Resources Department and Corporate Risks and Community Participation)? Some business units have established the Regulations on the Workers’ Representatives Conference, Management Department to set up a well-established labor dispute alert system, which is jointly the Democratic Election Management System and the Procedures of the Workers’ Representatives managed by the three parties. They comply strictly with all applicable laws and regulations, and Conference. Moreover, they explore various ways to promote democratic management, set clear rules for different issues, including leave and vacations, extra pay for working on holidays, including having democratic management committees, democratic forums, informal social insurance, and labor dispute resolution, in the corresponding labor management system. meetings with workers and democratic discussions, as part of their goal to develop a 2. The trade unions work with the Training Department to guarantee all workers the right to modern corporate system. vocational skills training. 4. Plant administration open to workers. The Company has published the Opinions on Further 3. The trade unions work with the Technology, Safety and Environmental Protection Department Opening of Plant Administration to Workers amid Intensified Reform to promote the further to manage various aspects of safety, including safety production, environmental protection, opening of plant administration. Through this mechanism, the related plants notify workers occupational health, traffic safety, fire safety and emergency issues. Details of the relevant of issues related to corporate reform and development on a timely basis, such as important content are studied and production procedures and processes set up, to ensure employees corporate decisions, affairs related to workers’ interests, and the development of management are working in a safe and controlled environment. They also established the Employee Health teams with high integrity. We will further increase the extent of information to be disclosed and Examination Management System, Occupational Diseases Prevention and Treatment Management the ways of making disclosures, ensuring that information relating to plant administration is System etc. to protect employee health. disclosed in a regulated, systematic and standardized way. 4. The trade unions coordinate and communicate with the Safety and Environmental Protection 5. Supervision of trade union law implementation. We step up efforts to supervise the Department and the Procurement Department to include the management and supply of implementation of trade union law, carry out consultation for this purpose and seek suggestions protective equipment in the procurement procedure and system, so as to ensure the timeliness for the improvement of its implementation through various activities. To ensure the occupational and accuracy of the supply. safety and health of workers, PetroChina has issued the Rules on the Warning and Notification of Occupational Hazards, the Rules on Occupational Health Management for Construction 5. The trade unions coordinate and communicate with the relevant departments of the Projects and the Rules on the Management of Occupational Health Records. In addition, we have Company’s business units to review and implement proposals submitted by employee published the Research Report on Regional Distribution and Prevention Measures of Infectious representatives, as well as their tenable suggestions. Diseases for Workers at PetroChina’s Overseas Projects. The Company upholds the principle of 6. The trade unions coordinate and communicate with the Services and Logistics Department Safety comes first with priority given to preventive measures, promote self-initiated prevention to ensure employees’ welfare benefits, and to provide a rich and varied cultural experience for and treatment with supervision carried out according to regulations . We strive to improve the those workers. working environment of staff and to increase their awareness of occupational health and safety. In addition to that, we ensure all staff members take occupational health examinations every Does the Company's Board of Directors The Health, Safety and Environment Committee has been set up under the Board of Directors, year, get protected through occupational health preventive measures, and receive occupational or senior management carry out adequate which is responsible for employee work safety. The Company’s Chairman serves as the Head of health and safety training. The Company also strictly implements the system to give employees supervision of employees’ rights? Committee, supervising employees’ rights and interests. The Vice-President of the Company is rest days and annual leave, so that occupational diseases, common diseases and frequently responsible for the production safety of employees. occurring diseases are effectively under control. As a result, the health condition of our workforce has continuously improved every year. How does the Company define existing In addition to the existing systems intended to protect employees’ rights, the Company has set 6. Trade unions’ alert and handling system for labor disputes. The trade unions at all business and potential risks to employees’ rights and up the Supervision Department, Compliance Reception, as well as Trade Unions at all levels to units have established a system for information reconciliation, collection and analysis, which the relative impact on business operations listen to employees’ opinions on a regular basis. The system of the Employees’ Congress enables and partnerships? them to voice their demands at Congresses of all levels. The Company’s senior management visits facilitates the compilation of assessment indicators to evaluate the likelihood of labor disputes. Preventive measures will be taken if needed. Some business units have issued frontline employees each year to listen to them, and get to know their needs. There are relevant the Opinions on the Establishment of Early Warning Mechanism by Trade Unions to Settle departments in both headquarters and branch offices responsible for maintaining employees’ Labor Disputes, which will help develop a three-tier early warning network at the corporate interests. The Company obtains information on employees’ rights and interests through a variety level, plant level and workplace level. This will create a relatively comprehensive protection of channels. Our international partners, such as BP and ExxonMobil, adopt normative systems and system and harmonious labor relations. policies with regard to human rights. All joint venture projects under the Company have developed robust systems to protect employees’ safety, health and any other rights and interests. 2015 Sustainability Report Investor FAQs 66 67 How does PetroChina identify and manage 1. We remain committed to a people-first philosophy in treating our employees with respect What internal requirements does Petro1. We strictly comply with relevant international and domestic laws and regulations, intensify human rights risks? Does the company and equality while protecting their legal rights. We strive to resolve the practical issues that China have for conducting environmental environmental protection during production, actively promote the development and utilization have a human rights policy? most concern our employees and ensure that all employees can equally share in the fruits of risk assessment or conducting environof clean energy and environmentally friendly products, and strive to develop in harmony with our development. mental impact assessment studies on new the environment. projects? 2. We strictly abide by domestic and international rules and regulations and have established 2. Environmental management is implemented in the whole process of construction projects. a fairly complete employment management and policy system to regulate employment For each construction project, environmental protection facilities are required simultaneously practices according to the law. The system incorporates employment contract management, with the main project in the process of design, construction and operation. remuneration, insurance and benefits, leave, performance appraisals and vocational training. 3. With regard to environmental risk factors in production, we have developed a multi-tiered Through self-inspection of our employment practices in compliance with the law, we provide risk management mechanism and formulated strict environmental protection measures, to effective protection of the legal rights of employees. eliminate pollution and protect the ecological environment at the source. 3. We are committed to providing equal opportunities and fair treatment to all employees 4. We strive to minimize the occupation of arable land, ensure soil and water conservation, and regardless of their nationality, ethnicity, race, gender, religion and culture. We prohibit the take measures to restore vegetation restoration measures, in order to restore the ecological employment and use of child labor and reject all forms of slave and forced labor. Instead, we environment and protect biodiversity wherever we operate. emphasize the employment of local residents, women, ethnic minorities and college students in order to increase job opportunities for local communities. What are PetroChina’s plans on future susPetroChina has developed its proprietary system to keep a detailed record of its greenhouse tainability reporting – will data on carbon emissions according to related national technical specifications, and used the HSE information Which are the Company’s current leading In recent years, the Company’s achievements in production safety have been solid. It has emissions be disclosed? system to generate and analyze statistics on greenhouse emissions. With regard to disclosure and lagging safety indicators? What targets established a system of indicators for safety statistics per million person-hours that is on par on carbon emissions, the Company will calculate greenhouse emissions based on the new have the Company set to improve work with international standards. It achieved one million safe person-hours and a fatal accident rate national greenhouse emission calculation methods and reporting guidelines. The emission data safety? (FAR) of less than 0.005 per million hours worked each year. It will continue to strictly comply will be released according to related regulations upon approval of the third party organizations with the new Production Safety Law, reinforce safety management and HSE management, and government authorities. Currently the related work has not been completed yet. strengthen the regulation of contractors for work safety, and enhance process management and control, accident prevention and supervision and assessment system. The primary goal It is not clear from reading PetroChina’s The Company has stated in the 2014 Sustainability Report that: “At PetroChina, we strictly of our HSE efforts is to achieve “zero accidents, zero pollution and zero casualty”. The guiding sustainability reporting if the Company is monitor waste discharge during production, reinforce our environmental monitoring capacity, principles of our HSE work are to “put safety, environment, quality and staff” as top priorities. able to consistently measure and manage completed the installation and data networking of online monitoring equipment for waste Through a clear lines of responsibility as well as stringent risk and HSE management, the toxic emissions and waste as elements water and waste gas, and perform real-time monitoring and early warning of discharges from accident and casualty rates at our production facilities continue to decline, while the HSE of a cross-organizational environmental major pollution sources, to ensure treatment at source and process monitoring.” performance has improved remarkably. All of these achievements enable us to reinforce the management system. What environmental company’s corporate image and lay a solid foundation for our stable growth. management system has been established With regard to environmental risk factors in production, such as oil & gas spills, emissions at PetroChina, and what is its coverage? and waste discharge, we have developed a multi-tiered risk management mechanism and After the oil refinery project in Yunnan had been approved by the Ministry of Environmental formulated strict environmental protection measures, to eliminate pollution and protect the PetroChina Yunnan Petrochemical Co., Ltd. was fined for violation of the national Protection (MEP), the scope of its construction work was enhanced and adjusted during ecological environment at the source. environmental protection law and the the implementation phase, and the new environmental impact assessment was initiated Anning refiner y was ordered to halt in a timely manner. In August 2015, the MEP ordered a halt to the construction work which What are the plans for future reporting and PetroChina will promote stable development and redefine its corporate image. The Company construction work. What measures will the involved alterations and imposed a fine of RMB 200,000. As a result, PetroChina Yunnan providing transparency on environmental will give priority to three fundamental tasks, including promoting safety and environmental Company adopt to prevent the occurrence performance? protection, harmony and stability, and anti-corruption measures. The Company will also Petrochemical, among project construction companies, has halted the construction of of similar issues in the future? When will strengthen compliance and respond more readily to low oil prices, to demonstrate the the alterations. (1) The company strictly complies with the Environmental Protection Law and the construction work at the Anning improvement in the Company’s ESG practices. In response to the issues raised by the capital related laws and regulations, and is formulating and revising a related management system and refinery resume? regulations. (2) Among project construction companies, PetroChina Yunnan Petrochemical has market and the general public, we will further enhance our information disclosure in corporate compiled an updated environmental impact assessment report for the project and submitted it governance, emission of greenhouse gases, community building overseas, safety and to the MEP for approval. Upon the approval of the MEP, the relevant work will resume. environmental policy, and employee interests, etc. While more and more ecological protecThe relevant ecological protection regulations require the company to step up its tion policies are put in place to prevent the environmental efforts when developing business, selecting the locations for its projects, and deterioration of the environment, how will carrying out production or decommissioning work. The Company will optimize its businesses, they affect the Company’s risk managecarefully select the locations for its projects, reinforce its corporate environmental protection ment? How is the progress of the Comefforts and orderly develop its environmental monitoring measures. pany’s environmental impact assessment? What are the strategies to mitigate the deterioration of the ecological environment? 2015 Sustainability Report Performance Statistics 68 69 Performance Statistics Category Indicator 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Category Indicator 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total assets (RMB 109) 1,917.6 2,168.9 2,342.1 2,405.5 2,393.8 unit energy factor consumption for refining (Kg standard oil / [t . factor]) 9.46 9.24 8.99 8.74 8.3 Turnover (RMB 109) 2,003.8 2,195.3 2,258.1 2,283.0 1,725.4 Comprehensive energy consumption of Net Profit (RMB 109) 133.0 115.3 129.6 107.2 35.5 producing ethylene products (Kg standard coal / ton) 647.5 642.6 624.4 616.7 594 Taxes① (RMB 109) 416.8 410.0 420.4 414.0 337.5 Energy conserved (106 TCE) 1.13 1.21 1.08 1.16 1.04 Proven crude reserves (106 barrels) 11,128 11,018 10,820 10,593 8,524 ② Environment Water conserved (106 cubic meters) 17.44 19.26 20.07 19.79 16.83 Proven gas reserves (109 ft3) 66,653 67,581 69,323 71,098 77,580 COD discharged (103 tons) —— —— —— 31.0 * 6 Oil equivalent production (10 barrels) 1,286 1,343.1 1,400.0 1,450.4 1,493.9 Economic NH3-N emissions (103 tons) —— —— —— 12.4 * 6 Crude oil production (10 barrels ) 886 916.5 932.9 945.5 971.9 SO2 emissions (103 tons) —— —— —— 174.4 * Marketable natural gas production (109 ft3) 2,396.4 2,558.8 2,801.9 3,028.8 3,131.0 NOx emissions (103 tons) —— —— —— 140.3 * Total length of crude oil pipelines (km) 14,782 16,344 17,614 18,107 18,892 Number of employees (103) 553 548 544 535 522 Total length of refined products pipelines (km) 9,334 9,437 9,534 10,086 10,091 Percentage of employees receiving Total length of natural gas pipelines (km) 36,116 40,995 43,872 48,602 48,629 Employees occupational health checks (%) 95 95 91 97 98 Crude runs (106 barrels) 985 1,012.5 992.3 1,010.6 998.1 Percentage of non-Chinese nationals in overseas hires (%) 94 94 93.4 91 91.3 Ethylene production (103 tons) 3,467 3,690 3,982 4,976 5,032 Contribution to poverty alleviation (RMB 106) 37.06 41.24 67.99 89.74 208.64 Death rate caused by accidents (person/100 million working hours) 0.70 0.20 0.25 0.466 0.26 Public Educational donations (RMB 106) 119.28 91.51 107.36 64.31 15.40 Safety Total accident rate (incidents/million welfare Donations to disaster relief (RMB 106) 5.95 18.81 21.52 3.14 3.88 working hours ) 0.0326 0.0387 0.0522 0.0487 0.0498 Environmental protection (RMB 106) 0.75 9.65 13.77 0.85 92.95 Total energy consumption (106 TCE) —— —— —— —— 80.77 Total raw coal consumption (106 TCE) —— —— —— —— 11.83 ① The total taxes paid by the Company in China and abroad. The data disclosed in the Sustainability Reports published before 2015 were the taxes paid 6 Total crude oil consumption (10 TCE) —— —— —— —— 2.90 by the Company in China. ② As of the day the report released, the data of COD discharged, the NH3-N emissions, the SO2 emissions and the NOX emissions in 2015 of the Environment② Total natural gas consumption (109 m3) —— —— —— —— 16.5 Company is under review of the Ministry of Environmental Protection of China (MEP). The MEP will announce the result to the public when the data is ready. We will continue to release the above data in the next year’s report. Total electricity consumption (109 kwh) —— —— —— —— 42.9 Note: Measurement units Comprehensive energy consumption for 1 BOE = 1 barrel of crude = 6,000 cubic feet of NG = 169.9 cubic meter of NG producing unit volume of oil and gas equivalent 1 cubic meter of NG = 35.315 cubic feet of NG (Kg standard coal / ton) —— —— —— —— 128 1 metric ton of crude = 7.389 barrels of crude (API = 34) 2015 Sustainability Report GRI and IPIECA/API Index 70 71 Objectives and Plans GRI and IPIECA/API Index In 2016, aiming to become a world-class international energy company, we will promote strategies of resources, markets, The report consults the reporting elements and performance indicator indices proposed by the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) and internationalization and innovation by upholding the guideline of steady development. To enhance comprehensive strength and play compares the report with indicators listed in Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting by the International a greater role in the energy revolution, we will implement a number of initiatives emphasizing reforms, opening-up and cooperation, Petroleum Industry Environment Conservation Association (IPIECA) and American Petroleum Institute (API). technological innovation, talent pooling, corporate ruling by law, and safety development, hence to share our achievements with stakeholders and realize social prosperity. IPIECA/API 2015 GRI 4.0 Page Material Topics G4-19 1 G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, About PetroChina G4-9, G4-13, G4-17, G5-56 2-3 Aspects 2016 Objectives 2016 Action Plans Message from the Chairman E1, E3, SE1, SE4, SE11, SE12 G4-1, G4-2, G4-43, G4-56, G4-EC2 4-5 Interview with the President E1 G4-1, G4-2, G4-43, G4-EC2 6-7 Improve the corporate governance structure, and optimize the management and control G4-1, G4-2, G4-35, G4-42, G4-43, G4Optimize corporate model; Sustaining Steady Development 44, G4-45, G4-51 8 governance structure, Strengthen legal education; Integrity and Solidifying Governance Framework G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-38, G4-40, G4improve relevant systems Improve rules and regulations, and promote their integration with management systems; 41, G4-46, G4-47, G4-48, G4-49, G4-52 9-11 Corporate Complianceensure, operation Intensify the implementation of rules and regulations; based Corporate Optimizing Management System SE11, SE12, SE18 G4, G4-57, G4-58, G4-SO4 11-14 governance and management in Focus on compliance management in key areas, fair competition in the market, and Governance Upholding Business Ethics SE11, SE12 G4-56, G4-SO4 14 compliance with law, honest and law-based operation; and optimize basic Adjust and optimize the allocation of audit resources and distribution, strengthen G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27, G4-37, Communicating with Stakeholders SE11 G4-45 14-17 management. auditing oversight, legal supervision and effectiveness monitoring, and strictly investigate accountability for violations. Consolidating Our Resource Base G4-8 19-20 Developing Clean Energy E3 G4-8, G4-EN27, G4-EC7 21-23 Push forward balanced development between domestic and overseas oil and gas SUSTAINED Pushing Forward Pipeline Network G4-8, G4-6, G4-EC7, G4-EN30 23 Stronger oil and gas exploration and development, continue to reduce exploration and development costs, ENERGY SUPPLY Construction Oil & gas businesses, increase and increase quality and benefits; Deepening International Cooperation G4-6 23-24 value of crude oil and Accelerate the development of natural gas; Ensuring Stable Supply G4-8 24-25 production natural gas, and promote Efficiently develop unconventional, offshore and new energies; Improving HSE Management G4-14 26-27 and supply economical use of energy Move forward oil and gas cooperation guided by the “Belt and Road” initiative; SAFE AND Enhancing Operational Safety HS5 G4-14 28-29 resources. Emphasize technological innovation; CLEAN G4-14, G4-EC7, G4-EN5, G4-EN11, G4Strengthen brand building and management. PRODUCTION Ecological Protection E4, E5, E6, E7, E8, E10, E11 EN12, G4-EN13, G4-EN27 29-33 AND Promoting Energy Conservation E2 G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6 33 Strictly implement Implement quantitative review on HSE management system throughout the Company; OPERATION G4-14, G4-15, G4-EC2, G4-EN21, G4Work Safety Law and Intensify graded risk prevention & control and hazard treatment; Response to Climate Change E1, E2, E3, E4 EN31, G4-LA15, G4-SO10 33-35 Safety and Environmental Protection Strengthen soil and groundwater pollution prevention and control and greenhouse gas Enhancing Quality Management System HS4 G4-16 36-37 Law, reinforce supervision, emissions control; environmental and continually improve Vigorously implement energy conservation and emissions reduction; CUSTOMERFocusing on Product Innovation 38 protection FIRST MARKET Providing High-Quality Products HS4 38-41 the performance of Effectively reduce the consumption of energy, water and land for self-use; SERVICE Delivering Considerate Services G4-8, G4-PR5 41-43 safety and environmental Promote the application of green technologies such as CO2 flooding and clean oil G4-12, G4-13, G4-EN33, HR11, G4protection. production. Supply Chain Management SE8, SE9 SO10 43 G4-10, G4-15, G4-52, G4-58, G4-LA1, Improve performance-linked compensation mechanism; Protection of Employee Rights SE16, SE18 G4-LA3, G4-LA12 44-46 Implement major talent projects to attract innovative talents; Occupational Health HS2, HS3 47 “PEOPLEImprove the evaluation and incentives mechanism and service guarantee system, and ORIENTED” Establishing a Platform for Employee SE17 G4-LA10 48-49 Build a talent team create a good environment for employees' selection and appointment; Development EMPLOYEE Employee innovatively, and promote Promote the reforms in professional and technical posts; DEVELOPMENT Local Staff Development SE6, SE15, SE17 G4-LA12 50 development strategic restructuring of Encourage employees to create and innovate based on their positions, and improve the Strengthening of security in Overseas the talent team. policies and mechanisms for the sharing of technological results and benefits; SE10 G4-6 51 Operations Implement diversified and differentiated vocational training, and initiate the skills Promoting Local Development SE1, SE5 G4-EC7, G4-EC8 52 promotion program, innovation and benefit-increasing capacity building program, and Poverty Alleviation SE4 G4-15, G4-EC7, G4-EC8 53-54 oil expert program for operating staff. GIVING BACK TO Supporting Education SE4 54-55 Broaden joint ventures and cooperation, and push forward reforms to promote mixed SOCIETY Volunteer Activities 56 ownership of state-owned enterprises steadily; Contributions to the Development of SE1, SE2, SE3, SE4, SE5, SE7, G4-EC1, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-HR8, Reform and development Overseas Communities SE15 G4-SO1 56-59 Improve public relations; Social results benefit more Move forward targeted and pairing assistance for poverty alleviation; Investor FAQs SE2, SE3, SE8, SE9, SE11, SE12, G-41, G4-58 60-67 contribution people for social Participate in public welfare undertakings; SE15, SE16, SE17 harmony. Performance Statistics E2, E6, E7, HS2, HS3, SE4, SE6 G4-EC1, G4-EN5 68-69 Support local economic and social development, and share the value of local resources and fruits of development with host countries. Objectives and Plans 70 Global Compact and Us G4-16 72 Approach to Reporting G4-17, G4-18 72-73 G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23, G4-28, About This Report G4-29, G4-30 Inside back cover CONTACTS G4-31 Back cover 2015 Sustainability Report 72 73 Global Compact and Us Content Selection Process The contents in this report were selected and disclosed based on their substantiality, integrity and balance principle, and taking into The Global Compact is a global framework initiated and advocated by the United Nations aiming at the promotion of sustainable development account the concerns of stakeholders and the Company’s great influence on the society. They exert substantial impact on the Company’s and the collective improvement of social well-being through responsible and innovative business practices. As a member of the UN Global sustainable development. Compact, we are committed to observing and supporting the Ten Principles advocated by the Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labor 1. The Company pays close attention to the views of its stakeholders, rights, environment protection and anti-corruption, using the Ten Principles to guide our practices in fulfilling social responsibilities. And we will and collects their comments through community visits, periodical Identification continue to disclose our progress in keeping with the Ten Principles in the Global Compact in our annual report. reports, field study and online communication. It makes suggestions Media monitoring on the topics of the report by taking into account stakeholders’ Email network Field study major concerns. Ten Principles in the Global Compact Corresponding sections herein 2. We assess the Company’s sustainable development strategy and cover major social, economic and environmental events related to Review 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of Prioritization 5.1 Employees’ Rights, Investor FAQs our strategies, risks and opportunities. Internal evaluation Human Internationally proclaimed human rights Feedback Questionnaire Rights 3. We refer to the social responsibility initiatives and standards from readers Seminars 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 5.1 Employees’ Rights, Investor FAQs proposed by NGOs for topic selection. These include ISO26000 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the (Guidance on Social Responsibility). 5.1 Employees’ Rights, Investor FAQs effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. Topics are selected based on the comprehensive assessment of Validation Labour 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5.1 Employees’ Rights, Investor FAQs Content development stakeholders’ concerns and their impact on the Company’s strategies. Rights 5. The effective abolition of child labour 5.1 Employees’ Rights, Investor FAQs The time span and the scope of impact for each specific topic are Department review Executive approval 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment clearly defined to ensure the accuracy of the information disclosed. 5.1 Employees’ Rights, Investor FAQs and occupation 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 3.5 Response to Climate Change About This Report Message from the Chairman, Interview with Environment 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental the President, 3.2 Enhancing Operational Safety, Protection responsibility 3.3 Ecological Protection, 3.4 Promoting Energy This report illustrates activities the Company undertook in 2015 pursuant to its ongoing commitment to advance the community, the economy Conservation, 3.5 Response to Climate Change and the environment. All information disclosed in this report was sourced from PetroChina’s official documents and statistics as well as from statistics gathered from the Company’s affiliated enterprises. It takes into account the Company's development priorities and stakeholder 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 3.5 Response to Climate Change concerns. This report has been reviewed in accordance with the Company’s Rules for Information Disclosure Control and Disclosure Procedures. For friendly technologies continuity and comparability purposes, this report provides explanations on past and future initiatives on certain issues. Message from the Chairman, About PetroChina, Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption of all kinds, Integrity and Compliance-based Corporate This report is formulated according to the key principles of accuracy, transparency and consistency. We took reference from the Guideline on Corruption including extortion and bribery Governance, Investor FAQs Preparing the Report on Performance of Corporate Social Responsibility issued by the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting Guide issued by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Furthermore, we continued to consult the Sustainability Reporting Guideline (Version 4.0) released by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability (2015) copublished by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum Institute (API). As Approach to Concerns of a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we report our progress in compliance with the Ten Principles and will submit the report to be posted on UNGC’s website (http://www.unglobalcompact.org). Reporting stakeholders This report includes a set of Forward-Looking Statements. Excluding historical facts, all events that may or will occur (including, but not limited to, premise, objectives, estimation and business plans) and descriptions of such events are categorized as Forward-Looking Statements. Due to the presence of external uncertainties, actual outcomes or the future climate may differ from those expressed This report focuses on major international in the Forward-Looking Statements. As the Forward-Looking Statements were made prior to December 31, and domestic events related to the 2015, PetroChina holds no responsibility or liability for any modifications made subsequent to the said date. sustainable development of the Company Investor FAQs and its subsidiaries. Media monitoring Thank you for taking the time to read this report. We welcome any comments and suggestions you may have as Field research we believe that your feedback can improve our performance. This report is published, along with the Company’s Site interview Annual Report 2015 in March 2016, in simplified Chinese, traditional Chinese and English. In the case of any Requirements of NGOs discrepancy, the version in simplified Chinese shall act as the lead publication. Please visit our website (www. You can log on to our website petrochina.com.cn) for more information or to download the electronic version of this report. www.petrochina.com.cn or Major economic, environmental and social impacts of the Company scan the QR code to browse Major policies, projects, strategies, risks and opportunities of the Company The Board and all the Company’s directors hereby certify that there are no misrepresentations, misleading or download the electronic statements or material omissions in this report. Furthermore, we jointly and severally accept full responsibility for version of this report and the truthfulness, accuracy and completeness of this report. learn more about us.
