AkzoNobel Sustainability UN Global Compact CoP UN Global Compact AkzoNobel has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2004. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact are included in the AkzoNobel Code of Conduct. The way in which we support and enact the principles are included in the relevant section in the AkzoNobel report and website. The Ten Principles The UN Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development • The United Nations Convention Against Corruption The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. 2015 Summary AkzoNobel Communication on Progress Principle of the UNGC AkzoNobel Report 2015 Human 1. Businesses should support and respect the Governance and compliance: rights protection of internationally proclaimed Compliance and integrity human rights; and management 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Governance and compliance: association and the effective recognition of Compliance and integrity the right to collective bargaining; management 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and Sustainability Statements: compulsory labour; Employees and community 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environ7. Businesses should support a precautionary Sustainability Statements: ment approach to environmental challenges; Value chain management, 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environment environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption Governance and compliance: corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Compliance and integrity bribery. management The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
