UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 1 Contents THE MANAGING PARTNER AND THE CSR PARTNER TAKE STOCK Legal advice As a leader, we take responsibility As a leading Danish law firm we hold a special position in a community founded on the rule of law. There is a connecting thread between our provision of the best possible legal advice in the largest and most complex cases and our Corporate Our aim is to attract and retain clients requesting the most informed and specialised legal advice in Legal advice 3 the market. That is why our partners (the owners of the firm) have committed each other to provide Social Responsibility work aimed at making the greatest possible positive difference. Plesner’s CSR programme is one of the most far-reaching prolegal advice of the highest ethical and professional standard. Social and environgrammes in the industry. Through the programme we have committed We only employ people who are the best in their fields and we strongly believe in continued profesmental responsibility 4 ourselves to provide legal advice in accordance with the highest ethical sional and personal development. We do this by setting up highly professional specialist departments and professional standards, to operate our firm in a socially and environand teams. We also maintain close international ties with leading law firms in all relevant countries. Employee satisfaction 4 mentally sound manner, to provide free legal advice and to support the local community in general. We still see really positive developments in all One of our partners has been appointed compliance officer and his primary task is to see to it that Women & their careers 5 these areas. external rules governing our profession are transformed into internal rules and to ensure compliance with these rules. It goes without saying that we comply with the Danish Act on Measures to Prevent Earlier this year we were named Nordic Law Firm of the Year by the Environment & climate 6 Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. We have also laid down restrictive rules for our recognised international law journal The Lawyer. It is the first time a partners’ and employees’ business activities outside the firm. And we have set up internal procedures Danish law firm has received such recognition. Naturally, the reasons for Pro bono 7 to prevent insider trading. Our compliance officer reports directly to the board of directors. the recognition primarily cite the quality of our legal work but Plesner’s dedicated work in respect of sustainability and social responsibility is also Supporting the local noted. The Lawyer emphasises Plesner’s school project as an initiative The past year community 9 that deserves special recognition. Both for making a positive difference in Plesner’s ambition is to be a market leader in providing legal advice in the most challenging and comselected schools with many pupils who are children of immigrant parents plex cases. During the past year our work has once again been noticed and we have received several How we implement and for the way the schools and Plesner collaborate to motivate and international top rankings, primarily based on interviews with law firms and clients. Chambers Global, Global Compact 11 inspire the pupils to understand the importance of education. Chambers Europe, Legal 500 and International Financial Law Review (IFLR) place Plesner in the highest Our strategy is collaboration. We contribute to the protection of the category (Band 1) in a number of legal practice areas. In the spring of 2016, Plesner also became the surrounding environment but we also place great emphasis on taking first Danish law firm ever to be named Nordic Law Firm of the Year by the recognised international law care of the internal environment. It is our highest priority for Plesner to journal The Lawyer. be a workplace where employees flourish and are given opportunities to Plesner is extremely restrictive when it comes to preventing and avoiding conflicts of interest. Our expand and continue to develop their skills. To that end, we will continue systems have been designed to catch and prevent any conflicts as early as possible. We have further to attract the best talents and to be the natural place for the best and developed the procedures which help us ensure that there are no conflicts of interests or loyalty when most forward-looking employees. During the past year, we have become we accept assignments. Before committing to an assignment, we also assess whether the client and even better at working across traditional professional boundaries and we the specific task comply with Plesner’s ethical standards. work as a team in everything we do because it creates the largest added value for our clients when we combine our joint expertise in our advice An important element of our CSR policy is that our working methods match the high reputation of the and our legal solutions. legal profession. We therefore find that it is both right, natural and responsible to offer our services to the General Council of the Danish Bar and Law Society, the supervising authority of the Danish law In our last CSR report we set a number of goals and supporting activities profession. In June 2015, Plesner Partner and Attorney Peter Fogh was elected as the new chairman for the coming period. We have met all our goals for the period. FurtherResponsible partner: Casper Münter more, the activities have provided insight and inspiration for new goals for of the General Council for the Danish Bar and Law Society for a period of four years. It is an important Text: Birgitte Boers, Ulla Schade the coming year and it is a pleasure to report to the UN Global Compact. position of trust that requires hard work, and it has an impact on the entire legal profession. Photo: Johannes Persson We want it to be meaningful to work at Plesner. We believe in continuous The coming year Layout: Doppel Design development and we believe that it is always possible to improve. During the coming year we will work on taking up and reinforcing our position as a market leading law firm in key legal practice areas. It is important to us that we continuously strengthen our ability to provide business-focused, value-adding and ethically unassailable legal advice to our clients. We will continue to work for human rights and corporate governance and fight corruption, supported by a number of newly developed tools to make compliance in these areas easier for businesses. Money Tom Kári Kristjánsson Casper Münter laundering and the financing of terrorism are generally subject to increased focus both in Denmark Managing Partner CSR Partner and internationally. The growing regulatory requirements for documentation pose an increasing challenge to the business community. Copenhagen, June 2016 2 3 Social and environmental Women and their careers The past year responsibility Our mentoring scheme for women lawyers has existed for two years. It has been the objective to provide our mentees with the necessary inspiration and support to consider careers as partners through menThe well-being and development of our employees are important focus areas in our CSR programme. toring and advice on development, training and career. Today, most of the women lawyers in the target Our employees are driven by the possibility of continued development. We believe that there is a direct group have been through mentor coaching and the response has generally been favourable. connection between the development of our employees, their well-being and our ability to deliver top As part of our work related to developing and retaining our female talents, we also organised semi-annual performances when we collaborate with our clients. We therefore continuously focus on how we organise panel discussions about relevant topics during the past year. ourselves, how we grow as individuals and as a team, and how we best strengthen the working environment In that context, Plesner’s own role models have been important guides to the career as a partner. In the and well-being in everyday life by continuously providing training to the heads of the various practice areas. autumn of 2015, seventeen women lawyers took part in a panel discussion with three of Plesner’s top We make a determined effort to develop all our talented employees and their careers. At the same time we women lawyers who told them about their way to becoming partners and how to handle any challenges make a special effort to ensure that female talents receive the necessary support to consider future careers on the way. The partners’ personal and professional stories formed a good basis for the subsequent as partners, for example through special programmes and mentoring schemes. discussion. Many questions centred on work-life balance and the extent to which it is possible to combine As a socially responsible firm, we also want to contribute to improving the environment. In our continued career dreams with a family life. The participants also asked about the partners’ own career planning and efforts to limit Plesner’s environmental impact, we concentrate on four areas: reducing our energy conthe priorities women need to address when they choose a career as a partner. The discussion also focused sumption and carbon emissions, making environmentally sound purchases, managing waste with focus on on the advantages and disadvantages of being a woman partner in a business dominated by men, and recycling and using as many organic products as possible in our staff canteen. the necessity of forming professional, inspirational and mentoring networks. The responses to this type of meeting were positive and in June 2016 it was followed up by a similar panel discussion. Three male partners shared their stories about career choices and how to ensure a sound Employee satisfaction balance between work, leisure and family. The focus was also on the work involved in developing an independent business, including how to attract and retain clients. For instance, the participants inquired The past year about the work required by the three partners, their good and bad experiences and how they have been We want our employees to be among the most satisfied employees compared with those of our peers. supported by Plesner’s organisation during the process. Accordingly, we constantly work on improving our corporate culture and our collaboration culture across practice areas and specialist fields. We do this by ensuring an open dialogue, recognition and constructive feedback. During the past year we continued the intensive work related to obtaining high quality feedback provided by the heads of our departments in connection with performance assessments. Strong collaboration across genders, generations, professional competences and personalities is one of the fundamental values that is to help us reach our strategic objective. That is why we have worked intensively with the Jungian Type Index (JTI), a typology tool used for the development of both leaders, employees and teams, during the past year. Through the active use of JTI we gain insight into the differences and dynamics that are in play when we solve problems, make decisions, establish relationships and communicate with each other. In that way we train and develop our ability to collaborate, and differences actually turn into strengths. At the same time the individual employee becomes more aware of the areas in which he or she may potentially grow; all for the benefit of both the collaboration culture in the organisation and our ability to provide high quality solutions. A strong culture is crucial for collaborating effectively across practice areas. During the past year social and professional activities such as soccer, Friday afternoon staff get-togethers, the DHL Relay Race, a wine club, an arts society, a Plesner Day and professional training and education have contributed significantly to our Women & their careers teamwork and well-being. • 58 partners – 9 of whom are The coming year women • 62 attorneys – 28 of whom are We will continue giving priority to social and professional events in order to support the special Plesner women culture. • 57 assistant attorneys – 23 of whom The next natural step to ensure the general well-being will be to focus on how our increased self-insight and are women strengthened collaboration relations will enable us to further develop team collaboration in future. We have appointed JTI ambassadors in all departments. The ambassadors are to ensure that the tool is implemented in everyday life and that it enables us to provide even better service to our clients. 4 5 The coming year Our evaluations show that the mentoring scheme for women lawyers has European award for encouraging Pro bono been a success and we therefore have a strong wish to continue the scheme. However, a permission from the Danish Ministry of Justice is required to careers As a central element of our CSR work we have committed ourselves to use our core competence, legal continue such an initiative beyond a two-year period and we do hope that For the third year running knowledge, for charitable work in our local community. The primary goal is clear: to support a good our application will be granted. We are also still working on ensuring the Plesner has been named the best cause in our local community by offering to provide free legal advice to selected charitable organisations, participation of relevant profiles from the Danish business community to be Danish law firm in the category focusing in particular on helping children and young people as well as people who are seriously ill. able to make the best possible mentoring available to our mentees. “Europe Women in Business Law 2016”. We consider the award Our provision of legal advice goes hand in hand with charity and developing the skills of law students. As During the coming year we will continue organising panel discussions about the only law firm in Denmark we provide pro bono advice in collaboration with the Legal Debate Society at from the leading international topics that will appeal to and inspire our female talents. We are also considthe University of Copenhagen. The purpose of the collaboration, known as Student Volunteers, is for law financial journal Euromoney to ering other initiatives that will inspire our woman lawyers to become Plesner students, supported by lawyers from Plesner, to get an opportunity to become involved and strengthen be a significant recognition of partners. their legal skills through practical work experience and at the same time to discover how rewarding our efforts to motivate talented women lawyers to become voluntary work can be. Accordingly, this is a pro bono collaboration that creates value for all parties. Environment and climate partners. The past year The past year During the past year Student Volunteers has also undergone a positive development that benefits charitable organisations as well as law students and Plesner employees. Today, we provide pro bono advice to Our energy consumption is comparable with that of last year and that is seven charitable organisations (see the box) and they all indicate that they consider it a very valuable and consistent with our goal for the period and must therefore be described as professional collaboration. Both students and our own employees take pride in the help they are involved satisfactory. Retaining this level is a result of several energy-saving initiatives in providing on a voluntary basis. taken in recent years, including replacing most light sources with LED lights and optimising all technical plants. During the past year, we have reached our goal to reduce our paper consumption by 5%, primarily as a result of an active effort to reduce the Within the framework of Student Volunteers we receive very diverse legal work from the charitable number of printouts . As far as waste is concerned, our business partner Stena Recycling has advised that we have reached our goal, i.e. maximum recycling of the total quantity of waste. The result has been reached through consistent sorting Selected organisations and handling of our waste. Student Volunteers provide advice to the following Danish charitable organisations: The coming year • Bryd Tavsheden (Break the Silence a We will continue to monitor our energy consumption closely and aspire to Danish non-governmental organization for use the technically most energy-efficient solutions. We will also work actively individuals exposed to domestic violence) to ensure further improvements by changing people’s behaviour. Even if the • Børns Vilkår (Children’s Welfare) effect may seem negligible, we believe that additional energy may be saved • Julemærkefonden (The Christmas Seal during the coming period when we will focus on completely shutting down Foundation) computers at night and turning off lights when we leave our offices. • Red Barnet Ungdom (Danish Child Rights As far as purchases are concerned, it is our goal to continue the positive Ambassadors) development and to reduce our paper consumption by another 5% during • Scleroseforeningen (The Danish Multiple the coming year. It is also our goal to continue the positive development in Sclerosis Society) the area of waste management in order also to ensure maximum recycling of • Make-A-Wish Ønskefonden (The Make-Athe total quantity of waste during the coming period. Wish Foundation) • Muskelsvindfonden (The Muscular DystroIt is our goal to increase the percentage of organic products served in our phy Foundation) canteen and at meetings and obtain the silver badge issued by the Danish Veterinary and Food Administration. In order to do so, we constantly have to use 60-90% organic raw materials and other products. 6 7 Supporting the local community organisations. It makes demands on the professional skills and qualifications of the law students selected every six months to join the collaboration. All work is performed in close cooperation with experienced Plesner lawyers and it covers all important aspects of commercial law. The collaboration includes everything from small assignments on an ad hoc basis such as drafting and We believe that it is a fundamental human right for everyone, regardless of their backgrounds, to have fair and quality checks of contracts and agreements to large and more complex issues requiring legal expertise. equal access to education. Some people do, however, grow up in environments that do not fully appreciate or Examples of Plesner’s assistance to the organisations: give priority to education. We wish to make a positive difference by supporting the start-up of school projects. The object of the school project is to encourage the pupils to understand the importance of school and • Drafting and/or reviewing rental and leasing agreements education and to motivate them to focus on the many job opportunities and the choice that may become • Drafting and/or reviewing employment and collaboration agreements available through further education. • Handling disputes with third parties, including matters concerning the infringement of intellectual We have decided to enter into long-term collaborations with selected lower-secondary school classes at property rights two schools at Nørrebro in Copenhagen, Nørrebro Park Skole and Blågård Skole, where many pupils face • Closing down charities and other organisational changes both linguistic and social challenges. The collaboration also includes persons who have typically broken the established models for children of immigrant parents and who act as role models for the pupils by sharing • Providing advice on legal matters in relation to the organisation of charitable events their personal stories about breaking a negative social legacy. Today, the projects at the two schools take a very structured form and a Plesner lawyer is project coordinator Twenty students have provided advice as Student Volunteers during the most recent reporting period. at each school. In close collaboration with the schools we have, since 2011, followed selected pupils from More than forty Plesner assistant attorneys, attorneys and partners have spent more than 1,000 hours the 7th grade until they leave after their 9th grade exams. The role models meet with the pupils once a on pro bono project work. To this number should be added a significant number of hours invested by month for events, alternating between discussions in the classrooms and visits to selected companies where secretarial and administrative staff. the pupils get first-hand impressions of the many educational and job opportunities. The coming year We are convinced that the school project makes a positive difference by opening the pupils’ eyes to the many educational and job opportunities and by helping them decide which direction they wish to take. We continuously work on optimising and making the Student Volunteers project more professional in order to be able to provide the best possible service to the charitable organisations involved. Due to the The past year extensive coordination involved in screening and allocating work between the many parties involved in the Student Volunteers programme, we will also focus our attention on minimising the time spent on In June 2016, we completed our second school project at Nørrebro Park Skole when 40 pupils from two administration and coordination in order to free extra time for legal work. During the coming year we 9th grades passed their final exams. The pupils’ grades have risen steadily during the period of the project will work specifically on optimising our internal work procedures. It is expected that this will enable us and most of the pupils obtained very satisfactory examination results. Furthermore, the form teacher has to provide even quicker service to the present organisations, and to enable us to offer advice to an even reported that the pupils involved in the project have shown much greater interest in life and careers after larger number of charitable organisations. school. Dialogue and discussions with persons who have broken the established models Around 40 present and former pupils from Nørrebro Park Skole participated when Plesner, in November 2015, invited all participants in the school project to a whole day of presentations, discussions and guided tours of the firm. It was a successful event with many dedicated pupils who were eager to ask the various speakers questions. The pupils listened to Naser Khader who is a member of the Danish Parliament, an officer of the Danish Security and Intelligence Service (PET), the journalist Nagieb Khaja and Kabeer Takiar of the Copenhagen Police. The day provided an opportunity to train debating culture with the pupils and to teach them how to speak and listen respectfully to each other in spite of differences of opinion. Shaina Jabbar, a Plesner Partner and Attorney, who is responsible for the school project and herself a former a pupil at Nørrebro Park Skole, was very happy with the event that might be repeated as an annual tradition. 8 9 All 9th grade students have decided to continue their education; the majority continue in the 10th grade or in upper secondary school, while others have opted for vocational training. During recent years, we have worked with communication and presentation techniques as a part of the pupils’ personal development. The pupils have been trained to stand up in front of their classmates and introduce themselves in a safe environment where they have received affectionate and constructive feedback from role models and classmates. The pupils have shown great courage and commitment in accepting the challenge and have become better prepared for oral presentations. At a special final event in May 2016 we received very positive responses from both pupils and teachers, who all indicated that the project, and particularly the visits to companies, had been of great importance. Last year we parted company with the 9th grade pupils at Blågård Skole whom we had been following for the last three years. All the pupils involved in the project also decided to continue their education, most of them continued in the 10th grade, in upper secondary school or higher technical examination programmes. The teachers at Blågård Skole have no doubt that the school project has been important to the pupils’ development and well-being. In August 2015, we started collaborating with a new 7th grade at Blågård Skole. The first year is a running-in phase where we and the role models get to know the pupils through monthly meetings and visits to companies and work on building mutual trust and respect. This year we were again pleasantly surprised by the pupils’ ability to develop, come up with ideas and on the whole take a genuine interest in the project. The visits to companies are and will be a central element of the school project and the business community is increasingly aware of the project. Many companies wish to contribute by asking the young people to pay them a visit as part of their own CSR work aimed at children, young people and vulnerable people. At the The school project newspaper same time the companies have an interest in opening their doors to pupils who will become the employees feature, January 2015 of the future in a few years. The school project is also an inspiration abroad and in the course of the year we were contacted by a Norwegian law firm that wanted to learn about Plesner’s experiences as a possible basis for starting up a similar project. Berendsen Textil Service, Berlingske Media, Hass-Meincke, McDonald’s, the Danish Broadcasting Corporation and the Danish Parliament are among the companies the pupils have visited during the past year. The pupils have been welcomed everywhere and have received first-hand impressions of a normal day at various How we implement Global Compact workplaces through introductory presentations by many different employees. The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles Plesner’s CSR initiatives Human Rights: Human Rights: The coming year • Our firm should support and respect the protection of • Student Volunteers internationally proclaimed human rights within its sphere of • The School Project In the autumn of 2016, we will start our third collaboration with a new 7th grade at Nørrebro Park Skole. influence At Blågård Skole, the project continues with the pupils who are now starting in the 8th grade. We still have • Further and supplementary training of employees • Our firm is to make sure that it is not complicit in human rights • Leadership programme semi-annual status meetings with the school management and the teachers at both schools where we abuses Employee rights: evaluate the project and regularly adapt our expectations to each other. Employee rights: • Employee satisfaction surveys • Our firm should uphold the freedom of association and the Even if the general framework is rather firmly fixed and largely works, we continue working with new ideas effective recognition of the employee’s right to collective • Women and their careers that may develop and improve the school project. bargaining • Employee performance reviews • Our firm should support the elimination of all forms of forced • Quarterly reviews of assistant attorneys and In the projects we have completed until now, we have parted company with the pupils after the 9th grade. and compulsory labour legal interns However, we would like to learn about their progress after they have left the lower secondary school, and • Our firm should support the effective abolition of child labour The Environment: • Our firm should support the elimination of discrimination in • Reduction of energy consumption the pupils very much want to stay in touch, both with each other and with us. During the coming year we respect of employment and occupation • Reduction of paper consumption will therefore work more actively on monitoring the young people, for instance by using social media and by The Environment: • Electronic processes planning an informal annual reunion where we will learn how they are doing in respect of education or jobs. • Our firm should support a precautionary approach to environ • Environmentally labelled products mental challenges • Environmentally correct removal of waste During the past year some of the role models, who are all busy people with demanding careers, have been • Our firm should undertake initiatives to promote greater • Organic products in the staff canteen replaced. Therefore, it has been important to get new role models on board, and during the coming year environmental responsibility Anti-Corruption: we will make an effort to improve the collaboration and strengthen the relationships in the group. As a new • Our firm should encourage the development and diffusion of • Policy implemented – constant compliance initiative, we will introduce regular meetings for the role models. Partly so we and they can get to know each environmentally friendly technologies with legislation other better, partly to promote the development of new and creative ideas in order also to be able to inspire Anti-Corruption: • Our firm should work against corruption in all its forms, and motivate the pupils in the school project in future. 10 including extortion and bribery 11 Plesner is a leading law firm in Denmark, particularly focusing on transactions, complex dispute resolution and legal advice at executive level. Our aim is to become a market leader in our areas of priority and to maintain such status. We know that achieving this aim requires that Plesner constantly evolves and is Denmark’s most innovative law firm and the natural home for the best and most visionary people. Our ambition runs through everything that we do in Plesner. It governs our way of accumulating and sharing knowledge. It is crucial to our way of thinking and collaborating, our recruiting of staff and our acceptance of work and to the solutions that we provide. Plesner Amerika Plads 37 DK-2100 København Tel +45 33 12 11 33 Fax +45 33 12 00 14 www.plesner.com CVR 42938513 12
