United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2015 CONTENTS A message from our Managing Director 3 Who is the Intrepid Group? 4 1.0 Our approach: Having a purpose beyond profit 5 1.1 Our core values and purpose 6 1.2 Our vision 6 1.3 Our strategy 6 1.4 Our sustainability objectives 7 2.0 Stakeholders 8 3.0 Communication channels 8 4.0 Building a responsible travel culture 9 4.1 Staff engagement 9 4.2 Staff benefits 9 4.3 Customer satisfaction 10 5.0 The 5 P’s of sustainable development 11 5.1 People 11 5.2 Planet 13 5.3 Prosperity 18 5.4 Partnerships and peace 21 6.0 Awards and recognition 23 A MESSAGE FROM OUR MANAGING DIRECTOR In 2015 the Intrepid Group (IG) went through the most Intrepid Travel became a signatory to the United Nations Global significant change to our business since the company started Compact on 16 December 2008, but purpose beyond profit has 27 years ago, transitioning from a joint venture relationship with been a driving force behind Intrepid Travel since the company the world’s largest leisure travel company, TUI PLC, to become began in 1989. We have produced this Communication on a privately owned business once again. A key reason for the Progress Report as part of our commitment to the United Nations shareholder split was the desire for the Intrepid Group to have a Global Compact and in support of public accountability and purpose beyond profit. Such large scale change is not without transparency. This report is now Intrepid’ s sixth Communication its challenges; however, this change has opened up an exciting on Progress (COP). It builds on our previous COP reports and chapter for us as we take greater control of our direction. provides an update on our approach in addressing sustainability issues and the UNGC principles. In 2015, this meant that we were able to commit to some new sustainability initiatives; taking the first steps toward becoming There are many notable achievements in this report, but I believe a B Corp – a benefit corporation; working toward the 2030 the most noteworthy one is that this report marks a turning Sustainable Development Goals. We developed initiatives that point in our business: it is the first report produced for the new speak to the heart of our commitment of ‘purpose beyond privately owned Intrepid Group. profit’, such as our Namaste Nepal campaign which will see us Next year will see us furthering our progress to becoming a B donating season profits from our 2015/2016 Nepal trips to help Corp, working on addressing gender equality issues within our the country recover from the devastating earthquake last April. business, supporting innovative projects through the Intrepid We also developed, in partnership with Action Aid, a community Foundation, all while delivering Sustainable Experience Rich based tourism project in one of the most impoverished areas in Travel to our customers and changing the way people see the Myanmar to help communities in that region prosper. We have world. We look forward to reporting our progress on these goals also worked with an Indigenous group in Australia to develop in the next report. a trip that will generate income and help get the Olkola people For now, please take the time to read over this year’s living back on their recently reclaimed land. We facilitated a Communication on Progress. company-wide discussion on visits to orphanages, which led to us to change our policy and remove any visits to children’s shelters from our trips, worldwide. James Thornton Managing Director 3 Communication on Progress Report 2015 WHO IS THE INTREPID GROUP? Run by travellers, for travellers, The Intrepid Group is the world’s largest provider of adventure travel experiences, carrying over 250,000 passengers a year. Our brands – which form a part of the scope of this report – offer over 1,500 itineraries on every continent, catering for all ages, budgets and appetites for adventure. They are: Offers two tour styles, all of For young travellers aged Small group adventures that 39 years of experience which deliver an authentic taste in their 20s & 30s who want provide unforgettable real life delivering premium, expert-led of Australia, no matter your freedom, flexibility and fun. experiences for travellers on all adventures that delve beyond budget or desired Priced from just AUD 54 a day, budgets. the tourist must-sees and into comfort level. we’ve got big adventures for the culture of a destination small prices. without forgoing creature comforts. A global network of local Fun and adventurous Day tours with a difference! In Our not-for-profit, which Destination Management dedicated family holidays just a few hours, travellers get supports non-government Companies delivering quality to great locations with under the skin of the city so grassroots organisations around travel experiences. exceptional leaders, enabling they know it like a local. Best. the world. 100% of donations families to learn and play Day. Ever. go directly to projects. together. 4 Communication on Progress Report 2015 1.0 OUR APPROACH: HAVING A PURPOSE BEYOND PROFIT The Intrepid Group recognises the need for sustainable tourism and believes in the principles of responsible travel: Respect the destination including its culture, religion and customs Support local people and the local economy Preserve the environment through our operations, as well as the attractions that we visit Protect vulnerable people (including women, children and minority groups) as well as animals and wildlife Giving back through partnerships with local non-government organisations We are committed to maintaining our integrity, living our values and ensuring that we are fulfilling the purpose of our business by operating in a responsible manner. We are committed to addressing the Sustainable Development Goals while at the same time fulfilling our purpose: to provide our customers with ‘the best travel experience ever.’ 5 Communication on Progress Report 2015 1.1 OUR CORE VALUES AND PURPOSE SHARE OUR VALUES CREATE LEAD BOOK SELL MANAGE BUILD LIVE DESIGN OPERATE GROWTH Stakeholders in our own success the best travel experience ever RESPONSIBILITY 1.2 OUR VISION Think global, act local To change the way people see the world. 1.3 OUR STRATEGY INNOVATION We plan to work toward our vision and fulfil our purpose Thriving on new ideas by focusing on: and embracing change }} The growth of our business and }} Having a purpose beyond profit Underlining these focus areas are our key priorities for 2020: }} Having a company-wide digital mindset PASSION }} Leveraging our global Destination Management Companies (DMCs) We are inspired by the work we }} Focusing on expanding our Fully Independent Travel (FIT) range do and the trips we offer }} Ensuring success of our multi-brand business model }} Becoming a B Corp certified company FUN It’s ingrained into who we are and what we do INTEGRITY Doing the right thing 6 Communication on Progress Report 2015 1.4 OUR SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES Our sustainability objectives flow from the Intrepid Group’s overall strategy: becoming a business with a purpose beyond profit. These objectives focus on creating opportunities and impact through our business operations and nonprofit partners. Our key sustainability focus includes: }} Improving engagement with our travellers on sustainability issues }} Improving staff engagement }} Creating and adhering to global best practices }} Measuring the impact of our operations and partnerships We will align each of these key objectives with the 5 P’s of the UN Sustainable Development Goals People, Planet, Prosperity, Peace and Partnerships. Section 5 of this report explains in more detail how we apply these principles to the policies, actions and initiatives implemented as part of our sustainability strategy. 7 Communication on Progress Report 2015 2.0 STAKEHOLDERS The Intrepid Group sees a stakeholder as any party who can affect or be affected by our company’s operations. We believe that it’s important to listen, understand and respond to the views of our stakeholders and exceed their expectations of our business. Our stakeholders include (but are not limited to): }} Our staff }} Our travellers }} Potential travellers }} Joint venture partners }} Suppliers and Contractors }} Local communities }} Government bodies in destinations in which we operate }} Distributors/travel agents }} Travel industry associations 3.0 COMMUNICATION CHANNELS We communicate our sustainability performance to our stakeholders through a number of different channels: }} Annual Communications on Progress Report (available from our website) }} Our brand websites and blogs }} Our social media channels }} Staff training (leaders and office staff ) }} New staff induction sessions }} Public speaking events }} Newsletters }} Internally through Yammer (our internal communications platform) 8 Communication on Progress Report 2015 4.0 BUILDING A RESPONSIBLE TRAVEL CULTURE At The Intrepid Group, we’re genuinely committed to engaging in responsible operations and management, at all levels. We’ve integrated respect for people and the environment into our company culture in a variety of ways, most notably through the company’s core values, seen in section 1.1. 4.1 STAFF ENGAGEMENT Each year The Intrepid Group conducts a staff engagement survey to measure our staff satisfaction levels, as well as how well we’ve delivered on our sustainability objectives. Due to the business split and a return to private ownership in July 2015, a move that resulted in significant changes to the organisation structure and operating companies, a decision was made to defer last year’s staff engagement survey until 2016. Figure 1: Staff engagement results MEASURE 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 STAFF SURVEY N/A 3.85 3.85 4.05 3.98 3.85 4.2 STAFF BENEFITS As part of our permanent office-based staff’s overall benefits package, our team members are invited to join our leaders and customers on a ‘free of charge’ (FOC) Intrepid Group trip. The purpose of these trips is to provide a valuable insight into our operating practices, our destinations, the challenges facing our leaders and DMC staff, as well as our commitment to responsible business at a grassroots level. Staff that choose to take an FOC trip are encouraged to include visits to organizations we support through the Intrepid Foundation (‘the Foundation’). Upon their return to the home office they’re asked to provide training and information to other departments, customers and our DMCs about the trip. Intrepid Group has a staff shareholder scheme for the senior team, and have committed under our new private ownership to expand the scheme to reward staff in the wider team who are committed to the Intrepid Group’s values. In addition to the FOC benefit, full time staff receive 1 volunteer day each year, which they can spend volunteering with an organisation of their choice. In 2015, staff spent the day with Fareshare, an organization that provides healthy meals for Melbourne’s homeless and hungry, and The Fred Hollows Foundation, an Australian organization that carries out blindness prevention programs globally. 9 Communication on Progress Report 2015 4.3 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION We measure our trip performance by asking our travellers to complete comprehensive feedback forms upon their return. This provides the business with valuable data, allowing us to address areas that need improvement. As well as evaluating the overall satisfaction levels of our passengers, we also ask them to evaluate how well we’ve performed in the area of Responsible Travel. In 2015, we saw a slight improvement in the overall traveller experience rating across our three key brands: Intrepid Travel, Peregrine Adventures and Geckos Adventures. The Responsible Travel average score also increased, although we saw a slight decrease in our leaders’ overall Responsible Travel rating on Intrepid and Peregrine tours. In 2016 we will be working closely with our DMC global operations team to refresh and update our Responsible Travel leader training and to work with our regional offices and operating partners in an effort to improve our Responsible Travel performance overall. Figure 2: Customer Feedback Results CUSTOMER FEEDBACK RESULTS 2015 2014 2013 Overall Experience Average Intrepid 4.70 4.66 4.64 Overall Experience Average Peregrine 4.71 4.53 4.65 Overall Experience Average Geckos 4.68 4.62 4.71 Leader RT Average Intrepid 4.67 4.69 4.53 Leader RT Average Peregrine 4.65 4.69 4.27 Leader RT Average Geckos 4.67 4.64 4.32 RT Average – Intrepid 4.52 4.44 4.52 RT Average – Peregrine 4.50 4.34 4.36 RT Average – Geckos 4.57 4.44 4.42 RT = Responsible Travel | Scores are out of 5 10 Communication on Progress Report 2015 5.0 THE 5 P’S OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In previous Communications on Progress Reports, our sustainability initiatives have been categorized under the three pillars of social and economic responsibility and environmental preservation. In 2015, we have shifted to align our initiatives with the United Nations 5 P’s of Sustainable Development. This allows us to incorporate and acknowledge the important role collaborative partnerships and peace play in the development of sustainability initiatives. 5.1 PEOPLE The Intrepid Group is committed to protecting human rights within our sphere of influence and ensuring that all our people, including staff, travellers, suppliers, local communities and other stakeholders who are impacted by our business, are treated with fairness and respect. We’re also trying to engage our stakeholders on issues around responsible business in order to promote justice and equity across our global community and protect our most vulnerable societies. Examples of policies addressing our social responsibility: }} Responsible Travel Policy }} Responsible Travel Guidelines }} Intrepid Group Code of Conduct }} Prevention of Discrimination, Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace }} Porter Policy }} Global Human Rights Policy }} Supplier Code of Conduct 11 Communication on Progress Report 2015 Examples of actions: }} Staff training on Prevention of Bribery and Corruption; Discrimination, Bullying and Harassment; and Code of Conduct }} On-trip visits to community projects tackling social issues to raise awareness and engage passenger support for these projects }} Leader training on social issues in the areas in which they operate. This gives Leaders the skills to educate our passengers on issues such as cultural etiquette, prostitution and child safety }} Provide support for grassroots organisations around the world and assist local communities through The Intrepid Foundation Updated Child Protection Policy in 2015 The Intrepid Group regularly reviews our company policies to ensure that they are consistent and in line with our purpose and travel ethos. In 2015, we reviewed our position on visits to children’s residential homes and shelters (orphanages). After much consultation with our local and global staff, child protection agencies and some of our on-ground project partners, we have decided to stop visiting children’s shelters in 2016 and beyond, globally. We understand that there is a risk that our visitations to these homes could be too disruptive for the children, resulting in unintended negative outcomes. We recognise the fantastic work that our on-ground partners do to support families and to address genuine homelessness, abuse and neglect of children in their respective countries. We intend to continue our support of these partners through the Intrepid Foundation, though visits on our tours will cease. Creating work experience opportunities in Cambodia & Vietnam In 2015 we launched a new student work experience program in conjunction with two of our Intrepid Foundation partners: Blue Dragon (Vietnam) and Green Geckos (Cambodia), both of which provide support to at-risk youths. The initial pilot program began in Hanoi, where we created placements for seven students to accompany our tour leaders on Urban Adventure trips. The partnership was set up to help students gain valuable firsthand work experience and improve their English, while also providing the opportunity for travellers to interact with a local, ultimately deepening their understanding of the local culture and the challenges many people face in their day-to-day lives. We intend to expand this program next year. 12 Communication on Progress Report 2015 5.2 PLANET At the Intrepid Group we are committed to protecting the environment and using resources in an efficient, fair and responsible way. We want to ensure that our trips are designed to limit their physical and environmental impact, preserving destinations for generations to come. Examples of policies and guidelines addressing The Intrepid Group’s environmental impact: }} Responsible Travel Policy and guidelines }} Responsible Travel guidelines for passengers }} Carbon Management Program }} Supplier Code of Conduct Through training and operational activities, our Carbon Management Program continues to create awareness of the importance of addressing climate change among our stakeholders, including staff, passengers and suppliers. Examples of environmental: Intrepid Travel achieved carbon neutral status in late 2010. Each year The Intrepid Group (IG) measures its main sources of carbon emissions: emissions from our trips and our offices around the world. The volume of carbon emissions for the 2015 financial year (FY) totalled 36,483 tonnes. Of this amount, trip emissions account for 89% of total emissions and office emissions account for 11% (see chart below). Our offices include 6 sales office and 16 Destination Management Company (DMCs) offices located around the world. Figure 3: Intrepid Group Total Emissions 2015 Office Emissions 11% Trip Emissions 89% We work hard to reduce our existing emissions, and seek less carbon-intensive alternatives where possible. We then balance the remaining emissions by purchasing carbon credits from internationally verified carbon reduction projects. Since 2010, this process has resulted in significant monetary contributions of over $1.4 million AUD to internationally certified carbon abatement projects. Our 2015 projects are outlined on the next page. 13 Communication on Progress Report 2015 REDD+ (Kenya) It is estimated that deforestation accounts for 18% of global carbon emissions. We have invested in the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD) project in Kenya, which is aimed at preventing unplanned deforestation and degradation of forests that are home to vulnerable species such as the African Elephant, cheetah, lion, African hunting dog and Grevy’s zebra. Water Filters (Cambodia) Investing in this project provides access to clean drinking water for an estimated 400,000 people and saves 43,087 tonnes of CO2 from entering the atmosphere. Cookstoves (Cambodia) This project aims to reduce wood consumption in order to protect Cambodia’s forests. The goal of this project is to facilitate a nationwide shift in Cambodia from inefficient exploitation of wood fuel to sustainable and efficient use of biomass. Wind Farm (Turkey) Our support of this Gold Standard project involves the installation of 15 turbines in Turkey, saving 67,570 tonnes of CO2 from entering the atmosphere each year. OFFICE EMISSIONS: The Intrepid Group adopts the following principles to manage the environmental footprint of our offices and stores globally: Measure emissions from electricity, gas, waste, business travel, etc. Avoid emissions by adopting energy efficiency measures, such as setting our monitors to dim after two minutes and go into sleep/standby mode after five minutes of inactivity. Our computers are set to sleep mode after 15 minutes. We also encourage video conferencing rather than travelling for face-to-face meetings, using energy efficient lights, natural light, and encouraging people to turn off lights when not in use. Reduce paper use and our waste sent to landfill. Offset whatever we can’t avoid by investing in high-quality renewable energy projects. The Intrepid Group has an ongoing company-wide sustainability commitment to reduce our office carbon emissions. Over the past five years we have reduced the carbon footprint of our sales office, based on per full time employee (FTE). The total emissions for 2015 were 26.6 tonnes per FTE, an all-time low since we first started measuring our emissions in 2011. Figure 4: IG Sales office total t-CO2-e (Per FTE) 41.9 36.7 32.5 33.3 26.6 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 15 Communication on Progress Report 2015 Our head office continues to operate with a comprehensive waste management system that reduces the amount of waste we send to landfill, and our global offices continue to work on improving their carbon footprint. In Cambodia the office is powered by a generator that runs on biodiesel, which has been made from recycled cooking oil by Naga Biofuels. The office has been working with some of its suppliers to either provide waste cooking oil to Naga Biofuels or to purchase biodiesel. Other initiatives to reduce our office footprint include the washing of our trucks with grey water in Africa, using energy efficient lighting and close monitoring of the use of energy-intensive air conditioners. In 2014, marketing paper accounted for 36% of total office emissions; in 2015 this has been reduced to 22%. However staff flights now account for 64% of total emissions in 2015, compared to 55% in 2014. This can be attributed to both better reporting of staff air travel as well as an increase in the number of flights taken by staff. In 2016 the business has set a goal around reducing staff flights by 15%. Figure 5: 2015 IG C02 Office Emissions By Source Waste 1% Office Paper 1% Marketing Paper 22% Company Vehicles 2% Natural gas (grid) 0.21% Electricity 10% Flights 64% TRIPS The majority of the Intrepid Group’s trips (including our Intrepid, Peregrine and Geckos brands) are carbon offset (that’s over 1300 trips!). We measure and offset the main sources of the emissions created on our trips by our passengers. These are: Transport Accommodation Waste 16 Communication on Progress Report 2015 LOW IMPACT TRIPS We use public transport on our trips where possible, stay in simple, locally-owned accommodation, and eat at locally-owned restaurants where the food has been sourced close-by, has lower food miles and a smaller carbon footprint. Our trips across the Intrepid, Peregrine and Geckos brands produced over 30,000 tonnes of carbon emissions in the 2015 financial year, all of which were offset into the internationally accredited projects mentioned previously under ‘Examples of environmental actions’ on page 14. The operations of our trips continue to be our main source of emissions (as indicated below). Our on-ground operations teams are continually looking at ways of reducing the level of emissions generated by our trips, and there are number of ways we’re looking to improve our performance, including upgrades to our vehicle fleet. In 2015 there was a slight decrease in trip emissions compared to previous years, primarily due to fewer numbers of trips operating in our more carbon intensive regions where flights and trucks are used. Figure 6: Trip C02 emissions year on year 26 300 33 929 32 539 Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes 2013 2014 2015 OTHER ANNUAL ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES: }} We include information in all our trip notes about how our travellers can reduce plastic water bottle waste and obtain safe drinking water without purchasing plastic water bottles. }} We provide travellers in many locations with a cloth bag made by a fair trade supplier, and we encourage travellers to ‘say no to plastic bags’ when they shop. }} The Intrepid Group head office hosts a local tree planting day, where staff and travellers plant around 1,000 indigenous trees and shrubs in Melbourne’s Yarra River corridor. This activity has been organised annually since 2000 and is now held every two years. }} Our head office waste management system includes compost bins for all our fruit and vegetable scraps, tea bags and coffee grounds. 17 Communication on Progress Report 2015 5.3 PROSPERITY We are committed to ensuring that the business’ earnings are distributed in a way that is beneficial to our staff, host communities, suppliers and other key stakeholders, while achieving responsible and sustainable growth of the Intrepid Group and our associated companies. We endeavour to implement best practices in everything we do and fight corruption in all its forms. Examples of policies addressing our economic responsibility }} Responsible Travel Policy }} Responsible Travel Guidelines }} Global Remuneration Process }} Intrepid Group Code of Conduct }} Prevention of Discrimination, Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace }} Supplier Code of Conduct Examples of actions that address our economic responsibility Our trips are designed to ensure that we support local communities by: }} Hiring local leaders and staff in destinations where the Intrepid Group operates, contributing directly to local employment and ensuring competitive local remuneration }} Using locally-owned ground transportation and accommodation }} Supporting local eateries and vendors on our tours }} Incorporating local public transport on our trips }} Investing in renewable energy projects that support the local economy through temporary and permanent employment Taking travellers on Intrepid Group trips to more than 120 countries around the globe brings significant economic benefits into these countries through the local procurement of transport, accommodation and activity services as included in our trips. Our Sustainable Experiences with Communities Program Since Intrepid Travel was first established in 1989, real life experiences have been at the core of the business’ tourism product. In 2014 we developed our Sustainable Experiences with Communities (SEC) initiative: an effort to create new opportunities for guests to interact and engage with local communities. In 2015 we developed two new SEC’s in Northern Australia and in Myanmar. Both were developed in partnership with community organizations and partner NGO’s to develop sustainable livelihoods for the participating communities. 18 Communication on Progress Report 2015 Olkola Aboriginal Tourism After more than 30 years of negotiations, nearly 800,000 hectares of Olkola land was given back to its traditional owners in 2015. It was one of the biggest land handovers in Queensland’s history. In the same year, we formed a partnership with the Olkola Aboriginal Corporation to assist with the development of their tourism business. In August of 2015, Intrepid operations staff carried out guide training and, together with the Olkola, ran a pilot trip to test a new tour itinerary created to bring people on-country and be hosted by Olkola guides. In collaboration with the Olkola, the Australian Conservation Foundation (ACF) and Intrepid Travel, a group of 11 ACF supporters travelled to Cape York to be a part of an additional pilot trip, guided by several Olkola elders. In June of 2016, the Olkola will begin hosting regular Intrepid Travel groups. The aim is to achieve the Olkola’s goal of creating sustainable livelihoods for their community, and to bring more Olkola people to live back on-country. Myanmar Community Tourism Project Journeys Adventure Travel/PEAK, Intrepid Group’s destination management company in Myanmar, has recently launched a new community-based initiative, created through a partnership with Action Aid. In Myaing, on the outskirts of Bagan, ActionAid has created a community-run lodge where guests are housed in local-style accommodation, adjacent to villages. As part of a two-day itinerary offered on an Intrepid Travel tour, travellers have the opportunity to explore the area’s ecosystem, participate in activities organized by the local community and experience village life. The goal of this project is to create economic opportunities that are sustainable, local-led and that provide benefit to the community as a whole; all while creating minimal disruption to the local environment or existing way of life. With traveller numbers to Myanmar reaching more than 3.5 million in 2014, this initiative will help the communities in Myaing capture some of the country’s burgeoning tourism revenue. $10 per guest will be earmarked for a Community Development Fund, which will help the community implement its own development plans. These may include building new roads, a school or installing proper irrigation and running water. In 2016 we expect to bring more than 1,000 guests to the Myaing community. Feedback from travellers who have visited the community on our Best of Myanmar tour has already been very positive. As well as supporting the community through group visits, travellers can support women-led Self Help Groups (SHG) which have been set-up with support from Action Aid in four local communities. Through the Intrepid Foundation, our staff and travellers can support this micro-loan program that enables women to invest in existing or new businesses. This, in turn, will help women and their families create more sustainable livelihoods. 19 Communication on Progress Report 2015 Visit: www.intrepidtravel.com/au/olkola Namaste Nepal campaign On April 25th 2015 a devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck Nepal, causing tremendous damage and the loss of more than 8,000 lives. Through the Intrepid Foundation, Intrepid Travel immediately launched an appeal for donations, raising AUD $400,000 in just under a month. Following on from the initial Earthquake Appeal, Intrepid Travel launched the Namaste Nepal campaign, encouraging travellers to visit Nepal and help the country get back on its feet. Trekking and tourism are some of Nepal’s largest sources of external revenue; the industry employs hundreds of thousands of locals, approximately 5% of the population, and contributes to the economy in many different ways. Many of our leaders, porters and staff in Nepal rely on travellers for their livelihoods. Without tourism, the country suffers. For the 2015/2016 trekking season (Sep-May) Intrepid will donate all of the profits from its Nepal trips to 5 local organizations through the Intrepid Foundation. These include: Just-one Nepal – a charity working to educate marginalized children Seven Women – a project that offers skills training to local unemployed and disabled women Himalayan Rescue Association – an organisation working to prevent death and illness in the mountains of Nepal Plan International – an international NGO focusing on ‘building back better’ supporting people and communities as they rebuild homes and schools that can withstand the shocks and stresses of future earthquakes. World Wildlife Fund – an environmental organisation focusing on restoring the Langtang area ITS GO TO OF N PR E L AL PA L just-one 20 Communication on Progress Report 2015 Visit: www.intrepidtravel.com/return-nepal 5.4 PARTNERSHIPS AND PEACE As a global tourism company, we recognize the integral role collaborative, crosscultural partnerships have in ensuring our success as a business. Many of the policies outlined in the People, Prosperity and Planet sections of this report have been put in place to support the development of healthy partnerships across our business. We apply these same principles to the relationships we’ve built with the organizations supported by our non-profit, The Intrepid Foundation. With more than 50 partners in 28 countries, we are creating opportunities for our travellers and staff to support sustainable development initiatives in the many places in which our tours operate. THE INTREPID FOUNDATION IN 2015 In 2015, The Intrepid Foundation distributed its thirteenth round of funding: AUD $808,240 was disbursed to our various projects, partners and appeals. This amount represents contributions from travellers and staff, as well as matching funds contributed by the Intrepid Group itself. The funds are distributed between the areas outlined below. FINANCIAL OVERVIEW FOR FY15: Community projects $351,215 was disbursed to non-government organisations in destinations visited by the Intrepid Group. We support projects working in the areas of: healthcare, education, human rights, child welfare, gender equality, sustainable development and environmental and wildlife protection. In the 2015 financial year, we raised funds for 46 community projects. Perpetual fund partners The Intrepid Foundation donated $457,025 to our perpetual partners in 2015. We supported the work of respected international non-government organisations including: Amnesty International, Australian Conservation Foundation, Plan and World Animal Protection. The volume of donations raised for our perpetual partners increased considerably in 2015, largely as a result of our Namaste Nepal Appeal, which supported Plan’s efforts to rebuild schools and create safe places for children affected by the 2015 earthquake. Emergency appeal contributions In response to the Nepal Earthquake in April of 2015, the Foundation raised $379,825 for Plan. In August, we also raised over $17,000 in support of communities affected by severe flooding in Myanmar. 21 Communication on Progress Report 2015 Visit: www.theintrepidfoundation.org EXAMPLES OF OUR REGIONAL PARTNERS IN 2015 EUROPE Nochlezhka work to provide food, health and social services to the most vulnerable in Russian society; those who exist outside the housing and labour market. Their St Petersburg Night Bus provides meals to approximately 150 people, 5 nights a week. In 2015 the Foundation supported Nochlezhka in operating two ‘Heating Centres’ through the winter months. These heated tents provide emergency shelter for the homeless, plus the support of a SOUTHEAST social worker, food and medicine as ASIA AFRICA needed. In Vietnam, Blue Dragon’s primary aim is to We support Education East rescue kids from danger, reunite them with Africa (formerly Village Education their families when possible, and provide all the Project Kilimanjaro) and their work services needed for recovery and growth. These training teachers in Tanzania. In 2015 our include education, nutrition, health care, support helped fund the development counselling, physical and creative activities, of specialised mathematics teaching rescue, legal advocacy, safe shelter materials, which were printed in SOUTH ASIA and a warm environment. Swahili. Pollinate Energy is a social business with a simple mission – to improve the lives of India’s urban poor by giving them access to affordable products. With a focus on sustainable solutions, such as solar lights and improved cook stoves, locals are able to reduce indoor smoke, have better quality light, use less fuel and save money. In 2015 our support helped Pollinate expand into Bangalore and test new products to add to their ‘Pollinators’ product offerings. AUSTRALIA AND THE PACIFIC In 2015, the Foundation supported Australian LATIN AMERICA Conservation Foundation’s efforts to protect and Kusimayo, a Quechua phrase meaning Happy conserve the Kimberley’s natural and cultural heritage. River, improves the living conditions of children and The Intrepid Foundation is also assisting the Kokoda Track adults affected by poverty and malnutrition in one of Foundation with improving access to education and Peru’s poorest regions: the high plains of Puno. health services in Papua New Guinea’s Manari village. In the Galapagos Islands, the Intrepid Foundation also In 2015, the Foundation supported the salaries for supports FUNDAR, the organization that runs the three teachers and an aid worker. Pajaro Brujo Reserve. Within the reserve, FUNDAR offers training for locals on organic farming, reforestation and youth leadership skills. SUPPORTING PEACE THROUGH THE INTREPID FOUNDATION For many years the Intrepid Foundation has supported organizations advocating for the protection of basic human rights. In 2015 we formed a new partnership with Support to Life (Hayata Destek in Turkish), an organization providing support services for refugees who have been displaced by war and conflict. We are currently supporting Support to Life’s new community centre, which will provide support services and skills-training to refugees in Istanbul. Through our partnership with Support to Life and other aid organizations, we hope to contribute (even in a small way) to helping communities rebuild their lives and find peace after being impacted by conflict and war. LAUNCHING OF IN FOCUS TOURS Urban Adventures, an Intrepid Group brand that offers shorter city-based experiences (a few hours or a day), have launched a new series: In Focus tours. These are run in conjunction with local NGOs, non-profits, and accelerators around the globe. Urban Adventures works with these groups on the ground to develop experiences that show travellers what their projects are about, and how they’re giving back to the community. The focus is on a destination and its issues, and on what’s being done to make things better. These tours are about understanding local issues and supporting start-up projects in a sustainable way. We want to help local businesses get off the ground, to see independent entrepreneurs succeed, and to make tourism a tangible force for good. There are currently six In Focus tours on offer, from sharing snacks with locals in support of single mother entrepreneurs, to seeing city sites with a guide who’s escaping life on the streets. 6.0 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION In 2015, we were proud to see our brands receive the following awards: }} Urban Adventures won the World Responsible Tourism Award for 'Best for Engaging People and Culture' }} Intrepid Travel won 'Best Tour Operator 2015 Rough Guides Reader Awards' }} Adventure Tours Australia won Golden Backpack Awards for 'Best Tour/Activity in Western Australia’ and ‘Best Tour/ Activity Australia Wide' 23 Communication on Progress Report 2015 Visit: www.urbanadventures.com/in-focus Intrepid group supports the United Nations Global Compact & Principles THE PRINCIPLE AREA COLOURS HUMAN RIGHTS OJOTQJSBUJPOBMHVJEFUPJNQMFNFOUJOHUIF6OJUFE/BUJPOT(MPCBM$PNQBDU 5IFUFOQSJODJQMFTPGUIF LABOUR 6OJUFE/BUJPOT(MPCBM$PNQBDU ENVIRONMENT )VNBOSJHIUT #VTJOFTTFTTIPVMETVQQPSUBOESFTQFDUUIFQSPUFDUJPOPG ANTI-CORRUPTION PARTNERSHIPS JOUFSOBUJPOBMMZQSPDMBJNFEIVNBOSJHIUTBOE NBLFTVSFUIBUUIFZBSFOPUDPNQMJDJUJOIVNBOSJHIUTBCVTFT -BCPVSTUBOEBSET FOR DEVELOPMENT #VTJOFTTFTTIPVMEVQIPMEUIFGSFFEPNPGBTTPDJBUJPOBOEUIF FGGFDUJWFSFDPHOJUJPOPGUIFSJHIUUPDPMMFDUJWFCBSHBJOJOH UIFFMJNJOBUJPOPGBMMGPSNTPGGPSDFEBOEDPNQVMTPSZMBCPVS UIFFGGFDUJWFBCPMJUJPOPGDIJMEMBCPVSBOE UIFFMJNJOBUJPOPGEJTDSJNJOBUJPOJOSFTQFDUPGFNQMPZNFOU BOEPDDVQBUJPO  OJOTQJSBUJPOBMHVJEFUPJNQMFNFOUJOH UIF6OJUFE/BUJPOT(MPCBM$PNQBDU &OWJSPONFOU #VTJOFTTFTTIPVMETVQQPSUBQSFDBVUJPOBSZBQQSPBDIUP FOWJSPONFOUBMDIBMMFOHFT VOEFSUBLFJOJUJBUJWFTUPQSPNPUFHSFBUFSFOWJSPONFOUBM SFTQPOTJCJMJUZBOE FODPVSBHFUIFEFWFMPQNFOUBOEEJGGVTJPOPG FOWJSPONFOUBMMZGSJFOEMZUFDIOPMPHJFT OUJDPSSVQUJPO #VTJOFTTFTTIPVMEXPSLBHBJOTUDPSSVQUJPOJOBMMJUTGPSNT  JODMVEJOHFYUPSUJPOBOECSJCFSZ Level 4, 380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic, 3000 +61 3 8601 4301 // responsible.business@intrepidtravel.com United Nations Global Compact
