COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS BULGARIA INTRODUCTION Unimasters Logistics Plc is a next-generation Logistics Service Provider that makes any logistics project happen, thrive and prosper by creating customised solutions fitting the customer’s individual needs. We’ve been on the market for about 27 years living and breathing our values and principles of doing business thus bringing sustainability combined with innovative startup thinking both to the industry and our society. As an active participant in the UN Global Compact we have embedded the ten principles of the Compact in the company’s life and culture in Unimasters Logistics’ everyday activities each employee acts with attention to the human rights, upholds to high labour standards, respects the environment and follows high ethical and anti-corruption standards. The current report presents our activities in key areas and gives details on the integration of corporate and environmental responsibility into all aspects of our business in the period August 2015 August 2016. For additional information, please visit http://www.unimasters.com 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Dear Stakeholders, We are in a paradigm shift. Social media and digitalization are strong catalysts for enormous change in all aspects of industry and life. Therefore we at Unimasters work hard to change our way of communicating, collaborating and organizing things in such a way that we can reach wider audiences among enterprise and society with our supportive policies and actions, which are fully committed to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. These principles have made us leaner, flatter and more agile as we became more responsive, less hierarchical and more transparent in everything we did. We are now in a period of transition to a new stage as a next-generation enterprise in the “everything-as-a-service” economy. And this transition affects us very positively on all levels – social-, organizationaland individual level; on macro and micro level, too. We are most happy that we are among those companies, which include gender equality in their top business priorities along with diversity and inclusiveness. We have now more women in senior leadership and executive positions than men. By doing so we have changed the fabric of everyday work life by encouraging relentless execution, courageous entrepreneurship and persistent dedication, all of them being an inseparable part of women’s nature. Unimasters is a forward-thinking company that enables companies of all industries to improve their supply chains and gain greater efficiency. Our solutions are ideal for enterprises with intelligent approach to new technologies and ways of working. And we shall continue to deliver them consistently, enabling our clients and employees grow, develop and thrive in the new digital economy. Yours sincerely, Nikolai Bozhilov Executive Chairman HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Business must ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation COMMITMENT: Code of Business Ethics; Health & Safety Policy; Recruitment Procedure; Training procedure; 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 IMPLEMENTATION Every enterprise impacts the society by its business. Respecting the internationally recognised human rights requires socially responsible business to assess its impact upon them by considering the local and international challenges to the human rights, complying with all applicable laws and analysing the company’s relationships with Government, business partners, suppliers, etc. Supporting human rights requires actions that involve business in initiatives, programmes and projects for making a positive contribution to human rights, to promote or advance human rights. Unimasters Logistics conducts business in accordance with the laws and regulations and follows international guidelines and recognised principles for corporate responsibility, including standards for human rights and labour rights. The company has implemented and sustained the ISO Standards ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004, ISO 28000:2007, ISO 27001:2013,. The audit process for the last two years confirmed Unimasters Logistics’ full compliance with local laws, internal rules, policies and procedures. In its quest for continuous improvement the company outspread its values and principles over its suppliers by including additional requirements for safety at work, environment respect, laws and regulations compliance in the contracts with the suppliers. The company participated and contributed to human rights and to their promotion through core business activities, advocacy, partnership and collective action. In the beginning of November 2015 Unimasters Logistics held an Open-door event for the children of the company’s employees. The initiative was part of the UN Global Compact Network Bulgaria “Proud of my parents’ work” programme. The programme aims to demonstrate to children the role of labor as a necessity and value, that regardless of one's profession, every person is indispensable and useful to society. The programme creates empathy with the values of labor and progress in life as a result of personal qualities, capabilities and gained knowledge. During the open –door day Unimasters Logistics welcomed in its Varna and Sofia premises 56 children aged between 5-16. Through a specially developed learning program a team of 25 volunteers made the young guests familiar with the company’s business and the various professions involved. The children finished the day at the parents’ workplaces and became acquainted with their jobs and daily routine. The participation in the “Proud of my parents’ work” programme is in line with Unimasters Logistics’ desire to support the orientation of young people in choosing a profession and increase the interest of youngsters in key professions in the company. 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 IMPLEMENTATION In addition Unimasters Logistics continued its support for young people who are at the beginning of their logistics professional development – in the reported period 23 new employees entered the company and benefited the flexible work conditions and collaborative team support. Respect, tolerance and fairness, transparency, knowledge –sharing and innovation, safe and healthy work environment and freedom of association are the principles that move Unimasters Logistics towards its aim to be an employer of choice. The company continuously provides workplace free of discrimination and values individual abilities recognises creativity and actively promotes tolerance and diversity at every level of the business. Protection and support of vulnerable categories – pregnant women, mothers of children aged under 2 and handicapped people have always been a policy and practice at Unimasters Logistics. This group can benefit from favorable work conditions and flexible working hours provided by the company. In the reported period, 12% of the women in these categories have had flexible working time and 100% of the handicapped people have worked in alleviated work conditions. We are constantly developing our e-learning system, accessible for each employee, thus providing valuable know-how and expert points of view. The corporate edition – VISION, released for the first time at the end of January’2016 is a platform for everyone interested to share knowledge and passion for doing business or to give an opinion on various topics. In July’2016 Unimasters Logistics implemented Bitrix24 a complete suite of social collaboration, communication and free discussions between employees at every level of the organisation in order to bring transparency to the numerous projects and to foster communication within the company. Dedicated areas in the Sofia office were furnished and adapted to be places for gathering of those employees who wish to share knowledge, discuss a project or concentrate on a task. For the second consecutive year all employees were granted a complimentary 5 days paid leave on top of the one obligatory by law thus ensuring additional time for rest and leisure. As a socially responsible employer Unimasters Logistics continuously provides all employees with a safe working environment and protects their well-being. 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 IMPLEMENTATION In the reported period the company focused its efforts on increasing employees’ awareness on the dimensions and consequences of work-related accidents and diseases, followed by adequate precautionary measures for avoiding accidents and injury to health at the workplace. On top the regular safety trainings, drills and emergency exercises conducted in the company, in the reported period we celebrated the World Day for Safety and Health at Work. A lot of posters spotlighting risks and precautions were distributed in the offices. The employees were challenged to participate in games focused on identifying the potential risks for health and safety. The initiative continued throughout the reported period. Unimastes Logistics continued its support for the socially disadvantaged, the disabled, and families in need. The company’s employees were among the volunteers in an initiative of Holiday Heroes a non-profit association for public benefit which has partnered with Unimasters Logistics during the last three years. For Easter 2016 5,149 holiday boxes were packed and delivered to the homes of thousands of families in need across Bulgaria. It took four days of packing and delivery to bring about truly happy holidays for thousands of people. Unimasters Logistics supported the initiative in two ways – first by analysing the process of loading and delivery. Our volunteers managed to optimise the process thus making possible the initiative to reach a wider range of people across the country by shifting the boundaries beyond the city of Sofia and its region. The next step was the professional transport planning by the Transport Management System at Unimasters Logistics and the final stage of the process – the packed holiday boxes were loaded and delivered by Unimasters Logistics right to the doors of the beneficiaries. Apart from this initiative the company sustained its commitment to be an agent of positive change by encouraging its employees’ efforts to support their communities through participation in charitable activities. In the reported period both the company and its employees supported a gravely ill colleague and donated for the successful surgery of a child with cerebral paralysis. Many employees participated for a consecutive year in blood donation campaigns. We can proudly declare that during our more than 26-year company history there has been no incident related to human rights abuse or labor standards noncompliance. 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies COMMITMENT: Environmental Policy 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 IMPLEMENTATION Unimasters Logistics’ policies are tuned to measure the impact of our work on nature and humans, ensuring proper environmental stewardship for a greener and safer planet. In the reported period the continuous reduction of emissions and prevention of pollution remained an inherent part of all our activities. The Unimasters Logistics’ Environmental Management Committee undertook a comprehensive review of the environmental aspects assessment. The Committee members identified some new aspects to be monitored and minimised for example consumption of drinking water and discharge of wastewater, etc. Among the immediate activities and steps undertaken was the reduction of carbon emissions, wherever applicable. As a major participant in the transport sector we are actively working to decrease the environmental impact of our activities and reduce the use of energy and natural resources per unit transported. We have continued the upgrade of our transport management software and focused on a project for implementation of on-demand delivery platform which will improve the company’s visibility over last-mile deliveries. Besides multiple driver options the application allows Unimasters Logistics’ customers to see their moving shipments and sign for their items on a smartphone. The last mile services are a step towards the integration of e-POD in 2017 thus reducing company’s carbon print. 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMMITMENT: Code of Business Ethics; Corporate Compliance Policy 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 IMPLEMENTATION Unimasters Logistics has an internal Code of Business Ethics and procedures stating the principles for conducting the business in fair, transparent and legal manner. The documents have been made available to all employees. The Code includes Unimasters Logistics’ clear opposition to all forms of bribery and corruption. The company’s procedures are in place to ensure any suspicions of inappropriate conduct can be voiced. The company is subject to regular internal and external audits and has been actively engaged in the area of ethical conduct and compliance. All employees are required to immediately report any violations of the Compliance Policy and Code of Business Ethics to the Quality and Compliance Officer. All employees are systematically made aware of the principles and procedures related to the company’s legal obligations, local and international laws, rules and regulations and the consequences of non-compliance. No claim or request for monetary sanction for corruption was reported in the period covered by the COP. 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015
