Grandi Lavori Fincosit SpA Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 Annual Report COP 2016 Annual Report Grandi Lavori Fincosit SpA is proud to reiterate its affiliation and partnership with the United Nation’s Global Compact network since 2009. We support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti‐corruption. We intend to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and day‐to‐day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. 2 Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policies, Goals GLF’s goal is to convene all our employees and businesses to adhere the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Based on our commitment we have set codes of conduct in our Employee Handbook and Subcontract Agreements available online in our portal. Implementation Inside GLF Handbooks and Agreements have been implemented and available online; the top management supervises and monitors the effectiveness through the Company. Weekly meetings are carried out at the job sites to prevent/correct actions that may affect the Principles. Outside GLF GLF evaluates Subcontractor’s performances based on the criteria specified in the internal procedures. Because of the international exposure of this business, GLF guarantees prompt communications through hiring resources that are able to manage cross functional/cultural teams, including language barriers. Measurement of Outcomes Our company is currently working in Haiti, reconstructing the port that was destroyed with the earthquake of 2010, which is 92% complete. A partial inauguration took place and below are the details. Port‐au‐Prince, Friday, January 22, 2016: The Director General of the National Port Authority (APN), engineer Alix Célestin, accompanied by the Managing Director, Mr. Eric Smarcki Charles, officially opened this Friday, January 22, 2016 , the first 150 linear meters (out of 410) of the North Pier under construction for several months by the Italian‐American firm, GLF Construction under the supervision of 3 the Spanish firm ALATEC. This ceremony was held at the International Port of Port‐au‐Prince, which brought together eminent personalities from the business community, the National Port Sector, associations and politicians, executives and employees of the National Port Authority (APN). This inauguration which was attended by Ministers of Planning and External Cooperation, Mr Yves Germain Joseph, Trade and Industry, Mr. Hervé Day, and Public Works, Transportation and Communications Engineer Jacques Rousseau, the Representative of the Chamber of Commerce and of Industry, Mr. Christopher Handal, Secretaries of State, the Administration of Managing Directors, was the occasion for the Director General of the APN to emphasize the high importance of this infrastructure for the country’s economic development. Convinced that the APN is a pioneering institution with the delicate task of being one of the main entrances of the country, engineer Alix Célestin believes the reconstruction will allow Haiti to improve its position in the region and is committed to this effect to take all the appropriate steps to increase the efficiency of the services offered by the Port of Port‐au‐Prince for the benefit of the community. Many speeches were also made for the occasion by, among others, the President of the Union of Employees of the National Port Authority, Sir Wilfrid Saintilus, the General Contractor’s CEO Mr. Francesco Senis of GLF Construction and Representative AMARH, Mr. Edouard Baussan, followed by the ribbon cutting opening the book to commercial traffic and encouraging a site visit whose remaining 260 meters are under construction. The Directorate General of the National Port Authority reaffirms its determination to transform the maritime sector of Haiti to make it modern and competitive as well as other similar institutions in the region. This transformation will replace it in the supply chain of maritime transport to enable it to facilitate trade and fully play its role as a lever for development. Our continued commitment to the city of Port‐au‐Prince and the country of Haiti is a top priority to GLF since we started construction and our Board of Directors have taken an inescapable interest in Haiti after bearing witness first hand to the many challenges Haitians face every day. Haiti is a country rich in culture and ingenuity. It has survived in relative isolation and remained the most underdeveloped country in the western hemisphere although surrounded by the wealthiest countries in the world. We are willing to do our part and have joined forces and continue to support the foundation “People for Haiti” (www.peopleforhaiti.com), which is a non‐profit organization dedicated to providing long‐term medical and material support for the people devastated by the Haitian earthquake of 2010. Their volunteers and staff donate their time, expertise, and money to getting aid on the ground and directly impact the people of Haiti. They are made up of doctors, lawyers, journalists, homemakers, economists, contractors, students and artists who have joined to dedicate their talent and energy to helping people in Haiti rise again and prosper. Our renewed financial contributions have aided this wonderful medical mission team to improve their medical healthcare on a day to day basis. Strong consideration is being given to building a permanent clinic and infant rescue in the village of Bercy, Cabaret. They have currently outgrown their small clinic room in the orphanage and desperately need more space and cleaner, more controlled environment to perform procedures (see attached picture of their current clinic). 4 These are the statistics of the medical trips: ‐ 29 Medical Mission Trips to date ‐ 30,000+ Haitians have received medical care ‐ $7,000 ‐ $10,000+ medical supplies donated per trip. ‐ Average cost of care is $5 per patient. ‐ 100% of donations used for mission essential items such as medicine, medical supplies, education and to support the general well‐being of those in Haiti Clinic photos: 5 6 Labor Principles Assessment, Policies, Goals It is the policy of GLF to comply with all State and Federal Non‐Discrimination Laws and/or Affirmative Action & Equal Employment Opportunity Laws to assure that when qualified applicants are employed by GLF they are treated during their employment without regard to race, religion, sex, color, age, disability, pregnancy, and/or national origin in regard to: Employment, promotion, demotion, or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay, benefits, or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship, pre‐apprenticeship, and/or on the job training. Implementation GLF Human Resources [HR] has established and implemented Handbooks and Procedures. GLF HR trains new employees and efforts are geared toward the explanation of the applicable laws. Labor Rights are posted at each Job Site on the Dashboard. External Audits are periodically carried out to verify legal compliances. Measurement of Outcomes No cases of misconducts or violations have been reported as of June 2014. Accentuating these efforts, we created a Scholarship at Florida International University in Miami, FL, where deserving and/or minority students can enjoy the benefits of their hard work. Several students were the recipients of this scholarship last year. We also participate in partnering agreements with all the Departments of Transportation, Counties & Cities with positive outcomes. 7 Environmental Principles Assessment, Policies, Goals GLF is committed to follow the quality environmental policies, procedures and practices established by the Government in and outside Italy. Because of the nature of the business, assessments are developed during the bidding phase, studying and analyzing Owner’s requirements and regulations. Implementation Every jobsite strictly adhere to the contractual requirements and external inspections are carried out during the project phase to guarantee the implementation and observance of the required environmental rules. GLF holds the Environmental Management System ISO 14001:2004 Certificate, which complies with the strictest requirements in this field to ensure a safe and positive outcome on all our projects. Measurement of Outcomes No violations have been issued to GLF by the Owners. ******************* 8
