B U I L D I N G A S U S TA I N A B L E TO M O R R OW We care for the environment The environmentally friendly paper used in this report is from sustainable sources and adheres to strict international guidelines for the preservation of the world’s forests and ecosystems. B U I L D I N G A S U S TA I N A B L E TO M O R R OW Contents Introduction to Fransabank 2 Message from the Chairmen 4 Our Support to the United Nations Global Compact, the Business for Peace, and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 6 Our Principles for Stakeholders Engagement and Communication 8 Our Materiality Assessment 10 Fransabank Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy 12 01. Operating Responsibly 16 Corporate Governance Framework 17 Business Ethics 18 02. Supporting our Economy 22 Lending Responsibly 23 Financial Inclusion 24 Equity Investments in Start-Ups 27 Funding Small and Medium Size Enterprises (SMEs) 28 Supporting Customers 30 03. Investing in our Human Capital 36 Diversity & Inclusion 37 Processing Remunerations 39 Head Hunting Among the Youth 39 Integrating Employees 40 04. Looking after our Environment 44 Investing Responsibly 45 Environmental & Social Management System (ESMS) 48 Fransabank Participation in COP21 49 Eco-Business Loan Campaign 50 Limiting and Reducing Ecological Footprints 50 Engaging Employees 52 05. Standing by our Communities 56 Advancing Education 57 Art – An “Inspiration” to the Nation 61 Developing Communities 64 Appendices Implementation of the UN Global Compact 10 Principles 70 Code of Conduct 72 Information Security 73 FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 0-1 Introduction to Fransabank Being the third largest banking group in Lebanon, Fransabank Group offers tailored retail, commercial, corporate, investment and international banking products that meet the evolving needs of the societies it serves, through its 165 branches spread across the world. The Group is present in 11 countries: Lebanon, France, Algeria, Belarus, Syria, Iraq, Sudan, Cyprus, United Arab Emirates (Abu Dhabi), Cuba (La Habana) and Ivory Coast (Abidjan). Fransabank’s determination to support economic Therefore, we gather the necessary information progress in countries where we exist is extensive regarding our marketplaces and communities’ and diverse. We finance productive sectors of the needs and through our experience, we come up economy including agriculture, health, education, with the best and most efficient way to advance production, manufacturing and knowledge-based economic progress. economy; and support start-ups and micro-finance while giving a special attention to Small and Our total assets reached USD 20 billion as end of Medium Enterprises (SMEs). But our commitment December 2015. Customers’ deposits amounted to to the societies we serve goes beyond our business USD 16.3 billion as end of December 2015, while line, providing the essential mechanisms, instruments, net loans and advances to customers totaled and technologies that nurture financial inclusion, USD 6.3 billion as end of December 2015. empower the working population, and support youth development. Cyprus USB Bank PLC Belarus Fransabank OJSC Lebanon France Syria Fransabank (France) SA Fransabank Syria SA Iraq Fransabank SAL Iraq Branches Algeria Fransabank El Djazaïr SPA Sudan United Capital Bank (Associate Bank) UAE Abu Dhabi Representative Office Cuba Representative Office Ivory Coast Representative Office Ivory Lebanon France Algeria Sudan Belarus Syria Cyprus Abu Dhabi Iraq Coast 1921 1984 2006 2006 2008 2009 2010 2012 2014 2015 As of December 31, 2015 Our vision is to be a leading financial institution Fransabank SAL had within the local and regional markets, providing top-notch financial services to our customers 288,314 customers through innovation, cutting-edge benefits and and value added banking services and financial solutions. 1,681 employees Our mission is centered around the here below pillars: • Consolidate and expand our presence in selective regional and international markets • Adopt and implement the highest international banking and finance norms and standards, corporate governance, and diligent compliance practices • Exceed our customers’ expectations, and fulfill their needs and demands • Strive for distinguished quality service for our existing and potential customers • Promote within the Group professional development, quality performance, decisionmaking process and teamwork • Generate increasing value for our shareholders in a dynamic manner and on solid sustainable grounds • Align responsible business practices and social investments to create long-term value and sustainability for the Group and its communities. Fransabank Products & Services PRIVATE BANKING / RETAIL BANKING CORPORATE BANKING INVESTMENT BANKING ASSET MANAGEMENT • Small & Medium Size • Working Capital Financing Financial Advisory • Advisory Business Financing • Medium & Long Term Loans • Mergers & Acquisitions • Wealth Management • Payment Cards • Structured Finance • Equity Capital Markets • Capital Market / Brokerage • Accounts • Syndicated Loans • Private Investments • Structured Products • Loans • Trade Finance • Corporate Equity / Debt Advisory • Research • Saving & Insurance Products • Overdrafts • Re-Organization • Micro Credits • Leasing Services • Balance Sheet Re-structuring • E-Services “Lebanese Leasing Company SAL” • Special Services • Real Estate Equity & Debt Financing “Société Générale Foncière SAL” • Corporate & Project Financing • Syndicated Financing • Feasibility Studies • Legal & Financial Due Diligence • Debt / Equity Structuring • Equity Placements • Debt Settlement Arrangement FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 2-3 Message from the Chairmen “ Our responsible contribution to the country’s economy emanates from our deep trust in our Bank’s capabilities and strong commitment to make Lebanon a better country for its citizens. “ Adnan Kassar Chairman & Adel Kassar Deputy Chairman As believers in the vital role Fransabank plays in creating growth and prosperity for Lebanon, we provide capital for investments, help customers achieve their ambitions, and support innovation in the financial sector. Our responsible contribution to the country’s economy emanates from our deep trust in our Bank’s capabilities and strong commitment to make Lebanon a better country for its citizens. We have always been driven by a determination to create value for all our stakeholders: our customers, whose ambitions we serve; our shareholders, whose backing is our base; our workforce, whose expertise and commitment are our major asset; and our communities, which we are part of. As a prominent financial institution, we have a big responsibility to run a healthy and productive Bank. We support economic growth through our core business activities addressed to companies, small and medium size businesses and individuals. We also contribute to financial stability by delivering strong financial results. Fransabank’s mission does not stop at its financial role; but expands to invest in the communities in which it is present; believing that today’s investments are key for tomorrow’s youth. We undertake activities that comply with strong corporate governance policies and adhere to the highest ethical standards, while supporting clients to identify and reduce environmental and social risks and capitalize on the transition to a more sustainable economy. We ensure the foundation of a sustainable environment through Fransabank Sustainable Energy Finance Loans; while supporting rural development projects, socioeconomic development, education for all and financial inclusion and empowerment. As much as these issues seem sensitive and complicated, we are committed to addressing and mitigating all the challenges that we face. As chairmen of the Board of Directors of Fransabank, it is important to us that we continue to demonstrate our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, as well as the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which provide a framework for our responsible efforts. We are looking forward to taking our corporate responsibility work further to create long-term value for all our stakeholders. This report gives an idea on how we are transforming the way we do business in our core and beyond and how corporate social responsibility has become a holistic approach at Fransabank. Sincerely, Adel Kassar Adnan Kassar Deputy Chairman Chairman FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 4-5 Our Support to the United Nations Global Compact, the Business for Peace, and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Fransabank Supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals 2015 witnessed the unveiling of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). With a series of 17 global Sustainable Development Goals, it sets a transforming agenda for 2030 breaking through opportunities to transform economies and chart a new course for people and the planet a future that’s more inclusive, just and sustainable. Goal 1: End poverty in all its form everywhere Fransabank Supports the United Nations Global Compact Goal 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable In 2013, Fransabank joined the United Nations agriculture Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s largest and most widely embraced voluntary corporate Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote wellresponsibility initiative. The Global Compact being for all at all ages works toward the vision of a sustainable and inclusive global economy which delivers Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality lasting benefits to people, communities, and e d uc ation and p rom ote life lo ng le arn in g markets. As a UN Global Compact signatory, we embrace, support and enact a set of core opportunities for all values in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As a result, Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all Fransabank incorporates in its business strategy women and girls and ethical culture the UN Global Compact values and ten principles. Our voluntary Goal 6: Ensure availability and sustainable participation in this worldwide initiative, binds management of water and sanitation for all us to a common set of principles of responsibility, and reinforces our commitment to sustainability Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, and corporate responsibility. sustainable and modern energy for all Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote Fransabank Supports the Business inclusive and sustainable industrialization and for Peace Initiative foster innovation As a believer in peace and its correlation with Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among prosperity, Fransabank signed, in 2014, the countries Business for Peace initiative, a platform launched by the UNGC to expand and deepen private sector actions in support of peace Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements in the workplace, marketplace and local inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable communities, especially needed in conflictaffected and high-risk areas. Aligned with the Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and UNGC ten principles, the Business for Peace production patterns platform assists companies in implementing responsible business practices and catalyzes Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate action to advance peace. change and its impacts Goal 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, Goal 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies seas and marine resources for sustainable for sustainable development, provide access to development justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Goal 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage Goal 17: Strengthen the means of implementation forests, combat desertification, and halt and and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss development Source: UN DESA. 2014 Believing that all our efforts fall within the SDGs agenda, we will be highlighting at the beginning of each chapter of this report the SDGs goals that Fransabank initiatives fall under. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 6-7 Our Principles for Stakeholders Engagement & Communication Our success as a business depends largely on our ability to build trust and maintain good relations with our stakeholders. We strive to conduct dialogue based on partnerships of mutual value and to share knowledge and expertise with our stakeholders in a candid and open manner. Engaging with customers, employees, shareholders, policymakers, nonprofit organizations, gives us the opportunity to share information about our strategy and practices and to deepen our relationships. Our stakeholders’ policy is intended to ensure that Timeliness: The information we provide to our stakeholders always know what to expect from stakeholders is both timely and adequate so that us and what we expect from them. By listening to they have an informed basis for their views and our stakeholders, we gain insight into their decisions. We aim to answer all requests as soon perspectives and the issues that matter to them, as practically possible. which helps us develop products, services and policies that are responsive to their needs. Three Accessibility: We welcome dialogue with all principles guide the dialogue: stakeholders, and we respond actively to constructive proposals for improvement and Integrity and responsibility: All stakeholders must cooperation. be able to trust the information we provide. We base our communications on facts and aim to In recent years, we have taken a number of steps communicate clearly. We conduct our business in a to implement a more systematic and robust responsible way, with attention to the effect we approach to engage our key stakeholders as have on society. described here below. Stakeholders Groups and Engagement Stakeholders CSR framework Method of engagement Regulatory • Maintain a continuous constructive dialogue • Consultation meetings Authorities and partnership with regulators at all levels • Inspection and verification assignments carried • Respond appropriately to new regulatory out by the regulators developments including new banking • Increased compliance focus regulations as well as new rules governing transparency, combatting Money Laundering • Ongoing discussions and Terrorist Financing and the implementation of FATCA policies and procedures Shareholders • Supply transparent information • Shareholders’ meetings • Shareholders exercise their full responsibility • Annual report • Quarterly results • CSR reports Customers • Secure honest, fair and transparent business • Open communication through branch advisors, relationships. call center advisors, emails, Internet banking, etc. • Development of CSR best practices • Quality Service Unit • Secure relevant feedback from customers • Customers’ satisfaction surveys • Periodic marketing research studies • Researches and insights on the emerging financial issues and economic indicators analysis Stakeholders CSR framework Method of engagement Suppliers • Promote the development of CSR best • Transparent tenders for all projects including practices, and deal with human rights energy savings specifications entrusted suppliers • Environmental performance and general sustainability engagement Employees • Promote the personal and professional • Periodic in-depth interviews to assess development of employees employees level of engagement in the internal CSR initiatives • Diversity and inclusion goals • Brain storm on new CSR initiatives • Career enhancement through internal and external training sessions • Yearly appraisal process for evaluation • Performance and development dialogue Non-Governmental • Cultivate strategic relations with NGOs for • Solicit viewpoints from communities and Organizations long-term strategic partnerships NGOs advocating a variety of issues (NGOs) • Support charitable projects through financial • Implement feedback that are feasible within contributions the Bank’s CSR strategy • Employees’ integration within specific NGOs’ CSR activities or donation programs Local Communities • Work with partner organizations to make a • Communicating about the performance, targeted contribution to economic and projects, products and services in an open, social development in the regions in which transparent and timely manner. we operate. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 8-9 Our Materiality Assessment In 2015, we embarked on the first materiality assessment exercise to reevaluate the non-financial drivers that have an impact on Fransabank’s role in the society, economy, and environment. To Fransabank, materiality assessment is to be PHASE 3: Categorize used as a strategic business tool with implications We refined the long-list of potential material topics beyond corporate responsibility. To ensure a sound by clustering them into categories and by making business strategy, we believe that significant social sure that everyone involved in the process and environmental topics and the management of understood the specific risk or opportunity for sustainability issues should be embedded in wider each material topic. business processes. Therefore, assessing material aspects help in prioritizing the Bank’s resources for PHASE 4: Gather information about the impact the sustainability issues that matter most to our and importance of topics business and stakeholders. This exercise will highlight areas where we need to manage and We explored each material topic in detail to monitor issues that are important but not currently understand its relevance to the Bank and stakeaddressed; while, we will identify the areas of holders, by: interest to the most important stakeholders. • Gathering information about the relevance of We used the guidance of the Global Reporting each material topic to have the information we Initiative (GRI) G4 standard to evaluate non-financial need and to prioritize topics in the next phase. topics relevant to Fransabank, and referred to Steps included: KPMG insights on “The essentials of materiality Consideration of the relevant stakeholders for assessment”. each topic and the assessment of the importance of each topic to them. The Bank’s materiality exercise falls within six Assessing the strategic importance of each phases: topic to the Bank; consider how critical each topic is for our business in terms of: executing PHASE 1: Define purpose and scope strategy; current and future risks; and market We defined what materiality means for Fransabank opportunities and product innovations. with clear objectives and target, followed by an • Assessing the actual and potential economic, extensive desk research which resulted with a long social, and environmental impacts of each of the list of potential material topics, this first step topics to better understand the impacts. helped in: • Identifying the most important topics to be PHASE 5: Prioritize covered in this report and future ones. We prioritized material topics based on the strategic • Engaging with internal or external stakeholders. importance to the Bank, importance to stakeholders • Identifying future trends that could impact the and the social, economic and environmental Bank. impact of each topic in the value chain, and set a threshold or cut-off point for defining which topics • Identifying areas for target setting to improve were to be considered material. business and sustainability performance. PHASE 6: Engage management PHASE 2: Identify potential material topics We tested the results of our materiality assessment We generated a long-list of potential material topics, with key internal audiences to validate the outcome, by: by: • Reviewing sources to craft the long-list of potential • Ensuring the materiality assessment is approved material topics, including: internal data, external by senior business management. peer review, sector-specific regulations and standards and research on wider social and • Reviewing also was necessary to ensure the environmental trends and challenges. process and outcome are credible both internally and externally and that management will accept • Exploring which external stakeholders should we the results and will consider the implications. interact with to get the most valuable feedback. We also took into account the impact stakeholders have on the Bank, as well as the impact we have on them, and focus on those stakeholders where the impact is greatest. This research fed into an internal prioritization workshop which identified 24 topics that are material to Fransabank and its stakeholders, grouped into six categories: Gove vironment rate rn ma n Ri ght o a En Hu s rp Co e nc • Eco-Friendly • Ethical Conduct Products & Services • Child Labour • Compliance • Digital Banking Services • Freedom of • Information Security • Suppliers Environmental Association to Unions & Customers’ Privacy Assessment • Measurement of our Environmental Impact • Diversity • Financial Inclusion & Equal Opportunity • Sustainable Development • Equal Remuneration • Cultural Initiatives • Responsible Lending • Training & Education • Humanitarian Activities • Customer Satisfaction • Occupational • Educational Initiatives • Complaints Health & Safety • Health Issues Resolution Process • Engaging Employees Eco Co y no my Lab o ur m m u nit Materiality Assessment Action Plan In 2015, we moved to an in-depth process through internal stakeholders’ engagement, whereby consultancy meetings were held with selected employees. It consisted of open sessions where attendees were free to debate and brain storm on relevant issues whether on the shortor long-term. In parallel, an anonymous survey was filled by the attendees at the end of each session. The outcome was reviewed later on and accordingly, the most relevant issues were prioritized based on the Bank’s strategy and the impact of each topic on our value chain and proposed in Fransabank Corporate Social Responsibility Business Strategy for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. About this report This report is designed to provide our stakeholders with materiality assessment sessions conducted internally information about our Bank’s corporate responsibility with selected employees at the Bank. This report serves programs and progress in 2015. as our Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact and is part of our annual corporate reporting, Fransabank reports annually on its corporate responsibility along with Fransabank’s Annual Report. In addition, we performance. This report covers the period January 1, report annually on the progress we have made in 2015 to December 31, 2015, including a comparative implementing the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. review of selected Key Performance Indicators for the same period of the year 2014. All reporting and performance For complete financial and organizational information, data is limited to information on Fransabank SALthe please also see our 2015 Annual Report. It is available on parent company of Fransabank Group, unless stated our website www.fransabank.com. An executive summary otherwise. on the main corporate responsibility projects achieved This report focuses on the priority areas identified with during the year 2015 is also published in the Annual reference to our stakeholders’ engagement and the Report 2015. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 10-11 Fransabank’s Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy At Fransabank, we believe that Corporate Social Responsibility is about making a contribution to sustainable development to society through creating long-term value for our shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders. This means putting our corporate principles into Our social responsibility strategy is shaped by the practice and considering not only the economic, increasing need to ensure effective stakeholder but also the social and environmental impacts in all engagement, to fulfill the socioeconomic needs of our decisions. As a responsible national organization, the communities in which we conduct our business Fransabank targets all people at all levels, not only and the wider social, economic and environmental to sell them its services, but also to cater to their requirements whenever we exist or operate. This social needs. translates into a diverse range of social and corporate activities that advocates Fransabank’s We have founded our social responsibility strategy image as a credible, solid, innovative and sustainable and activities on three main principles: contributor to the overall economy. • To promote effective public-private partnerships; • To promote economic development; • To enhance civil society’s aspirations. To date, Fransabank has successfully demonstrated a our employees’ skills, with a total of 1,113 employees leading role in supporting various sectors and completing 100,792 hours of their training promoting the best standards in Corporate Social programs. Besides, Fransabank employees are Responsibility (CSR). This has already earned the connected with their communities through CSR Bank an exemplary place at the heart of the projects that allow them to engage in social country’s corporate landscape. Our CSR activities works and promote the spirit of giving back. continue to drive our momentum and to inspire us to keep going and achieve so much more in the • We believe that there is a great potential for years to come. energy efficiency to address a range of sustainability challenges affecting the environment. With our We have streamlined Fransabank Corporate Social “Go Green” strategy, we have built the capacity Responsibility Report 2015, focusing on issues that to become the Sustainable Energy Finance we believe are relevant to the financial sector in Banker in Lebanon. Our financing allocations for general and that fall within our Bank’s culture in Sustainable Energy Finance projects reached particular, relying on our stakeholders’ engagement approximately USD 120 million distributed on 150 and our first internal materiality assessment. projects in 2015. Major agreements have been signed with international organizations to finance Here are the five pillars we believe in: energy related technologies and make profitable investments in sustainable development, targeting • We strongly believe that sound governance both businesses and individuals. steers any successful business. That is why our Bank is dedicated to maintaining governance • We also join hands with our communities through structures, policies and processes that best serve our strong commitment to causes that fits our the changing needs of employees, clients and Bank’s mission of promoting financial and social communities, focusing on transparency, inclusion, educational advancement and community accountability, responsibility, and fairness. development leading to a better connection with society. In this context, our Chairman, Mr. Adnan • We support financial inclusion and economic Kassar proceeded in his giving endeavors and development as key players to ensure peace and donated USD 10 million as an endowment fund to prosperity. Therefore, we are keen on providing the Lebanese American University (LAU) responsible financial opportunities, access, amongst other communities initiatives. knowledge and support for the entire customer base and the community we serve, including All the above are meticulously discussed in distinct micro-entrepreneurs, Small and Medium size chapters throughout this report. Enterprises (SMEs) , corporates and individuals. Regarding micro loans, we made a total investment of USD 26.5 million in 13,467 micro-entrepreneurs from 1997 till the end of 2015. As for our SME financing, Fransabank registered USD 640.22 million in total performing SME loans as end of year 2015. • We focus on attracting and retaining a talented and diverse human capital, developing their potential, rewarding their successes, while emphasizing on the importance of a culture of inclusion. In 2015, we implemented extensive training programs that would help strengthen all FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 12-13 01. O P E R AT I N G R E S P O N S I B LY FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 14-15 Operating Responsibly RESPONSIBILITY FAIRNESS Strongly comply by Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Laws & Regulations CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Combatting Financing of Terrorism PRINCIPLES (CFT) Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) ACCOUNTABILITY TRANSPARENCY The Code of Conduct provides the footprints for the highest forms of professionalism, ethical behavior, and integrity 338 employees completed 25 compliance training sessions Corporate Social Responsibility focuses on Corporate Governance as a tool for incorporating social, environmental and ethical practices into the business decision making process, thus benefiting all related stakeholders in a balanced way. Fransabank is dedicated to maintaining governance structures, policies and processes that best serve the changing needs of our employees, clients and communities and that promote a culture of integrity, diversity and ethical conduct across the Bank. “ Our values and beliefs guide our behavior. They help us to conduct business with the utmost integrity, to create long-term value for our shareholders and to nurture the best talent. “ Mr. Adnan Kassar – Chairman, Fransabank Corporate Governance Framework Fransabank Corporate Governance framework external auditors, senior management and the revolves essentially around the Corporate business and support functions. Governance Code as adopted by the Board of Directors in line with the regulatory requireThe Board of Directors, consisting in its majority ments and international best practices. It also of non-executive members, is supported in includes a set of governance related policies carrying out its oversight duties by the Corporate and charters and a Code of Conduct and Ethics. Governance Committee, the Risk Management Committee, the Audit Committee and the Fransabank Corporate Governance framework Remuneration Committee. promotes the commitment of the Bank to the highest level of transparency, integrity, fairness Senior management executes its responsibilities and accountability and helps disseminate a through specialized Management Committees, strong governance culture within the Bank. whereby it ensures a proper segregation of duties and separation of functions, promoting The Bank’s governance structure, which aims to an effective internal control framework. provide an efficient framework for the assignment of responsibility and accountability, includes the Fransabank’s strategy remains to standardize General Assembly of Shareholders, the Board of the governance practices across its entities and Directors, the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, to strengthen its governance and control the various committees, control functions, the culture. Corporate Governance Structure GENERAL ASSEMBLY (SHAREHOLDERS) Board Board Committees of Directors Corporate Risk Audit Committee Governance Management Chairman & Committee Committee Deputy Chairman Corporate Risk Senior External Audit Control Functions Governance Management Management Internal Audit Inspection Compliance Business & Support Functions Management Committees FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 16-17 Operating Responsibly Business Ethics • Undertaking a close monitoring on accounts’ movements and daily executed transactions to We believe, at Fransabank, that trust and ensure their consistency with the customers’ confidentiality are the cornerstones for an incessant net-worth situation and their economic activity growth of the Lebanese banking sector as we reflected in the KYC form. struggle to keep a topnotch reputation particularly • Performing a daily screening of the customers’ in the critical regional environment we operate in. names against local watch and sanctions lists Therefore, providing the best responsible outcomes published by the Special Investigation Commission for our customers within a culture of ethical conduct as well as those published by international bodies and decision making is a main concern for our Bank. including UN, OFAC, EU, HM Treasury, and Interpol. • Applying strict control measures on wire transfers prior to processing them to make sure that the Preventing Money Laundering and Corruption payment is not directly or indirectly in relation with sanctioned countries, individuals, entities Fransabank is committed to conducting business and goods. in accordance with the highest ethical standards • Conducting an Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) and in full compliance with all applicable antion high risk customers, such as: money laundering and corruption laws and Politically Exposed Persons (PEP), regulations. Actually, Fransabank has in place Off-Shore companies, written policies, procedures and internal controls Non-Profits Organizations, reasonably designed to comply with anti-money Precious stone dealers, laundering laws and regulations. Used car dealers, Exchange companies, Anti-Corruption, Anti-Money Laundering, High cash income professions, Countering Financing of Terrorism, and Nationals of sanctioned countries, Income directly or indirectly related to sanctioned Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) countries. Fransabank’s Anti-Money Laundering Policy includes procedures for customer due diligence, Compliance Training reporting, record keeping, internal controls, risk Compliance training is essential for the Bank to management and communications that are help employees understand the financial sector intended to prevent illegal activities. Such illegal and governmental laws and regulations that are activities have been expanded by the new Law relevant to their tasks and duties at the workplace. No. 44 which was promulgated in November 2015, For that reason, the compliance department has to cover crimes like human trafficking, tax evasion, training modules designed to target specific areas extortion, bribes, etc. It is not just the duty of the of interest such as fraud prevention, anti-money anti-money laundering department to monitor laundering and terrorist financing, professional these activities, but also part of every manager’s secrecy, conflicts of interest and ethics, as well as duty as each is required to take organizational customer protection and satisfaction. measures to ensure the compliance requirement is To keep up with regular changes and help our respected within his area of responsibility. employees stay informed about the latest regulations Adequate training is thus provided, to enhance the and international requirements, frequent trainings compliance culture across the Bank. are to be completed by the Bank’s workforce. In 2015, 338 employees (from Fransabank SAL, Furthermore, specific policies on dealing with Fransa Invest Bank SAL – the investment arm of corruption and bribery are applied, as well as a Fransabank and the Lebanese Leasing Company complete Sanctions Program aiming at preventing SAL – the leasing arm of Fransabank) completed money laundering and terrorism financing, in line 25 compliance training sessions. with International standards and requirements. As such, all employees are constantly called to strictly 3AML awareness sessions comply with Anti-Money Laundering (AML), The training modules covered topics ranging from: o 3FATCA awareness sessions Combatting Financing of Terrorism (CFT) and o 3Regulatory requirements for compliance Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) procedures in force as for: o • Conducting a periodic review of the AML/CFT, implementation within banks and financial 3Bankruptcy law reform sanctions and FATCA policies and procedures to institutions o 3Financial crimes detection ensure compliance with the updated related o 3Fighting digital fraud and piracy in the requirements. • Making sure that appropriate Know Your Customer o 3Amongst others. (KYC) and FATCA due diligence procedures are banking and commercial sectors in Lebanon applied at the onset of the relationship with the o customer and renewed at every material change in related data. Compliance training sessions were mandatory to • Respect and protection of confidential information, Fransabank branches’ employees (customer • Behavior based on mutual respect, service representatives, tellers, deputy branch • Equal opportunity in employment and development, managers and branch managers), as well as to • Prevention of conflict of interest, employees from selected departments / divisions • Legal compliance, at the Bank as for the: • Behavior with respect to bribes, • Gifts and favors, • Internal Audit Department • Occupational safety and health, • Retail Banking Division • Environment, • Risk Management Division • Corporate Social Responsibility, and • Loan Recovery Department • Fulfillment of obligations. • Security and Business Continuity Department • Corporate Banking Division Protecting the Bank’s and its Customers’ • Quality Service Unit • International Banking Division Information • Inspection Department Fransabank is always keen to upgrade its security • Compliance Department. infrastructure with the ever evolving technology in order to ensure always the highest protection to its Keeping Fransabank employees well updated own data and more importantly to the customers’ about changes in laws and regulations related to information with regard to confidentiality, availability business is therefore crucial for an increase in and integrity. transparency, uniformity and standardization across the Bank, whether in work methods or in In addition to the multitude of security layers already the quality of the services offered. implemented as appliances or software, e.g. the data leakage protection, the end point security, firewalls, IDS, IPS… Fransabank is currently Valuing the Bank’s Code of Conduct implementing a SIEM (Security Incident and Event Management) solution in order to have Fransabank Code of Conduct provides the necessary around-the-clock monitoring on the incidents guidelines for the Bank’s employees to abide by occurring and activities conducted on all the the highest forms of professionalism, ethical components of the technological infrastructure. behavior, and integrity with respect to its vision This solution provides the Bank with a high level of and mission. It is always updated and upgraded to security with regard to external threats and internal ensure the best practices of the Bank’s employees. risks. Moreover, Fransabank is now finalizing an It also includes rules and policy statements that agreement with an international company that help employees in their daily decision-making provides online information on customers’ regarding such issues as conflicts of interest, inside compromised credit cards and/or internet and confidential information, gifts, anti-corruption accounts hacked; attacks conducted outside the and bribery. environment of Fransabank directly to the The Bank’s Code of Conduct defines the behavior customers’ environment. This will allow the Bank to that is expected from all members of the Bank and provide extra services to its customers by notifying includes the following: them as soon as the attack is done to change their internet banking credentials or stop their credit cards. On the business continuity plan, the construction The main objectives of Fransabank code of of a new Business Continuity and Disaster site is conduct are: about to start. This site will provide Fransabank o3To establish a common understanding of operations, and consequently the customers’ servicing a very high availability, in case of any the standards of behavior expected of all disaster occurring despite its magnitude, by a 3To provide a clear framework within which employees, o seamless shift of the totality of the operation from the Headquarters to the contingency site. No employees are expected to conduct them3To maintain a work environment in which degradation of any service is accounted for. The selves, o same level of operation will be provided to the customer base. honesty, integrity and respect for fellow employees, and customers/clients constantly On the human resources aspect, Fransabank is reflect in personal behavior and standards continuously focused on the development of its 3To remind employees of what is expected of conduct, and human capital, which is composed of a large team o of technology specialists, functional and business from them as for their appearance and work analysts and experts, senior developers and ethics. administrators. Moreover, all initiatives and projects are running in the direction of compliance to the ISO 20000 Standard. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 18-19 02. S U P P O R T I N G O U R E C O N O M Y FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 20-21 Supporting our Economy As end of 2015, an outstanding amount of As part of our micro-financing strategy, more than USD 640.22 million USD 26.5 million was invested in SME financing was invested in over 13,467 entrepreneurs from 1997 until end of 2015 As per the Central Bank of Lebanon USD 5.38 million had been distributed for micro-credits financing Circular 331 Fransabank has taken a participation in 2015 (an increase of 116% from 2014) in three venture funds: Beneficiaries of micro-credits: 1. Impact Fund 2. Leap Ventures 3. Berytech Fund II 63% 37% We carried out a Mystery Shopping exercise with 367 visits to all Fransabank branches Jobs created from micro-credits: and selected competitive banks branches, in order to assess and benchmark our customer service standards 2,278 Jobs created 1,789 Jobs sustained Financial stability is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of society because unstable economies create an unpredictable environment for businesses and individuals alike. For Fransabank, maintaining a robust, sustainable business is paramount in supporting both financial stability and economic growth in Lebanon and thus sustaining trust in the financial system as a whole. By keeping its capital base strong, its lending policies sound, and its risk management effective, the Bank helps preserve financial stability. At the same time, the Bank contributes to economic growth by providing the capital and other financial instruments needed to start a new company, expand an existing business, or buy a new home. This all builds upon an ongoing dialogue with relevant stakeholders in the service of common interests – a dialogue based on sharing knowledge and expertise openly and honestly. Lending Responsibly To advance economic progress, Fransabank has by leveraging its expertise to create, preserve an important role to play in providing people and grow its clients’ portfolios. with affordable and responsible lending that helps small, medium and large businesses For business customers, the Bank not only progress while remaining financially resilient. assesses the customer’s needs and repayment capability but also considers the purpose for Fransabank contributes to the development of which the funds will be used and assesses Lebanon’s economic real growth, the improvement possible Environmental and Social risks of its infrastructure, the promotion of key associated with it. Additional information on services and technological innovations and the Fransabank Environmental and Social risks are financing of prime businesses and projects both discussed in the environment section of this nationally and internationally, including and not report. This assessment is intended to prevent restrictively: credit facilities from being used in violation of internationally recognized standards for • Supporting the improvement of the educational, human rights, labor rights, environment and pharmaceutical, health, electrical, and infraanti-corruption. structure sectors. In 2015, we took several steps to improve our • Developing and financing key real estate ability to identify and manage environmental projects by supporting contractors and and social risks by including in the credit developers with good track record. approval process the Environmental and Social • Strengthening the trade and the commerce Management System (ESMS) in the basis sector with China as a key potential market of our Responsibility Policy; we incorporated via providing attractive products and financial explicit ESMS factors in the Bank’s general services to prominent and new businesses in credit policy. We also initiated a process to various sectors such as contracting, trade identify and develop credit policies for financing, agriculture, production, FMCG, specific industries whose activities entail etc... elevated Environmental and Social risks. As a responsible lender across the life-cycle of For private individuals, we grant loans and a loan, the Bank strives to create stable, longother facilities on the basis of a professional term sustainable success for its clients – who credit assessment. It is in both the Bank’s and include many intergenerational owner-investors the customer’s interest that credit facilities are – by applying responsible lending criteria that granted only when the customer understands reduce vulnerability to economic downturn and the associated obligations and risks. We, therefore, make an assessment of the customer’s needs and financial situation to make sure we are able to meet his needs. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 22-23 Supporting our Economy Furthermore, we work with customers in financial We engage with several international institutions difficulties to avoid cancellation. Only the unpaid providing us with medium and long-term funding installments are due before an account is cancelled in support of corporates and small and medium and enters the legal process, not the total loan size enterprises lending activities, as the amount. Our objective is to maintain the relationInternational Finance Corporation (IFC), the ship, bring customers back to a current status and European Investment Bank (EIB), Agence support them through temporary payment Française de Développement (AFD), Proparco problems using deferrals, interest-only periods, Société de Promotion et de Participation pour la debt restructuring, etc… Coopération Economique, Deutsche Investitions Und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH (DEG) and the Arab Trade Financing Program (ATFP). Financial Inclusion “ Bringing banking services to people who don’t have access to financial services are central to both our core business activities and our citizenship. “ Mr. Adel Kassar Deputy Chairman, Fransabank “End poverty in all its forms everywhere” is the growth potential but may not qualify for Goal 1 of the UN Sustainable Development Goals conventional loans. Microfinance is a proven and (SDGs) adopted by the UN General Assembly in effective tool to empower marginalized populations September 2015. Microfinance, which is widely through the provision of small loans and other recognized as one of the powerful tools to combat financial services. In our micro-credit strategy, we poverty, has all the potential to play one of the have given preference to women owned businesses critical roles in achieving the ambitious targets set than any other lender. by the world community to transform the World by 2030. With our microfinance funds, we have extended an estimated 13,467 loans to micro entrepreneurs To Fransabank, financial inclusion is about equity, since 1997, delivering social and economic value to and it’s also about stimulating growth and the beneficiaries and their communities. economic development. Whether it’s a small shopkeeper with an idea, a cooperative, community group, or a large business, we have to find ways to give them access to capital. Fransabank micro-credit objectives are to: Our social investment programs, which range from 3Drive innovation and new approaches o microfinance and impact investing via community development to building enterprise initiatives and 3Support financial inclusion o support for the disadvantaged have made a difference in the lives of customers in Lebanon and 3Invigorate economic growth in communities o resulted in a good driver for job creation for women as well as for men. with high unemployment. In this scope, Fransabank supports the Vitas micro-credit program because of its critical role in providing capital to small businesses that have When helping small businesses establish or expand, Measuring Fransabank’s value Fransabank conducts a deep study on the project of disbursed micro-loans feasibility and capacity to grow. It bases its research on Key Performance Indicators for selecting loan since 1997 till end of year 2015 beneficiaries which include but are not limited to it has contributed with a total amount of age, type of business or enterprise, compliance with local and international AML/CFT laws and certain socio-environmental guidelines, business more than operational history, repayment capacity, reputation, guarantors or guarantees. USD 26.5 million In 2015, the total number of micro-credit beneficiaries reached 3,338 clients compared with 1,776 clients in 2014. The figures almost doubled pointing out the great potentials the society has to offer to the Lebanese economy. Simultaneously, the outstanding amount of micro-credits reached more than USD 5.4 million at end of December 2015 compared with more than USD 2.5 million at end of December 2014; a year-on-year increase of 116%. A documentary detailing Fransabank’s microcredits’ achievements in cooperation with Vitas was launched including live testimonies from clients whose business was further developed through our microcredits program. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 24-25 Supporting our Economy Micro-credits highpoints of 2015 2015 Beneficiaries Male Vs. Female • Percentage of gender distribution 37% Females as compared to 35% in 2014 63% Males as compared to 65% in 2014 63% 37% • Age distribution per bracket Micro-credits beneficiaries’ sectors distribution 45.6% of the beneficiaries aged between 18 to 35 years in 2015 with a total of USD 2,292,012 given out 36.6% of the beneficiaries aged between 35 to 50 years 41.04% 23.25% with a total of USD 2,098,109 given out 17.8% of the beneficiaries aged above 50 years with a Commerce Services total of USD 987,004 given out 15.58% 13.30% • Jobs created from the outcome of the micro-credits Number of jobs created: 2,278 Contracting Production & buildings Number of jobs sustained: 1,789 • Percentage of micro-credits beneficiaries per sector 3.92% 2.85% Commerce 41.04% Services 23.25% Agriculture Transportation Production 15.58% Contracting & buildings 13.30% 0.06% Agriculture 3.92% Transportation 2.85% Home improvement Home improvement 0.06% Amounts distributed in 2015 as per age brackets • Non-performing loan ratio in USD PAR > 90 days: 1.17% Between 18 to 35 years 45.6% USD 2,292,012 given out PAR >180 days: 0.44% Between 35 to 50 years 36.6% USD 2,098,109 given out Above 50 years 17.8% USD 987,004 given out Vitas is a pioneering microcredit institution in Lebanon with regional and international outreach. Its mission is to provide financial support to families with limited income with the purpose of assisting them to become self-sustainable. While it aims to advance individual and business growth; it is essential for them to reach their customers in the areas in which they live promoting rural development and decentralization. Equity Investments In Start-Ups Through the Central Bank of Lebanon’s Intermediate Circular 331, Lebanese banks are encouraged to invest in innovative ready-to-scale start-ups in the Lebanese Knowledge Economy. Thus, local banks START-UP are entrusted with allocating equity funding to its most efficient use by investing in: • creative young entrepreneurs with innovative ideas, • ready-to-scale start-ups, • accelerators, • incubators, Within Fransabank’s strategy towards sustaining • venture capital funds with solid management team. entrepreneurialism, the Bank’s commitment has taken shape through various guises in previous In addition to funding, entrepreneurs are offered years: guidance, strategic mentorship, entrepreneurshipfocused business training, access to networks of • In 2007, Fransabank pledged USD 1 million to partners and mentors. non-governmental organization (NGO) Bader for its Building Block Equity Fund. It was Bader’s In view of that, Fransabank is among the leading first major initiative to bridge the gap in funding banks to embrace the Central Bank of Lebanon to start-ups and entrepreneurs. Through donations Circular 331 into the Bank’s strategic business such as Fransabank’s, the Fund was used to invest activities and has taken a participation in three in Lebanese small and medium size enterprises funds: The Impact Fund by the Middle East (SMEs) that demonstrated potential for innovation, Venture Partners (MEVP) Holding SAL, The Leap in order to help them forge sustainable growth. Ventures and Berytech Fund II. During the investment period, Building Block Equity Fund by Bader invested in seven • The Impact Fund was established in 2014 with a companies. Currently, the Fund is in the exit total size of USD 70 million. It invests in early and phase and was able to execute an exit at a growth stage innovative Lebanese companies multiple of exceeding five times. with a clear path to profitability. The Impact Fund mainly focuses on consumer technology • Fransabank, as well, is a partner and shareholder products and services, consumer retail products in Berytech that aims at fostering economic and services and enterprise software. Fransabank growth through providing incubation, support and Fransa Invest Bank (the investment arm of and hosting opportunities to the largest possible Fransabank) committed USD 5,000,000 and number of project holders as well as growing USD 500,000, respectively. enterprises operating in the fields of technology, multimedia and health. The Berytech Fund I • The Leap Ventures invests in growth stage, well empowered start-ups through pioneering established companies that are ready to scale. initiatives, e.g. Berytech Digital Park Beirut which The fund predominantly invests in consumer, aimed to create a tech-hub for the digital industry fin-tech, health care and clean tech. Fransabank in Lebanon and the region. This fund is fully and Fransa Invest Bank committed deployed and is now in the divestment phase. USD 6,000,000 and USD 1,000,000, respectively, out of a total fund size of USD 71,000,000. The successful implementation of the Central Bank’s initiative will develop Lebanese innovation • Berytech Fund II invests in early and formative and entrepreneurship, detect successful business stage start-ups with proven innovation levels and opportunities, build local talent and ultimately technology disruptions in many sectors covering develop and diversify the Lebanese economy and the Information and Communication Technologies we see through our contribution to society as (ICT) sector as well as other knowledge based setting into action a bubbling micro-economy and creative industries, such as energy, creative branded by harsher competitiveness while offering and fashion design. Fransabank committed easier and faster access to funding and enabling USD 3,000,000 out of a total fund size of Lebanon to become a technological platform in USD 51,500,000. the region. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 26-27 Supporting our Economy Funding Small and Medium Size Enterprises (SMEs) Small and medium size businesses are fundamental to a flourishing Lebanese economy as a source of job creation and financial inclusion; yet many of these business owners lack access to the rightful means to catalyze and sustain growth. Therefore, Fransabank is proud to be a leader in providing small and medium size enterprises (SMEs), across Lebanon, with the capital, resources and business know-how that they need to develop and thrive. Total performing SME loans Fransabank has spent years supporting a diverse portfolio of small and medium enterprises products as at end of 2015 reached and services to bring more people into the banking mainstream, building its knowledge, experience and insights with each new project and providing USD 640.22 million flexible financing. At the same time, the Bank has against USD 595.39 million as at end of 2014 continually expanded its partnerships with local municipalities, communities, NGOs and others, to create, broaden and scale solutions that work. The seminars were performed by dedicated teams of senior specialists, who either reached our clients in their regions or received them at our premises. In 2015, Fransabank served SMEs business We made sure to tackle all services and products customers through a team of experts and that have been proposed or developed recently at dedicated small business bankers in the Bank and engaged in personalized discussions communities across Lebanon. Our portfolio of to better understand the individual needs of our SME beneficiaries includes: customers. These seminars help also in developing 3 Industry the clients’ financial knowledge and skills to o optimize their use from our products and services. 3 Tourism o 3 Agriculture & Apiculture The workshops were a success and received an o 3 Health excellent feedback from all attendees. As such, o 3 Traders Fransabank will continue to replicate these o programs to increase its customers’ knowledge of 3 Liberal professions o the industry, build up better relations with them, 3 Services and in turn motivate them to have a more pleasant o 3 Educational banking experience. o 3 High technology o 3 Handicrafts o Knowledge Economy, Entrepreneurship, 3 Construction o and Financial Inclusion Conferences Fransabank was actively present at international, regional, and local economic happenings promoting sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion, education and youth development, But that is not all we do to help SMEs. In addition entrepreneurship, financing opportunities and to our business banking services, we lead and strategic cooperation. Per se, we list: support these businesses in their journey to success. Our main objective being to provide consultancy • Fransabank participated for the second year services to existing and potential customers, and in-a-row in the Central Bank of Lebanon Accelerate follow-up with them on the course of their Conference – Lebanon’s annual international businesses. We, at Fransabank, have conducted start-up conference aiming at creating liquidity and supervised, in 2015, several SME’s workshops that will serve Lebanese start-ups. It is a yearly and seminars in many districts across Lebanon. platform that helps Lebanese banks have propriety Fransabank Actively Supports and Believes in: equity participations, directly or indirectly, in the requirements and challenges for successful start-ups, accelerators, incubators and venture Chinese – Arab Cooperation, and avenue for capital funds in the Knowledge Economy. In the partnership between Chinese and Arab banks to same framework, Fransabank participated in support bilateral trade, investment and projects. the AmCham (American Lebanese Chamber of The event included as well the launch of the Commerce) Conference “Start-Ups Lebanon” “Arab Women Empowerment Fund for Banking that was held in New York with the objective of Innovation”. introducing American audience and investors to knowledge driven Lebanese enterprises and • Within the same context, Fransabank’s Innovation Driven Enterprises (IDEs). The Bank representatives enthusiastically participated in was part of these two events believing that the Annual International Arab Banking Summit financial partnership is still young but ambitious for 2015 that was held in Budapest-Hungary. The and promising knowledge economy assists our summit tackled financial inclusion strategies and concerned entrepreneurs to transform their access, usage and quality of financial services for businesses into well governed institutions and individual and enterprises, SMEs financing, eventually enable them to export their products among others. and services, and henceforth, to list them on the Beirut Stock Exchange. • Equally, Fransabank took part in two events targeting its international presence: the Iraqi • The Annual Arab Banking Conference for 2015 in Banking Forum which addressed the economic which Fransabank played a vital role. The forum and financial status in Iraq in light of the current represented a vivid platform for exchanging security and political situation, and the legal and expertise in key issues such as the importance of regulatory environment for e-banking operations cooperation between public and private sectors and the prospects for their development; and the in promoting and raising awareness on financial China Arab Business Conference that called for inclusion, as well as establishing a new era of the building of the Silk Road’s economic belt, financial education and awareness for young drawing on the strategic importance of Lebanon people. During the conference, Fransabank cowhich connects the silk land and maritime roads organized, as a side event, the Sino-Arab Banking that start from China and link, through Lebanon, Dialogue: “Building Long-Term Relations” held in with Europe. The bond would open new horizons, the form of a roundtable discussion tackling further strategic economic cooperation and mainly the means of serving the Silk Road Strategy, generate benefits for all parties. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 28-29 Supporting our Economy Supporting Customers Our success depends on the satisfaction and loyalty of our customers. This is why our culture is centered on customers’ needs. Putting customers first means constantly analyzing who our customers are, what they require, how well we currently meet their need, and how we can add value to them in the future. Many customers rely on us when investing their savings or buying a new home or car. It is fundamental to our relationship with customers that they can depend on our integrity and that the advice they receive is individualized in their best interest. In line with this commitment, we have continued, in 2015, to adapt and improve on the way in which we do our business and monitor customer satisfaction closely and frequently. Mystery Shopping at Fransabank Branches and Selected Competitive features and benefits of interest to the youth in Banks Branches addition to many free products and services. In parallel, special promotions on Fransabank In 2015, we used mystery shoppers to make 367 housing loans, car loans, and cards were marketed visits to all Fransabank branches as well as selected to strengthen the customers’ loyalty through competitive banks branches. The aim was to assess appealing rewards and conditions. This, in addition Fransabank branches customer service standards to our partnership with Lebanese orders and and achieve a comprehensive benchmarking on syndicates for special packages coupled with Fransabank versus the competition. The shoppers’ advantageous conditions. main objective was to assess our defined quality service standards and to ensure that we build • A number of strategic initiatives were launched customer relationships by continually delivering a internally to simplify processes and make them high-quality customer experience. This includes more efficient and to empower our frontline adhering to regulatory requirements, providing officers at branches and departments. error-free product and service documentation and customized product recommendations, as well as offering a friendly and professional welcome and Handling Complaints closing. The mystery shopper research was monitored Improving customer satisfaction also depends on closely and frequently, with continuous customerlistening to complaints. So, it is important that focused and selling skills training to branches customers feel able to approach us. Therefore, we employees. The research revealed that Fransabank established a complaints resolution process is ranked among top bankers in terms of customer whereby they are dealt with by a special Customer service practices, but of course there is still some S e r v i ce U n i t cove r i n g a s p e c i f i c s co p e o f area of improvement in certain branches. re s p o n s i b i l i t y, as per the Central Bank of Lebanon Circular 134 on “The Principles of Banking and Financial Operations with Customers”. All Targeted products and services were launched complaints are followed up, and as part of a accompanied by periodic promotions that led to continuous improvement in processes, complaints many initiatives across the Bank: are held in association with the business line managers, where necessary, in quick, timely, clear • “The LEAD Account”; a new account launched in and transparent information. When we recognize 2015 to help the youth achieve financial inclusion mistakes, we work to solve cases quickly without and education, and gain financial independence. excess bureaucracy. This account was associated with customized Customers and the public can make complaints through all of Fransabank’s dedicated channels. This includes branches, telephone, website, social media and complaints and feedback box placed at all branches. Fransabank’s policy on complaints handling Yet, for the Bank to act as a better citizen, its follows the principles below: functions do not stop at the satisfaction of its o3 Customers are treated fairly at all times; customers. As it is a duty to offer the best products 3 Complaints raised by customers are dealt and services, it is also a must to explain in a clear o and direct manner to customers their rights and with courtesy and on time; duties. Therefore, a “Know Your Rights & Duties” o3 Customers are fully informed of avenues to initiative was implemented across Fransabank branches in accordance with the Central Bank of escalate their complaints/grievances within Lebanon’s Circular 134. A list of rights and duties the Bank and their rights to alternative was shared with customers on the Bank’s website. remedy, if they are not fully satisfied with the This step forward assures a good and lasting response of the Bank to their complaints; 3 The Bank will treat all complaints efficiently relationship based on transparency. o and fairly as they can damage its reputation and business if handled otherwise; Keeping Customers Secure o3 The Bank would look at every complaint as an opportunity to relook at its processes At Fransabank, we invest significant resources to critically and put in place permanent fixes to keep the personal data we maintain about our process shortcomings. customers and their financial transactions confidential and secure. We train employees in the proper handling of personal information and contractually require the companies that provide services on our behalf to keep the personal information they receive confidential. The customer has the full right to register his In order for digital banking solutions to give complaint if he is not satisfied with the services customers a good experience, they must be provided by the Bank. He can give his complaint in secure. Our systems and eBanking platforms are writing, orally or over telephone. If the customer’s located in secure encrypted environments, while complaint is not resolved within 24 hours or if he is we scan for vulnerabilities. not satisfied with the solution provided by the branch, he can approach the Quality Service Unit with his complaint or other legal avenues available. Meeting Customer Needs with Accordingly, Fransabank provides all its branches New Technologies with: Digital media is changing people’s behavior. • Complaints and suggestions box for dropping Fransabank banking products are increasingly written feedbacks; accessed online, and a great number of our retail • Preprinted complaints forms; clients are already “going digital” in their interactions • Leaflets with the specified name, address and with the Bank. Rapid advances in technology and contact number of the Quality Service Unit Head; changes in communication and networking patterns • Code of Bank’s commitments to customers’ impact our business significantly, providing an rights and duties. opportunity to demonstrate innovation and attract young customers. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 30-31 Supporting our Economy Fransabank provides a rich multichannel banking Making Housing Loans Work set of products and services to customers with the for our Customers appropriate levels of support to let customers select their channel at any place/time of day and to complete a satisfactory interaction. The Bank Fransabank takes great pride in helping its has implemented several technological initiatives customers achieve and sustain homeownership. By offering an enhanced experience to customers supporting quality affordable housing, the Bank in a friendly and highly secure way, in addition to contributes to neighborhood stabilization and multiple banking experiences through online community prosperity. banking, mobile banking, ATMs, call center, and the mobile payment gateway. With the widest branch We analyze clients’ financial situation before network in Lebanon counting 124 branches spread granting loans or approving lines of credit to all over the country, and 104 ATMs, Fransabank ensure that the duration of the loan is appropriate provides to its customers a large variety of delivery to the financing purpose and the client’s financial channels not to forget its entrenched pool of circumstances. Our employees must be sure that human resource talents. Moreover, all the Bank’s clients understand the characteristics, functions branches’ employees have access to a Customer and risks inherent to a product. They are trained to Relationship Management (CRM) solution which is consistently communicate and interact with fully integrated with their day-to-day work customers, setting clear expectations, and environment. explaining fees and costs that are part of the origination process. We focus on achieving and We are also engaging customers through social maintaining excellence in key customer experience media. Real-time updates allow us to keep our drivers, such as closing on time and avoiding customers informed of significant events or multiple requests for documents. changes to our services. We had a significant increase in engagement. Twitter followers have In addition, we have strengthened our approach to grown by almost 104% (more than doubled) and helping homeowners who are struggling to make Instagram followers increased by almost 224% their loan payments through a focus on early (more than tripled). intervention. We provide extensive training to enable our employees to better support customers who are having difficulties making loan payments and have enhanced our communications skills to provide better counseling and more clarity about Social Media Branches the available options. Channels ATMs & To this end, the Bank launched in 2015, a housing loan campaign promoting the reimbursement of SMS 24/7 Call Center 100% of registration fees to approved new Alerts applicants. 45 Fransabank clients benefited from this promotional campaign. FRANSABANK Touch Points Mobile E-Banking Payment Mobile & Tablet E-Mail Application In 2015, we originated more than 7,311 housing loans, Mail representing more than USD 631.1 million in loans for home purchase, refinance and home improvement Rewarding our Customers Responsible Marketing Our reward channels are well-studied as we We strive to market our products and services in a continuously try to come up with what would transparent, consistent and responsible manner to please our clients the most. In this context, maintain trust. Fransabank marketing materials are Fransabank launched, for the second year in a row reviewed to ensure that products are clear, fair and the UEFA Champions League spending campaign comply with applicable laws as per the Central with MasterCard. Since football has proved to be a Bank of Lebanon Circular 134, regulations and favorite sports game for the Lebanese people of all Fransabank’s policies. Information and marketing ages, our cardholders were given the chance to materials must be easily understood and watch live one of the most prestigious and encompassing all relevant information, in a simple watched sporting event in Europe. In 2015, we and straightforward manner. reinforced our commitment by rewarding not just our loyal MasterCard credit cardholders but also the holders of MasterCard debit cardholders. Responsible Procurement Fourteen lucky winners attended matches of the group stages, quarter finals, semi-finals and finals As a financial institution, our procurement spending of the UEFA Champions League 2015. is mostly on maintenance services and office supplies. Even so, we believe that responsible The outcome of this campaign resulted in the procurement creates value for both, us and our issuance of 6,000 new MasterCard cards and suppliers, while still supporting sustainable 8,630 Fransabank cardholders entered the draw to development. Therefore, we choose to purchase participate in this campaign. exclusively from responsible suppliers. This promotion was coupled with another spending campaign, whereby 55 cardholders had the chance to win Apple watches. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 32-33 03. I N V E S T I N G I N O U R H U M A N C A P I TA L FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 34-35 Investing in our Human Capital Population Distribution In 2015 for the past 3 years 54% 46% 45% Females in branches management position 100,792 hours of training to our employees as end of 2015 215 Intern students were welcomed as part of Fransabank Summer Internship Program Average training hours per employee 425 employees enrolled in Children Cancer Center of Lebanon Partner in Life Program, contributing to a total amount of USD 265,527 from November 2005 till end of 2015. 60 hours 570 employees enrolled at Fransabank Amicale Club, an increase of 58% from end of 2014. Number of employees 233 employees followed a Talent Management Program identified at the Bank’s 439 employees followed a Polyvalence Enhancement Program Development Programs 398 employees followed a Potentials Development Program in 2015 114 employees followed a Succession Planning Program The heart of Fransabank business is the devotion and endowment of its people. We focus on attracting and retaining a talented and diverse employee base, developing their potential and rewarding their successes. We strive to create a culture of inclusion and well-being and an environment that allows every individual to thrive at work and contribute to his community. Our employees’ commitment and engagement is essential to successfully implement the culture to which we aspire. With 1,681 employees as end of 2015, coming from the different Lebanese regions, Fransabank reiterates every year its commitment to develop knowledge and expertise in its staff, offering training programs founded on skills enhancement, teamwork, agility and competences development. Diversity & Inclusion Diversity is a prerequisite for maintaining an We have already come a long way in developing appealing workplace and a healthy, innovative a diversified and inclusive workforce. In 2015, working environment. Fransabank supports our workforce gender segmentation was equal opportunities for all staff without regard unchanged as compared to the previous year to gender, religion, culture or any personal with an almost equal share among men and belief, in addition to fair treatment in employment women employment, 54% being males and and development. 46% females. Women employees held 46% of Fransabank workforce and 45% of branch management positions (being either branch managers or deputy branch managers). While, we welcomed 249 new comers at Fransabank’s commitment to diversity is Fransabank in 2015; 43.4% of them were reflected in our strategic human resources women. On average, our workforce age was agenda which is based on five main values: estimated at 38.2 years. 3 Outstanding client service, o 3 Operational excellence, o 3 A pledge to integrity, o 3 Equality and accountability, and o 3 An appealing culture of fellowship. o 249 new hires Composition of Fransabank SAL Employees 2013 2014 2015 Population 1,509 1,533 1,681 Gender distribution 54% 46% 54% 46% 54% 46% Nber of hires (including Al-Ahli International Bank merger) 84 90 249 Percentage of university degree holders 69% 70% 78% Average age of Fransabank employees 34.5 36.4 38.2 FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 36-37 Investing in our Human Capital Building a diverse and talented workforce provides help strengthen all our employees’ skills, train them us with a framework of good conduct; but retaining at each stage of their career path, which translate those valuable individuals entails a continual into a better performance. assessment, motivation and adaptation. Fransabank Human Resource team has been Training has been high on the agenda across the spotting and cultivating talented employees across Bank as we seek to steadily improve both individual the Bank for several years now. Yet, this remains a and team performances to provide customers the collective effort as managers at all levels in the best possible service experience. Therefore, we Bank play a critical role in the development, implement extensive training programs that would promotion and retention of talents. Whenever potential employees are identified, they go through well-studied programs of competency development as such: 1. Improving employees’ ability in multi-tasking and handling of several functions via our Polyvalence Enhancement program. 2. Coaching employees with high-level qualifications to take up advanced positions by way of our Potentials Development program. 3. Advancing the career path of high-performance employees while sustaining them with appropriate trainings through our Talents Management program. 4. Preparing employees to be promoted and assume key business positions as they become available thru our Succession Planning program. AS END OF 2015 Internal Development Programs 2015 (# of identified employees) 233 Talent Management 439 Polyvalence Enhancement 398 Potentials Development 114 Succession Planning 100,792 hours of training Fransabank provides its employees with a broad range of development opportunities that build An average of 60 training hours per employee critical skills and advance their careers. In 2015, employees completed training on topics ranging from financial products and regulatory controls to Training Distribution culture and conduct and broad-spectrum people Total employee training hours management. We also provide a significant 100,792 2015 amount of training at the entry-levels to build the expertise needed for success at an introductory 71,455 2014 stage, whereby we have dedicated orientation 42,123 2013 programs targeted for new recruits’ integration in the Bank’s culture and vision. Effective number of participants 1,113 2015 We also focus on enabling employees to build skills 1,137 2014 through internal mobility, and we place a priority 1,839 2013 on filling open roles from within. Average training hours per employee 60 2015 48.1 2014 29 2013 RiskAnalyst Training Workshop In 2015, Fransabank employees were not the only bankers to complete training at the Bank. We also hosted, in collaboration with Moody’s, a three-day RiskAnalyst Training workshop designed to benefit Moody’s Lebanese client banks as we believe that helping the entire sector contribute to a strong and efficient Lebanese economy. Attendees came from different top Lebanese banks, along with Fransabank Group's subsidiaries and affiliates. Processing Remunerations Head Hunting Among The Youth Fransabank remuneration policy allows attracting Communities across Lebanon are struggling to and retaining high-performing and motivated revive our economy, yet thousands of Lebanese employees in a competitive market. people still are unable to find jobs that offer the financial autonomy. At the same time, many Fransabank employees’ performance is based on employers are looking to fill vacancies, especially the nature and scale of their abilities, required for technical and skilled positions. As such, in competencies and financial objectives. This annual 2015, 215 interns joined Fransabank’s summer evaluation of employees’ performance provides the internship program which is tailored to senior and means for determining and directly linking merit junior selected university students majoring in and bonus to both individual and team achievements banking and finance, economics and other business and productivity. majors. It is an oriented learning opportunity designed to enable undergraduate students gain a Fransabank is governed by the Collective Labor practical experience in the banking field whether at Agreement. All employees are enrolled in the Fransabank branches or departments. National Social Security Fund, and are endowed for additional benefits as such transportation Part of these new members, joined our team allowance, representation allowance, family thanks to Fransabank vigorous presence at allowances, preferential loans, tuition fees for university job fairs, mainly at the Lebanese American employees’ children, cost of living adjustment, University (LAU), American University of Beirut medical coverage, and wedding gift, amongst (AUB), Université Saint-Joseph de Beyrouth (USJ), others. and École Supérieure des Affaires (ESA) job fairs. As we participate in job fairs to maximize our recruiting/sourcing efforts, and develop our strong brand awareness; it is also a clear-cut way of spreading the word about Fransabank. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 38-39 Investing in our Human Capital Integrating Employees Fundraising for Charities Through fostering a culture of voluntary engagement in Corporate Social Responsibility, Fransabank employees have the opportunity to participate in NGOs as a monthly donation with approved amount to be agreed upon with the employee. 425 Fransabank employees were enrolled in the “Partner in Life Employee Giving Program” with the Children Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL) as of end 2015. This individual and voluntary commitment comes out from the employee own sense of responsibility and his/her wish to help make a difference on the social level. The CCCL received more than $ 265,000 collected from 425 Fransabank employees from November 2005 till end of 2015 The Children's Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL) is a regional center pioneer in pediatric cancer treatment with a mission of hope and a healthy future for children. They treat kids with no cost at all on parents. Through their affiliation with St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital in Memphis, Tennessee; and the rigorous research of doctors and scientists at the American University of Beirut Medical Center (AUBMC), they achieved an average cure rate of 80% for their kids. Gathering Beyond Work Taking breaks from the stress of work and daily routine not only helps feel more at ease, contented and peaceful, it also improves productivity, physical and mental well-being. In this context, Fransabank Amicale Club is all about taking a break from work and making the time to relax socialize and generate friendship bonds among colleagues that would surpass the working environment. It is responsible for social and recreational facilities for the Bank’s employees. Managed by a Committee, which includes nine members covering all the Lebanese regions in Fransabank Amicale members reached 570 conformity with our branch network, the Club oversees a range of events including mid-year trips, social events such as concerts, dinners, and hiking days, among others. members as end of December 2015 The Bank’s management allocates every year a budget for this club to be spent for employeeAn increase of 58% from end of year 2014 related activities. Engaging in Unions Fransabank supports employees’ rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining, as documented in the International Labour Organization’s core conventions. At Fransabank, we maintain a constructive dialog with our employees’ trade unions, actively participate in the Collective Work Agreement negotiations and formulation, and interact in partnership and within a spirit of trust. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 40-41 04. LO O K I N G A F T E R O U R E N V I R O N M E N T FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 42-43 Looking after our Environment Leaders in Sustainable Energy Financing (SEF) in Lebanon 1 150 Impact of Sustainable Energy Financing Loans: Sustainable Energy Projects Launching an Environmental & Social Management System (ESMS) taking into consideration environmental and social impacts Counseling customers that are working to employ sustainable solutions using energy efficient technologies Instilling a culture of green sustainability were financed for a total amount of over in our employees’ habits USD 120 million in 2015 IN 2015 1.5 Tons of recyclable plastics 107.31 Tons of recyclable papers at the Bank at end of 2015 were collected by Fransabank employees, saving approximately resulting in the donation of 2,575 trees two wheelchairs At Fransabank, we believe there is great potential for energy efficiency, renewable energy and other technologies to help address a range of sustainability challenges affecting our environment. With our “Go Green” strategy, we have built capacity to become the leader Lebanese Bank in Sustainable Energy Finance (SEF). We strongly believe that, through our commitment, we have a real opportunity to affect the climate agenda by the investment we make and the credits we grant. Investing Responsibly Innovation & Value Added international development banks. In view of that, Fransabank benefited from the International Because of the political deadlock and the Finance Corporation (IFC) Advisory Services sluggish economic situation, most Lebanese through the training they provided to Fransabusinessmen are not responsive to energy or bank’s teams, their help in assessing the exisenvironmental projects. Moreover, they prefer tent client portfolio and the identification of working on short to medium term projects with potential eligible projects. The Bank was also relatively fast return on investments. Even with granted a USD 40 million financing from IFC and several private and public initiatives, Fransabank Canada Climate Change Fund (Fransabank and believes that the potential has not been fully its leasing arm, The Lebanese Leasing Comaddressed nor globally captured. pany), boasting itself to be the only Bank in Lebanon to finance SEF projects in many industrial sectors, scaling up and replicating each industries’ model to its peers. Fransabank’s Workhorse We have been able to prove to customers In this context, and knowing that the banking the importance of energy efficiency measures sector in Lebanon has been the cornerstone of or renewable energy projects in terms of the Lebanese economy, Fransabank decided to increase of production/capacity and/or reduction realize a cultural shift in mentalities starting of the energy bill. In addition, the Bank offers with its own headquarters and employees, some of its customers energy audits to help positioning itself as the Green Bank in them identify areas of concern and thus to Lebanon and influencing its customers to act analyze the best way to develop their business. on climate change, stressing on the business We implemented, as well, an Environmental benefits, the decrease in energy costs as well as and Social Management System (ESMS) in the environmental “branding”. We strongly the credit approval process to assess the believe that, through a strong commitment, environmental and social impacts of each project. Fransabank has a real opportunity to affect the climate agenda through the investments it 150 Sustainable Energy Projects were financed makes and the eco-business credits it grants. for a total amount of over USD 120 million in 2015. Fransabank’s Value-Added Lies in its Methodology We try to change the traditional business by imbedding a new culture within the Bank. Therefore, we have been developing the Bank’s know-how in this field through extensive training sessions, sharing and exchanging best practices with the Ministry of Energy and Water/Lebanese Center for Energy Conservation as well as FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 44-45 Looking after our Environment As such, we list few examples: to identify the energy efficiency measures to be implemented as well as a renewable energy project Greening of Petrol Stations to capture the solar energy decreasing thus the Fransabank financed the “greening” of several electricity bill. This solar photovoltaic (PV) project petrol stations, helping them decrease their aims to be the largest private sector solar project greenhouse gas emissions. The objective was to in Lebanon and we plan to partner with the replicate green rooftops, photovoltaic rooftops, Lebanese Association of Industrialists to replicate waste water management and energy monitoring this scheme on all similar factories including projects in all petrol stations in Lebanon. As much cement, aluminum, paper, sanitary etc… as these oil companies are polluting, we have tried to instill a certain methodology that is less harmful Sustainable Agriculture for the environment. In view of that, the Bank Likewise, Fransabank developed a pilot project in partnered, in 2015, with the Lebanese oil private Agriculture / Agro-Business Agriculture and sector, in particular the IPT Gas Stations; signing a financed the installation of solar PVs as well as Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the energy efficiency measures including waste implementation of IPT Energy and Environmental management and water waste management. The Management Strategy (EEMS). The importance of Bank is currently working with several associations this initiative came at a critical time. While and organizations to support the agricultural Lebanon was facing a tremendous social crisis and business. Through this pilot project, a number of hard times finding a viable solution to an incessant other agro-businesses have become interested in garbage crisis; promoting renewable energy developing the eco-friendly technologies and put technologies was such a smart decision that in place the energy efficiency measures. should be adopted by all Lebanese businesses. The Bank’s pipeline of greening projects comprises These fruitful cooperation which should motivate more than 200 “greener” petrol stations by 2020. the private sector to enter the decentralized production of renewable energy technologies, Energy Audit and Advising Factories work for the sake of achieving economic growth in With the International Finance Corporation team’s Lebanon and its development over the coming support, we also advised one of the major steel years. factories in Lebanon offering them an energy audit Aptly, a documentary detailing Fransabank’s strategy and engagement towards a greener Lebanon was launched and included the above listed customers’ success stories. The three projects were successfully implemented through the Bank’s team knowledge and expertise, and of course the substantial financial reward the responsible lending offered to their businesses. Eco-Friendly Loans for Individuals – Partnership Agence Française de Développement and with Municipalities Proparco, European Bank for Reconstruction and For retail and individuals, Fransabank has worked Development, etc. on several projects including eco-home loans, eco-friendly loans, solar water heater loans, as well Key Success Factors of SEF Initiative as environmental loans. Having partnered with two main municipalities in Lebanon in the previous Management commitment and close follow-up years, to finance all types of energy projects in throughout all the phases of the projects. their regions, the Bank paralleled the above The strong belief that our institution can play a projects, with a signature with the Union of major role in advocating SEF in Lebanon that will Municipalities of Qalaat Al Istiklal – West Bekaa, impact the behavior of the society. Lebanon in 2015. The Bank collaborated and The dedication of a team responsible of setting launched eco-friendly loans for the citizens in this up an action plan, monitoring the project and area aiming at the reduction of household reporting to management. expenses, and energy consumption, and at the Partnering with major international financial same time preserving the environment. The loan institutions. was granted in order to support citizens of the Receiving assistance from the IFC for the area to enhance the beauty of their houses while development of the Banks’ Environmental and reaching a model of environmentally friendly living Social Management System (ESMS) that lifestyle. This initiative supports sustainable energy addresses not only the financial and credit and residential projects for citizens of all Lebanese analysis for files under review but also the regions. Environmental and Social impacts. Benefiting from the IFC Advisory Services through Sustainability & Replicability the training they provided to Fransabank’s teams, their help in assessing the existent client We have been conducting pilot tests with several portfolio and the identification of potential industries which will be replicated to all industries eligible projects. among which petrol stations, printing press, Embracing the incentive programs of the Central restaurants, bakeries, fast foods, factories, Bank of Lebanon, in coordination with the hospitals and medical centers, schools and Ministry of Energy and Water, the Ministry of universities, hotels, malls, buildings and construction, Environment and the Lebanese Center for SEF Components in buildings (roofs, double walls, Energy Conservation. double glazing, LED lighting, etc.). Following extensive training sessions, sharing and exchanging best practices with the Ministry Therefore, scalability is total. Every sector in of Energy and Water/ Lebanese Center for Lebanon is touched. And we believe that a snowEnergy Conservation as well as international ball effect is envisaged once partnerships with development banks. associations, organizations and industries are finalized. Last but not least, we believe that focusing on To achieve all these objectives, we believe that a industries is the key point that helped us apprehend long way has been travelled and a lot of obstacles Sustainable Energy Finance, thus having the were overcome. The essential thing is that today biggest possible impact, and scaling up and awareness is arising and businesses are starting to replicating each industry’s model to its peers. consider Sustainable Energy Finance projects for their own cost and production benefits but also for environmental-friendly branding, to gain a competitive advantage in the market. Ultimately, Fransabank’s Sustainable Energy Finance (SEF) program addresses a number of pressing development areas as reflected Collaborations & Synergies by the UN Sustainable Development Goals Collaborations and partnerships were created with: (SDG), ranging from providing sustainable The Ministry of Energy and Water / Lebanese energy for all, promoting sustainable agriculture Center for Energy Conservation and sustainable management of water and The Central Bank of Lebanon combating climate change and its impacts. International finance institutions or development With such effects, Sustainable Energy Financing banks among which the World Bank and provides a framework to promote ethics, International Finance Corporation (IFC), The responsibility and civic engagement. European Investment Bank, EU Delegation, FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 46-47 Looking after our Environment Environmental & Social Management System (ESMS) In line with Fransabank’s “Go Green” strategy and capacity and/or reduction of energy bills. This has Corporate Social Responsibility, an Environmental helped Fransabank, in coordination with the client, and Social Management System (ESMS) was to identify the need to initiate, replace, implement established, allowing the Bank to use its relationship or upgrade new methods to decrease greenhouse with businesses to encourage them to control and gas emissions and increase social welfare within an reduce the environmental impact of their activities, accepted budget. Furthermore, we offer some of embrace renewable energy and responsible our customers energy audits to help them identify and sound environmental management practices, areas of concern and thus to analyze the best way promoting as such environmental and social to develop their business. sustainability. • The Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) consists of conducting due diligence of a project to evaluate its environmental and social risks, and its compliance with international environmental best practices and applicable local laws, based on an onsite visit and on an assessment of the environmental and social management practices in place (waste management, efficiency of resources, labor and working conditions, pollution prevention, community health safety, conservation of biodiversity in proximity of the project premises, etc…). • This due diligence will allow the Bank to assign a risk category to each project at hand, whereby a high risk category will entail corrective measures to be closely followed up by the Bank. • This system will, thus, urge businesses not only to identify the practices hindering environmental and social sustainability, but also to take actions towards reforming these practices, until an improvement of environmental stewardship is felt across the country. Fransabank’s active financing activity for sustainable energy projects cover all sectors of In this context, ongoing training is provided to the economy, including: staff members directly dealing with credit files to 3agriculture/ solar pumping increase their awareness and expertise on the o 3water treatment subject. The Bank has also appointed an ESMS o 3waste management officer responsible to manage proper implementation of the system, and provide assistance to front o office personnel. o3electricity o3industry/ replacement of equipment 3renewable energy projects Fransabank has integrated in its commercial prospection and follow-up with existing clients, an o 3 approach to enquire on their energy use and their (solar photovoltaic, wind farms and biomas) o green buildings 3Amongst others. environmental and social impacts. We have been able to prove to our customers the importance of o energy efficiency measures or renewable energy projects in terms of increase of production, Fransabank Participation in COP21 “ Regarding the situation in Lebanon, there is a lack of clear and well-defined laws that regulate environmental aspects. And here lies the important role of the private sector to take urgent actions. “ Mr. Nadim Kassar General Manager, Fransabank Fransabank, represented by its General Manager Mr. Nadim Kassar, participated in the side event: The United Nations Climate Change “Partout dans le monde, financiers et entrepreneurs Conferences are yearly conferences that serve as the formal meeting of the UNagissent pour le climat” or “All around the world, FCCC Parties (Conference of the Parties financiers and contractors act for the climate” that or COP21) to assess progress for more took place during COP21, the annual Conference of than 190 countries or unions in dealing with climate change, and beginning in Parties, in December 2015, in Le Bourget near the mid-1990s, to negotiate the Kyoto Paris, France. Protocol to establish legally binding obligations for developed countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. In this context, Mr. Kassar discussed Fransabank’s “Go Green” strategy and shared the Bank’s experience in launching, managing, and financing energy projects. In addition, he presented a focus on climate change perspectives in Lebanon and on Fransabank’s commitment towards the environment through its CSR achievements and targets. Fransabank was also a key player in the Beirut Energy Forum 2015, and held a panel under the title “Role of Banks in Financing Energy Projects in Lebanon” to discuss and tackle global and local sustainability issues. The Forum was significant in itself being held in particular circumstances when the world is facing serious environmental challenges, many top oil and non-oil-producing countries are looking for renewable energy, and pointing out to Lebanon’s rich resources that could be used of renewable energies, such as solar energy and others. The Beirut Energy Forum is dedicated to sustainable energy issues and projects. Adopted by the World Energy Council (WEC) as the MENA regional event, the Forum is a place to share insights, challenges, and solutions to the MENA's energy sector, with special focus on potential regional projects. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 48-49 Looking after our Environment Eco-Business Loan Campaign Highlighting on how much can be saved while adopting efficient sustainable solutions to different sectors of the economy was the headline of Fransabank Eco-Business Loan campaigns. Cost effective access to energy efficient technology and equipment helps companies generate a higher level of productivity on the long-term, as such: A Steel Factory A Printing Press A Restaurant A Bakery saves saves saves saves 50% of its energy 45% in energy costs 25% in energy when 25% in energy when demand by investing in by investing in energy investing in energy investing in energy energy efficiency and efficiency & renewable efficient technology efficient technology solar power technologies energy technologies The statistics were retrieved from a study conducted by the International Finance Corporation (IFC). Limiting and Reducing Ecological Footprints The rationalization and control of paper consumption are one of the major environmental targets of Fransabank. Raising green awareness to the Bank’s internal stakeholders was achieved as per here below: Environmental Footprint Reduction Bank’s new cutting-edge data center uses a containment system to efficiently cool the data With the use of technology, we always strive to center. This is one of the most technologically reduce our environmental footprint. That is why we advanced strategies in data center design and we created a work environment in which the use of are the first in the country to use it, to help paper is greatly reduced. Moreover, we are in the improve capacity and energy efficiency by process of converting most of our documents into reducing by-pass airflow. their digital form, because we believe that going paperless can save money, boost productivity, save • Recycling initiative within the Bank’s Headquarters space, and help the environment at the same time. and branches is being managed responsibly by our employees. We have made considerable Our achievements: progress in reducing paper waste, reaching the 107 tons and 310 Kg of recycled papers in 2015. • Implementation of a virtualization-first strategy This accomplishment is a significant indicator of to decrease our energy consumption to a bare the changes in our corporate culture which is minimum by consolidating multiple services onto leaning towards an environment friendly workthe same hardware, thus saving on cost and place. reducing our carbon footprint. Furthermore, the With the 107.31 tons of papers recycled, we saved approximately: > 2,575 trees > 2,046,938 gallons of waste water (1 ton of paper conserves 7,000 gallons of water or an equivalent of drinking water consumed by 300 people for an entire month) > 110,851 Kg of solid waste > 1,194,789 KWh of energy (1 ton of paper saves 4,200 KW hours, enough to power an average-sized home for two years) > 276,967 Kg of greenhouse gas Sources: www.csuohio.edu & www.conservatree.org • Expanding the Bank’s digital banking services • Encouraging print reduction initiatives through that have a profound impact on the reduction of promoting double-sided printing, shared printers paper consumption. We reached 46,163 registered and multi-functional peripherals across the users of Fransabank internet banking and mobile Bank’s departments / divisions and branches as banking by end of December 2015, an increase of well as the local entities to help reduce paper a almost 30% as compared to the previous year. consumption, with a more widespread use of a r d s certified paper for the Bank’s publications. Towrless Office Through the implementation of the main actions Pape listed above, Fransabank ensures a clear path towards sustainable development. All those actions will have little financial incentives for the Bank but will greatly impact on its striving for sustainability, and will send a message of awareness to all the Bank’s employees and clients. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 50-51 Looking after our Environment A Comprehensive Green Building Audit on • Implementing a Full Energy Management Fransabank Headquarters Program with clear targets. • Increasing Demand Control: lighting, A/C, The International Finance Corporation (IFC) escalators, and ventilation. conducted a comprehensive green audit on • Retrofitting parking ventilation. Fransabank Headquarters. A summary of the • Implementing renewable energy solutions (PV outcome and measures implemented is listed here on roof and facade). below: • Lighting load was the largest electrical energy consumption with more than 31% of the total cost; accordingly, the Bank has been gradually replacing conventional lighting with LED lighting: all elevator lobbies and departments hallways were changed to LED. • Replacing the Bank’s old air conditioning chiller system with the VRV air conditioning system resulted in reducing the Bank’s energy consumption in the HVAC area by 30% to 40%. Engaging Employees To achieve continual progress in sustainability, environmental concerns should not only be implanted into our operations but also in our corporate culture. 1.5 Tons of Recyclable Plastics Equal Two Wheelchairs Following last year’s success, and within the framework of Fransabank’s Corporate Social Responsibility strategy and arcenciel’s environmental program, the “Bouchons Roulants” project, we succeeded in collecting 1.5 tons of recyclable plastics at end of December 2015; surpassing the one ton collected at end of December 2014. The plastics collected were sold to a recycling company in order to provide with that respective value, a wheelchair to a person with special needs; as, every one ton of recyclable plastic bottle caps collected and sold endows arcenciel with a wheelchair. We have achieved our goal thanks to Fransabank employees’ persistent efforts. Therefore, two wheelchairs were donated to selected direct family members of two Fransabank employees (one resulting from Fransabank employees’ efforts and another one from the Bank’s management as an equal contribution to the staff’s endeavor). Continuously, and for the year in progress, we succeeded in raising our internal stakeholders Since 1985, arcenciel has acted with and for all people with awareness to the sorting out of solid wastes and difficulties for the sustainable development of society. It is a non-profit, apolitical and non-denominational organization that the protection of the environment, through the works with anyone in need, and within the spirit of sustainable collection of plastic bottles’ and plastic caps, while continuity. still providing the bestowment of a wheelchair for people with special needs. Ahla Fawda With our presence in Hamra Main Street since the mid-nineties, Fransabank sponsored the second Ahla Fawda Hamra Festival, which aims at turning Beirut green by creating a beautiful environment starting with Hamra Street, the heartbeat of the capital. This year’s theme was “Tout Tout a Beirut”; a popular slogan among Lebanese people, which means “Let’s drive to Beirut”. The event main activity was the ongoing implementation of Ahla Fawda’s Beirut Green Initiative for the improvement of Hamra area and the embellishment of Hamra Street by commissioning art work on buildings. All of this leading to the goal of improving the community we live and work in. It was in line with our continuous support to constructive efforts that can contribute to improve the infrastructure and urban planning of our country, starting by our headquarters’ location, and reaching all Lebanon to make it more beautiful and eco-friendly. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 52-53 05. S TA N D I N G B Y O U R C O M M U N I T I E S FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 54-55 Standing by our Communities We invested Fransabank Group Chairman, in our communities about Mr. Adnan Kassar, donated USD 1.3 million USD 10 million distributed among as an Endowment Fund to the Lebanese American University (LAU) 63% 23% 14% Social Art Education & Health & Culture A total of 1,151 Educational Loans JABAL Young Lebanese artist exhibition organised its 11th edition for the year 2015 4,000 visitors attended were granted with an outstanding amount reaching around 32 artists participated USD 14.94 million as end 2015 The #WeDesign competition, targeted Lebanese architecture students offering them an opportunity to work on and propose a “facelift” to the Bank’s Headquarters. Top 10 finalists exhibited their works, and 3 finalists received cash prizes up to USD 10,000 Today, and through all our Fransabank family, we extend our support to causes that fit our mission of promoting financial and social inclusion, educational advancement and community development. We believe that humanitarian approaches and investments should deliver scalable and measurable impacts. Therefore, we meticulously select the organizations that Fransabank supports, and go through due diligence to ensure that they meet appropriate philanthropic criteria. We monitor the impact of our social responsibility investments annually and systematically collect feedback from our community partners. By meeting our requirements, NGOs with whom we collaborate receive our full support, to better connect with society and boost employee engagement. Our social initiatives provide assistance and support to children, youth, women, the elderly, the disabled, and families living in situations of poverty and social isolation. We have demonstrated a strong commitment over the years to these goals resulting in a tighter connection with society. Our responsibilities tackle key social challenges, engage important stakeholders, and thus contribute to our communities’ enhancement. Advancing Education Raising our Communities Being familiar with the importance of higher With a total investment of around education in a very competitive market and conscious that a much-needed knowledgeable USD 1.3 million in 2015, Lebanese youth is key to our country’s economic Fransabank showcased a sense of thrive, Fransabank Group Chairman, Mr. Adnan unbounded citizenship for about Kassar, further grew his contributions going a step further by donating USD 10 million as donation to a leading educational institution in Lebanon, the Lebanese American University 140 beneficiaries subdivided as follows (LAU), one of the highest donations in the university’s history. 14% Education* This donation, into an endowment fund, is a dedicated and permanent source of funding that provides scholarships and financial aid to 23% needy and deserving students and support to 63% Art & Culture Social & Health LAU’s Business faculty’s academic programs and development. As a long-term perpetual asset, the endowment will deliver financial support to the benefit of both the current generation and future generations of LAU *Excluding the USD 10 million donated students within Chairman’s Kassar strong belief by Fransabank Chairman, Mr. Adnan Kassar, to the Lebanese American University. that education empower individuals and build stronger societies. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 56-57 Standing by our Communities “ Education and specialization are essential for men and women to acquire knowledge that would lead them into life and make them constructive elements in society; this has been the main reason behind my keenness to offer scholarships to young bright students, at LAU and in other universities. “ Mr. Adnan Kassar Chairman, Fransabank With a history of endowments to LAU dating back Education A Continuous Process of Learning to 2001, Mr. Kassar contributed to various LAU scholarships, grants and educational conferences Lebanese people attach great importance to that provided students with educational higher education and the wealth of Lebanon’s opportunities and helped them make a positive services relies mainly on its well educated impact on society. population, a key comparative advantage for the country. To this effect, we, at Fransabank, believe in This step as a means of advancing education in making education accessible to all and in giving Lebanon in supporting a prominent and leading especially the families with financial constraints the university, is especially pertinent at the current possibility to fulfill their dreams and reach their time of instability and economic difficulties faced goals. In this respect, Fransabank Educational Loan by the country. It was also done as a support to was launched in 2009, offering all qualified families, with financial difficulties, whose main concern students the opportunity to pursue their education is a high quality education for their children, to either in Lebanon or abroad at very competitive equip them with the needed higher education rates and flexible repayment periods. for an effective contribution to their society. 1,151 educational loans were granted and the total outstanding amount is USD 14.94 million as end of December 2015. The Lebanese American University (LAU) was first founded as a women’s college in the early 20th century comprising just one building. Today, two major campuses in Lebanon – Beirut & Byblos – and 12 campus buildings are supplemented in order to support growing enrollment and new programs. The university welcomed in fall 2015 a total of 8,348 students with an almost equal gender rate enrollment; female constituting 51% of the students’ population and male 49%. As for the Adnan Kassar School of Business, one of the nine academic units, and to which the endowment was delivered, it encompassed 29.8% of the students in the fall of 2015. www.lau.edu.lb #WeDesign Competition – A Youth Touch Being the oldest Bank in Lebanon, A jury panel consisting of architects and Fransabank’s actual Headquarters were engineers reviewed the submitted projects designed and built in the 1970s by Alvar Aalto and selected the top ten designs that were and Alfred Roth, leaders of modernism then requested to submit a 3D model of their and famous architects of the 20th century. proposals. Fransabank rewarded the creativity of the top three finalists who were chosen After four decades, the Bank decided to based on different criteria as for the new launch an initiative that exemplifies its design’s alignment with Fransabank’s commitment to the next generation; corporate image and well appreciated if reaching, this time, Lebanese architecture encompassed green and environmental students at different universities in Lebanon. measures. Through the #WeDesign competition, the Bank tried to offer them a thrilling opportunity A ceremony was held in the Headquarters of to work on and propose a “facelift” to the the Bank during which the 10 finalists building, one of the great legacies of the exhibited their work in 3D model and the modern architectural movement in Lebanon. In top three finalists received cash prizes. First this context, the initiative aimed at preserving place received USD 10,000, second place the rich genre of architecture, while still was granted USD 2,000, and the third place investing in promising talents among the USD 1,000. An additional, lucky winner youth and challenge them to express and whose project caught the attention of the capture their views of the existing building Bank’s Chairmen and senior management was façade and the surrounding plaza that also rewarded with a USD 1,000 cash prize. represents Fransabank’s positive image and dynamic corporate culture, while By participating in the #WeDesign competition, remaining loyal to the original architects’ university students gained more experience spirit. as architects in-the-making by learning more about the history of modern architecture in The competition focused on artistic and Lebanon, Alvar Aalto and Alfred Roth technical merits; around 131 students’ innovative style in architecture and how the applications from major local universities as building, one day, reshaped the image of for the American University of Beirut (AUB), Hamra Street and its architectural heritage. Lebanese American University (LAU), Also, it was a great chance to improve talents, Académie Libanaise des Beaux-Arts (Alba), boost creativity, give students a great Université Saint Esprit Kaslik (USEK), Lebanese opportunity to discover more of the world of University and Beirut Arab University were design, and most of all endorse our support received. to the Lebanese youth. The three winners of the competition FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 58-59 Standing by our Communities Within the same framework, Fransabank celebrated the 140 years of the Université Saint-Joseph de Beyrouth and sponsored the conference of Faculty of Law and Political Sciences which was debating “The Law in Multicultural Societies”, as multiculturalism is becoming a widely spread reality in our contemporary societies. Likewise, the Lebanese American University had its fourth annual fundraising gala dinner honoring Fransabank Group Chairman, Mr. Adnan Kassar. The event paid special recognition to Kassar’s generous endowment fund of USD 10 million as his giving has allowed LAU to really build a house of wisdom – a city of hope for the youth. Partnership with the Public Sector In addition to believing in the incessant need to learn, educate, and empower the youth, we, at Fransabank, also give great importance to regenerating and developing communities by working in partnership with the public sector. We have been partnering for six years in a row with L’Ecole Nationale d’Administration (ENA), the French Embassy in Beirut, and Basil Fuleihan Institute of Finance for a joint education program, to support Lebanon’s public sector key senior officials with key leadership and managerial skills. As part of the Bank’s continuous patronage to The launching ceremony of this year saw the youth education, we stand side by side with local participation of 28 senior officials in the Lebanese universities and schools spreading our support to public administration, representing 15 departments cover different regions. In 2015, we have been a and institutions as well as military organizations. major supporter of students’ social and sports activities of five universities and several schools as In line with Fransabank’s Corporate Social we list the American University of Beirut (AUB), Responsibility strategy, this initiative aimed Lebanese American University (LAU), Modern at contributing to the establishment of the University for Business and Science (MUBS), Holy citizenship spirit, and fighting corruption and Spirit University of Kaslik (USEK), Notre Dame incompetency to build a healthier civil society. University – Louaize (NDU), as well as to Collège Notre Dame de Jamhour, Lebanon Evangelical Putting all our efforts for the sake of strengthening School for Boys and Girls, Beirut Baptist School the public institutions performance to activate the (BBS), General Secretary of Catholic Schools in Lebanese Government’s role, several meetings and Lebanon (SGEC), Collège Notre Dame de workshops were held with a main goal of Nazareth, Rawdat Al-Fayhaa' School Tripoli, exchanging experiences, setting the basics of Collège Notre Dame des Sœurs Antonines, Ecole corporate governance, and improving overall Saint Roch Kleat, Antonine Sisters School, Saydet performance. Profound topics that serve the Al Najat School Sainte Famille Maronite Zalka, monetary and administrative reforms which are and Ecole Notre Dame Des Soeurs Maronites de la essential to align and meet the public finance Sainte Famille, among others. policies and objectives were tackled throughout the program. With similar initiatives, Fransabank Group always aspires as part of its several CSR initiatives undertaken in many fields to “Form Inform Transform” the Public Sector in particular and the communities where it operates in general to support building more promising tomorrows. Art – An “Inspiration” to the Nation At Fransabank, we believe that art and culture help build wealthier citizens. And so, we try, through our pioneering initiative JABAL Jeunes Artistes des Beaux Arts du Liban, to provide a platform for talented young artists to exhibit their artworks via its annual exhibition and to make cultural experiences available to a wider audience. “ We work to foster an attitude that utilizes the power of Art to reform society. “ Mr. Adnan Kassar Chairman, Fransabank Temporarily JABAL JABAL JABAL JABAL halt of JABAL JABAL 1998 2000 2002 2004 annual 2014 exhibitions Burj Sbeih, Khan el-Franj, Hotel Kadri, Paul Guiragossian because Le Gray Hotel, Tripoli Saida, Zahle, Museum, of the political Down Town, Al Mina, South Bekaa New Jdeideh, turmoil Beirut North Lebanon of Lebanon Mount Lebanon in Lebanon… JABAL JABAL JABAL JABAL JABAL JABAL 1999 2001 2003 2006 2013 2015 Ecole Beit el-Herafi, Aley, Fransabank Le Gray Hotel, Saint-Georges Supérieure Zouk Mikeal, Mount Center, Down Town, Hotel, des Affaires Mount Lebanon Hamra, Beirut Beirut Beirut (ESA), Beirut Lebanon JABAL 2015 JABAL exhibitions aim at: 3Reflecting the diversity and vitality of the Fransabank’s JABAL – Jeunes Artistes des Beauxo Arts du Liban is the first-of-its kind art-advocacy initiative by a financial institution launched in 1998 in emerging Lebanese contemporary art 3Promoting Lebanese young artists from Lebanon; and has set the pace since its inception for the discovery of over 350 young talents from all the o Lebanese regions, thus making art accessible to all. different Lebanese regions JABAL has beautifully become a must-visit 3Hosting and showcasing the talent of dozens o destination for amateurs, professionals, and artists. of artists who never previously had the Each year brings an extraordinary exhibit of artistic opportunity to display their works to the public 3Creating a cultural exchange platform talents in sculpture, painting, photography, and crafts by people who most likely would not o otherwise have had such an opportunity, some of between art professionals, artists and visitors whom made it to international recognition. 3Boosting the country’s artistic heritage. o FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 60-61 Standing by our Communities Through JABAL exhibitions, Fransabank has a For the year 2015, JABAL’s artistic committee strategic mission to offer new horizons to emerging selected art pieces from 32 promising artists, among artists from all the Lebanese regions and pave their more than 100 submitted portfolios. The selected paths towards maximizing their potentials. We artists presented their artworks under the theme believe that this would enable them to overcome the «Visionary Artists, Where Myths and Dreams Are All challenges brought on by an age of political About Lebanon» exhibiting 121 pieces of art instability in Lebanon and the region. The revival of rigorously selected to unveil their projects, some of arts by itself is one of the Bank’s most important which were especially made for this occasion, missions which will give perpetually birth to a future presenting a sensitive and eclectic overview of generation of artists and launch a new renaissance. modern day art. At Fransabank, we hereby work to foster an attitude that utilizes the power of art to reform society and The pieces of art inspired collective growth and solve this era's critical problems. proved that young artists are both rooted and visionary. In their own way, they painted and inspired the future; such an artistic vision of a changing world is quite portrayed in a significant and precious selection of JABAL’s 2015 edition. During four days of JABAL 2015, more than 4,000 visitors attended the exhibition. Galleries, curators, institutions, art directors of museums came to encourage the artists. Among the 32 exhibiting artists, 14 have sold their artworks, while 5 artists did not wish to sell their displayed artworks, preferring to keep it for their own. As customary, the Bank purchased paintings from participating artists to display them at Fransabank departments and branches. 1 We pride ourselves by being an enthusiastic and responsible financial institution. Through such collaborative ventures with artists, we offer opportunities to enhance the community’s understanding of art on one hand, and sustain the best possible artists for the creative and cultural industries which we serve on the other hand. We already have achieved great success in our previous editions, and we aim to build on this to secure Fransabank’s place as a leading provider of art and culture. 2 3 1. Mohamad Khayata, Photography, 2014 2. Lina Hassoun, Vertigo, 2014, Lambda print 3. Lama Hajjar, Untitled, 2014, Iron, Resin 4. Liane Mathes Rabbath, Eclipse, 2014 5. Lamia Saab Muhtar, Hayda Lebnen, 2015, Paper collage 4 5 Enchanted Masterworks When encouraging art, Fransabank dedicates its efforts to promote it under all its forms. Apart from our annual exhibition, we also make sure to collaborate and support cultural events whose mission is aligned with our objective of making art accessible to all. In 2015, we conferred substantial importance to promoting classical music, as such we: • Celebrated Beiteddine Art Festival’s 30 th anniversary through an opera concert for the gifted soprano Anna Netrebko who enchanted the nights of the Chouf through its refined high-pitched voice. For her first performance in the Arab world, Netrebko captured ears and eyes of 2,300 attendees, including 80 selected clients invited by Fransabank. Not only that, Beiteddine Art Festival dedicated the 2015 edition of its art exhibition to the legendary philosophical essayist, novelist, poet and artist, Gibran Khalil Gibran. For the first time ever, Gibran art pieces were put on a display outside the Museum of Bécharré North of Lebanon including an undisclosed collection of paintings. The exhibition invited all attendees to travel into a world of poetry and awes generated by the fine heritage Gibran handed to the Lebanese people. music at AUB's Department of Fine Arts and Arts History. There is no better way to promote • Chose to be part of education, culture and heritage other than having Al Bustan Festival program, Lebanon’s renowned artists integrated in college for the fourth consecutive curriculums and educational programs; an year, and sponsored Arabella innovative approach to penetrate the soul of the Steinbacher’s concert; a Lebanese youth and remind them of the true German-Japanese artist, who Lebanese culture and rich legacy. mixed genius with passion and shone on her violin. • Heartened classical music through The Lebanese Band Association for the Promotion of Music LeBAM’s concert. The Bank’s patronage of this • Partnered and supported cultural festivals in cultural opportunity enriched the availability of various Lebanese regions as for Baalbeck quality music education to the local communities. International Festival, where by the Bank was a major partner of this festival for the fourth year in a row. Batroun International Festival, Ehden International Festival, Ehmej, and Tannourine Festivals received as well the Bank’s support. Through these partnerships, Fransabank conveys their universal messages as an expression of faith in Lebanon’s cultural legacy, an embodiment of ingenuity and a call for peace. • Honored Lebanon’s cultural heritage embodied by one of the first generation of Lebanese composers and an icon of Lebanon’s musical • Celebrated the World Theater Day and heritage, Zaki Nassif. Theresupported a symposium organized by the fore, the Bank extended its Holy Spirit University of Kaslik USEK entitled support to the American “Theater, Identity and Survive”. For two consecutive University of Beirut (AUB) days, discussion sessions were held talking over Zaki Nassif Program and key issues, and the importance of theater as sponsored a oneyear schedule of concerts the observer which tests and stores in memory introducing classics in Lebanese and Oriental every social, political and ideological issue. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 62-63 Standing by our Communities When Culture, History and Ecology Come decent work for all beyond 2015. Participants from Together Arab and international countries shared their expertise in the field of employment of people with Going backwards to the Middle Ages in the disabilities; it is noteworthy that the number of nineteenth century, Lebanon was well-known for handicapped persons in the Arab World is 45 its fine production of silk. The caza of Aley Bsous million as for the year 2015. particularly – in Mount Lebanon, witnessed this golden age where silk production in Lebanon was In parallel, Fransabank collaborated with the the main activity for a large section of the International Labor Organization (ILO) in a pilot population, creating great social and economic project on “Decent Work for Domestic Workers” change in the lives of the local population. targeting a highly vulnerable group of foreign residents in Lebanon. The voluntary participation of Fransabank, through an open discussion between selected employees, provided insights on the perspectives of employers of domestic workers with the goal of continuous improvement in their living and working conditions. The project was terminated with a voluntary individual pledge “My Fair Home Campaign”, through which employees recognize and commit to protect domestic workers’ rights. A Long-Lasting Alliance with Communities Through initiatives that focus on removing social barriers, enabling communities to prosper, and promoting health awareness to wider audiences; we co n t i n u o u s l y p a r t n e r w i t h n o n p ro f i t organizations, renowned institutions, and the public sector to have a durable engagement and Being proud of our heritage and as an effort to maximize our impact. Consequently, Fransabank has keep up Lebanon’s ecological and cultural legacy, been supporting several selected NGOs on a yearly Fransabank was a major sponsor of The Silk basis. Museum in Bsous which was open to the public from May till November 2015. The aim of this initiative was to attract people to one of the most beautiful olive groves and gardens in Lebanon while presenting a gentle reminder of the interaction between humans, insects and plants and the rewards that this brought to Lebanon for hundreds of years. The Museum evoked images of scented spice routes, the famous ‘Silk Road’ and the ancient exchanges of silk between the Land of the Cedar, the East, and the West. Developing Communities Since October 2011, Fransabank has accompanied Roads For Life in its mission to raising awareness and empowering young people to be safe on Towards Decent Work for All Post-2015 roads. Fransabank engaged in sponsoring training courses to more than 400 doctors in emergency “Towards Decent Work for All Post-2015” was the units in 90 Lebanese governmental and private theme of the workshop attended by Fransabank hospitals all over the country, so that they became representatives and was held at Adnan Kassar certified Advanced Trauma Life Support providers. Building for Arab Economy. This workshop The Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS®) is a addressed the policies and standards that will help systematic, concise training for the early care of in spreading diversity and inclusion within Arab trauma patients. In 2015, 70 ER physicians from 76 institutions and economic bodies, thus contributing hospital ER rooms were trained and received to the launch of constructive dialogue towards certificates in collaboration with the American University of Beirut Medical Center (AUBMC). In parallel, Fransabank sponsored a Traffic Law In the same context, we also sustained our Program on a national television, entitled contribution to Skoun, the outpatient therapeutic “ á≤«bóY ¥ôØàH ”, or “One minute makes a difference”. facility in Lebanon that offers prevention and The program explained on a daily basis all details treatment to drug users. As well, we donated for of implementation of a newly effected traffic law in the second consecutive year a full year treatment Lebanon. to one patient at Oum el Nour, a Lebanese notfor-profit center which is committed to prevent and treat substance abuse. Fransabank aims with these initiatives to serve individuals through Bringing Life, Health and Hope empowering them to make healthy choices and helping them reintegrate in society. Likewise, the Bank has been promoting, since its inception, the caring cause launched by OpenMinds; whereby a fund was established in Lebanon to This was not all, as we have been supporting a enable the AUB Medical Center’s Special Kids wide range of NGOs whose work, objectives, and Clinic (ASKC) conduct research, empower the values benefit our communities, to name a few: community through education and awareness, Yaduna with the mission to improve women’s focusing on organizing activities to provide early cardiovascular health, Oumnia which cares for detection, expert diagnosis, and coordinate total seriously cancer ill children, Salim El Hoss Bioethics care for developmentally and neurologically and Professionalism Program at AUB as an interimpaired children in an affordable manner. Our disciplinary resource for faculty, students, and donation to OpenMinds reflects our contribution to healthcare providers who are involved in bioethics increasing community awareness, expanding education, research, and consultation, Al Amal access to clinical services for eligible families to Institute, a rehabilitation center that support empower them and propel their children to a more mentally disabled people, as well as the Cedar promising future. Nights and Jouzour Loubnan which both care for the environment, among others. In 2015, we, at Fransabank, have once again prioritized health issues on the list of our social responsibilities. Consequently, we extended our support to The Neonate Fund, lending a helping hand to needy families whose newborns are being cared for in the Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICU); as each year in Lebanon, around 8,500 babies are admitted to the NICU upon delivery. These babies are born either too soon or too sick to survive on their own. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 64-65 Standing by our Communities Running for a Cause Sport is a powerful tool for community cohesion. The value of sport to local governments and communities extends beyond sport for sport’s sake. It can play a role in bringing communities together, having a social and cultural impact, developing social capital and reducing anti-social behavior. It helps break down barriers between diverse groups and create a sense of local pride and belonging and tolerance among young people. In 2015, Fransabank demonstrated a strong commitment towards physical activities and supported four marathons: 1 • The Internal Security Forces Half Marathon kicked off in front of the Lebanese National Museum, with around 1,200 runners. The participants were drawn from the Arab police offices, the Lebanese sport associations, clubs and federations, as well as teams from the Internal Security Forces, Lebanese Armed Forces, General Security, State Security, Beirut Fire Department and UNIFIL. This initiative was mainly targeting the public sector bringing them together under pleasant ambiances and away from the daily work routine and stress. • Tripoli Half Marathon was held under the theme 2 “Running for Peace”. It helped people follow driving rules using sports as a mean to get this message through our youth. The event proved to be popular with the participation of some 25,000 people including local and international runners. • Beirut Marathon Association’s Women’s Race was organized firstly to encourage women to fulfill all their roles in society, and lead promising future with positive energy. The Bank was represented by two teams of children and teenagers, a team of Himaya in an attempt to raise awareness on child abuse in Lebanon, and another team of SOS Village d’Enfants composed mainly of army 3 martyr’s children. • BDL Beirut Marathon 2015 in which institutions can choose to run for a cause that is dear to them, had 4 Fransabank’s contribution extended to the Brave Heart Fund as we believe in the necessity of saving the lives of underprivileged children diagnosed with congenital heart disease. • Fransabank collaborated this year again with the humanitarian NGO Al Younbouh. The “Walk with Al Younbouh” initiative offered all participants the chance to meet and interact with Al Younbouh center students encouraging a community based on equality, diversity and integration. 1. Internal Security Forces Half Marathon 2. Tripoli Half Marathon 3. Beirut Marathon Association’s Women’s Race 4. BDL Beirut Marathon 5 5. Walk with Al Younbouh ONE Lebanon The Prophet is a book of 26 prose poetry essays written “Together we are in English by the Lebanese Stronger: One Goal, artist, philosopher and One Audience, One writer Gibran Khalil Gibran. Lebanon!” was the It was originally published in 1923 and is Gibran's best theme of a friendly known work. game football pitch held at Collège Notre Dame de Jamhour, whereby After a long summer day of fasting, the kids ambassadors and expressed enthusiasm and happiness in watching diplomats from the British, German, Danish and the movie and later in gathering around for iftar, Australian embassies played against the ONE which was an opportunity for Fransabank family to LEBANON team consisting of Lebanese celebrities, share the celebratory spirit of the Holy month. Not businessmen and friends proving once again the only that, each child received a gift packet by power of sports in uniting people and breaking all Fransabank employees. barriers. Fransabank was proud to be among the enthusiastic and vibrant participants and supporters 240 Children at Fransabank Headquarters present at the game in such a citizen-driven moment when the Lebanese show their resilience and hope. Aiming at drawing a smile on the faces of 240 children selected by the Ministry of Social Affairs Likewise, Fransabank has always been a patron for from various Lebanese charities, Fransabank sports in the community and supported, one of the hosted in its Headquarters a “Christmas Holiday major schools in Lebanon, Collège Notre Dame de Food Drive” event for these children coming from Jamhour sports activities as the rugby tournament, various regions of the capital Beirut. The event was kids’ athletics, table tennis tournament and interconcluded in partnership with the Lebanese Food school triathlon. Bank. It included dinner, recreational activities, games, musical shows, along with gifts distribution. Food is our Common Ground We see through these efforts a We strongly believe in our critical role in supporting way for shedding society at large, and orphan children in particular, light on the as they need not only the financial, but even more Lebanese Food the social and emotional support to promote their Bank’s vision “to healthy growth and help them become productive eliminate hunger individuals in the community. in Lebanon by 2020 ; a harsh And so, during the holy month of Ramadan, the mission but yet not unfeasible, as well as on month of fasting, giving and family gatherings, an Fransabank CSR strategy on which eradicating Iftar for 75 orphans from the Social Welfare poverty is at the top of its priorities. Institute’s Orphanage along with a cinema outing to watch “The Prophet” – the film version of the famous masterpiece of Gibran Khalil Gibran – was Advocates for Peace with Ramadaniyat organized by the Bank. Beirutiya 2015 “Islam, Advocacy for Peace” was the theme of Ramadaniyat Beirutiya 2015, an annual cultural and social festival that revived Beirut’s authentic Ramadan ambiance, while promoting the virtues of the holy month of Ramadan embodied in the values of brotherhood, sympathy, tolerance, solidarity, love, and peace. Fransabank was keen on sponsoring this event. Last but not least, the Bank, as customary, donates office supplies (computers, printers, furniture, tables, chairs, offices, among others) to public schools and NGOs in need, in order to support their works. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 66-67 06. A P P E N D I C E S FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 68-69 Implementation of the UN Global Compact 10 Principles Fransabank joined the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest and most widely embraced corporate citizenship initiative in 2013. The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We have been reporting on our progress since then, including a commitment to uphold and protect human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption standards through business practices. All Fransabank CSR Reports can be accessed through the UN Global Compact and Fransabank respective websites. This table describes our communication on progress on the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. UNGC 10 PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATIONS AT FRANSABANK Human Rights Principle 1: businesses should support • International human rights are the foundation of Fransabank and respect the protection of internarelationship with its employees, partners, and customers tionally proclaimed human rights equally, abiding by the international best practices. Principle 2: make sure that they are • The Bank follows deeply rooted values aligned with an not complicit in human rights abuses updated code of conduct, and abide by a firm corporate governance framework that includes a culture of transparency, responsibility, accountability, and fairness. Labour Principle 3: businesses should uphold • Fransabank makes sure that all its employees have access to the freedom of association and the competitive compensation and promotions based on an annual effective recognition of the right to performance evaluation. This process secures employees’ collective bargaining development, progress and motivation within the Bank. On the other side, recruitments and trainings are on the run all year long; and new comers are recruited based on merit insuring diversity and inclusion. In addition, we welcome regular feedbacks from all sides and levels of employees. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms • The Bank focuses on the achievement of its business goals by of forced and compulsory labour measuring employees’ contribution to its success putting aside all forms of discrimination or criteria that are irrelevant to the Banks’ workflow. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour • Freedom of association and collective bargaining are granted to all Fransabank employees. They are free to join the Bank's employees' union. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment • All forms of forced labour are prohibited including child and occupation employment. UNGC 10 PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATIONS AT FRANSABANK Environment Principle 7: businesses should support a • Fransabank has proved to be a pioneer Lebanese bank in precautionary approach to environpromoting clean energy and eco-friendly loans through its mental challenges Sustainable Energy Finance (SEF) Loans. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to • The Bank has been reevaluating its energy consumption and promote greater environmental switching to clean energy technologies in its operations, this responsibility includes greenhouse gas emissions, paper, water, and waste management. Principle 9: encourage the development • Environmental sustainability is not only impacted into and diffusion of environmentally Fransabank operations, but also in the corporate culture, friendly technologies promoting individual contribution to the protection of the environment through various initiatives such as the “Bouchons Roulants” and the paper recycling projects and the print reduction initiative; leading to a greener corporate culture. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: businesses should work • Fransabank fully abides by local and international requirements against corruption in all its forms, and regulations to guarantee a full compliance to antiincluding extortion and bribery corruption laws, and our procedures are always updated with any new law. • The Board of Directors, top management, shareholders, and stakeholders are regularly updated with new laws or practices adopted at Fransabank; emphasizing on the ethical practices such as transparency and disclosure. • In line with all regulations, information security is central from a sound governance framework. The Bank is committed to the banking secrecy law and protects all digital information using the most updated and encrypted data center and software. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 70-71 APPENDIX I Code of Conduct Employee behavior • General employee conduct • Physical appearance and dress code Dress code policy for women Dress code policy for men • Non-smoking policy Non-smoking areas Sign requirements Implementation of the non-smoking law • Working hours, attendance, and punctuality • Gossips and rumors • Bank property • Social media and bank image Personal social media Business social media Reporting illegal or unethical behavior • Incident reporting • Accounting complaints Professional Ethics Conflict of interest • Outside employment • Improper personal benefits • Service on boards and committees Accepting gifts, meals, and entertainment from customers, suppliers, and others doing business with Fransabank (entities and/or persons) Fraudulent or illegal acts Theft Customers relations • Clarity of information • Confidential information and banking secrecy • Quality of service • Anti-Money Laundering (AML) • Politics Relations with other banks • Exchange of information • Competition • Announcements and advertisements APPENDIX II Information Security The Information Security Unit published the “End User Security Guide”, a set of security policies that addresses risks directly related to the users’ work environment. All employees should make sure to read and abide by its content. Below is a brief summary of that document. Email usage Email is a communication tool and is allowed for business purposes only. Everyone is held responsible for his/her email account. Computer security All computer devices should be properly protected by restricting access to it. Similar devices include sensitive information that must be restricted to authorized personnel only. Employees using Fransabank computers shall consider the sensitivity of the information and use them responsibly. Clean desk Fransabank employees should protect paper documents, mass storage devices, and optical media by locking them away while leaving for prolonged period of time. Removable media Only Fransabank owned removable media devices are allowed for usage and that to prevent the transfer of any virus to Fransabank network. Media destruction Proper media disposal is necessary to prevent unauthorized use after removal from service. Hard copy materials should be shredded on daily basis while electronic devices should be destructed as per Fransabank Electronic Media Destruction Procedure. Software installation Software installation is the sole responsibility of the Information and Communication Technology Division. Internet usage Fransabank restricts internet access usage for employees who need it in their daily operations. Non-work related websites are blocked by default. Laptop acceptable use Portable devices should be properly protected while in use. Those devices should not be left unattended. User password management policy User ID and password is granted to employees for accessing systems owned by Fransabank. It is expected to properly protect credentials and keep them away from unauthorized individuals. Complex passwords should be used and changed as per Bank policy. FRANSABANK | CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 | 72-73 © 2016 All rights reserved.
