UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress Report 2015 FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2015 Company Name: SEMIKRON International GmbH Address: Sigmundstrasse 200, 90431 Nuremberg Country: Germany Membership date: 2012/05/04 Employees: 2.700 Sector: Technology Hardware & Equipment, Power Electronics Management: Harald Jäger, Chief Executive & Operating Officer Christian Müller, Chief Financial Officer Peter Sontheimer, Chief Sales Officer FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 Website: www.semikron.com Telephone: +49 911 6559-0 www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2015 Brief description of our business SEMIKRON is a global manufacturer of power semiconductors, primarily in the medium power range (approx. 2kW to 10MW). Applications include speed-controlled industrial drive units, automation technology, welding equipment and elevators. Other applications include uninterrupted power supply (UPS), renewable energies (wind, solar) as well as electrification of utility vehicles and urban transport equipment. The family enterprise has its headquarters in Nuremberg, Germany. It was founded in 1951 and employs around 2,700 people worldwide. An international network of 30 operational companies and production plants in Brazil, China, France, India, Italy, Korea, Slovakia and the USA ensures rapid and comprehensive services for local customers. FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2015 Statement of continued support SEMIKRON joined the UN Initiative Global Compact in May 2012. Since then, our commitment to human rights and the environment, our compliance with anti-corruption principles, as well as our employment policy has been monitored by the UN Global Compact Initiative. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our company’s strategy, culture and daily business. This letter underscores our intent to endorse these principles within our sphere of influence. At the same time, SEMIKRON is involved in projects which help promote the more broadly defined development aims of the UN. The implementation of such projects calls for the invariable support from the management in the form of on-going activities and partnerships, as well as the company's clear willingness to learn and to be pro-active. We are pleased to confirm our continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti Corruption. Harald Jäger Christian Müller Peter Sontheimer FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 CEO & COO CFO CSO www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2015 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Respecting human rights is obligatory for all SEMIKRON subsidiaries world wide. Furthermore we do not tolerate any discrimination related to gender, race, nationality, handicap, social background and sexual orientation and we promote equal opportunities. Measures & Progress: In addition to existing measures, following progress has been achieved in 2015: Competent contact partners for matters of gender equality have been named and communicated to all employees Introduction and implementation of the SEMIKRON Code of Conduct with a clear statement that respecting internationally recognized human rights is obligatory for all SEMIKRON subsidiaries world FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 wide www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2015 Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We strictly condemn and reject child labour and abide by the laws and regulations regarding minimum age. Apart from that we reject forced labour and physical punishment, threatening and harassing male and female employees. We respect the freedom of assembly and cooperate with employee representation organizations while maintaining a trustful relationship with them. Wages, social benefits and working hours at SEMIKRON completely fulfill the legal standards in the corresponding countries. We protect our employees from occupational hazards and support health promoting measures. These issues are binding for all SEMIKRON subsidiaries worldwide. The best possible maintaining of health and the creation of ergonomic and safe workplaces is a task that FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 remains with all employees. By means of preventive and corrective measures safety at work is constantly improved. www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2015 Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Measures & Progress: In addition to existing measures, following progress has been achieved in 2015: Introduction of a performance management system in Germany to ensure equal treatment for all employees Works agreement concluded with the works council in Germany mainly ruling working hours for employees with on-call duties FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 We ensured full compliance with new German legislation relating to minimum wage www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2015 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We protect the environment by economic use of energy, materials and resources, by keeping emissions as low as possible, a high degree of recyclability and lowest possible amounts of harmful substances in our products and materials. Our products help to save energy and to generate energy in an environmentally sound manner without harming anybody. We comply with all valid and applicable laws regarding environmental protection and occupational safety. Thanks to our functional and integrated environment management we are able to continuously improve our processes and to reduce ecological damage as far as possible. The most important production sites in Germany, Slovakia and Italy have already received the ISO 14001 certification. Our largest production site in Germany has also received the environmental management registration according to the European standard EMAS. FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 For our German production sites all related measures and results are published annually in our environmental report. www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2015 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Measures & Progress: In addition to existing measures, following progress has been achieved in 2015: Germany: Successful surveillance audit ISO 14001 and EMAS III 16,8 % reduced energy consumption for production equipment in relation to production volume compared to reference year 2013 12,8 % reduced energy consumption for facilities in relation to building area compared to reference year 2013 FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 38 % of water consumption covered by recycling, further increase up to 50 % recycling in progress www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2015 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Measures & Progress: Slovakia: Successful surveillance audit according ISO 14001 Discharged pollution from waste water treatment plants target under 85 % of legal limits was observed Targets for paper and plastic packaging waste were achieved Water consumption decreased by 40% compared to 2014 due to end of chip cutting Hazardous waste decreased by 34,5% compared to 2014 due to stop of diodes production FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 11,2 % reduced electrical energy consumption in relation to volume compared to 2014 www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2015 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Measures & Progress: Italy: Successful recertification audit according ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Installation of new performing biological waste water treatment Implementation of separation of municipal wastes for recycling FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2015 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all ist forms, including extortion and bribery. SEMIKRON does not tolerate corruption, bribery and extortion and actively works against it. We ensure a high level of abidance through our Internal Regulations for the Management of the SEMIKRON Group, our basic principles, our internal control system and yearly financial and quality audits. Business partners and Suppliers are requested to adhere to our principles. Together with our partners we continuously support the UN Convention Against Corruption. Measures & Progress: Establishment of an Compliance Committee in charge of a) oversee the Company’s implementation of Compliance Programs, Policies and Procedures and b) assist the Supervisory Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibility for the Company’s compliance and c) perform Compliance Audits Implementation and Roll-Out of Group-wide Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct outlines the SEMIKRON corporate standards for responsible behavior toward business partners and the public, as well as for our behavior within the company Set-up of Compliance Guidelines covering following compliance aspects: general compliance requirements, Anti-bribery and corruption, Antitrust and competition laws FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2015 FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 www.semikron.com
