UN Global Compact Communication on Progress FY 2015 Brunnenbachstrasse 1 CH-8340 Hinwil Phone +41 43 843 61 www.belimo.com Communication on Progress FY Statement of continued support Beiimo is the globai market ieader in the development, production and marketing of actuator soiutions for controliing heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems. Actuators, control valves and sensors make up the company's core business. Belimo's aim is to be a trusted partner across the globe for its customers, offering them the added vaiue they expect. Research and market-reievant innovation as weii as rapid and customized execution are key. Commitment, credibiiity and reliabiiity characterize our behavior. Beiimo deiivers more than just products. W e support our customers with innovative, efficient and energyoptimizing solutions and bring success to both our customers and ourselves. We are close to our customers throughout the world, we speak their ianguage and we understand them. Everything we do gives them the that they have chosen the very best. Beiimo is firmiy committed to sustainabiiity, as reflected in our vaiues. This commitment was further strengthened in 2013 with the signing of the United Nations Giobai Compact. In doing so, Beiimo has undertaken to adopt, support and implement a range of principles within its sphere of influence from the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. These principles are consistent with the vaiues and the code of conduct of Beiimo. I am pleased to confirm that Beiimo reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Globai Compact. In our Communication on Progress we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principies into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakehoiders using our channels of communication. Page 2 of 5 Communication on Progress FY Summary of Policy, Actions and Outcomes The tabie beiow summarizes the significant aspects related to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. More information can be found in the referenced documents which are avaiiable for downloading at www.belimo.com. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle Policy, Actions and Outcomes Reference Principle 1: Belimo's values and code of conduct convey the company's key Businesses should guiding principles and fundamental values. The United Nations support and respect Global Compact principles in the area of human rights, labor the protection of standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption internationally are consistent with the values and the code of conduct of Beiimo. proclaimed human The principles are embedded in the Code of Conduct which serves rights. as a day-to-day guideline. Beiimo is determined to manage its business in compliance with high ethical standards and applicable law. Employees shall act accordingly. New employees learn about our values and culture during their -> Annual Report 2015, introduction programs. The individual employee's long-term ability to p. 44 internalize and put those values into practice is also part of the annual employee appraisal. Principle 2: More than 80 percent of the costs of manufacturing comes from our Business must make suppliers, the bulk thereof being procured from Europe. S o the main nf hp Info t h e via our suppliers. compiicit in human rights abuses. Beiimo expects its suppliers to make a clear commitment to sustainabiiity principles. In Beiimo formulated a supplier code -> Supplier Declaration of conduct in the form of a binding self-declaration. By signing the supplier undertakes to comply with Belimo's Code of Conduct In the working environment covering corruption, human rights, child labor, health and safety, and environmental protection. Until now the code of conduct for suppliers has been signed by more than hundred suppliers which equates to around 90 percent of the procurement volume. Beiimo usually conducts about audits per year, both new and existing suppliers are audited on site. Amongst others also compliance with the code of conduct is assessed. Apart from audits main suppliers are visited by Beiimo employees, usually at least once a year. In FY no cases of violation have been registered. LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3: Beiimo recognizes employees' freedom of association. Members of -> Code of Conduct Businesses should employee organizations or unions are neither favored nor uphold the freedom discriminated. of association and the effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining. Page 3 of 5 Communication on Progress FY Principle 4: The Beiimo code of conduct and the supplier declaration excludes -> Code of Conduct The elimination of all implicitly all forms of forced and compulsory labor. forms of forced and In FY 2015 no cases of violation have been registered. compulsory labor. Principle 5: The Beiimo code of conduct and the supplier declaration prohibits -> Code of Conduct The effective child labor. No employees are hired who have not yet reached the abolition of child minimum age of 15 years. labor. In FY no cases of violation have been registered. Principle 6: Beiimo promotes equal opportunities and the equal treatment of -> Code of Conduct Eliminate employees regardless of gender or age. An employment is purely discrimination with based on professional knowledge and achievement. respect to The proportion of female employees working at the main sites in employment and Hinwil (Switzerland) and Danbury (CT, USA) was 43%. occupation. In the U.S. headquarters location in Danbury, jobs are provided to -> Annual Report 2015, more than 45 people disabilities. Beiimo received the Business p. 43 Leadership Award for its long standing pioneer engagement with people with disabilities from the organization Ability Beyond . -> Annual Report The average length of service in Hinwil is eight years, a result of Belimo's efforts to offer its employees long-term prospects. p. 43 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Environmental protection is embodied in the values, the Beiimo code Businesses should of conduct and the supplier declaration. support a We strive to use our resources sparingly and avoid the use of precautionary -> Code of Conduct materials that place an unnecessary strain on the environment and approach to are difficult to discard. W e are mindful of energy consumption, environmental environmental protection is taken into account in compliance with challenges. legal and international standards. The Hinwil site adheres to the international environmental -> Annual Report management system ISO The United States sites were also p. 40 certified in Belimo's internal reporting includes key performance figures for water, electricity, heating, and waste for the locations Danbury and Hinwil. Beiimo has been a Carbon Disclosure Project (GDP) supporter since and has responded to the questionnaires since 2009. Principle 8: The premises in Hinwil are continually reviewed and adapted in Businesses should regard to comfort and energy efficiency. Since there has been undertake initiatives a tool In use for monitoring detailed environmental and energy key to promote greater figures. environmental The logistics expansion in Hinwil was built to meet the latest energy-> Annual Report 2015, responsibility. saving criteria. All storage and retrieval equipment in the automated p. 41 warehouse and all goods lifts feature energy recovery systems. The internal logistics conveyor belts are all individually controlled and shut down when not in use. The logistics expansion was additionally insulated so as to minimize temperature fluctuations caused by the cold ground water. In addition, seven charging points for electric cars that can be used by customers and employees are offered at the main building. Page 4 of 5 Communication on Progress 2015 The new production, logistics and administration building in Danbury -> Annual Report has been built in compliance with the LEED standards for p. 42 sustainable construction. The Sparks site has already been awarded gold certification, and Danbury is now aiming to achieve this as well. Principle 9: W e strive to design products that contribute to increased energy -> Mission Businesses should efficiency In our customer's applications. encourage the According to the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) buildings In development and the United States are responsible for 39% of C 0 2 emissions, and diffusion of 40% of energy consumption. Beiimo solutions enable optimal environmentally performance of HVAC facilities, thanks to the following features: friendly technologies. -> Annual Report • Minimal power consumption p. 39 • Prevention of circulation losses with seal-tight characterized control valve technology • Smart applications raise plant efficiency Examples of how Belimo's Innovative solutions contribute to efficiency are described in the annual report. The Federation of European Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning Associations, REHVA, Is the leading European professional organization representing a network of more than engineers from 27 European countries, whose mission is to develop and disseminate economical, energy efficient and healthy technology for mechanical services of building. Beiimo is an active supporter and since 2014 a sliver partner of REHVA. Thp Arpna Snrpitpnbach realizes the support of Beiimo the world's first energy self-sufficient, purely solar-> Annual Report 2015, powered multi-family house that meets stringent environmental and p. 40 energy standards and needs no external energy supply. The Swiss research and Innovation building NEST (Next Evolution in Sustainable Building Technologies) is a joint project between -> Annual Report 2015, industry, research and the public sector supported by Beiimo. p. 40 Therein, not only forms of living and working, but also the energy flows and utility engineering of tomorrow's houses are being researched. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Corruption and bribery of any kind are not tolerated, nor is it -> Code of Conduct Businesses should permissible to become involved in such acts in any way, including work against any offers of illegal payments or similar gifts, for the purpose corruption in all Its Influencing the decision making. forms, including In the reporting year Beiimo has not been involved In any legal extortion and bribery. cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. Page 5 of 5
