Communication On Progress 2016 Table of contents Table of contents Page Statement of continued support 4 1. ­­­voestalpine AG – facts & figures 5 1.1 Development of the key figures 6 1.2 The four divisions 8 1.2.1 Steel Division 9 1.2.2 Special Steel Division 9 1.2.3 Metal Engineering Division 10 1.2.4 Metal Forming Division 10 2. Stakeholder and material topics 11 2.1. Stakeholder communication 11 2.1.1 Employees 11 2.1.2 Customers and suppliers 12 2.1.3 Analysts and investors 12 2.1.4 Research institutions and universities 12 2.1.5 NGOs, advocacy and special interest groups, and platforms 12 2.2 Material aspects 13 3. Energy and climate policy 14 4. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) 16 5. Sustainable Supply Chain Management 17 6. Ethical corporate management 20 6.1 Compliance 20 6.1.1 Code of Conduct 20 6.1.2 Compliance system 22 6.1.3 Preventive measures 23 6.1.4 Reporting of compliance violations 24 6.2 Corporate governance 24 7. Human rights 25 2 Table of contents Page 8. Research and development 27 8.1  Research expenditures 27 8.2 Organization 28 8.3 Worldwide network 28 8.4 Resource-conserving and environmentally-friendly processes and facilities 28 8.5  Materials development and product innovations 29 8.5.1 Automotive and aerospace sectors 29 8.5.2 Rails and turnouts 29 8.5.3 Corrosion protection 29 9. Ecology 30 9.1 Strategic Environmental Management 31 9.2 Environmental management systems and environmental standards 31 9.3 Expenditures and investments for environmental protection 32 9.4 Air emissions 33 9.4.1 CO2 emissions 34 9.4.2 SO2 emissions 35 9.4.3 NOx emissions 35 9.4.4 Dust emissions 36 9.5 Water management 37 9.6 Waste and recycling management 38 9.7 Energy 39 9.8 Biodiversity 40 10. Employees 41 10.1 Employment according to countries 42 10.2 voestalpine as employer 43 10.2.1 Job tenure and fluctuation 43 10.2.2 Employee survey 44 10.2.3 Age structure of the employees 44 10.2.4 Employer branding 44 10.3 Equal treatment 45 10.3.1 Persons with disabilities 45 10.3.2 Women at v ­ oestalpine 45 10.4 Training and continuing education 47 10.4.1 Management training 47 10.4.2 Professional academies 47 10.5 Apprentices 49 10.6 Employee participation plan 50 11. health & safety 51 12. Society 54 12.1 Contemporary History MUSEUM 54 12.2 Refugee and integration aid 55 12.2.1  Locally provided medical care and education 55 12.2.2 Initial aid and integration measures in Austria 55 Contact & Imprint 56 3 Statement of continued support Sehr geehrte Damen und Herren, durchaus sensibel wahrgenommenen Themen betroffen, deren Zusammenhänge, Auswirkunmit dem vorliegenden Bericht präsentieren wir gen und zugrunde liegende Probleme oftmals nur Ihnen erstmals eine umfassende, an den Richtschwer – und jedenfalls nicht mit plakativen Botlinien der Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) orienschaften – zu vermitteln sind. Dies betrifft nicht tierte Darstellung von Corporate Responsibility im nur „klassische“ Bereiche wie Energie und Öko­­­­voestalpine-Konzern. logie; gerade für ein weltweit tätiges Unternehmen steht zunehmend praktisch jedwede Form Zum einen wollen wir mit dieser Publikation dodes gegenseitigen Umgangs mit Mitarbeitern, kumentieren, wie wir den Begriff der „VerantGeschäftspartnern, Aktionären und allen anderen wortung“ gegenüber unseren Stakeholdern inStakeholdern im Vordergrund. Deshalb unterstütterpretieren und diesen der Unternehmenskultur zen wir neben nationalen CSR-Netzwerken auch seit jeher immanenten Wert – teilweise weit über den UN Global Compact, zu dessen 10 Prinzipien rein gesetzliche Erfordernisse hinaus – bereits seit wir uns uneingeschränkt bekennen. langem konsequent praktizieren. Zum anderen Die fortschreitende Internationalisierung des bildet eine möglichst umfassende und objektive ­­­­voestalpine-Konzerns, der mittlerweile bereits Information auch die Grundlage für entsprechend fast 30% seines Umsatzes und knapp 20% seiner seriöse und faktenbasierte Meinungsund EntMitarbeiter außerhalb Europas ausweist, stellt scheidungsbildung, sei es in der Öffentlichkeit, auch in Bezug auf Corporate Responsibility imder Politik oder den Medien. Mit derselben Transmer komplexere, aufwendigere und höhere Anparenz und Offenheit, um die wir uns schon bisher sprüche an unser Unternehmen. Dies gilt umso (etwa in der mehrfach ausgezeichneten Umweltmehr, als wir diesen Weg der Globalisierung in kommunikation) bemüht haben, wollen wir auch anspruchsvollsten Produktund Technologiesegin der von nun an regelmäßigen, alle zwei Jahre menten auch künftig im Rahmen unserer Konstattfindenden CR-Berichterstattung unseren Beizernstrategie „­­­­voestalpine 2020“ konsequent forttrag zu Information und Dialog leisten. setzen werden – im Bewusstsein, dass damit nicht nur ökonomische Chancen, sondern in einigen ­­­­ voestalpine ist als stahlbasierter Technologieund Bereichen auch Risikopotenziale verbunden sind. Industriegüterkonzern naturgemäß von einigen 4 1. v ­­­­­­­­­ oestalpine AG – facts & figures ­­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG is a technology and capital goods group, whose four divisions are operating more than 500 Group companies and locations in more than 50 countries on five continents. More than 48,000 employees are working for ­­­voestalpine worldwide. The company is headquartered in Linz, Austria. ­­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG has been listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange since 1995. 1. ­­voestalpine AG – facts & figures 1.1 Development of the key figures Key figures In millions of euros 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Revenue 12,058.2 11,524.4 11,007.2 11,189.5 11,068.7 EBITDA 1,301.9 1,431.3 1,374.0 1,530.1 1,583.4 EBITDA margin 10.8% 12.4% 12.4% 13.7% 14.3% EBIT 704.2 843.1 788.4 886.2 888.8 EBIT margin 5.8% 7.3% 7.1% 7.9% 8.0% Employees (full-time equivalent) 46,473 46,351 47,485 47,418 48,367 Research expenses 117.0 126.0 128.0 127.0 132.0 Operating expenses for environmental protection systems 212.0 213.0 218.0 222.0 237.0 Environmental investments 32.0 27.0 23.0 42.0 55.0 Crude steel production (in millions of tons)** 7,572 7,529 8,118 7,929 7,733 CO2 emissions per ton of crude steel (in tons)*/** 1.67 1.64 1.61 1.60 1.67 * Figures collected per calendar year ** All quantities expressed as tons in this Corporate Responsibility Report are metric tons (1,000 kg) 6 1. ­­voestalpine AG – facts & figures Revenue by regions Business year 2015/16 70% European Union (Austria: 8%) 8% Asia 11% NAFTA 8% Rest of world 3% South America Revenue by divisions Business year 2015/16 25% Metal Engineering 33% Steel 19% Metal Forming 23% Special Steel Revenue by industries Business year 2015/16 32% Automotive 5% White goods/Consumer goods 13% Other 13% Railway systems 16% Energy 3% Aerospace 9% Building/Construction 9% Mechanical engineering 7 1. ­­voestalpine AG – facts & figures Shareholder structure 3% 3% France Asia 6% 14.5% Scandinavia Employee shareholding scheme 46% 14% Austria North America 6% UK, Ireland 3.5% 4% Other Europe Germany 1.2 The four divisions voestalpine ­­­ consists of four divisions; each one is highly specialized and is among the leading providers on its markets. ­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG Steel Special Steel Metal Engineering Metal Forming Division Division Division Division Strip steel Tool steels Rails Downstream metal processing solutions Heavy plate High-speed steel Turnout technology Special sections Foundry products Special forgings Complete railway systems Precision steel strip Powder-metallurgical steels Specially treated wire Special components for the Welding consumables automotive industry Seamless tubes 8 1. ­­voestalpine AG – facts & figures 1.2.1 Steel Division The Steel Division generates the most reve1.2.2 Special Steel Division nue in the Group. It is a global quality leader in highest quality steel strip and is the global The Special Steel Division was established in the market leader in heavy plate for the most sobusiness year 2007/08 through the acquisition of phisticated applications as well as in casings Böhler-Uddeholm AG; it is a group of companies for large turbines. consisting of special steel and materials companies that are global leaders, with production comThe focal point of its operations is the propanies in Austria, Germany, Sweden, Brazil, and duction of hotand cold-rolled steel as well the USA. as electrogalvanized, hot-dip galvanized, and organically coated plate. Its other activities inThe Special Steel Division produces steel long clude electrical steel strip, heavy plate producproducts, narrow strip, open-die forgings, and tion, a foundry, and the downstream sectors special steel forgings. It is the global market Steel & Service Center and logistics services, leader in tool steel and materials for gas and which are all managed as independent compasteam turbine blades. The Group is in the number nies. two position worldwide with regard to high-speed steel and valve steel. The Special Steel Division is The products of the Steel Division are mainly one of the leading providers of structural parts for supplied to the European automotive and auaviation use and aircraft engine disks. tomotive supply industry, the white goods industry, and the building supply industry. In The division has created proximity to its custothese industrial sectors, ­­­voestalpine is among mers with its sales and service network that has Europe’s leading suppliers. roughly 150 locations worldwide. This creates real added value by enabling the maintenance of local All of the Steel Division’s companies are subinventories, which result in short delivery times sidiaries of ­­­ voestalpine Stahl GmbH and are and provide pre-processing, heat treatment, coatheadquartered in Linz. ing, application support, and other services. To learn more about the Steel Division, please visit: To learn more about the Special Steel Division, http://www.­­­voestalpine.com/stahl/en please visit: http://www.­­­voestalpine.com/edelstahl/en 9 1. ­­voestalpine AG – facts & figures 1.2.4 Metal Forming Division The Metal Forming Division is the competence center at voestalpine ­­­ for highly developed special sections, tube and precision strip steel products as well as pre-finished system components made from pressed, punched, and roll-profiled parts. The division’s combination of expertise, both with regard to materials and processing and its worldwide presence that are unique within the industry 1.2.3 Metal Engineering Division make it a sought-after partner for customers who highly value innovation and quality. The Metal Engineering Division integrates the ­­­voestalpine Group‘s steel manufacturing and proThe Metal Forming Division is a leading global cessing operations in the rail, turnout, and weldmanufacturer of custom-made special tubes and ing technology segments as well as the wire, sections as well as precision parts that are of the seamless tube, and steel segments. In the railway highest quality. The division provides future-orisystems field, voestalpine ­­­ is both a global market ented body components for lightweight solutions and a technology leader. in the automotive industry. Additionally, it produces cold-rolled precision strip steel for sophistiThis division produces the world’s broadest range cated applications. The division is also known for of high-quality rail and turnout products, rod its intelligent racking system solutions for comwire, drawn wire, prestressed steel, seamless plex logistical requirements. tubes, welding filler materials, and semi-finished products. Additionally, the division offers a comThe division’s flexible, mid-sized units have the plete range of services for railway construction, expertise to provide their customers with fast soluincluding planning, transport, logistics, laying tions to problems in all phases of the development of the track, and recycling. Moreover, the Metal and production process. Among their customers Engineering Division has access to its own steel are practically all of the leading manufacturers in production. the automotive and automotive supply industries, with a definite focus on the premium segment, as The products of the Metal Engineering Division well as numerous companies in the commercial are delivered worldwide to customers in the railvehicle, construction, storage, energy, and (agriway, oil and natural gas, steel, construction, mecultural) machinery industries. The division mainchanical engineering, and automotive industries. tains longstanding relationships to its key custoIn these industrial sectors, ­­­voestalpine is among mers. In addition to its international presence, it Europe’s leading suppliers. offers a unique combination of materials and processing expertise. To learn more about the Metal Engineering Division, please visit: To learn more about the Metal Forming Division, http://www.­­­voestalpine.com/­group/en/divisions/ please visit: metal-engineering/ http://www.­­­voestalpine.com/metalforming/en 10 2. Stakeholder and material topics 2. Stakeholder and material topics 2.1. Stakeholder communication ­­­ voestalpine considers as its stakeholders both ­­­ voestalpine is in regular contact with its stake-holthose groups that are impacted financially by ders by way of its Management Board, its execthe company’s business activities or who have utives, and individual employees in the specialist another justified interest in its performance and departments. Beyond the scope of day-to-day those groups whose actions and decisions impact business, voestalpine ­­­ also maintains this dialogue the business activities of ­­­voestalpine. at conferences, specialist conferences and expert roundtables, trade fairs and university events, The most important stakeholder groups have been analyst and investor meetings, through employee defined by the Corporate Responsibility Steering surveys and appraisal dialogues as well as within Committee. This body is comprised of the heads of the scope of advocacy and special interest groups, the Group units Environment, Research and Develindustry associations, and various platforms. opment, Legal, Communications, Human Resources, International Business Relations, and The following summarizes how structured contact Investor Relations. Important criteria for the incorbetween ­­­voestalpine and representatives of variporation of individual stakeholder groups include ous stakeholder groups takes place. statutory framework conditions, the frequency and the main areas of collaboration, business relationships, but also the physical proximity to the loca2.1.1 Employees tions. The roughly 48,000 employees of the four divisions represent a central stakeholder group. ManCustomers agement, including the Management Board, is in Employees and applicants Suppliers regular contact to employees, utilizing events such Management Competitors Supervisory Board as the so-called Steel Evenings, institutionalized Research institutions Works Council formats such as employee surveys and appraisal Universities dialogues as well as informal everyday contact. The next employee survey regarding job satisfaction will take place in the fall of 2016. As was the Advocacy and special interest groups case in past surveys, besides responding to a stanNGOs Investors dardized questionnaire, employees can also make Associations Analysts Lawmakers suggestions or offer criticisms. The results are Banks Neighbors, Neighboring municipalities Shareholders summarized in a structured format, and potential Local public agencies measures to be taken are developed and implemented to the greatest extent possible. 11 2. Stakeholder and material topics 2.1.2 Customers and suppliers Open dialogue and close collaboration with customers and suppliers are cornerstones of ­­­ voestalpine’s success. Their needs and requirements provide guidance to the Group for its research and development of innovative products. In recent years, ­­­ voestalpine has deepened the traditionally very close collaboration and sharing of information with customers and suppliers with regard to corporate responsibility. The company can be successful in fulfilling the growing requirements of sustainable management and development along the entire value and supply chain only through dialogue and cooperation. voestalpine ­­­ is making every effort to consistently increase transparency throughout the supply chain and to improve knowledge about the origin of raw materi2.1.4 R esearch institutions als and other materials used and to also increase and universities awareness on this subject in its direct sphere of influence (in this regard, see the Chapters “SupAs described in the Chapter “Research and ply Chain Management” and “Life Cycle AssessDevelopment,” ­­­ voestalpine is working very ment”). The minimum requirements for suppliers closely with universities and research instituand business partners are set forth in the Code of tions and also supports endowed professorships. Conduct, which is part of ­­­voestalpine’s terms and In the area of application-oriented fundamenconditions for suppliers. tal research, voestalpine ­­­ relies on the expertise and resources of partners in the sciences, such as universities, research institutes, competence 2.1.3 Analysts and investors centers, and Christian Doppler Laboratories. For ­­­voestalpine as an exchange-listed company, investors and analysts are important dialogue 2.1.5 N GOs, advocacy and special partners as they are equity holders, investors, and interest groups, and platforms opinion leaders on the capital markets. The Chairman of the Management Board, the other memExperts from voestalpine ­­­ are collaborating in nubers of the Management Board, and the Investor merous working groups and in committees and Relations Department are in close contact with bodies of industrial and professional associations, these stakeholders, for example, at investor consuch as, the World Steel Association, EUROFER, ferences, roadshows, or during plant tours. At rethe German Steel Institute (VDEh), ESTEP (Eugular intervals, ­­­voestalpine holds a “Capital Marropean Steel Technology Platform), and ASMET kets Day” (CMD) in order to provide concentrated (Austrian Society for Metallurgy and Materials) information to analysts and institutional investors on topics like LCA, recycling, climate change, and about the newest developments and trends. The sustainability reporting. most recent CMD focused on aerospace and was held during the Farnborough International AirThese organizations invite ­­­voestalpine to provide show near London. concrete statements during consultations, for instance, most recently with regard to the EU Direcvoestalpine ­­­ provides information to private sharetive on Non-Financial Reporting. holders through various formats that range from events, such as the Annual General Shareholders’ Executives with specialist knowledge or local reMeeting and investor fairs to annual and quarterly sponsibility are in direct contact with NGOs and reports and personal contact. representatives of civil society. 12 2. Stakeholder and material topics 2.2 Material aspects During the preparation of this CR Report, gions. They reported which topics and aspects had ­­­ voestalpine identified topics in connection with been addressed and discussed by and with their sustainability reporting that are of particular imexternal contacts. portance for the company. Various sources of inThe resulting long list of important topics for stakeformation were consulted and subsequently, the holders was supplemented by those subjects that topics were ranked in importance. have been identified during collaboration in relevant committees and bodies, through analysis of The most important basic principle for the coltrade publications, and by way of a benchmark lection of important topics was ongoing dialogue analysis of selected competitors, suppliers, and with stakeholders. The Corporate Responsibility customers. Finally, the relevance for internal and manager collected responses from internal conexternal stakeholders was discussed. tact persons for sustainability and from the heads of relevant specialist units (Sales, Legal, Research, The following topics were identified as “material asetc.) not only across divisions but also across repects” for voestalpine’s ­­­ sustainability performance: Material aspects Ethical Sustainable Research and corporate Human rights Environment Employees Society supply chain development management Compliance Process and Climate and Employment product energy policy and employer Corporate innovation quality governance Company LCA environmental Training and protection continuing programs and education environmental management Equal treatment Emissions health & safety Energy Water consumption Waste and recycling management Biodiversity 13 3. Energy and climate policy 3. Energy and climate policy Worldwide, but especially in Europe, fundamental decisions regarding energy and climate policy are currently being made, which will have a direct impact on companies such as voestalpine. ­­­ Therefore, we must prepare ourselves for this today by developing options for action and long-term strategies. Overview • UN Global Climate Accord • Global level playing field Global • CO2 regulations/initiatives that differ regionally • Customers/market/competition (opportunities and risks) • EU Energy Union (framework strategy for climate/energy) • EU emissions trading system (after 2020 and beyond) Europe • National initiatives and implementation • Customers/market/competition (opportunities and risks) ­­­voestalpine • Risk areas and options for action 14 3. Energy and climate policy At a global level, international organizations are working on various regulations and initiatives regarding climate protection, the most important of which is the UN Global Climate Accord, which was adopted in Paris in 2015. The further development and concretization of these initiatives will free production and to facilitate and support the show in the medium-term whether they will acprocess. This affects particularly the economic and tually create a level playing field with regard to technological capabilities and the availability of climate protection regulations that are binding for the required amount of energy at affordable prices all regions. and with a high degree of supply reliability. In the European Union, the focus is on the political These political decisions and their national impleconfiguration of the European Energy Union. This mentation impact voestalpine ­­­ at various levels. On comprehensive package represents the long-term one hand, they affect important customer indusframework strategy for energy and climate policy, tries and their development (e.g., energy, mobilinnovation, and competition. The EU is pursuing ity) and on the other hand, they impact the markets ambitious plans that include complete decarbonifor our raw materials. And finally, they entail new zation by the middle of this century. The associalegal and formal requirements, for example, in the ted CO2-free economic system presents enormous area of the life cycle assessment. challenges for energy-intensive industries such as the steel industry. After all, today the production Considering the far-reaching importance of energy of steel is still largely based on fossil, i.e., carboand climate policy for our long-term technology, naceous, raw materials and the use of fossil fuels. investments, and location-related decisions, we are devoting a great deal of attention to this topic From the steel industry’s perspective, the reform at all levels of the Group. Using a holistic apof the emissions trading system for the period from proach, we will be investigating the risks involved 2021 to 2030 (and beyond) is of fundamental sigin various scenarios and developing a wide nificance. The decisive factor, however, will be to range of options for action to enable us to deal enable industry to actually transition to carbonwith changes proactively. 15 4. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) 4. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Today, the ecological valuation of products goes across and beyond corporate boundaries and comprises the entire life cycle of the utilized materials. A Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) examines the entire process and supply chain. Both lawmakers and business partners now wish opportunities to optimize production processes as to see eco-balance sheets that are as comprehenwell as impetus for product innovation. sive as possible. The environmental impact—and increasingly other (e.g., social) aspects as well— As a Life Cycle Assessment covers a wide range of must be documented along the entire production issues, it requires data to be harmonized Groupand supply chain. Therefore, the utilized raw mawide to the greatest extent possible. To this end, terials and pre-materials are examined under the various experts are involved in the divisions and heading of resource efficiency; in keeping with the at the Group level to coordinate the collection and concept of closed-loop recycling management, the analysis of data, for example, by implementing focus is on reuse/recyclability and degradability. joint standards and tools. ­­­ voestalpine is working closely with strategic cusHowever, the great diversity of laws, standards, tomers, primarily in the automotive and construcand regulations represents a major challenge. In tion industries, in order to provide substantive this area, additional effort will be needed to atand reliable LCA data. This comprehensive metain harmonization across applications, industries, thod of analysis makes it possible to present the and countries. By participating in various working advantages of steel, especially with regard to its groups, e.g., within EUROFER, ­­­voestalpine is adpractically unlimited service life, thus leveraging vocating for the establishment of substantive and competitive advantages. The detailed collection objective measurement criteria and uniform reof environmental data also provides numerous quirements. 16 5. Sustainable Supply Chain Management 5. Sustainable Supply Chain Management As a group that operates worldwide, v ­ oestalpine is responsible for sustainability in its supply chain. In order to fulfill this responsibility, it needs to analyze the possible risks along the supply chain and put an appropriate risk management system in place. In the case of longstanding business relationships and close contacts to suppliers, the key element for transparency in the supply chain is already a given. Furthermore, procedures have been developed to manage sustainability in the supply chain in a structured way and to ensure it by means of appropriate measures. v ­ oestalpine analyzes and manages sustainability along the supply chain through existing and new processes, especially by means of risk management, the purchasing terms and conditions, and the recently developed project Sustainable Supply Chain Management (SSCM): Purchasing Risk terms and management conditions SSCM project Risk management monitored, and, if necessary, updated. This process also provides the basis for discussion for any imA general Group-wide policy, which was approprovements within the risk management system. ved by the CFO of ­­­voestalpine AG, sets forth how As the Group is very heterogeneous, there is no the Group’s operational risk management is set up centralized supplier evaluation. Instead this evasystematically and performed on a regular basis. luation is up to the individual companies. EvaluaThe risk categories range from strategic risks and tion results are, however, coordinated among the market and financial risks to personnel, environcompanies. mental, IT, and compliance risks. To learn more about ­voestalpine risk management The risk management process is performed by please visit: the Group companies at least four times per year; http://reports.­­­­voestalpine.com/1516/gb/ this means that the risks are examined, evaluated, lagebericht/risikobericht.html 17 5. Sustainable Supply Chain Management Purchasing terms and conditions Purchasing, and Quality Assurance units, together with the assistance of an international expert in ­oestalpine’s purchasing terms and conditions v the area of supply chain analysis, assess suppliers apply to all suppliers. The Code of Conduct for and countries of origin with regard to pre-defined ­voestalpine Business Partners and the certification risks—from the extraction of raw materials to the requirements have been an integral part of these point when products leave the v ­ oestalpine plants. terms and conditions for some years. The Code of These risks apply primarily to environmental isConduct was revised and contains explicit regusues, social issues such as human rights and worklations that refer to sustainability issues, for exing conditions, and compliance and corporate ample, human rights, environmental protection, governance. working conditions, and work safety. Considering the large number of suppliers (multiple tens of thousands) and the geographic diversity (suppliers on all of the five continents), the SSCM project essential first step is to define the most important raw materials and other materials in order to then In order to improve transparency in v ­ oestalpine’s set up a systematic process to create sustainable own supply chains, the SSCM project was introsupply chain management system using a numduced in the spring of 2016. In a multiple-phase ber of supply chains as examples. A typical supply project, ­ voestalpine experts from the Corporate chain from the steel production sector was develResponsibility, Purchasing and Raw Materials oped as an initial step. 18 5. Sustainable Supply Chain Management Development of a supply chain from the steel production sector to be used as an example Ore Coal Scrap Alloys Aggregates Processing The following raw materials and other materials were defined as significant for this exemplary supply chain and were therefore examined more closely: Main materials Alloys Aggregates Iron ore Aluminum Burnt lime Coking coal Boron Calcium carbide Scrap Chromium Magnesite Cobalt Manganese Molybdenum Nickel Niobium Phosphorus Silicon Titanium Tungsten Zinc Subsequently, the countries of origin and supexternal stakeholders with regard to these risks. pliers of these materials and raw materials were After completing this process, the results will be determined. All material/country/supplier combianalyzed, and further measures will be developed nations were analyzed for the previously menand implemented. The SSCM will be succestioned risks. In addition to this research, interviews sively applied to all of the major value chains in are being conducted with selected internal and the v ­ oestalpine Group. 19 6. Ethical corporate management 6. Ethical corporate management Ethical corporate management means corporate governance that is geared to creating sustainable, long-term value and to ensuring that the conduct of all employees of the Group complies with statutory provisions and internal guidelines as well as fundamental moral and ethical values. 6.1 Compliance ­­­ voestalpine requires that all of its companies and Group‘s corporate values and provides the foundits employees in all countries, where voestalpine ­­­ ation for ethically and legally sound conduct by all operates, comply with all laws. For ­­­voestalpine, of the Group’s employees. however, compliance is more than merely acting in accordance with the law and other external reThe Code of Conduct was published in German gulations. It is the expression of a corporate culture and thirteen additional languages and can be built on ethical and moral principles. The princidownloaded from the Internet: ples of this corporate culture for dealing with cushttp://www.­­voestalpine.com/group/en/group/complitomers, employees, and other business partners ance/ have been explicitly set forth in the ­­­voestalpine Code of Conduct. ­­­ voestalpine likewise requires that its suppliers The Code of Conduct covers the following areas: fully comply with all applicable laws in their reCompliance with laws and other external spective countries and particularly respect and and internal regulations comply with human rights as fundamental values. Fair competition Corruption/bribery/acceptance of gifts Money laundering 6.1.1 Code of Conduct Respect and integrity Conflicts of interest Handling of corporate information / The ­­­voestalpine Code of Conduct was set forth in confidentiality written form in 2009. It is the result of numerous Corporate communications conversations and discussions among the ManUse of the Internet and IT agement Board, company CEOs, and division Insider information heads of the ­­­voestalpine Group. It is based on the Reporting of misconduct 20 6. Ethical corporate management The Code of Conduct applies to all members o ­f the Management Board, CEOs, and employees of all companies in which ­­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG has a direct or indirect stake of at least 50% or which it Furthermore, the prohibition of political contribucontrols in any other way. With regard to all other tions is set forth under “Business conduct.” Donacompanies, in which ­­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG has a direct tions to politicians, political parties, organizations or indirect stake of at least 25%, but which it does affiliated or associated with political parties, or ponot control, the Code of Conduct is brought to litical front organizations are not tolerated in the their attention and they are requested to enforce ­­­voestalpine Group. Donations to political front orit by way of independent recognition thereof by ganizations that are devoted solely to social issues their decision-making bodies that are governed are excepted; however, they must be approved by by corporate law. the Management Board of voestalpine AG in each individual case. In the event of a violation against statutory provisions, internal guidelines, regulations, and direcGroup Directive related to dealings with business tives or against provisions of the voestalpine ­­­ Code intermediaries/brokers and consultants of Conduct, employees will be subject to disciplinThis guideline provides additional information on ary measures. Furthermore, violations can have the topics of corruption, bribery, and acceptance of consequences under criminal and/or civil law, gifts. It defines the procedure to be complied with e.g., recourse claims and claims for compensaprior to contracting or engaging sales representatory damages. ­­­voestalpine is pursuing the goal of tives, representatives, or other sales consultants. having the Code of Conduct apply throughout its An objective analysis of the prospective business sphere of influence. Suppliers and consultants are partner’s business environment and scope of acrequired to comply with the Code of Conduct for tivities prior to establishing business relations is Business Partners. Additionally, Group companies required, in order to ensure that the business partare urged to bring the Code of Conduct to the atner can comply with all applicable laws and the tention of their customers and to strongly encour­­­voestalpine Code of Conduct. age them to commit to compliance therewith. All of ­­­voestalpine’s business partners are also requested Antitrust law to promote compliance with the Code of Conduct This guideline describes the prohibition of agreeamong their own business partners along the enments restricting competition, provides rules for tire supply chain. dealings and interaction with and in associations, professional associations, or other industry organi­­­­­­­­­ oestalpine AG has adopted several Group guidev zations, and defines concrete rules of conduct for lines to serve as a helpful tool in applying the Code employees of the voestalpine ­­­ Group. of Conduct: The compliance rules and regulations Additionally, handbooks have been developed on associated with the ­­­voestalpine Code of Conduct the topics of information sharing and benchmarkare currently comprised of the following sections: ing, buying collaborations, and supply relationships with competitors, which provide employees Business conduct with information on these topics from an antitrust These guidelines are an expansion and concreperspective. tization of the Code of Conduct with regard to the subjects of corruption / bribery / acceptance Compliance Manual / of gifts / conflicts of interest and regulate, for exCompliance Prevention Program ample, permissibility of gifts, invitations and other These rules and regulations provide information benefits, donations, sponsoring, ancillary activiabout compliance strategy, compliance structure, ties, and the private purchase of goods and serprevention measures, detection of and reaction to vices from customers and suppliers by ­­­voestalpine violations, sanctions, and the web-based whistleemployees. blower system. 21 6. Ethical corporate management 6.1.2 Compliance system The management of the respective Group company is responsible for adherence to the compliance regulations. A compliance system was set Code of Conduct for up in the ­­­voestalpine Group in the business year ­­­voestalpine Business Partners 2011/12 to support management in meeting this These rules and regulations that are directed toresponsibility and to set up the necessary proward business intermediaries, consultants, and cesses. other business partners define the principles and In addition to a Group compliance officer, a comrequirements for doing business with voestalpine. ­­­ pliance officer was appointed in each division; ­­­ voestalpine requires from its business partners furthermore, additional compliance officers were that they respect and comply with human rights appointed in certain divisional sub-units. The as fundamental values in accordance with the Group compliance officer reports directly to the European Convention on Human Rights and the Chairman of the Management Board and is indeUN Charter on Human Rights. In particular, this pendent and not bound by directives. The diviapplies to the prohibition on child and forced lasional compliance officers report to the Group bor, equal treatment of employees, and the right of compliance officer and to the respective heads of employee representation and collective bargaining. the divisions. ­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG Group Compliance Officer Steel Special Steel Metal Engineering Metal Forming Division Division Division Division Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officers Compliance Officers Compliance Officers Compliance Officers in sub-Groups / in sub-Groups / in sub-Groups / in sub-Groups / major equity holdings major equity holdings major equity holdings major equity holdings 22 6. Ethical corporate management Since the introduction of e-learning courses in the ­­­voestalpine Group (antitrust law since 2009; Code The compliance officers are responsible for the of Conduct since 2012), more than 30,000 emfollowing areas: ployees of the ­­­voestalpine Group have completed Antitrust law e-learning courses on the Code of Conduct and Corruption antitrust law (including refresher course). Roll-out Capital market compliance of an advanced course on antitrust law began in Fraud (internal cases of theft, fraud, April 2016. embezzlement, or breach of trust) Conflicts of interest Completed e-learning courses since 2012 Special issues that are assigned to the compliance officers by the Management Board of ­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG (e.g., UN or EU sanctions) 3,815 3,776 All other compliance issues, e.g., environmental Antitrust law advanced course law, taxes, accounting, labor law, protection of 19,758 Antitrust law refresher course 3,862 Antitrust law* employees, or data protection and privacy are not Code of Conduct part of the compliance officer’s area of responsibilTotal 31,211 ity. These compliance issues are handled by the respective specialist departments. *e-learning courses on antitrust law have been offered since 2009 6.1.3 Preventive measures In addition to the e-learning courses, target-group Within the scope of its compliance efforts, oriented face-to-face training has been carried out ­­­voestalpine places particular importance on preGroup-wide, especially for sales employees. This ventive measures, including training, discussions training is focused on compliance with the law with management, and communication. Since and internal guidelines as well as corruption and 2002, CEOs, sales personnel, and other employees antitrust law in the respective sphere of activity of have been sensitized to antitrust law. the participants. 23 6. Ethical corporate management Extensive compliance training is mandatory for According to the Code of Conduct, such reports young executives: there are six to seven training can be made to the direct supervisor, the approsessions each year for up to 40 employees. Addipriate legal or HR department, management of the tionally, face-to-face training on the topic of capital respective Group company, the audit department market compliance is also provided for employees of ­­­­­­­voestalpine AG, or one of the Group’s compliof ­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG. ance officers. Upon request, whistleblowers are ensured of absolute confidentiality. Furthermore, compliance is a regular topic in Group communications and is often mentioned— In 2012, a web-based whistleblower system was including by top management—at major emlaunched that enables employees to file anonyployee events at both the Group and the divisional mous reports about violations. Reports using this level. system can be made only in the areas of antitrust law, corruption, fraud, and conflicts of interest, in other words, only reports on these issues are pro6.1.4 Reporting of compliance violations cessed through this system. Reports of compliance violations should priThe system enables compliance officers to commarily be made openly, that is, providing the municate with whistleblowers while maintaining whistleblower’s name. absolute anonymity. 6.2 Corporate governance The Management Board and the Supervisory Corporate Governance. The last revision was in Board of ­­­­­­­voestalpine AG recognized the Austrian January 2015. The Code achieves validity when Corporate Governance Code in 2003 and have companies voluntarily undertake to adhere to it. also implemented all the amendments introduced since that date without exception. The Code aims to establish a system of management and control of companies and Groups that In addition to the mandatory “L rules” (legal reis accountable and geared to creating sustainable, quirements), ­­­­­­­voestalpine AG voluntarily complies long-term value. By voluntarily undertaking to adwith all of the “C rules” (comply or explain) and here to the Code, voestalpine ­­­ backs these objecthe “R rules” (recommendations) of the Code. The tives and commits to providing a high degree of Austrian Corporate Governance Code provides transparency for all of the company’s stakeholders. Austrian stock corporations with a framework for management and monitoring of their company. Business transactions with associated companies The Code is based on the provisions of Austrian or parties or pending proceedings (e.g., antitrust stock corporation, stock exchange, and capital proceedings) are reported on in the the quarterly market law as well as the OECD Principles of and annual reports of ­­­­­­­voestalpine AG. 24 7. Human rights 7. Human rights voestalpine ­­­ is committed to respecting and upholding human rights in accordance with the UN Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights. Furthermore, voestalpine ­­­ has supported the UN Global Compact and its ten principles since 2013. The chapter titled “Respect and Integrity” of the ­­­voestalpine Code of Conduct, which also covers human rights, states: Based on the UN Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights, human rights are viewed by the Group as fundamental values, which must be respected and observed by all employees. The corporate culture of voestalpine ­­­ Group acknowledges and welcomes the fact that each person is unique and valuable and shall be respected for Collective bargaining and the his or her individual abilities. ­­­voestalpine Group right to freedom of association therefore does not tolerate any type of discrimiAround 80% of the ­­­ voestalpine workforce is in nation whatsoever in any form. This also applies an employment relationship that is regulated by to sexual harassment in any form, for instance by a collective agreement, i.e., in all countries where way of obvious advances, demeaning comments, such collective agreements exist. Every employee jokes, vulgar expressions, obscene gestures, or has the fundamental right and freedom to become the display of graphic material in business and a member of a union. In all voestalpine ­­­ compaproduction facilities of the Group. Such conduct nies, employee representatives can be elected by may be considered harassment even if it was not the workforce. There is a Group Works Council intended as such. and a European Works Council in the voestalpine ­­­ These principles shall also apply to conduct toGroup. wards external partners. Traditionally, a good basis for communication is maintained at ­­­voestalpine between management, members of the Work Council, and the unions. The commitment to respecting and upholding human rights is also enshrined as a crucial point in Child labor and forced labor the Code of Conduct for Business Partners, which ­­­ voestalpine is strictly against child and forced la­­­voestalpine suppliers are required to comply with. bor. Thus far, there is not a single known case of All customers are also strongly urged to respect child labor, forced labor, or compulsory labor in the and uphold human rights. entire Group. 25 7. Human rights Human rights training for security personnel ­­­voestalpine plant security personnel consists largely of company employees. The Code of Conduct also applies to employees of third-party companies The Code of Conduct for ­­­ voestalpine business and the Code of Conduct for business partners appartners states: plies to their employers. Both documents stipulate compliance with human rights. ­­­voestalpine carries The Business Partner undertakes to respect and out human rights training of its own employees; comply with human rights as fundamental values external security personnel are trained by their on the basis of the European Convention on Huemployer. man Rights and the UN Charter on Human Rights. In particular, this applies to the prohibition of child Rights of indigenous peoples and forced labor, equal treatment of employees, As ­­­voestalpine operates solely in developed indusand the right of employee representation and coltrial regions, the rights of aboriginal peoples are lective bargaining. not restricted in any way by voestalpine’s ­­­ business operations. 26 8. Research and development 8. Research and development Staying at the top through innovation: for voestalpine ­­­ that is an integral part of its corporate strategy. The long-term objective of our research and de62% of the Group’s revenue. The challenge is to velopment sector (R&D) is to generate optimum actively collaborate in broad-based approaches to customer benefit through innovative complete potential solutions and to integrate the two sectors. solutions, while reducing life cycle costs, and to In addition to further and new development of achieve the best possible performance along the products and processes, our R&D activities are invalue chains. Our focus is on the development of creasingly oriented toward the Life Cycle Assessinnovative concepts for markets with the highest ment, i.e., looking at the entire life cycle of a technology and quality requirements, especially in product—from the sourcing of the raw material to the mobility and energy sectors, which account for the recycling or disposal of the product. 8.1 Research expenditures in the ­­­voestalpine Group In recent years research expenditure has been 150 million in the business year 2016/17 shows continuously on the rise. The high budget of EUR what an important role R&D plays in the Group. 175 R&D expenditure 150 150 R&D budget 132 126 128 127 125 112 117 109 109 93 100 75 66 50 25 0 06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 In millions of euros 27 8. Research and development 8.2 Organization The decentralized R&D organization has proven At the Group level, the R&D strategy and the R&D to be very successful and will therefore be mainprograms are decided upon by the Research Board tained. This enables research and development in its bi-annual meetings with the Management activities to be in close proximity to both producBoard. The persons responsible for R&D in the dition facilities and the market and customers, enabvisions are closely linked and share information ling rapid implementation of R&D results. regularly in the Research Committee. 8.3 Worldwide network Around 700 employees in 70 companies around the the sciences, such as universities, research instiworld are working in the Group’s research and detutes, competence centers, and Christian Doppler velopment sector. By combining and linking the exLaboratories. pertise available within the Group across divisional boundaries, it is possible to develop system solutions ­­­ voestalpine makes a major contribution to acafor concrete customer needs and requirements. demic research not only through its collaboration in R&D projects but also through its financial Another key to success is the global network and participation in competence centers and Christan the collaboration with external R&D partners, such Doppler Laboratories as well as by proposing and as customers and suppliers. In the area of applisupporting endowed professorships. In the past cation-oriented fundamental research, ­­­voestalpine three years, three professorships at Austrian unirelies on the expertise and resources of partners in versities were initiated and supported. 8.4 R  esource-conserving and environmentally-friendly processes and facilities Our process developments are focused on energy HBI/DRI technology. Another focal point is to conand resource efficiency, CO2 reduction, zero waste, tinue to optimize the entire process chain by imenhancing quality, and cost efficiency. Thus, for proving how the individual process steps are cominstance, all production processes are being invesbined and coordinated with one another. This is tigated for potential resource recovery from recycbased on the process simulation of metallurgical lable materials and energy. process engineering and forming technology as In collaboration with university institutes, well as the development of model-based systems ­­­voestalpine is pursuing the development and opmanagement. timization of processes for the recycling of metalliferous materials. Process residues that contain In this area, voestalpine ­­­ has achieved a genuine significant quantities of valuable metals, such as innovation with batch radar (Möllerradar). This zinc, lead, and copper, are especially promising. measuring system, which is currently unique There are also ongoing projects aimed at heat worldwide, was installed on a blast furnace at the recovery from slag. Linz site; it shows the topography and temperature With regard to resource efficiency, the focus is on distribution on the batch surface during producgreater flexibility of input materials, for example tion in real time. This enables optimized process through mixtures of ores or increasing the use of management that scales down the consumption of natural gas over coal, for instance by using the reducing agents as well as CO2 emissions. 28 8. Research and development 8.5 M  aterials development and product innovations In addition to further development of steel, which In the railway heavy-haul sector, axle loads are continues to be a very versatile material with great constantly increasing worldwide for economic reafuture potential, ­­voestalpine is also doing research sons and are currently being increased to more on hybrid materials and the processing of other than 40 tons. For this area of application, a heavymaterials such as aluminum. This is enabling duty turnout that integrates special rail sections ­­voestalpine to create components with greater duwas developed and successfully installed in Ausrability, lightweight structure, minimal use of matralia. This new turnout design, which includes a terials, and increased safety. special turnout point setting system solution, guarantees use with an axle load of more than 40 tons Efficiency and emissions reduction are equally re(in Europe, 22.5 tons are currently the norm). levant for both the mobility and the energy sectors. With its core product of turnouts as the foundation, ­­voestalpine is now specialized in the development of complete high-tech systems. The life cycle cost 8.5.1 Automotive and aerospace sectors optimization concept for turnouts includes assistance and support during the entire life cycle of Both in the automotive and the aerospace sectors, the product—from measurement of the site to the development is continuing to move in the direction pre-assembly of the turnouts at the plant, transport of reducing the empty weight of cars and aircraft in special freight cars, support during the installain order to lower fuel consumption and, in turn, tion process, turnout service, and turnout grinding emissions as well. to taking back and recycling old turnouts. For years, ­­voestalpine has been supplying ultra– high–strength steel for lightweight automobile construction and special steel alloys, titanium al8.5.3 Corrosion protection loys, and nickel-based alloys for aircraft components that must withstand high stress. ­­ voestalpine addresses the high economic impact As an increase of the efficiency of turbines— caused by corrosion by developing specially rewhether in an aircraft propulsion system or in a fined plates and sections for the automotive and steam power plant—is always accompanied by construction industries and by producing sour gasan increase of the operating temperature and resistant ultra-high-strength heavy plate, oilfield therefore a higher thermal load on the material, pipes, wire applications, and welding consum­­voestalpine is developing special alloys and cusables for energy technology. tom-tailored forging and heat treatment processes Flexible pipes are used in the petroleum and natufor these applications. ral gas extraction industry for the transport of water and gases under extreme conditions. These pipes consist of several metal layers that are wound from 8.5.2 Rails and turnouts flat and shaped wire. This high-quality wire has special qualities enabling it to handle high pressure voestalpine’s ­­ development efforts in the rail and and tensile stress and to be sour gas-resistant. In turnout sectors aim at achieving top passenger the further development of wire, focus is currently comfort combined with the highest degree of railon the improvement of its sour gas-resistance and way safety. the optimization of its cold-forming capabilities. 29 9. Ecology 9. Ecology Active environmental protection is a core element of voestalpine’s ­­ corporate philosophy. It is part of all segments of the production chain and is directed toward very economical use of resources (especially raw materials and energy) and minimization of the environmental impact of our processes and products. In the ­­voestalpine Group, environmental protection begins with the production facilities, where we strive to make use of the best available technologies, undertake intensive research in order to develop environmentally friendly steel production processes and products, implement measures to increase efficiency, reduce emissions, achieve energy savings, and—last but not least—facilitate transparent and efficient environmental management. At all of our production locations, we are committed to the following principles: Holistic responsibility for our products Optimization of production processes Due to its consistent efforts, ­­voestalpine has a leadEstablishment of environmental ing position within the European steel industry, for management systems example, with regard to emissions intensity and Integration of employees into the process resource efficiency. Many innovative processes by ensuring that each individual behaves were developed in the company or jointly with in an environmentally responsible way industrial partners and used for the first time Open and objective dialogue worldwide at voestalpine. ­­ 30 9. Ecology 9.1 Strategic Environmental Management The central point of contact for all questions relaagement Board actively participates in, has cretive to environmental issues is the “Strategic Enated an event that is directed toward management vironmental Management ­­­­­voestalpine AG” unit, and staff responsible for operations from very difwhich is also responsible for all operational enviferent areas (e.g., production, research and develronmental activities in the Steel Division. opment, communications, legal, sales), in other At the Group level, this unit—together with the words toward participants from beyond the acManagement Board of ­­­­­voestalpine AG and the ditual environmental sector. The objective is, on one visional environmental officers—defines strategic hand, to inform voestalpine ­­ management about objectives, thematic focal points, and positions reecological topics that are of importance for the lating to policies affecting the company’s interests Group and the definition of concrete, associated regarding important strategic long-term issues, challenges and possible actions for the company. such as energy and climate policy or the LCA. It On the other, the inclusion of external experts, for also coordinates the Group’s dialogue with stakeexample from NGOs and universities, makes diholders about these issues, i.e., it represents the alogue and the sharing of ideas a top priority. Up Group’s interests at the national and European to now, the “­­voestalpine Environment Day” dealt level vis-à-vis the political arena, advocacy and with questions associated with European and naspecial interest groups, and professional and tional energy and climate topics and the Life Cycle industry-specific organizations. Assessment (LCA), for example. At the same time, Strategic Environmental Management coordinates the flow and exchange of information in the Group within the framework of the “Environment Network” that consists of Group The objective presented in the last CR Report of representatives and the environmental officers of creating a comprehensive central environmental the Special Steel, Metal Engineering, and Metal database of all of the Group’s production comForming Divisions and ­voestalpine’s CR manager. panies was achieved, and the “SoFi” software In addition to the ongoing event-related sharing has been implemented and rolled out. This tool of information, this network meets quarterly, thus is now an established part of everyday practice ensuring consistent development and implemenand provides standardized collection, analysis, tation of measures relevant to environmental isand substantive evaluation of environmental sues throughout the entire Group (for example, data based on aggregated, uniform indicators. changes in the legal situation, standards, or similar The first collection of environmental data was unregulations). dertaken in the 2015 calendar year. It is the baFurthermore, the establishment of the annual sis for the indicators presented in this CR Report. “­­voestalpine Environment Day,” which the Man9.2 Environmental management systems and environmental standards The implemented management systems for qualAction that is rooted in expertise and reflects a ity, safety, energy, and the environment make a high degree of familiarity with environmental iscrucial contribution toward maintaining and imsues is only possible if the entire workforce has proving the environmental performance of each internalized a true awareness of environmental Group company. Packages of measures that are concerns. Therefore, environmental protection at rolled out regularly and ongoing monitoring of ­­­voestalpine begins literally with each and every progress are important elements of the environindividual employee and is understood as an onmental management system. going improvement process. 31 9. Ecology The production companies that are certified under the environmental management system reIn order to implement the Group’s ecological stanpresent 100% of the crude steel produced by the dards outside of Europe as widely as possible, an ­­­voestalpine Group. As of December 31, 2015, of environmental management system in accordance 105 Group companies being tracked, 62 (or 59%) with the ISO 14001 standard has been instituted in have an environmental management system in other countries, for example in companies in Brazil accordance with the ISO 14001 standard, 15 (or and Sweden. This system is also being installed in around 14%) have also been validated in acCorpus Christi, Texas, USA, where the new direct cordance with EMAS, and 23 (22%) have an enreduction plant, the largest ever investment by ergy management system that has been certified an Austrian company in the USA, will soon begin in accordance with the ISO 50001 standard. operations. 9.3 Expenditures and investments for environmental protection Operating expenditure for environmental protection systems In millions of euros 212 213 218 222 237 300 200 For many years, ­­voestalpine has been consistently 100 advancing the application of high environmental and environmental technology standards, and this is reflected in the key financial indicators. In the 0 BY 11/12 BY 12/13 BY 13/14 BY 14/15 BY 15/16 business year 2015/16, environmental investment amounted to EUR 55 million and the ongoing costs In the BY 2015/16, a number of primarily non-Austrian production locations was included in of operations for environmental systems came to the data for the first time. EUR 237 million. Environmental investments In millions of euros 32 27 23 42 55 50 25 It is particularly noteworthy that during this 0 period—in addition to the previously reported 20 BY 11/12 BY 12/13 BY 13/14 BY 14/15 BY 15/16 Austrian Group sites—another 18 largely internaIn the BY 2015/16, a number of primarily non-Austrian production locations was included in tional production companies and their operational the data for the first time. environmental systems are also being reported on. 32 9. Ecology In 2015, the greatest percentage (46.3%) of environmental expenditure was spent for air purification (including the majority of the certificates to be Environmental expenditures 2015 acquired under the EU emissions trading system). 29.5% were spent on waste removal/disposal, and the third largest expenditure was for water protection at 22.1%. In the past five years, the Group’s collection of en2.0% Other environmental expenditure (e.g., radiation, etc.) vironmental data has not shown any significant 29.5% Waste removal/disposal fines or judgments based on non-compliance with 46.3% Air purification environmental regulations. External complaints are mainly in connection with unforeseen noise, 0.1% Noise abatement 22.1% Water protection and these are generally responded to promptly and the problem is remedied to the greatest extent possible. 9.4 Air emissions Fundamentally, process-related emissions that result primarily from the raw materials required The major air pollutants that occur during the proand from existing production processes cannot be duction of steel besides greenhouse gases (in paravoided entirely because of technical limitations. ticular CO2) are sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrous oxide Due to the environmental measures that were (NOx), and dust. Emissions of all of these pollubegun in the mid-1980s and continued since then tants comply with the statutory threshold limits. with significant technical effort and financial These parameters are measured regularly and the expense, emission levels have practically reached annual loads recorded; intermittent analyses are the minimum that is currently technically achievalso carried out. able. Therefore, no additional significant reduction is possible with currently available technolo­­ voestalpine makes every effort to minimize to the gies, as illustrated in the following. greatest extent possible the air pollutants that For example, the specific emissions for CO2, SO2, occur during production due to purely technical and NOx in the last five years are within the proreasons related to the process. On one hand, this duction-based fluctuation range. During the last is done by way of optimization of the technical three decades, the specific emissions produced by process (process integrated (PI) measures) and on the voestalpine Group (i.e., based on one ton of the other, through end-of-pipe measures utilizing crude steel) have been reduced as follows: CO2 by state-of-the-art technology. 20%, SO2 by 75%, NOx by 27%, and dust by 95%. 33 9. Ecology At the Linz and Donawitz locations, whose blast 9.4.1 CO2 emissions furnaces are among the best compared to other European countries, a total of 11.7 million tons Crude steel production using the LD process, of CO2 were emitted in 2015. This corresponds to which continues to be the worldwide standard in specific CO2 emissions of 1.67 tons (based on one steel production, creates emissions from unavoidton of crude steel); viewed against the comparaable chemical reactions that are process-related. tive figures, the changes are within the producIn the production of pig iron, the raw materials tion-based fluctuation range. coal and coke are needed in the blast furnace By way of its applications (such as lightweight as reducing agents, while carbon is necessary in construction, improved efficiency in power plants, order to extract oxygen from the iron ore. Subseelectric motors, renewable energy), high quality quently, the carbon still contained in the pig iron steel makes a significant contribution to the imis oxidized in the LD converter by blowing in oxyprovement of the energy balance sheet of these gen. Therefore, when carbon and oxygen comproducts, therefore improving the CO2 balance bine, carbon dioxide (CO2) is created. sheet as well. According to a study by the BosA reduction of these process-related CO2 emiston Consulting Group, which was carried out on sions can only be achieved by way of partial (or behalf of the German Steel Federation (“Steel’s in the case of total decarbonization) complete CO2 balance sheet: A contribution to climate prore-placement of carbon, in other words, a comtection”), these applications save six times the pletely new production process. (In this regard, amount of CO2 than is created during steel prosee the chapter “Energy and Climate Policy”.) duction. From today’s perspective, these technological options can only be realized over the long term due Awards for climate protection to their complexity. As described above, the required use of carThe production at our location in Zeltweg has bon and the resulting CO2 emissions are already been CO2-neutral since 2010; in 2014, it received very close to the technically possible minimum the European EMAS Award for eco-innovations. threshold. In addition to measures to increase efficiency and reduce consumption, 75% of the heating of Specific CO2 emissions caused by voestalpine, reported in the plant was converted to biomass, and a small accordance with the Austrian Emissions Allowances Act (EZG) hydropower plant was installed on the Pöls River. ­­voestalpine Tubulars Gmbh & Co KG in Kindberg t/t of crude steel received the klimaaktiv award for its comprehen1.67 1.64 1.61 1.60 1.67 sive expertise in climate protection, especially 2 with regard to energy efficiency, from the Austrain Federal Ministry for Land and Forest Management, Environmental and Water Management (less formally known as the Lebensministerium or Ministry of Life). 1 ­­­­voestalpine Polynorm B.V., Netherlands 0 By using new compressors with a heat recovery 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 system, almost 50,000 m3 of natural gas can be saved annually in the future, which means a Figures refer to CO2 emissions pursuant to the Austrian Emissions Certificate Act at the Linz and Donawitz sites reduction of CO2 output by 340,000 tons. 34 9. Ecology Specific SO2 emissions 9.4.2 SO2 emissions kg/t of crude steel Many raw materials contain sulfur, which is then 0.64 0.68 0.65 0.67 0.70 introduced into the production process. During 1 certain processing steps and when by-products (coke oven gas and blast furnace gas) are used for energy generation, sulfur is released as sulfur dioxide (SO2). The specific SO2 emissions in 2015 were 0.70 kg 0.5 per ton of crude steel. In recent years, changes were within the production-based fluctuation range. 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 9.4.3 NOx emissions Specific NOX emissions Nitrous oxides (NOx) are gaseous nitrogen comkg/t of crude steel pounds that are generally created during combustion processes; they are also created in the soil 0.64 0.61 0.53 0.51 0.58 through natural microbiological decomposition 1 processes. In steel production, nitrous oxides are created during the production process in industrial furnaces; they are also created in power plants when utiliz0.5 ing process gases for energy generation. By deploying denitrification systems and improved combustion technologies, voestalpine has been able to reduce these emissions in a long0 term comparison; in 2015, the specific NOx emis2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 sions were 0.58 kg per ton of crude steel. Emission reduction at Uddeholms AB, Sweden: -25% -50% -70% 100% Prior to switching to liquid gas, warm-up and heat treatment furnaces were powered mainly by oil. Until 2014, all of the furnaces were converted to burn liquid natural gas. This is based on a modern combustion technology and, combined with 50% additional process improvements during the conversion process, it enabled an overall reduction of energy consumption by 28 GWh per year and a significant reduction of emissions compared to 0 previous technology. CO2 NOx SO2 35 9. Ecology 9.4.4 Dust emissions Specific captured dust emissions Dust-laden exhaust gases and emissions that ockg/t of crude steel cur during production are captured and routed 0.065 0.057 0.048 0.045 0.042 to a dedusting system by way of state-of-the-art 0.1 measures and precautions. The specific dust emissions were 0.042 kg per ton 0.05 of crude steel in 2015, down slightly compared to the previous year’s figure. After a significant reduction of more than 20% between 2008 and 2009, they have remained at a low level. 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Direct reduction plant in the USA The new direct reduction plant in the USA is also considered an environmental benchmark with regard to its technology and engineering. In addition to the use of the best available technologies to minimize air and water emissions, a briquetting plant processes filter dust and any ferrous production residue and recycles it back into the process (zero waste production with maximum raw materials efficiency). Dedusting system at Buderus Edelstahl GmbH, Wetzlar (Germany) A central dedusting system was put into operation at the electric-furnace steel plant in late 2014. Dust is extracted from the electric furnaces and other sources of emissions; diffuse emissions are not extracted. The extraction performance has been tripled compared to the previously used extraction system, and the cleaning efficiency has almost doubled. 36 9. Ecology 9.5 Water management Specific total water requirement Water is used in the production of pig iron and m3/t of crude steel crude steel for cooling and for the generation of steam and is therefore one of the most important 92 89 84 84 88 consumables and auxiliary materials. Conserva100 tion of water resources, which takes local circumstances into particular consideration, is achieved by methods that include closed-circuit systems and multiple use of process water. 50 The total withdrawal quantity by the production companies of the voestalpine ­­ Group, which were included in the collection of environmental data, was 678.8 million m³ in 2015. The majority of the 0 water is from surface water, which is used for cool2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ing purpose. The total specific volume of water required is Water withdrawal according to source 2015 88 m3 per ton of crude steel, and this figure has remained largely constant during recent years. 94.68% From surface waters The wastewater discharge represents the water 0.21% From municipal waters volume that is routed into discharge systems or 5.09% From groundwater into the public sewer system after being purified 0.02% Other with state-of-the-art methods. The wastewater discharge by the production companies of the ­­ voestalpine Group was kept at about the same level in recent years. Villares Metals, Brazil By building two reservoirs, which have a total capacity of 11 million liters of recyclable water, waEnsuring water quality at the Linz, ter consumption from local wells was reduced by Austria, site around 30%. The project was awarded first place in the Group-internal CIP (continuous improveAll of the cooling water from the production fament program) Awards 2014 in the “Environmencilities at the voestalpine ­­ Linz site is routed into tal Protection” category. the Danube or Traun Rivers. After being purified, operational wastewater is either routed into the Böhler Profil GmbH: Hydropower plant on the Danube or into the Asten regional sewage treatYbbs River, Austria ment plant, where it is again treated biologically depending on its ingredients. Renovation of the power plant with an increase in performance of around 15% from Wastewater discharge is continuously monitored. the original 2.3 GW The cooling water is constantly tracked and moniElectricity self-sufficiency of around 90% tored as far as water volume and discharge temConstruction of fish ladders perature are concerned. Operational wastewater is monitored and recorded with regard to water voFurthermore, fish ladders were built or improved lume, temperature, and pH. Furthermore, samples at the Austrian locations of Donawitz, Zeltweg, are regularly taken and analyzed in accordance and Bruck. with defined organic and anorganic parameters. 37 9. Ecology 9.6 Waste and recycling management Percentage of recycled materials of total materials used As far as conservation of resources is concerned, sustainability is not limited to production and pro23.4% 22.8% 23.1% 24.5% 23.7% cessing alone. ­­voestalpine undertakes numerous 30% activities to optimize the durability of its products as well as their reusability/recyclability/recoverability. 20% Due to their ingredients, many of the by-products generated by the production and downstream processing of pig iron and steel can be utilized in10% house as recycled materials or in other industrial branches (e.g., steel mill dust in the zinc industry) as secondary raw materials. 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Process management in integrated metallurgical facilities is optimized on an ongoing basis in orFigures refer to steel production sites in Austria, Germany, Sweden, and Brazil der to ensure a high degree of internal recycling and external utilization of waste and residual products that accrue from production facilities and Specific volume of non-hazardous waste downstream machinery, including filter dust and kg/t of crude steel mill scale. Additionally, products, residual materi55.9 51.7 56.4 137.0 186.5 als, and waste that accrue in external production 200.0 facilities are also utilized in voestalpine ­­ production facilities, for example, scrap, plastic pellets, and used oil and grease. 150.0 At the production sites in Austria, Germany, Sweden, and Brazil, the percentage of recycled materials of the total material used is 23.7%. Around 100.0 40% of the total amount of waste generated is recycled. 50.0 In the 2015 calendar year, the specific volume of non-hazardous waste rose to 186.5 kg per ton of crude steel as a result of changes in the statutory 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 framework conditions, especially for LD slag. The specific volume of hazardous waste on the other hand remained constant at 24.4 kg per ton of Specific volume of hazardous waste crude steel. kg/t of crude steel 22.5 21.7 22.7 22.9 24.4 BÖHLER Edelstahl GmbH, Germany 30.0 In 2015, almost 260 tons of grinding dust and more than 50 tons of flame cutting dust from 15.0 ­­ voestalpine’s own dust extraction systems were used as a secondary raw material in the electric furnace. Previously, abrasive dust had to be dis0 posed of at the plant’s own dump site. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 38 9. Ecology 9.7 Energy Energy efficiency in the steel industry is a conEnvironmental action by Böhler Edelstahl GmbH stant challenge—for cost reasons alone. Energy & Co KG, Kapfenberg, Austria: intensity is directly associated with CO2 intensity (see chapters “Air Emissions” and “Energy and In 2005, the first waste heat recovery facilities Climate Policy”). In the classic integrated metalwere installed at the Kapfenberg location. Tolurgical facilities, an increase in efficiency can day, five installations with a capacity of 13 GWh/ be achieved, for example, by optimizing process year are in use, which not only cover in-house gases generated during production by increasing consumption but also provide heat for the city of thermal recycling of these gases and utilizing Kapfenberg. Similar models, which provide excess waste heat potential. electricity from production to external grids, also exist at other major locations, for example, Linz Against the backdrop of political decisions (keyand Leoben-Donawitz. word energy paradigm shift), this subject gains additional significance in the long term. As the steel production locations of the ­­voestalpine Group Total energy consumption of the ­­ voestalpine are currently to a great extent self-sufficient with Group in 2015 was 37.88 TWh; the largest consuregard to generation of electricity (integrated mer is the Linz location. energy cycles based on fossil coal/coke utilize ocBreaking down the energy sources, the largest curring process gases; conversion into electricity ones are, of course, coal (54.7%) and coke (20.3%), takes place in separate power plants, and energy followed by natural gas (16.7%). At 5.9% of total is routed back into the production process), the energy consumption, the purchase of additional decarbonization of products is connected with the electricity is a comparatively minor factor. challenge of how fossil energy can be replaced in Specific energy consumption is 4.9 MWh per ton of the future by electricity from renewable sources crude steel, thus remaining practically unchanged from an external network. during the past five years. Specific total energy consumption MWh/t of crude steel 5.1 5.1 4.9 4.9 4.9 10.0 5.0 0.0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 39 9. Ecology 9.8 Biodiversity Environmental remediation of the coking plant, Linz, Austria The coking plant, which began operations in 1942 and was largely destroyed toward the end of World War II, was rebuilt and continued operations. In addition to benzene, tar was also distilled on-site as a by-product of the production of coke. The effects of war and the destruction of various parts of the coking plant resulted in massive contamiAll planned measures and projects, such as new nation of the soil at the plant site. Since 2011, the construction, renovations, and decommissioning following measures have been taken to sustainof production facilities, are carefully analyzed ably remediate and ensure the safety of the coking with regard to their impact on the eco-system or plant site in Linz, taking ecological and economic on areas requiring particular protection. Mitigaaspects into consideration: tion and compensatory measures are taken when Funnel & gate system to ensure  necessary. groundwater flow Partial excavation of the unsaturated soil  zone (hotspots), soil washing to remove The Linz site contaminants, and backfilling of the site Soil vapor extraction in the unsaturated soil  ­­ voestalpine has the impact of its activities on the zone to remove fugitive contaminants environment, e.g., microorganisms or fish popula(primarily BTEX) tions, examined regularly by external partners and Phase separation of contaminants in the satu derives appropriate measures from the results. rated soil zone (primarily tar oils and light oils) 40 10. Employees 10. Employees As of the reporting date of March 31, 2016, the v ­ oestalpine Group had 45,046 employees worldwide, plus 1,377 apprentices and 3,389 temporary employees (FTEs). This corresponds to a total of 48,367 full-time equivalents/FTEs. Development of the number of employees Persons (excl. apprentices, headcount) per business year 41,649 42,078 43,270 43,164 45,046 50,000 25,000 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Structure of the workforce according to type of employment (full-time employees excluded) per business year Temporary personnel (FTEs) Apprentices (headcount) Part-time employees (headcount) 4,305 1,263 2,285 3,816 1,350 2,649 3,728 1,401 3,213 3,879 1,407 3,613 3,389 1,377 3,825 5,000 2,500 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 41 10. Employees 10.1 Employment according to countries ­ oestalpine employs more than 48,000 employees in roughly 500 Group v companies and locations in 50 countries on five continents. 51.7% of the employees are working at locations outside of Austria, while 21,760 employees (excluding apprentices) are working at Austrian Group companies. v ­ oestalpine employees speak a multitude of lanBusiness Partners, which are valid Group-wide, are guages. In order to make the most important internal available in a total of 14 languages; the same apand external publications available to all employplies to mm, the employee magazine. The Corpoees, they are provided in various languages on the rate Responsibility Fact Sheet, the short version of Internet or the company intranet or are mailed to the Corporate Responsibility Report, is also availemployees at their home address. For example, able in 14 languages in electronic form, with some the Code of Conduct and the Code of Conduct for of the languages available in printed form as well. 5% 5% 9% 48% 17% 3% 3% 2% 1% 1% 3% 1% 1% 1% USA Brazil Other Austria Germany Netherlands Sweden France Great Britain Belgium China South Africa Romania Poland countries 42 10. Employees 10.2 ­voestalpine as employer ­ oestalpine is an attractive employer both for those employees who are v already working for the company and for applicants; this is affirmed by various top placements and recognition in company and employer rankings. 10.2.1 Job tenure and fluctuation In the past years, the number of employees in the ­voestalpine Group has been constantly on the rise. The group of employees with a job tenure of five years or less is therefore the largest one and has grown the most during the reporting period. The following graphic shows the job tenure figures of ­voestalpine’s employees: Job tenure As of the reporting date March 31 6.4% 36 years or more 34.6% 5 years or less 11.2% 26 – 35 years 33.6% 6 – 15 years 14.2% 16 – 25 years The external fluctuation rate (calculated according to those cases in which employment was ter2015/16, it is at 5.8%, which affirms the Group’s minated by the employee or was terminated by attractiveness as an employer as does the fact that mutual agreement) of ­ voestalpine has been at there are 23 applications for every job vacancy—a a very low level for years. For the business year very high number. 43 10. Employees 10.2.2 Employee survey ­oestalpine conducts employee surveys Groupv wide every three years in order to determine employee satisfaction and identify opportunities for improvement. The last survey took place in October 2013, when roughly 42,000 employees in 21 countries were surveyed in 13 different languages. The response rate of 75% was a new record. The outcome was discussed throughout the Group companies and individual divisions, resulting in about 500 concrete measures in the areas of health management, work-life balance, information and communication, continuing education and career development, among others. Group-wide, three major areas were identified: Introduction and/or relaunch of the annual appraisal dialogue Definition of management responsibilities Structured talent management and succession 10.2.4 Employer branding planning Concrete measures relating to all three areas were For v ­ oestalpine, employer branding means posideveloped and subsequently resolved by the tioning itself proactively as an attractive employer, Management Board. Progress is being docuwhich enables it to acquire new employees who mented and reported on regularly, for example in are the best and the brightest in various specialist the employee magazine. areas and to retain existing staff. We can drive inThe next employee survey is set to take place in novation and compete successfully in our markets the fall of 2016. only if we have committed employees who are experts in their fields. In addition to internal measures, we are also undertaking numerous external 10.2.3 Age structure of the employees personnel marketing activities in order to enhance ­voestalpine’s employer brand, for example, collaIn the business year 2015/16, the average emborations with (primarily technical) universities, ployee age was 41.2, thus remaining unchanged participation in career fairs, and sponsoring. A compared to previous business years. strong presence on all of the relevant online and The following table shows the average age of emsocial media channels as well as active reporting ployees, broken down according to salaried emabout the company increase ­voestalpine’s visibilployees and workers and gender: ity among target groups. Age structure of the employees per business year 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Workers 39.9 40.4 40.4 40.4 40.5 Salaried employees 42.0 42.3 42.0 42.1 42.3 Women 39.9 40.0 39.9 39.7 39.8 Men 40.8 41.1 41.1 41.3 41.4 44 10. Employees 10.3 Equal treatment Each and every ­voestalpine employee is unique and valuable and must be respected for his/her individual abilities. We see our employees as hard-working, motivated, eager to make every effort, and interested in taking an active role in both their own development and the development of the company in all of its diversity. For our part, we create a corporate culture in which we require and promote trust, diversity, self-determination, and assuming responsibility. At ­voestalpine, all employees are treated equally regardless of gender, age, ethnic origin, religion, 10.3.1 Persons with disabilities sexual orientation, or any disabilities. Therefore, the ­voestalpine Group does not tolerate any form In Austria, companies with more than 25 employof discrimination whatsoever. In the Code of Conees are required to make jobs available for perduct, which is binding for all employees throughsons with disabilities. For reasons relating to data out the entire Group, the Chapter “Respect and protection and privacy, information about the posIntegrity” states: sible disability of employees is not collected outside of Austria. ­voestalpine fulfills all statutory obligations at all of Based on the UN Charter and the European Conits locations in this respect. vention on Human Rights, human rights are viewed by the Group as fundamental values, which must be respected and observed by all employees. 10.3.2 Women at v ­ oestalpine The corporate culture of v ­oestalpine Group acknowledges and welcomes the fact that each As of the reporting date of March 31, 2016, the person is unique and valuable and shall be respecpercentage of women in the workforce in the ented for his or her individual abilities. ­voestalpine tire Group was 13.1%, the percentage of women Group therefore does not tolerate any form of workers was only 3.9%, and the percentage of fediscrimination whatsoever. male salaried employees was 28.4%. This also applies to sexual harassment in any form, The percentage of female executives (salaried for instance by way of obvious advances, demeanemployees holding positions with staff responsiing comments, jokes, vulgar expressions, obscene bility, including forepersons, excluding members gestures, or the display of graphic material in of the Board) was 12% as of March 31, 2016. This business and production facilities of the Group. percentage has increased slightly in recent years. Such conduct may be considered harassment The category “Female apprentices (other)” saw even if it is not intended as such. a particularly high percentage. As of March 31, These principles shall also apply to conduct to2016, the percentage of female apprentices was wards external persons. 55.2%. They are female apprentices who are not receiving technical training. 45 10. Employees Percentage of female employees at v ­ oestalpine per business year 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Total of all female 12.3% 12.6% 13.4% 13.3% 13.1% employees Female executives 10.2% 10.1% 10.6% 11.0% 12.0% Salaried female 27.2% 27.7% 28.4% 28.4% 28.4% employees Female workers 3.4% 3.5% 4.3% 4.1% 3.9% Female apprentices 9.0% 9.1% 8.6% 12.1% 11.8% (technical training) Female apprentices 50.9% 53.8% 49.5% 55.9% 55.2% (other) 46 10. Employees 10.4 Training and continuing education Ongoing training and continuing education of employees has a high priority at v ­ oestalpine. Maintaining the qualification of the workforce at the highest level is an essential requirement to achieve innovation and quality and thus to attain success. 10.4.1 Management training In its management training, v ­ oestalpine is focusing on the multi-phase “value:program,” which was developed at ­voestalpine. In the business year 2015/16, 228 executives from 31 countries participated in this program Group-wide, about 50% of whom were from subsidiaries outside of Austria. The percentage of female participants was 15%. We view targeted professional qualification as a Online learning modules were used for the first performance-enhancing factor for our employees. time, and a learning support platform was set up. We rely on suitable development measures that A separate program was developed for CEOs who are initiated as part of appraisal dialogues and have already been appointed to their position. local needs assessments. v ­ oestalpine also runs the “High Mobility Pool” deIt is important for us that employees are deployed velopment program for university graduates with in accordance with corporate requirements but at a few years of professional experience in order to the same time in a way that maintains their health develop young talent. The internationalization of and is aligned with their life cycle phase. the program was continued. For the “2015 generation,” participants from Asia, North and South America, and Europe were recruited. The total cost for personnel development in the business year 2015/16 was EUR 51.3 million, 10.4.2 Professional academies 59.3% of all employees participated in either training or continuing education. In addition to proven programs for executives and Group-wide, voestalpine employees underwent a future executives, there are numerous training total of 803,611 hours of training, an average of programs for ongoing professional qualification of 30.1 hours per trained employee. salaried and wage-earning staff that teach specialist skills based on specific requirements. 47 10. Employees Young Professionals Training Program in China 2015, ­ voestalpine began a training program in China, the first program of this kind developed for a specific country. 38 employees from almost all local sites participated in the first cycle of this program. In accordance with its corporate strategy, ­ voestalpine continues to drive internationalization forward. The focus of its growth objectives is Asia, especially China, a future-oriented market. In China alone, the ­voestalpine Group already has 19 companies with 1,502 employees (excluding apprentices). In the most recent past, operations have been launched at four v ­ oestalpine plants; plans are set for a total of ten new plants to begin operations between now and 2020. Three-module training program This newly developed training program has three thematic focal points. In the first module, participants are familiarized with the ­ voestalpine Group—the Group’s structure, its products, and its markets, both globally and in China. The second module addresses the development and enhancement of communication and presentation skills, placing particular emphasis on intercultural differences and issues. The third and last module focuses on the acquisition of the required specialist knowledge and skills in sales and project management. Each module is Objectives of the training program rounded out by providing joint activities that promote team-building and visits to companies at the The objective of this training program is to prolocation where the seminar is being held. Particivide ­voestalpine’s Chinese employees with a compants play an active role in designing parts of the prehensive overview of the ­ voestalpine Group, program themselves, a feature that supports diato sharpen their professional skills by way of tarlogue and an exchange of professional experience geted training, and to enable them to profit from and information. the sharing of experiences. 48 10. Employees 10.5 Apprentices The training of apprentices and young skilled workers has traditionally had a high priority in the voestalpine Group. As of the reporting date of March 31, 2016, 1,377 apprentices were being trained in 50 different vocations; the majority of the apprentices (81.9%) are being trained at 39 locations in Austria and Germany under the dual system. As a result of their efficient, needs-oriented training, 100% of the young workers who have completed their apprenticeship successfully are hired as permanent employees. Facts and figures on the training of apprentices 37.6% of all apprentices are being trained outside of Austria. ­voestalpine invests EUR 70,000 per apprentice participating in the threeor four-year training program. The third ­voestalpine Group Apprentice Day took place in Linz in October 2015, with 380 apprentices participating. For the apprenticeship year beginning in 2016/17, about 400 new apprenticeship positions are available in Austria and Germany. In Austria and Germany, 96.6% of the apprentices who took their final examination in the last business year passed. Of the Austrian graduates of the apprenticeship program, 67.6% passed their final examination with the grade “good” or “excellent.” Apprentices per business year 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Number of 1,263 1,350 1,401 1,407 1,377 apprentices Female apprentices 185 210 205 260 247 49 10. Employees Apprentice training in the USA ­ voestalpine Automotive Body Parts implements a dual program for young skilled workers In Georgia, USA, ­voestalpine has set up a dual training program to qualify young people for technical professions in order to cover the need for young skilled workers. The automotive supplier v ­ oestalpine Automotive Body Parts has created a two-and-one-half-year program jointly with the Bartow County College & Career Academy that provides both theoretical and practical training. It has now been officially certified as an apprentice training program by the Department of Labor. After completing the dual training, the graduates receive the title of “IndusUS delegation visits the training center in Linz trial Manufacturing Technician.” On July 14, 2016, a delegation from Georgia Currently, eight young people are being trained. headed by Sandra Deal, the governor’s wife, In contrast to German-speaking regions, the USA visited the ­voestalpine headquarters in Linz. The does not have a nationwide standardized training main items on their agenda were a presentation program for skilled workers. The program in Georof the dual training system in Austria and a visit gia is based on the v­ oestalpine companies that run of the training center in Linz that highlighted its apprenticeship programs in Austria and Germany special features. At the end of the visit, the delegand on the educational program of Austrian and ation had the opportunity to speak with former German vocational schools. apprentices about their career plans. 10.6 Employee participation plan The ­ voestalpine employee participation model The ­ voestalpine employee participation plan is acknowledged and respected all over Europe gives the Group’s employees the opportunity of and has become an important component of participating in the development and success of ­voestalpine‘s corporate culture. ­voestalpine by owning shares in the Group. This Currently (as of March 31, 2016), 24,100 active is implemented either by way of collective agree­voestalpine employees hold around 23.3 million ment solutions (in Austria) or based on annual ofshares. Together with the 1.9 million “private fers to acquire shares. shares” owned by current and former Group employees, this corresponds to 14.5% of voestalpine AG’s share capital. As a result, ­­­ The ­voestalpine employee participation plan was ­voestalpine employees are the second largest core established 16 years ago on November 1, 2000 shareholder, giving the company a stable ownerjointly by the company’s management and the ship structure. Works Council under the required supplementary All 51 Austrian Group companies are integrated collective agreement. into the employee participation plan, as are 70 Employees who have ­voestalpine shares can parcompanies in the Netherlands, Germany, Great ticipate in the Group’s economic success by reBritain, Poland, Belgium, Czech Republic, and ceiving dividend payments and through possible Italy. Models for Switzerland, France, and Sweden price appreciation of the shares. are currently being developed. 50 11. health & safety 11. health & safety The safety and health of its employees are fundamental values of ­­voestalpine and have top priority. Therefore, the topics of occupational safety and promotion of health have always had crucial importance. In mid-2015, an independent department was established at the Group level for Health and Safety (h&s) Management, which had been organized divisionally up to that point in time. This department falls within the area of responsibility of one of the members of the Management Board of voestalpine ­­­­­ AG and has the objective of establishing uniform standards, procedures, and key performance indicators. The main responsibilities of the persons and enture will introduce good examples and encourage tities in charge of h&s, from the Chief health and people to imitate them. Numerous activities will safety Officer to the h&s Committee headed by the be implemented under the slogan “Professionals Chief h&s Officer to the persons responsible in the work safely” in order to promote a consciousness individual divisions (see graphic) are to establish for safety at work among employees in all sectors and promote an active and vibrant h&s culture. and countries. Management has an important role Two focal points are achieving uniform key perin this process, as executives can make an esformance indicators and learning best practices sential contribution to the program’s success and throughout the Group. In order to accomplish this, achieve a reduction of work-related accidents by knowledge and experiences will be shared on the providing a good example and consistently impleh&s platform. The “Learning from the Best” feamenting all guidelines. An overview of the structure at the Group level: h&s Board Chaired by a member of the Management Board h&s Committee Chaired by the Chief h&s Officer h&s Management Special Metal Metal Steel Division Steel Division Engineering Division Forming Division 51 11. health & safety OHSAS 18001 LTIFR Numerous ­­voestalpine Group companies already This key performance indicator captures the numhave certifications in accordance with an occupaber of work-related accidents per million working tional safety and health management system. All hours, which are subject to reporting requirements of the companies of the Steel Division have already and result in more than three lost days or death. been certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001, As the regulations for work-related accidents, for example. As OHSAS 18001 certifications are which must be reported and which result in lost being rolled out throughout the entire Group, the days and lost working hours, differ widely in the next goal is for all companies of the Metal Engiindividual countries, a uniform definition has been neering Division to be certified in accordance with established at the Group level. The figures capthis occupational safety and health management tured beginning in the business year 2015/16 are system by the end of 2017. governed by this definition and therefore deviate from previous figures. The graphic shows that the number of work-related accidents has gone down h&s performance continuously in the past years. Nevertheless, every work-related accident is one accident too The two most important key performance indicamany so that the mission statement is clear: zero tors, which are already being tracked Group-wide work-related accidents. through the health & safety organizational strucTo our deep regret, there was a fatal workture, are the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate related accident at ­­voestalpine in the business (LTIFR) and the “health quota.” year 2015/16. Developement of the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 25.2 22.5 20.7 20.4 16.1 30 Implementation of the h&s structure at 25 the Group 20 level 15 10 5 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 52 Health quota The health quota indicates the percentage of the target working hours during which the employees were actually present during a pre-defined period. By pursuing an active health promotion policy, voestalpine ­­ is aiming to promote and maintain the physical and psychological health of its employees. A high health quota is not only in the The health quota was determined in the business interest of the individual employee but creates the year 2015/16 for the first time and was 96% for the basis for a successful business operation. While the entire ­­voestalpine Group. company makes an important contribution to the health of its employees through proper workplace/ workstation design, it is also necessary to encourage employees to maintain a healthy lifestyle. To Occupational safety for contractors this end, individual companies and locations are and third-party companies implementing various measures. The objective is to lower the number of sick days overall, but at voestalpine ­­ also endeavors to ensure that life and the same time to ensure that sick employees have health of employees of third-party companies are the necessary convalescence period. The vision of protected. Binding guidelines have been issued in h&s Management is to lower the number of workthis regard, which must be complied with by emrelated illnesses to zero. ployees of contractors and third-party companies. 53 12. Society 12. Society The companies of ­­­­­voestalpine AG engage intensively with the needs of their local communities and support them in various ways, as previously described in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2013. At the Group level, commitment to social issues is concentrated primarily on two focal points: the Contemporary History MUSEUM at the Group headquarters location in Linz and refugee and integration aid. 12.1 Contemporary History MUSEUM The early years of the Linz location under the name of “Reichswerke Hermann Göring AG, Bera voice in audio documents, with additional series lin” are examined mindfully and comprehensively of comprehensive explanations, visual materials, in an exhibit that is dedicated to forced laborers and multi-media stations. Around 38,000 personunder the Nazi regime in Linz. nel files and salary slips from the Linz operations of the Reichswerke Hermann Göring in the years Starting in 1938, an iron and steel making plant 1938 to 1945 form the basis of this comprehensive was built in Linz and was gradually put into opeexhibit. This was the largest post-war find of NS ration from 1941 onward. From the beginning on, personnel and salary documents of a company. “Reichswerke Hermann Göring” were an integral ­­ voestalpine was the first company in Austria to part of the National Socialist arms industry. engage with the subject of NS forced labor in a Many thousands of forced laborers (men, women, permanent exhibit and to make it accessible to the juveniles, and children), prisoners of war, and public. concentration camp inmates from more than 30 nations were used to build and operate the steel On the occasion of the award of the Austrian Muplant. The permanent exhibit at Group headquarseum Seal of Approval, the original “Exhibit of ters is dedicated to them and depicts the largely Contemporary History 1938–1945” became the inhumane conditions under which the foundanew Contemporary History MUSEUM. The new tion of today’s Group that operates worldwide was name better reflects the enduring character of the created. installation. voestalpine ­­ Stahlwelt is responsible The people and their stories are the focus of the for the operation of the permanent exhibit. exhibit, and their life journey and their ordeal are presented in four areas that build upon each other. You will find additional information at The victims of the NS forced labor system are given http://www.­­voestalpine.com/zeitgeschichte/en 54 12. Society 12.2 Refugee and integration aid Against the backdrop of the movement of refugees Around half of the residents of refugee camps in to Europe since September 2015, voestalpine ­­­­­ AG the Middle East are children who are growing up has been supporting concrete projects of the huwithout a permanent home, education, or future manitarian aid organizations Caritas Austria and prospects. Therefore, ­­voestalpine is also financing Doctors Without Borders. Donations totaling EUR educational opportunities arranged locally by Ca1.5 million are being used equally directly in the ritas, which provide children with remedial educacrisis areas and in Austria. ­­voestalpine is also plantion that enables them to reconnect with the school ning to create additional trainee openings for refusystem. gees in its own plants. The Group sees it as part of its social responsibility to create future prospects particularly for young refugees by providing edu12.2.2 Initial aid and integration cation and work. measures in Austria The second half of this major donation went 12.2.1 L  ocally provided medical care into a package of measures developed jointly by and education voestalpine and Caritas to support refugees in ­­ Austria. Here, in addition to initial aid, the focus is Half of voestalpine’s ­­ donation went to local aid on education with the objective of ensuring longprojects in crisis areas of the Middle East. Support term integration, especially of young people. This went to the humanitarian aid organization Doctors package created around 166 new residences and Without Borders, which treats patients in Syria and guaranteed psychological intervention in acute provides medical care to refugees in Lebanon, Jorcases for 66 persons. German and literacy courses dan, and Iraq. Our donation will provide 100,000 are being provided for 518 people, and 157 unacpersons with the most important medications for a companied juveniles will receive a four-monthyear and will provide emergency medical help for long course of study as a basis for further vocawar casualties. tional training. 55 Contact & Imprint Contact & Imprint Contact ­­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG, Corporate Responsibility T. +43/50304/15-6599 cr@­­­­voestalpine.com ­­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG, Investor Relations T. +43/50304/15-3152 ir@­­­­voestalpine.com ­­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG, Corporate Communications T. +43/50304/15-2090 mediarelations@­­­­voestalpine.com www.­­­­voestalpine.com www.­­­­voestalpine.com/group/en/group/corporate-responsibility/ Imprint Owner and media proprietor: ­­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG, ­­­­voestalpine-Strasse 1, 4020 Linz Senior editor and editorial staff: ­­­­­­­­­voestalpine AG, Corporate Responsibility, T. +43/50304/15-6599 cr@­­­­voestalpine.com, www.­­­­voestalpine.com Design and implementation: 7 Punkt Communication Group GmbH, www.7punkt.at 56
