I am pleased to reaffirm the support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption by Neal’s Yard Remedies. In this, our second annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. We were greatly encouraged to see the third consecutive year of growth reported for the UK organic market in 2015, with the global organic food and drink market now worth an estimated £49 billion and involving 172 countries – from agriculture to processing*. We believe that supporting organic agriculture is fundamental to driving sustainable development across the globe, and remain absolutely committed to driving excellence in the organic health and beauty sector. We are also proud to have launched the first British Fair for Life certified health & beauty products, and will continue to support the development of fair trade projects throughout our supply chain. Yours sincerely, Peter Kindersley Chairman & Owner Neal’s Yard Remedies March 2016 *Soil Association Organic Market Report 2016 Head Office Peacemarsh, Gillingham, Dorset, SP8 4EU, United Kingdom T +44 (0) 1747 834 600 F +44 (0) 1747 834 601 London Office 8-10 Neal’s Yard, Covent Garden, London, WC2H 9DP, United Kingdom T +44 (0) 20 3119 5900 F +44 (0) 20 3119 5901/02 Neal’s Yard (Natural Remedies) Limited. Registered Office Peacemarsh, Gillingham, Dorset, SP8 4EU, United Kingdom Registered No. 1597194 VAT No. 873 0241 41 NEAL’S YARD REMEDIES: Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals As an independent, ethical organic health and beauty company, respecting human rights throughout our business is at the heart of our company ethos. We fully support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and for this reason human rights are explicitly advocated in our Supply Chain Policy. We are proud to be the first British Health and Beauty brand to be certified both For Life and Fair for Life by IMO, representing a public commitment to upholding the values and certification requirements of these prestigious social responsibility and fair trade accreditations, advancing with continual improvement as we grow as a business. “For Life Social Responsibility certification confirms that workers enjoy fair and safe working conditions covering all key labour aspects from core ILO workers rights to good employment conditions. It also evaluates the operator’s overall environmental performance and its role and impact in the local community. For Life Certification confirms that a company is committed to act as a responsible employer and promoter of sustainable practices and that producer groups have transparent internal structures with fair relations to producers. Fair for Life Fair Trade certification includes all Social Responsibility standards with fair working conditions, environmental performance and community relations, but focuses additionally on fair trade relationships, fair prices and direct support of marginalised groups by means of a Fair Trade Development Fund. Fair for Life Fair Trade means long-term and trusting cooperation between partners, transparent price setting negotiations and prices, including a Fair Trade Premium, that allow for social development of the concerned communities. A Fair Trade Policy defines the beneficiaries of Fair Trade and confirms the social commitment of the production company”. FAIR FOR LIFE SOCIAL & FAIR TRADE CERTIFICATION PROGRAMME We are a relatively small company, with our eco-factory and Head Office based in Dorset in the UK. Therefore the majority of our human rights risk is in our supply chain. We have a goal to source 100% of our natural ingredients from either organic and/or fair trade certified suppliers. All organic and fair trade certifications contain standards and principles related to Human Rights. Implementation Neal’s Yard Remedies does not own any operations in countries that could be regarded at risk on issues of Human Rights, but our supply chain is global and we acknowledge our indirect responsibility towards those involved. We want all of our suppliers and their suppliers to benefit from doing business with us, and aim to develop strong, mutually respectful, long-term relationships in order to build a robust and resilient supply chain. We do this through supporting organic farming, sustainable wild-harvesting and fair trade programs in our supply chain as well as maintaining excellent levels of communication and placing annual commitments with producers. Page 1 NEAL’S YARD REMEDIES: Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Our supplier contracts include requirements on ethical treatment of employees. The revised contracts were sent to our top 20 suppliers (by value) in 2015, and have now been implemented in our standard terms of business, used for all new suppliers. The revised contracts will be rolled out to all suppliers by March 2017. To reduce human rights risks in the rest of our supply chain, we have joined Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, a member based organisation whose goal is to drive improvements in ethical and responsible business practices in global supply chains. A core principle of the SEDEX model is the avoidance of unfair or unsafe labour practices, which includes slavery and human trafficking. In our company, we operate a Staff Forum that meets on a quarterly basis, where any concerns and ideas are fed back from each business area to senior managers for a response. We also support organisations that help protect the rights of others. Since 2012 we have made a donation to Women for Women International on International Women’s day (8th March) each year, totalling over £46k to date. We have also sponsored, as a company, and through fundraising activities of our NYR Organic Independent Consultants in the UK and US, 27 women in war-torn parts of the world through the lifechanging year-long Women for Women skills programme. Measurement of outcomes. Independent Audit Outcomes We believe independent verification is the best way of being assured of good practice. In June 2015, we were independently audited for the second year by the Ethical Company Organisation and maintained our score of 100/100 for ethics. In January 2015 we became the first British health and beauty company to achieve ‘For Life’ social responsibility accreditation from IMO, together with ‘Fair for Life’ certification as a handler of fair trade goods, which followed an audit of our eco-factory and business practices including employment conditions, health & safety, environmental practices, supplier relations and company policies. In our 2016 Fair for Life audit, with an additional review of our London office and auditor selected company retail stores, we achieved: • 120% of the applicable Total Norm Points for overall performance under the For Life Social Responsibility Certification • 139% of the applicable Total Norm Points for overall performance as a fair trade handler under the Fair for Life Social & Fair Trade Certification Organic and Fair Trade We monitor the percentage of our natural ingredient supply chain that is independently certified organic and/or fair trade by recognised organisations. All organic and fair trade certifications contain standards and principles related to Human Rights. As a progress guide on our organic and fair trade sourcing policy we focus on the three key categories of globally sourced agriculturally produced raw materials which form the heart of our products: base oils (vegetable oils), essential oils and bee-products (honey, propolis and beeswax). Page 2 NEAL’S YARD REMEDIES: Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Base (Vegetable) Oils 98% certified organic 1.6% certified fair trade Essential Oils 86% certified organic 13% certified fair trade Bee Products 100% certified organic 24% certified fair trade (100% of honey) Data 12 months to Feb 2016 by kg purchased Suppliers and Traders We choose to work through a select number of traders who import ingredients for us, some with whom we have worked for over 30 years. Though our trusting trading relationships, we have visibility and contact with their growers/producers in order to find out more about the projects which form our supply chain and their working conditions. We regularly visit international growers and wild harvesting projects, conducting an audit though observation and direct conversations with workers. The Ethical Consumer reviewed our audit Provenance Questionnaire in November 2015 to ensure we capture relevant and useful information. Over past 14 months, our Director of Natural Health has visited herbal product manufacturers and essential oils producers in France, frankincense essential oil producers in Oman, a new farm partnership project in Uganda, together with our Frankincense wild harvesters in the remote Samburu region of Kenya, in particular to celebrate the official opening of the solar powered fresh-water drinking well which we, and our Japanese partner, funded in addition to our fair trade premiums. There has been no evidence of Human Right violations during these visits. Suppliers that we do not visit we are often in contact with, and take a keen interest in how ingredients are grown, harvested, what benefits projects have on the community and local environment. Neal’s Yard Remedies has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases, or incidents involving Human Rights. Page 3 NEAL’S YARD REMEDIES: Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, policy and goals We are committed to providing a satisfying, safe and supportive place to work within a successful business for all our employees, to providing a quality product and service to our customers, and to ensuring fair and respectful relations with our suppliers. Our employees are a core part of the business and we recognise our responsibility to them in ensuring their labour rights are met. All of our employees receive a fair wage at or above minimum National rates, together with additional benefits including enhanced holiday entitlement, bursary for Natural Health courses, annual paid community day, profit related bonus scheme, and a company pension scheme where employees contributions are matched by the company. Our goal is to ensure that all our workers are able to conduct their role effectively with adequate resources and training. This goal is stated in our Social Responsibility Policy. All of our retail staff receive regular Product Training on beauty and natural health. Factory workers have the option to complete an NVQ in Manufacturing and office workers are able to study role specific qualifications (e.g. CIMA, CIPD) funded by the company. We also provide seasonal natural health information to all staff through regular newsletters and training updates. As a company we have clear HR policies that cover employee rights, responsibilities and benefits. All employees have a contract of employment and a copy of the Staff Handbook that covers Terms and Conditions of Employment. Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining Whilst we do not have any agreements with trade unions for collective bargaining, employees are welcome to be members of unions if they wish. We have a Staff Forum of staff-elected members who meet quarterly to discuss various issues arising throughout the business – topics are unregulated and range from employment related issues to innovations in processes or products to sustainability initiatives such as support for ‘cycle to work’ schemes. Questions arising from the Staff Forum meetings are acknowledged and responded to by relevant members of the executive/management team. Forced, Compulsory & Child Labour Our company premises are in UK and US and we adhere to national employment regulations ensuring no cases of forced, compulsory or child labour. Discrimination & Equal Opportunities We are an equal opportunities employer, as highlighted in our contracts of employment and employee handbook, and actively encourage flexible working with around half our workforce on part time contracts. We offer enhanced maternity, paternity and adoption packages, plus a salary sacrifice scheme to support parents with the cost of childcare. Our staff handbook includes our Dignity At Work policy, which outlines our stance against bullying or harassment in the workplace, together with our stance on supporting Diversity. Neal’s Yard Remedies is Page 4 NEAL’S YARD REMEDIES: Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 committed to the principle of equal opportunity in recruitment and employment and considers all forms of discrimination at work unacceptable. In our supply chain, we have a goal to source 100% of our natural ingredients either organic and/or fair trade certified. All organic and fair trade certifications contain standards and principles related to Labour Rights. Implementation Safety at Work To reduce labour risks in our company, NYR has a Health & Safety (H&S) Committee and H&S Steering Group. Both groups meet monthly. We have a written Health and Safety policy available on our Intranet, and have an external consultant, contracted one week every month to help embed the policy throughout our business. All employees receive an H&S induction when starting with the business, which covers fire exits and fire procedures, manual handling, COSHH and safe working practices. Employees We hold regular company briefings at head office and we operate a staff forum which meets on a quarterly basis, where ideas are fed back from each business area to senior managers. Retail managers meet on a monthly basis to receive updates on key changes / events. Our staff handbook ensures our employees are clear on our policies such that they are able to take up any grievances. We have a formal statutory grievance procedure in place, and HR operate in compliance with ACAS guidelines to facilitate good practice. Suppliers In our supply chain, we have joined Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, a member-based organisation whose goal is to drive improvements in ethical and responsible business practices in global supply chains. A core principle of the SEDEX model is the avoidance of unfair or unsafe labour practices. In 2015, we have added additional ethical clauses to our Supplier Contracts, covering the following points: The Supplier undertakes to the Customer that it shall ensure that the production and manufacturing of the Products takes place in such work places: 1.1.1 that apply a standard of ethical treatment in relation to their workers; 1.1.2 where the workers are not paid less than the statutory minimum for the country in which they are employed; 1.1.3 where working conditions are safe and hygienic; 1.1.4 where no worker employed is under 16 years old; 1.1.5 where the workers’ presence in the workplace is voluntary and not as the result of any direct or indirect coercion; 1.1.6 where no harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed; and 1.1.7 where the workers’ rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining are respected. The revised contracts were sent to our top 20 suppliers (by value) in 2015, and have now been implemented in our standard terms of business, used for all new suppliers. The revised contracts will be rolled out to all suppliers by March 2017. Measurement of outcomes As a company we have just completed second first Fair For Life company audit (Feb 2016), both as a socially responsible company (For Life), and as a handler of fair trade ingredients (Fair for Life). Fair For Life certification is a demonstration of social and fair business practices through an independent third party Page 5 NEAL’S YARD REMEDIES: Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 certification from the Institute for Market ecology (IMO). In both cases we scored well above the applicable Total Norm Points for overall performance, achieving the highest category level of each certification. Women in the Workforce Neal’s Yard Remedies supports women in the workforce, with women represented at all levels of the business – we have a female MD, female Deputy Chair, our Executive team is made up of 6 women and 3 men, and we have 115 women in Management positions. Total workforce 447 Full time workers – female 156; male 68 Part time workers – female 198, male 9 Data from HR count November 2015 Protection of workers in our Supply Chain We want all of our suppliers and their suppliers to benefit from doing business with us, and aim to develop strong, mutually respectful, long-term relationships in order to build a robust and resilient supply chain. We do this through supporting organic farming, sustainable wild-harvesting and fair trade programs in our supply chain as well as maintaining excellent levels of communication and placing annual commitments with producers. In our supply chain, we monitor the percentage of our natural ingredient supply chain that are certified organic and fair trade. All organic and fair trade certifications contain standards and principles related to Labour Rights. Supporting organic farming also helps protect the health of workers, their families and communities by avoiding the use of harmful agricultural chemicals. Our progress on this sourcing policy is described in the Measurement of Human Rights section of this report. We regularly visit international growers and wild harvesting projects, conducting an audit though observation and direct conversations with workers. The Ethical Consumer reviewed our audit Provenance Questionnaire in November 2015 to ensure we capture relevant and useful information. We choose to work through traders who import ingredients for us, some with whom we have worked for over 30 years. Though our trusting trading relationships, we have visibility and contact with their growers/producers in order to find out more about the projects which form our supply chain and their working conditions. Neal’s Yard Remedies keeps health and safety records and has not been subject to any Health & Safety statutory notice, improvement or prohibition, since the current owners purchased the business, and has no active cases of discrimination. Page 6 NEAL’S YARD REMEDIES: Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals We are committed to conducting our business in an environmentally sustainable manner – making the world a better place one blue bottle at a time. We're driven by the passionate belief that health and beauty should be more natural, less synthetic, and that business should be done in a way that is sustainable and fair. This passion, and our firm belief that it's down to all of us to protect our precious planet, is at the heart of everything we do – including what we purchase in every area of our business. Our Sourcing Policy covers everything from the ingredients we buy, our packaging and printed materials, to the organic cotton towels in our Therapy Rooms and the locally and organically sourced food prepared daily onsite for subsidized staff meals at our Dorset ecofactory. Our health and beauty products are made with the highest levels of certified organic ingredients possible, protecting land, people and wildlife from contamination by potentially hazardous chemical fertilisers and pesticides. Our Sourcing Policy includes the following points: • All new ingredients added to our supply chain through Product Development must comply with the COSMOS standard https://cosmos-standard.org/ The COSMOS-standard applies to cosmetic products that are marketed as organic or natural. Its guiding principles are to: § promote the use of products from organic agriculture, and respect biodiversity; § use natural resources responsibly, and respect the environment; § use processing and manufacturing that are clean and respectful of human health and the environment; § integrate and develop the concept of “Green Chemistry” • We will always prioritise certified organic ingredients where they are available in reliable volumes at the right quality. For example if an organic and a standard vegetable oil are available we will always use the organic grade in the manufacture of our health and beauty products. • Where we find sources of quality fair trade certified ingredients that have long-term availability, we will use them. • We do not use any plants listed as at risk in CITES or IUCN lists • All ingredients must be confirmed as GM-free. We believe that what you leave out of a product can be as important as what you put in. We take a precautionary approach to health and the environment. You will not find any synthetic fragrances, silicones, parabens, GM ingredients, DEA or EDTA amongst others, in any of our products. We have been awarded Champion Status by the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics http://www.safecosmetics.org. Page 7 NEAL’S YARD REMEDIES: Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 We have never used plastic microbeads in our products, and are campaigning in partnership with Fauna & Flora International to raise awareness of this environmentally polluting cosmetics issue. We are listed under FFI’s good scrub Guide www.fauna-flora.org/initiatives/the-good-scrub-guide/ and on the ‘Beat The Microbead’ app www.beatthemicrobead.org. Further details on our ingredients (what you won’t find in our products and why) can be found here: http://www.nealsyardremedies.com/whats-in-our-products We are in the process of developing a sustainability strategy, which we aim to launch next year. As part of this process, our Board have identified our material environmental risks and opportunities. Like many agriculture-based companies, our supply chain is at risk from climate change impacts. And across our whole value chain, industry studies show that consumer use of our products is our biggest impact area, so we have an opportunity to promote organic lifestyles and sustainable use of our products with our therapists and customers. Campaigning We believe that all retailers have a ‘voice’ – an opportunity to talk to their customers. We use our voice to campaign loudly on issues that are important to us as a company. For example, in 2011 we launched our Bee Lovely and Help Save the Bees campaign to help protect pollinators. We gathered 117,000 global signatures to help ban neonicotinoids, pesticides deadly to bees, from the EU, and to date have raised over £76,000 for bee-friendly charities and local community projects. This year the campaign funds are supporting Bees for Development, Plantlife, the Bumblebee Conservation Trust and London Beekeepers Association. Other relevant information includes: Product / Services Information http://www.responsible100.com/business/neals-yard-remedies/product-service-information/ Climate change http://www.responsible100.com/business/neals-yard-remedies/climate-change/ Implementation We are a CarbonNeutral® company We are proud to have become the first CarbonNeutral® retailer on the UK high-street in 2008, reducing the related emissions of our ecofactory, London offices, stores and distribution to net zero. Our carbon credits support the Makira Forest project in Madagascar, helping protect bio-diversity in the region by reducing deforestation and supporting local communities in sustainable agriculture. Seven of our organic essential oils are produced in the region, so it is an important area for us. Susan Curtis, our Natural Health Director, visited Makira in December 2014 to experience first hand the benefits the project has for the people living in the forest communities, and for the protection of the forest itself. http://www.carbonneutral.com/carbon-offsets/makira-redd-project-madagascar. We also support additional carbon balancing projects. In 2012 NYR became the world’s first company awarded a World Land Trust certificate, earned by using Carbon Balanced paper in our Christmas gift boxes. The World Land Trust purchases land to be managed by local conservation groups, preserving or Page 8 NEAL’S YARD REMEDIES: Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 replenishing habitats and respecting the rights of indigenous people, transforming threatened areas into protected nature reserves in perpetuity. Environment The majority of our products are manufactured at our eco-factory in Dorset, England, a purpose-built design that was completed in 2005. Designed to be resource efficient, the building features a number of environmental factors including oak structural beams, untreated European larch cladding, a ‘grey water’ system to recycle water for use in the bathrooms, high insulation levels and large areas of thermally efficient glass to naturally ventilate and light the building. In summer 2015 we began a building project to extend the ecofactory, increasing warehousing and manufacturing capacity, together with an additional office unit and retail space. The project is due to be complete by the end of 2016, and features a number of environmental technologies. We have taken the opportunity to increase onsite solar photovoltaic electricity generation by 34.5kW rated power, increase our grey water harvesting capability, and introduce a new, energy efficient air handling unit for the factory with occupancy control. Under-floor heating in the new retail / office unit is powered by an air source heat pump, and all new areas feature low energy LED lighting with occupancy control and light level monitoring. Further environmental aspects of the new build include two ‘living’ walls – one the warehouse, and one on the new retail/office unit. We have continued to support renewable energy – both by ensuring that all new store premises (where we control energy supply) are moved to 100% renewable energy tariffs, and by extending our solar energy generation capability at our ecofactory. Organic Ingredients We source a large proportion of our goods from organic sources. Organic farming supports the environment in three main ways: 1. Organic farming develops and maintains healthy soil, and in doing so, captures carbon and locks it into the earth. This soil-enriching process also supports climate change adaption by reducing impacts of both flooding and droughts, helping to improve food security. 2. Organic farming avoids the use of artificial nitrogen-rich fertilisers, potent sources of greenhouse gas emissions. 3. Organic farming supports biodiversity. This has a vital impact on our future, protecting vital species such as the pollinators our food chain relies on. According to Soil Association research, plant, insect and bird life is up to 50% greater on organic farms. Further details on our commitment to organic certification can be found here: http://www.nealsyardremedies.com/why-choose-organic As a natural health and beauty company we are deeply reliant on nature to provide our ingredients. Our herbs and natural raw materials are either grown or collected from the wild before being turned into oils, tinctures, teas or beauty products. Chosen for their health benefits, what we can’t grow ourselves at our ecofactory or at the Kindersley family‘s organic farm in Berkshire, we source from within the EU, or for more exotic species we source globally from the location it grows best. We hope to be able to help our suppliers with resilience to climate change as part of our environmental risk reduction in the future. Page 9 NEAL’S YARD REMEDIES: Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Measurement of outcomes We will be developing environmental indicators over the coming year as part of our sustainability strategy development. In the meantime, we only have concrete outcomes to report as part of individual initiatives: CarbonNeutral® Our most recent CarbonNeutral® assessment* gave a total footprint of 1,221 tCO2e. *data Jan-Dec 2014 Electricity consumption, including third party electricity consumption and transmission and distribution losses, was responsible for the majority of emissions with 706 tCO2e, 58% of the total. Commuting by car accounts for the second largest amount of emissions with 212 t CO2e, 17% of the total. Energy We monitor our energy supply and generation. In 2015, over 90% of electricity purchased or generated by the company in the UK was from 100% renewable sources. Our ecofactory, London office and Education Rooms are powered solely by renewable energy tariffs, as were all company stores where we control the energy provider (29/38 stores). The non-renewable element arises from company run stores in shopping malls or railway stations where energy provision is controlled by the landlord. Onsite solar generation at our ecofactory was reduced to 7891 kWh in 2016 (from 9169 kWh in 2015), due to the building work in which existing panels were removed. However the rated power is being increased, and the renewable energy generated will be monitored to ensure it is performing as expected. In order to reduce energy consumption we completed our ESOS (Energy Saving & Opportunities Scheme) audit in September 2015, and the results will be used to help improve energy efficiencies at our manufacturing and retail premises. We also run a ‘cycle to work’ scheme at our eco-factory and our Staff Forum is focusing on ways to encourage more staff to walk/cycle to work in 2016, both as part of our “Year of Health’ campaign – and in order to reduce our commuting footprint. Additional Carbon Projects We have continued to support the World Land Trust by using Carbon Balanced paper in our gift boxes. Since January 2016, we have extended the scheme to also include our product cartons. We have also have promoted the World Land Trust on social media through PR activities, and through funds raised through instore donations for Christmas gift wrapping services. In 2015 we offset 27.6 tonnes CO2e, and protected 2320 m2 endangered rainforest at WLT sites in Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, by using Carbon Balanced Paper. In addition, through the ‘Buy An Acre’ Scheme, we purchased 12 acres of forest through in-store donations and PR activities. Page 10 NEAL’S YARD REMEDIES: Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Neal’s Yard Remedies is compliant with the Bribery Act and does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. NYR’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy sets out clearly what could be considered to be bribery or corruption in terms of business operations. The policy also covers the receiving of hospitality and gifts. At Christmas when suppliers and customers send in gifts to specific staff members these are handed to the relevant Manager and all gifts go into a raffle so they are shared randomly amongst employees. We are currently updating our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to ensure best practice. We are continuing the roll-out of Anti-Bribery and Corruption clauses in all of our supplier agreements, a project due for completion by March 2017. We submit audited accounts each year to Companies House which are verified by external auditors and this is used as one of the methods of identifying any spurious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. Neal’s Yard Remedies has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. Page 11
