CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Message from the TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative CONTENTS 01 02 08 Message from the TITAN Group Profile 2015 At a Glance Chief Executive Director USJE Profile 09 13 36 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability UN Global Compact & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Our People; Health & Safety UN Global Compact Environment and Climate Change Principles & Criteria Stakeholder Engagement Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Message from the Chief Executive Director Dear partners, dear friends, trainings. A significant portion of these training In this jubilee year when we celebrate 60 series were devoted to health and safety at years of operation of our plant, I present you work which critical for us. our seventh Corporate Social Responsibility We are aware of the importance of long-term and Sustainability Report. Our approach to sustainable development and that is why we sustainability is an integral part of our business, are not retreating from our commitment for therefore this report presents our sustainability the development of the community in which endeavors, social and environmental we operate as well as our environmental performance. performance. We support the implementation The wellbeing and the development of our of various activities significant for the overall people, our stakeholders, the community, are development of the local community to which all a common denominator for all these 60 we belong. The projects that we implement years of operation of our company, they are with our partners remain the main “bridge” the basis of our growth. In 2015 we celebrated between the company and the community. this important anniversary with the promise Over the years, the Group has enhanced its that the foundation of our growth remains the collaborative action within the framework same because only in this way we can remain of the global Cement Sustainability Initiative, a leader in the development of the domestic under the auspices of the World Business construction industry as well as to continue Council for Sustainable Development, and with our contribution in the development of the UN Global Compact. In 2015, we have the country as a whole. Our products are strengthened the social pillar by focusing embedded in almost every construction in on sustainable development locally and on our country and represent a benchmark for initiatives such as the European Pact for Youth. quality and quality construction. Quality is Dear, our core priority and is incorporated in all segments of our business, and consequently The inheritance from the past 60 years is our in our core activity – production of cement, investment in the future and our responsibility ready mix concrete and aggregates which towards all our stakeholders. Our commitment are fundamental materials in the construction is to continue to be leaders in every sense, industry. leaders in manufacturing highest quality building materials and leaders in building Quality and everything else would be simply relations that support the development of the impossible without our employees. They are wider community. drivers of our growth and that is why we remain committed to taking care for their health and safety. The health and safety of our people Boris Hrisafov is our responsibility and responsibility of each Chief Executive Director employee individually since event the best safety measures in the workplace will not Cementarnica USJE AD Skopje produce the desired effects if not properly implemented by ourselves. Therefore we constantly emphasize shared responsibility, corporate and individual for the health and safety of our people. Investments in professional and career development of our employees are already a company standard. Our people continuously acquire new skills and knowledge through organized series of 1 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative TITAN Profile USA Greece and Southeastern Eastern Western Europe Europe Mediterranean Headquartered in Athens, Greece, the Group employs 5,654 people worldwide and sells products to 29 countries in North Africa, Western Africa, Canada, USA East Coast and Gulf of Mexico, Central America – Caribbean, Balkans and Western Europe. TITAN has cement plants in nine countries and our Cement Cement Grinding Cement Cement Grinding operations are organized into plants Quarries plants plants plants Quarries plants plants four geographic regions: USA; Greece and Western Europe; 2 6 3 1 5 17 3 2 Southeastern Europe; and Eastern ReadyDistribution ReadyReadyDistribution ReadyMediterranean. mix plants terminals Quarries mix plants mix plants terminals Quarries mix plants 84 15 26 29 7 1 17 5 Concrete Fly ash Processed Processed block processing Distribution Dry mortar engineered Distribution engineered plants plants terminals plants fuel facility terminals fuel facility 9 9 7 1 1 2 1 Principal products/ Ready-mix Dry Building Waste management activities key: Cement concrete Aggregates mortars blocks Fly ash and alternative fuels Our Code of Conduct sets forth our Group’s CORE Operating Principles including: 1. Compliance 2. Human Rights 3. Sustainable Growth 4. The Environment 5. Fair Competition 6. Bribery and Corruption 7. Relations with Customers and Suppliers 8. Relations with the Society 9. Employee Relations 10. Communication In 2012 the new revised Group Code of Conduct was adopted by the Company and distributed to all employees. Aiming to bring even closer the principles of the Code of Conduct to the people and they to embrace it as part of their own individual values and behavior, training for all employees was organized in December 2013 and January 2014. (For more information on Code of Conduct, please visit http://www.usje. com.mk/Defaultebf1.html?mid=112&Lan=EN) 2 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative USJE Profile Cementarnica USJE AD Skopje (or USJE) was founded in 1955 near the USJE village in the southeast part of the city of Skopje. In 1998, USJE was acquired by the TITAN Group. The company employs more than 300 direct employees and about 200 indirect employees. Our governing objective Our values We aim to grow as a multiregional, vertically integrated cement Our values are at the core of who we are; they provide the foundations producer, combining an entrepreneurial spirit and operational of our operations and growth. They have provided us with a strong bond excellence with respect for people, society and the environment. and supported the growth that has sustained us for over a century, To achieve this objective, we focus on four strategic priorities: stemming directly from the principles, beliefs and vision of our founders back in 1902. They remain the core elements of our culture and family spirit. GEOGRAPHICAL CONTINUOUS COMPETITIVE DIVERSIFICATION IMPROVEMENT We expand our business through We implement new efficiencies Integrity Value to the customer acquisition and greenfield throughout our business to development into attractive reduce costs and compete more – Ethical business practices – Anticipation of customer needs new markets, to build production effectively. – Transparency – Innovative solutions scale and mitigate the reliance – Open communication – High quality of products and on few markets. services VERTICAL INTEGRATION FOCUS ON HUMAN CAPITAL AND CORPORATE SOCIAL Continuous improvement Know-how We extend our business into RESPONSIBILITY other product areas in the – Learning organization – Enhancement of our knowledge cement value chain, serving our We care for and develop our base – Willingness to change customers better and accessing employees and continuously – Rise to challenges – Proficiency in every function new profit opportunities. improve our good relationships with all internal and external – Excellence in core stakeholders, always aiming competencies for mutual respect and understanding. Corporate Social Delivering results Responsibility Underpinning these priorities is our approach to sharing best practice and leveraging expertise. – Shareholder value – Safety first We are committed to this, across the Group, to help us improve our – Clear objectives – Sustainable development capabilities and the efficient delivery of our governing objective. – High standards – Stakeholder engagement 3 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Delivering value far beyond the cement plant Aiming to be one of the world’s most economically, environmentally and socially responsible providers of construction materials, we use our unique strengths, resources and relationships to create sustainable value for a wide range of stakeholders. OUR CORE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES We extract the materials we need to make our products and turn them Our products and services are used in various activities ranging from into cement and concrete, with a strong focus on quality control and major infrastructure projects (roads, airports, hospitals, schools, etc.) operational improvement. The use of alternative raw materials and to housing, commercial buildings and social projects. We actively fuels off ers considerable benefi ts to the environment through the promote new products that will improve quality and durability for conservation of natural resources and has the potential to reduce our our customers, as well as methods and materials that will make CO2 footprint and the waste we generate. construction easier or contribute to reduced environmental impact. Quality and durability: We continually seek to improve our products to Cement: A binding substance and the main component in readyensure long-term customer satisfaction. mix concrete. It is made by grinding clinker, gypsum and other Good governance: We maintain high standards of governance, cementitious materials to a fi ne powder. promote ethical business practices, and focus on risk management Ready-mix concrete: This is made from cement, aggregates and water across our value chain. to produce a durable product that can be set in a variety of formats. Protect and develop our people: We safeguard human rights and Aggregates: Coarse materials such as sand, gravel, crushed stone and promote the health, safety and wellbeing of our people and those who recycled concrete are used as a raw material in cement and as a work with us. strengthening agent in asphalt and concrete. They can also be used in Innovation: We develop innovative products that will provide foundations for roads and railways. sustainable improvements in construction. CEMENT TYPES WE PRODUCE: ☺☺ CEM I 42,5 R Dust ☺☺ CEM II/A-V 42,5 R 8,8 t/year Almost 1 million m2 ☺☺ CEM II/B-M (V-P-L) 42,5 N is the total area of active SOx quarries, out of which 765.000 m2 are affected by operations About 215.000 trees ☺☺ CEM IV/B (V-P) 32,5 36,4 t/year planted by USJE or donated to NOx third parties for planting since For new investment in 955,4 t/year 1998, while about 15.000 trees Raw materials extracted from 3 fixed assets: More than were planted in 2015 only active quarries: € 80 million 1.21 million tons To employees: since 1998 €3.9 million Quarrying Manufacturing We minimize negative impacts by applying rehabilitation practices and We crush, grind, heat and cool raw materials to produce cement in our safe and implementing biodiversity management plans at sites recognized as areas of effi cient plants. high biodiversity value. 4 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative 1955 Cementarnica USJE starts with operation 2010 USJE organizes 1st Stakeholders Engagement Forum 1963 USJE provides materials for reconstruction of Skopje after the earthquake 2011 Certified with Health & Safety Management System OHSAS 18001-2007 1967 First Electrostatic precipitators are installed in ExYugoslavia by Cementarnica USJE 2010-2011 556 days without workplace injury 2000/2001 Bag-filter is installed on line no.3 and clinker 2011 USJE obtains A Integrated Environmental Permit cooler is reconstructed A-IPPC 2002/2003 Bag-filter is installed at Kiln No.4 2011 USJE receives National Award for best CSR practices in the category Environment and three 2004 Installed system for independent 24-hour plaques in the categories Community Investment, continuous measurement of emissions Employee Relations and Ethical Governance 2011 First 2004 Certified with Quality System ISO 9001:2000 Company Open Day organized 2006 Certified with Environmental Management 2012 Stakeholders Communication Day was organized System ISO 14001:2004 on communicating our CSR & Sustainability Report of 2011 to all our stakeholders 2008 USJE becomes a member of the Global Compact Network Macedonia 2012 The first Communication Day fоr USJE employees was organized 2009 For the first time in the region and in TITAN Group USJE starts with continuous public announcing of the 2013 First Water Treatment Plant environmental measurement data 2014 CoP at Advanced level according to UN criteria, 2009 USJE establishes CSR Committee in the same time first asserted CSR & S Report by independent business assurance company 2010 Contractors Management H&S System established 2014 CAPEX in NOx reduction facility 2010 USJE publishes its First CSR and Sustainable 2015 60-year Anniversary of USJE Development Report 2015 EU Pact for Youth signed 2010 USJE receives National Award for best CSR practices in the category Employees Relation and Recognition by the Municipality of Kisela Voda About € 120.600 spent For taxes to state and local authorities: To local and For Environmental for community development €12.5 million international suppliers: expenditure: programs through donations in cash and in kind in 2014 €39.8 million €0.809 million Customers and partners Working closely with partners and customers at a local level enhances the value our business creates for local communities. 5 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Big construction projects in the country with USJE cement Our cement is built in significant infrastructural buildings and projects of high quality and durability that need high standards and quality as a precondition. Vodno Tower Smokvica-Demir Kapija Highway Smokvica-Demir Kapija Highway 6 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Smokvica Demir Kapija Highway St. Jovan Bigorski Monastery “Eye” Bridge 7 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative 2015 At a Glance – 60 YEARS OF USJE HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ☺☺ Zero fatalities ☺☺ 2.75 times decrease in the number of LTI (Lost Time Injury) since 2005 ☺☺ 1.40 times decrease in the LTIFR (LTI Frequency Ratio) since 2005 ☺☺ Pact for Youth – TITAN signing and kick-off ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ☺☺ Skills for Job Project – practical training ☺☺ Measured emissions per ton of clinker produced in provided by our experts to more than comparison to 2014: 130 technical high school students ☻☻ Decrease of 27.5% in the average specific SO2 emissions; ☺☺ Partnering with Schools Project – supported energy efficiency endeavors ☻☻ Decrease of 19.6% in the average specific NOx of 2 schools with materials and services emissions; worth more than 110.000 euro ☺☺ University & MBA scholarships ☻☻ Reduction of 23.5% on average specific dust emissions; ☺☺ NGO collaboration project “Go Green 4 Climate” ☺☺ More than 15.000 trees, saddles & flowers planted in 2015 in our Plant Quarries and Local Community ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS CSR RECOGNITION Our employees, contractors, suppliers & customers USJE with National CSR ☺☺ USJE provides work and revenue of more than 35 million euro per year to the local Award for Environmental companies Performance ☺☺ More than 150 direct visits to our customers by more than 35 USJE employees, management team and other key employees to identify customers’ needs and concerns This year USJE receives National Award for ☺☺ More than 8.000 training hours provided for all employees best socially responsible practice in 2014 i.e. over 26 training hours per employee for Environmental Performance with the Project: “Reduction of NOx emissions”. ☺☺ Care for our employees ☺☺ First Employee Opinion Survey & Action Plan ☺☺ Communication Day with employees ☺☺ Welfare programs 8 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Corporate Governance & CSR Strategy The Company follows established global best practices of corporate governance in its management and has five non-executive members in its Board of Directors, two of which are also independent, and two executive members, the Chief Executive Director and Executive Director. The non-executive members as well as the CED and the Executive Director have no earnings based on their membership in the BoD. USJE’s CSR Committee is established in 2009 and is responsible for integrating and implementing TITAN Group strategy at the local level. Chaired by the CED and consisting of senior management and experts in health and safety, the environment and human resources management, the CSR Committee meets four to six times each year, and in some cases monthly, to review and assess action plans and performance achieved, as well as to facilitate and initiate further improvements at both local and regional levels. Our CSR Vision is: “To pursue at all times our business goals and create value, in an ethical and socially responsible manner, minimizing our footprint, and endeavoring to do more good.” To ensure further cohesion within the Group, USJE’s CSR Committee has appointed one of its members as a representative to the Group CSR Liaison Delegates Network (LDN) aiming at improving internal communication, sharing and learning from Group’s best practice. 9 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Organizational structure and CSR Committee Chief Executive Director Health & Safety Department CSR Committee Credit Control Legal Section RMC Department Administration, Finance, Sales Technical Unit Administration Finance Sales HR Production Maintenance Quality Environment Department Department Department Section Department Department Department Department System of risk management & controls Managing risks proactively enables the Group to better adapt to a changing business Central Management environment. The Group has systems in place to monitor and anticipate potential material risks. The Board of Directors is generally responsible for the Company’s internal audit and risk Committee management and for evaluating their effectiveness each year. The Board of Directors confirms that the Company has internal control systems and risk management policies in place and that it To further enhance the decisionhas been informed by the CED and the competent Group executives about their effectiveness. making process and the corporate governance –related, the Company The assurance mechanism regarding the integrity of the Company’s financial statements consists as of 2013 has established a Central of a combination of the embedded risk management processes, the applied financial control Management Committee comprised of activities, the relevant information technology utilized and the financial information prepared, the Chief Executive Director, the Technical communicated and monitored. The monthly monitoring of the financial statements and Company Director, the Sales Manager, the Finance MI and their analysis carried out by the relevant departments, are key elements of the controlling Manager and the Head of Legal Section mechanism regarding the quality and integrity of financial results. The Company’s external (one female member). The Central auditors review the mid-year financial statements and the full-year financial statements of the Management Committee has monthly Company. meetings to discuss strategic issues and risk As of 2014, USJE has established a local Internal Audit Department in the organization. The management. internal audit of Usje works together with the Group Internal Audit Department aiming to ensure compliance both with our state regulations and Titan Group internal procedures and Code of Conduct. The priority of the Internal Audit of USJE is to provide the BoD with an independent and objective opinion concerning risk management, internal controls and corporate governance systems, through the assessment of their effectiveness in achieving Company’s business objectives. 10 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Anti-corruption Management One of our Group’s Code of Conduct core principles is Bribery and Corruption, stipulating that all Group transactions must be carried out lawfully and ethically, in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and must always respect the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC)*. The level of exposure to relevant risks is estimated every year through reports and analyses provided by the Transparency International‘s Annual Corruption Perception Index. Our Code of Conduct clearly prohibits giving and receiving bribes, while as signatories of the Global Compact we are fully committed to join national and other programs aiming at eliminating bribery and corruption. Moreover, Titan’s Procurement Code of Conduct (www.titan.gr, www.usje.com.mk) issued in 2008 clearly states against bribery, corruption and fraud. No non-compliance and breaches to our bribery policy have been reported in 2015. * UN Resolution 58/4 of 31 October 2003 United Nations Convention against Corruption. 11 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Pledges and commitments COLLABORATIONS ACTIVITY IN 2015 PRIORITIES 2016 Pledges and commitments undertaken by the Titan Group and USJE Company in line with our values, Code of Conduct and priorities: We decided to support the Align sustainability priorities TITAN was among the fi rst 500 achievement of the most and action plans with the ☺☺ Global Compact (UN Declaration of Human signatories of the UN Global relevant UN Sustainable SDGs. Rights, ILO Conventions) Compact (UNGC) and is also Development Goals (SDGs) for Participate in consultations ☺☺ WBCSD/CSI (sectoral initiative) involved in local UNGC our business by 2030 at Group for the SDGs at national networks. level and through our and industry levels. ☺☺ U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights local UNGC networks. sustainabledevelopment. ☺☺ U.N. “Protect, Respect and Remedy” un.org/sdgs Framework ☺☺ Sustainability Targets 2020 TITAN has been a core member of Support partnerships for the the Cement Sustainability Initiative SDGs, especially through ☺☺ UN Sustainable Development Goals 2020 (CSI), a unique and collaborative the WBCSD/CSI. ☺☺ EU Manifesto 2020 businessled initiative focused on We participate in the WBCSD’s sustainable development, since it Low Carbon Technology ☺☺ European Pact for Youth was launched by leading cement Partnerships Initiative (LCTPi), companies under the auspices and utilize the UNGC’s of the World Business Council for “SDG Compass” tool to help us Sustainable Development (WBCSD) embed the SGDs 2030. in 2003. lctpi.wbcsd.org/ In November, the European Commission together with co-initiating companies, among which TITAN, launched the European Pact for Youth to boost youth employment and inclusion in Europe. TITAN CEO Mr. Papalexopoulos participated on the Enterprise 2020 Summit in Brussels and took part in the discussion panel regarding Pact for Youth implementation. USJE’s Chief Executive Director and the HR Manager also participated at the launching of the platform Pact4Youth which is a mutual engagement of business leaders and the EU to create a culture of business-education partnerships that will improve the employability chances of young people. The Pact, initiated by the CSR Europe, is an appeal to all business, social partners, education and training providers and other stakeholders to develop or consolidate partnerships in support of youth employability and inclusion. The Pact aims to help build a pro-youth and pro-innovation Europe by creating a fair and equitable culture of partnerships between business, education and young people. 12 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Health & Safety Our objective is to achieve our vision of a healthy work environment free of incidents, injuries and accidents Our Occupational Health & Safety Policy clearly defines the role of everyone involved in reaching and continuously improving a strong culture of accident prevention in all our operations. We are aligned with the world statistics that the root cause of more than 95% of incidents has to do with the human factor thus we are concentrating our efforts on enhancing safety awareness of our people. For that effort, we constantly strive to raise the safety performance of direct employees and contractors and to urge suppliers and third parties to adopt similar behaviour and practices. Committed to a safer, healthier working environment at Cementarnica USJE we constantly strive to raise the safety performance of direct employees and contractors, while urging suppliers and thirdparties to adopt similar views and practices. 13 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Contractor management Target 2011 Results 2015 Target 2015 Contractors are involved in our everyday plant Complete the process Successful external surveillance Continuous improvement; operations. Regardless what their engagement is, of OHSAS 18001:2007 audit on OHSAS 18001:2007 Regularly audit and re-certify the HS level of most of our contractors is not on the certification system; Valid certificate until 2017 required level. Improvement of some contractors Zero fatalities and zero Zero fatalities and zero serious Maintain Zero fatalities and is more than evident, but still some of them do serious accidents accidents zero serious accidents not prioritize HS over other business goals. Raising contractor’s H&S level is a common and very Continuous decrease The LTI Severity Rate is significantly Achieve and sustain zero LTI, challenging job, thus in the future we all have to put in the Lost Time Injury increased due to higher number LTIFR and LTISR bigger efforts and commitment. (LTI), LTI Frequency of LTIs and sicklive duration of Rate and LTI Severity the injured person In order to improve H&S behavior and control over Rate contractors, we have applied more strict and demanding rules in the bidding procedure. We insist Implement the new Permanent improvement in Achieve full compliance that they understand our requirements, and that the Contractor Safety contractor management, start with the CSI guidelines extra costs should be part of their offer. Contract Management process implementation of Safety Driving on Contractor Safety signing is mandatory before job commencement. procedure in early 2015 Management and Driving Prior to this phase, we make sure that everything is Safety clear, especially HS related articles. Cement Sustainability Initiative Raising H&S awareness Within the context of our commitment to higher standards in every aspect of our Main tools for raising H&S awareness are trainings operation, USJE strives to apply even higher standards in H&S than required by local laws and leading by example. In this light, during 2015 an and common practice. Since 2012 we are dedicated to meet the requirements of the intensive training program was performed resulting in “Cement Sustainability Initiative” (CSI) initiative of the World Business Council for Sustainable 9.6 hrs/employee. Safety walks by top management Development, which is a global effort by 24 leading cement producers with operations in and their visibility in the plant also highly contributes more than 100 countries worldwide. in the awareness campaign. Hazard identification, risk assessment and risk control process “Job risk assessment studies” for a big part of job positions were revised mainly due to changes in the systematization and new job positions. By the end of the year, copies of the studies and relevant safety instructions were re-distributed to all employees. The “Job risk assessment studies” are done according the legal bylaw with a specific methodology. Actually, they include all activities according the job description. For further improvement it is recommended to make “parallel” risk assessment per task (common way all over the world). The existing studies are a solid base, but this process is quite demanding and needs a team work. 14 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative H&S Improvements Our aim to continuously improve and develop in H&S as well as the gap analysis done of the current H&S system, resulted in several very important projects developed during 2015. Crises management in the country is regulated by special law and Health & Safety Ratios bylaws. In this light the three crucial studies are prepared: Health and Safety Performance is continuously monitored, measured, ☺☺ Risk assessment from natural and other disasters developed, improved and branched out. ☺☺ Plan for protection from natural and other disasters ☺☺ Rulebook for fire and explosion protection H&S ratios (historic trends) In line with these studies, special crises management and evacuation 400 12 (rescue) teams were formed. About 42 members received special 350 training and certificates from the state directorate for crises 10 management. Additionally, regular fire fighting trainings and drills 300 were given to all employees and especially to FF brigade members. 250 8 Incidents investigation is one of the most important tools for LTI & LTIFR determination of corrective measures. The existing procedure was LTISR 200 6 fully revised, and the new one involves more systematic approach, 150 involving “Fault three analysis” methodology to come to the root 4 causes of the incident. 100 2 50 0 0 year LTISR LTI LTIFR *LTI – A Lost Time Injury (LTI) is defined as a work-related injury causing the absence of one or more working days (or shifts), counting from the day after the injury, before the person returns to normal or restricted work. Excluded are injuries in transport to and from work, injuries due to criminal act and injuries due to natural causes. **LTIFR – Number of LTIs in a year per 1,000,000 hours worked i.e. LTI Frequency Rate = (Number of Lost Time Injuries in a year x 1,000,000)/Total actual hours worked and paid to employees in the year. ***LTISR – Number of lost calendar days due to LTIs in a year per 1,000,000 hours worked i.e. LTI Severity Rate = Number of Lost Calendar Days in a year x 1,000,000)/Total Actual Hours worked and paid to employees in the year 15 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Driven by our people USJE has always been people-driven organization. We build long-term relationships with employees grounded on mutual trust, reliability and shared values. rce (emotionall rkfo y& Wo m d en ge t Meritocracy, Differentiation a En ly ) g in Rewards & Recognition al Continuous Employee Development Best Fit Candidate Selection TITAN Code of Conduct Living the TITAN values Our People Management Framework includes guidance on: ☺☺ Building and retaining an engaged workforce ☺☺ Building trust by living our values ☺☺ Respecting human rights OUR VISION IS TO ‘ENSURE AN ENGAGED WORKFORCE, EMOTIONALLY AND MENTALLY’ EMPLOYMENT In 2015 the average number of direct employees was 307 while the number of indirect employees was 200 on average. The indirect employees provide valuable services as support to our core business: quarrying, transportation of goods, maintenance and technical support, cleaning and catering. 16 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative HUMAN RIGHTS & EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 2015 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY RAISING CONCERNS TITAN supports the Universal Declaration of ☺☺ We refreshed our People Management We encourage an open door policy for Human Rights and is committed to the protection Process based on our People Management communication with supervisors and the of fundamental human rights within its sphere Framework implementation of grievance mechanisms that of influence as proclaimed by the U.N. Global ☺☺ Employee Opinion Survey Action Plan allow employees to raise concerns of nonCompact. implementation aimed at employee compliance with TITAN Values and TITAN People engagement Management Framework in good faith. Within RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS IS REFLECTED this context, we do not tolerate any retaliation ☺Training ☺ man-hours were 8,014 for direct against any employee reporting such concerns. AND INCORPORATED IN OUR PEOPLE employees and 370 for contractors MANAGEMENT POLICY, APPLYING EQUALLY To this effect, monitoring systems like “yellow TO DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMPLOYEES, WHERE: boxes” are already used while other practices developed in other countries where TITAN ☺☺ Full Compliance with Applicable Managers in Usje operates are examined. Employment Legislation is ensured ☺☺ Diversity, Equality and Non-Discrimination 33% are applied and valued CONSEQUENCE MANAGEMENT ☺☺ Forced, Compulsory and Child Labour are Identified non-compliance with the TITAN prohibited People Management Framework is handled by Female ☺☺ Harassment is not tolerated Managers detecting the root cause and implementing 67% appropriate disciplinary sanctions. Where an ☺☺ Employees’ Health & Safety is a top Male Managers action is also in breach of the law, it may be priority subject to civil or criminal prosecution. ☺☺ The Right of Freedom of Association is respected Employment Diversity ☺☺ Employees are prepared to address 5.6% 2.0% current and future challenges 5.2% 2.6% 0.6% * Human rights as defined by UNDHR and ILO’s Conventions on Labour. Macedonians Roma Serbs We value diversity with equal opportunities for all Albanian and elimination of any kind of discrimination and Turks consideration of human rights issues in investment Other decisions. Accordingly: 84% ☺☺ The Company’s management team is comprised of local managers to a level of 86%; Titan’s Code of Conduct and People ☺☺ Participation of women in managerial position Management Framework were adopted is 33%; by USJE’s top management, translated into the local language and distributed to all ☺☺ More than 17% of all employees are female; employees. All new employees during their ☺☺ About 16% of all employees belong to the formal inductions are provided with a training ethnic minorities; on human rights, rights against harassment at workplace and a copy of the Titan Code of Conduct. All employees were introduced on their rights upon the Law against harassment on the workplace in December 2013 and January 2014. 17 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AND UNIONIZATION Training hours per subject & per gender TITAN Group actively promotes freedom of association of employees, beyond local legal requirements. We acknowledge the importance 2600 2488 of unions in improving working conditions and safeguarding workers’ 2400 Man-hours rights. Union representatives at USJE have the right to meet with line 2200 Woman-hours management to discuss their concerns and suggest improvements. 2000 Currently, about 76% of the employees are members of the Union. 1800 PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS 1600 1400 1261 1254 In addition to the well-established People Development Review system 1200 for performance management of the management team and other key 1000 employees, in 2014 USJE has introduced performance evaluation system 736 800 660 for all employees. The aim of this performance evaluation system is to ensure continuous improvement of the performance of our employees 600 392 398 through fair, transparent and motivation system that will contribute for 400 224 192 168 continuous development of the people in our company. 200 45 11 1 75 85 24 0 Enviromnet: Health Human Management Non-technical Other Technical Titan Group Employees receiving regular performance and career development care and and Rights and skills and know how Code of management safety managerial specialization and core Conduct reviews: 52 (>17% of total) systems skills competence Employees entitled to performance award based on set performance evaluation criteria: 100% USJE believes in the continuous development of its employees. Our goal is to promote life-long learning and enhance the professional skills and competencies of our people needed to meet future challenges. In 2015, we have provided about 8.014 training hours or more than 26 training hours per person for our employees or about 8.384 hours for employees and contractors. Health and Safety training remains a key priority for USJE, accounting for 36% of training in 2015 (as much as 2.880 man-hours for our people and 370 for contractors). This is all part of our goal to enhance the Health and Safety culture among our employees and the employees of our suppliers and contractors. Development activities in environmental area were directed towards sustainable development including in-house training sessions for groups of employees on topics such as e-waste management. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT We believe that an effective and engaged workforce should live our values and have a strong understanding of our Code of Conduct (http://www.usje.com.mk/Defaultebf1.html?mid=112&Lan=EN). In line with our corporate values, we are committed to a continual process of internal review and analysis. To do this better, we need to hear from our employees, and in 2014, we conducted a new Employee Opinion Survey in all our operations that was designed for us by an independent international company specializing in this field. It was well received and resulted with 80% response rates from our employees. 18 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative SUMMARY RESULTS OF THE EMPLOYEE OPINION SURVEY Summary Category Scores vs. Benchmark MACEDONIA 2015 (N=246) vs. TOWERS WATSON GLOBAL MANUFACTURING NORM (N=152,874) Ranked By Difference From Benchmark Favourable Scores Differences From Benchmark Personal Development 79 20 Reward & Recognition 67 19 Leadership 85 17 Organisationa Effectiveness 84 16 Sustainable Engagement 93 12 Customer Focus 86 12 Social & Enivronmentar Responsibility 86 12 Strategic Direction 73 12 Commitment 92 11 Performance Management 83 11 Organizational Culture 86 10 Immediate Management 82 8 Safety 88 7 Trust &Empowerment 64 0 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, COMPENSATION AND WELFARE WHY IT IS GOOD TO WORK HERE: PROGRAMS The employee benefits and social welfare are covered by USJE, The company values that are important to me according to the Labour Law and Collective agreement as a minimum. I understand the connection between my work and company In addition, the Company is committed to the wellbeing of our objectives employees and their families thus our additional benefits respond to their needs, including I have the tools and resources to do my job ☺☺ Extra Medical Checkups & Spa Rehabilitation Leaders I respect and who I believe take action ☺☺ Jubilee service awards (move from idea to implementation) Managers communicate with their team, are good at building team ☺☺ Scholarship Program for the children of our employees and school work, and available when needed packs for each student/pupil ☺☺ Donations in kind and financial aid Fair rewards vs performance ☺☺ Additional severance payment I am being held accountable ☺☺ Christmas parties for employees’ children Upon receipt of the survey results by the independent consultant, an ☺☺ Christmas gift vouchers Action Plan was prepared aiming at implementing improvements in company operations and management. The results and the Action ☺☺ Additional vacation bonus Plan were communicated by the CED with all USJE employees. 19 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Environment and Climate Change Our environmental commitment aims at doing less harm by mitigating negative operational impacts and doing more good by actively contributing to worthwhile local and international initiatives. Pursuing our Vision we strive to be recognized as one of the leading enterprises in our industry worldwide on Sustainability and Environmental Stewardship and we aim at: ☺☺ Complying as a minimum with local, national and international regulations and legislation. ☺☺ Continuously improve our environmental performance, monitoring and reviewing, at top management level, the effectiveness of our programs and actions. ☺☺ Assessing the environmental impact at each facility and taking the necessary measures to protect the biodiversity and natural surroundings. ☺☺ Developing, implementing and monitoring programs to use energy and natural resources more efficiently and to reduce our emissions ☺☺ Reducing the waste produced by operations, reusing our own byproducts and these of other industries and promoting recycling ☺☺ Promoting environmentally responsible attitudes and behaviors in all our employees and encourage suppliers, customers and other business associates to adopt similar practices. ☺☺ Contributing to the well-being of local communities, communicating openly and sincerely with them and pursuing goodneighbor relations. ☺☺ Supporting and participating in local and international organizations and initiatives designed to protect the environment by sharing knowledge, best practices and with joint actions. 20 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Being aware that USJE operations are heavily Target 2011 Results 2015 Target 2015 dependent on the use of natural resources, we are committed to actions that reduce Finalize the process of Fully implemented Operational Fully implement the our operational impact on the environment. obtaining A-IPPC Permit from Plan from the A-IPPC Permit Operational Plan from the Monitoring, measuring, reporting, cooperating, the MoEPP and implement A-IPPC Permit continuously acting and improving is how we planned activities from the address environmental issues. Operational Plan for the year Through our CSR approach, we aim to address Reduction of CO2 emissions 480.502 t CO2/year, Continuous reduction of CO2 these main environmental issues: compared to the previous 665 kg CO2/t cementitious emissions year product ☺☺ Climate Change 869 kg CO2/t clinker ☺☺ Energy and raw materials Dust 13,19 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 3 and We are already below the ☺☺ Air and other emissions 2,51 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 4 or target for dust emissions ☺☺ Biodiversity 5,55 tons/year and 30 mg/Nm3 3,26 tons/year, respectively ☺☺ Water & energy efficiency USJE continuously strives to address the defined SOx 18,24 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 3 and We are already below the environmental challenges. In this area, we 22,11 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 4, or a target for SOx emissions are fully implementing TITAN policies which total of 7,68 tons/year and 400 mg/Nm3 28,68 tons/year respectively guarantee sound and transparent environmental management according to the international NOx 558,50 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 3 and Reduce specific NOx best practices. 555,19 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 4, or emissions to 800mg/Nm3 Cementarnica USJE has fully implemented the total 235,18 and 720,23 tons/year respectively Operational Plan from the A-IPPC Permit issued in 2011 by the Ministry of Environment and Participate in at least “Earth Hour”, “From Waste to Increase the level of Physical Planning (MoEPP) as the first company in one global and national Youth Clean Energy”, “Tree participation in global and Skopje. In addition, we are regularly conducting environmental protection Day Plant Your Future”, “Earth national environmental audit and re-certification of the Environmental and climate change hour”, “Earth day”, and others. protection and climate Management Standard ISO 14001:2004. initiatives change initiatives 21 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Monitoring emissions Monitoring emissions is a pre-condition for controlling and reducing environmental impacts from cement production. In 2004, USJE was the first company in the Country to introduce independent continuous monitoring systems operating 24 hours. This enables the company to closely monitor the emissions on real time basis and take action accordingly. At the same time, it gives interested stakeholders regular, updated information on our performance. At our initiative results from the monitoring are presented at USJE’s web page. MEASURING OUR CO2 FOOTPRINT Climate change is considered as the most important environmental challenge of our time. The nature of the cement industry is such that it produces and emits carbon dioxide (CO2), thus contributing to the greenhouse effect and climate change. Direct CO2 emissions from the production of cement itself are attributed to: ☺☺ Decarbonisation, the process of transforming raw materials (mainly marl) into clinker, the main component of cement; ☺☺ Fuel consumption, including both fuels burned in the kilns (heavy oil and pet-coke) and fuels used for internal transportation, driers and boilers (heavy oil and natural gas), produce CO2 as a result of the chemical reaction between carbon (C) and oxygen (Ο2). As part of Titan Group we are following WBCSD/CSI standards for calculation and reporting of CO2 emissions. In 2015, USJE’s total direct CO2 emissions were 0.48 million tons, which are increased by more than 5% compared to the previous year, while the specific CO2 emissions were 665 kg CO2/t cementitious product which is increase by less than 2% compared to last year Specific gross CO2 emissions Absolute gross CO2 700000 611441 950 800 600000 565932 509790 Specific gross CO2 (kg/t 940 Specific gross CO2 (kg/t 500000 455838 480502 930 640 678 652 665 600 652 920 400000 910 400 900 clinker) cementitious product) 300000 890 889 880 200 200000 882 869 870 887 880 860 0 100000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 Specific gross CO2 (kg/t clinker) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Specific gross CO2 (kg/t cementitous product) Absolute gross CO2 (t(CO2)/year) 22 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative 60 MLV=50mg/Nm3 50 Air emissions 40 MLV=30mg/Nm3 30 DUST 20 At cement plants, major dust emission sources are kiln stacks and open surfaces creating fugitive dust from the transportation of materials. 10 In 2015 specific emissions of dust were 35.8 g/ton clinker for Kiln 3 and 8.1 g/ton clinker 0 for Kiln 4. This is equivalent to approximately 5.5 tons and 3.3 tons, respectively per year. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Dust emissions are many times below the limits (MLV) set by the environmental terms and Dust-K3 Dust-K4 conditions of both local and EU legal requirements. The average concentration of dust for Kiln 3 is 13.19 mg/Nm3 and for Kiln 4 is 2.51 mg/Nm3. The MLV is 30 mg/Nm3. 450 MLV=400mg/Nm3 400 SOx 350 300 The presence of sulphur (S) in raw materials is the primary cause of SOx emissions. USJE`s 250 SOx emissions are substantially below the limits (MLV) set by the applicable local and EU 200 regulations. The average concentration of SOx for Kiln 3 is 18.24 mg/Nm3 and for Kiln 4 150 is 22.11 mg/Nm3, while the MLV is 400 mg/Nm3. In 2015 our activities resulted in specific 100 emissions of approximately 49.46 g/ton clinker for Kiln 3 and 72.08 g/ton clinker for Kiln 4, or a total of 7.68 tons and 28.68 tons SOx, respectively. 50 0 Significant reduction of SOx emissions on both Kilns compared to ones in the year 2010 or 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 is result of implementing selective exploitation in the Marl Quarry. SO2-K3 SO2-K4 1400 MLV=1300mg/Nm3 1200 NOx 1000 MLV=800mg/Nm3 800 Combustion at high temperatures leads to NOx emission. In 2015 USJE’s specific NOx 600 emissions were 1514.5 g/ton clinker for Kiln 3 and 1809.9 g/ton clinker for Kiln 4, or total 235.2 and 720.2 tons NOx respectively per Kiln. The overall NOx emissions were within the 400 limits (MLV) set by the local and EU legislation. The average concentration of NOx for Kiln 200 3 is 558.5 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 3 and 555.2 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 4, while the MLV is to 800 mg/Nm3. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 NOx-K3 NOx-K4 REDUCTION OF AIR EMISSIONS (NOx) Pursuing the dedication of TITAN Group to sustainable development, USJE in 2014 introduced new technology and installation of additional equipment for reduction of NОx emissions consisting of so-called Selective Non-Catalytic Reduction (SNCR). Introduction of the SNCR technology in USJE, using 40% urea solution, enables reduction of NOx emissions up to 50% under regular working conditions. In year 2015, by using the SNCR technology we achieved 19.6 % reduction of specific NOx emissions, compared to year 2014 and more than 36% compared to 2013. By implementing SNCR technology in USJE’s operation, we are minimising our footprint to the environment and are prepared for further coming stricter limits for NOx emissions. 23 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Initiatives for noise minimization Production of cement, like most other industrial activities, causes noise as a result of the type of equipment employed in the production process, the transport of materials, etc. The measured noise level at the measurement points along the factory and quarries does not exceed the stipulated permissible limits, according to the country law; nonetheless, as a socially responsible company, Cementarnica USJE, in cooperation with the Faculty of Natural and Technical Sciences in Stip, has developed a Study for Noise Reduction in the vicinity of USJE cement plant aiming at further minimization of the noise level. The purpose of the study was to identify the main sources of noise: more than 100 short-term measurements were made within the factory and 24-hour measurement in the adjacent facilities. The study provides a model for noise dispersion, proposes noise control measures as well as three scenarios and technical solutions for noise reduction. ☺☺ Completed activities for equipment improvements in 2015: ☺☺ Installed dampers on the fans with possibility for enclosing with acoustic panels ☺☺ Replaced small axial blowers with new aiming to generate lower noise ☺☺ Installed 10 small silencers in the raw mix preparation department. ☺☺ For this project, USJE received an accolade for best corporate social responsibility practice in 2014 at the National CSR Awards ceremony. 24 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Water and Earth Hour Initiative energy efficiency USJE switched off its cement mills to join the global action “Earth Hour” for the eighth The technological process for producing cement consecutive year. The company’s cement mills in USJE is dry methodology meaning that water is were left without electricity for one hour in the not consumed during the process of producing period from 20:30 to 21:30 on March 28th this cement and also in the water media there year, when the supporters and participants in are no disposals of any kind form the process. this global action did the same. By switching off However, we are making continuous efforts the cement mills USJE saved 10MWh electrical to protect the water as a natural resource. energy, or approximately the amount of the Following our environmental policy, a system for consumption of over 3000 households in Skopje, rational usage of waters was established, that and at the same time saving around 7.600 kg includes: of CO2 indirect emissions. Also the lights were ☺☺ Water from the city water supplying network switched off in those locations in the company is used for sanitary purposes only where the safety measures for occupational ☺☺ The technical waters (for cooling of the safety and health allow that. Moreover, the equipment) are filtered and recycled in employees of USJE turned off their home closed system and appliances and became part of the big global ☺☺ Sewage waters are separated from the family that takes care for the environment. This atmospheric waters and discharged in the year, USJE invited their contractors, suppliers and city sewage network other business partners to join the action “Earth ☺☺ Atmospheric waters and street spraying Hour” and jointly contribute to energy efficiency waters from the plant are drained and collected in the open canals, and sent and the positive outcome of this action. to waste water treatment plant before discharging them in the open canal. USJE once more took part Awareness about climate in “Tree Day Plant Your change among young Future” Action population On December 2nd, 2015 Cementarnica USJE joined the “Tree Day Plant Your Future” action The Environmental Manager of USJE, in for the thirteenth time. cooperation with the Municipality of Kisela About fifty of our employees along with the Voda, held a brief educational presentation management team, through this volunteering on the Earth Hour global action to the pupils in action, planted trees at a location near the the Kuzman Josifovski – Pitu Primary School in village of Brnjarci in Skopje. Kisela Voda. The pupils were introduced to the campaign Earth Hour, its rationale, purpose and objective, historical background etc. 25 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Stakeholder Engagement a lder eng gement pro a k eho ces Engaging with internal and external stakeholders is a catalyst for St an d report perform s vi ew to stakeholders ance achieving our long-term objectives and safeguarding our sustainability. Re STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS holders Investors stake Engage emp and analysts key rial issues Our stakeholder engagement process involves understanding and l s ategy implemoyees Employees Customers r responding proactively to the needs of the individuals, organizations t tify ate and businesses with whom we interact. Assessing our material issues is en i n Business en m an ongoing process that includes consultation with internal and external partners tat Id and stakeholders. From our review of material issues for the Group and Local contractors i on USJE and relevant feedback received from key stakeholders we have communities and suppliers determined the most relevant issues for TITAN and the most critical for the stakeholders as shown in the illustration below. Scientific Regulators community STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT FORUM Local and NGOs e In line with our endeavor to further strengthen the relations and eg national er h ol at s governments ia l d e deepen our transparent communication and engagement with s t r fo c u y it y r s ed de k all our stakeholders, in September USJE organized a stakeholder o n ve l o h s t a at engagement forum. At the forum our 2014 CSR & Sustainability Report i t m pri p m e e w if y was communicated with 65 representatives of all our stakeholder groups, o rit n t ie s E n ga gto ver including local community, customers, contractors and suppliers, other businesses, as well as relevant parties in environmental area from MoEPP, NGO’s, relevant academia representatives to discuss and receive feedback related to the data and targets published in our Report. The event was opened with presentation by our CED, Mr. Boris Hrisafov of USJE CSR & Sustainability Report 2014, which is the first Advanced STAKEHOLDER PANEL “QUALITY BUILDING MATERIALS FOR Level report according to UNGC Policy criteria asserted by independent QUALITY CONSTRUCTION” Business Assurance Company. Proposals for significant activities that Usje should undertake and their Aimed at raising the awareness among stakeholders on the importance inclusion in the report: of the quality of building materials, in September USJE organized a Stakeholder Panel technical conference titled “Quality building ☺☺ Education (relation with academic environment, practical education, materials for quality construction”. increased interaction between the company and schools) The aim of the Panel was to exchange the latest achievements and ☺☺ Suppliers and contractors (active involvement of contractor in Usje technical experience about the quality of construction materials, with project, branch out best practices in CSR reporting to contractors and suppliers) special focus on cement, the applicable standards, legal regulation as well as the trends and prospects for development of the product and ☺☺ Environment (air emissions, energy efficiency , environmental friendly construction industry. production) ☺☺ Local community (enhance the cooperation) The Chief Executive Director of USJE opened the conference and experts speakers were representatives of academia, businesses and relevant ☺☺ Anticorruption institutions for control of building material quality. Conference participants welcomed the initiative of USJE for this kind of dialogue between businesses, institutions and experts and pledged to continue and deepen it in function of successful monitoring and application of contemporary trends, and in finding effective solutions for further sustainable development of the domestic construction industry. 26 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Value to the Customer Responsible Supply Chain USJE provides high-quality products and services at competitive prices, We believe in mutually-beneficial relationships with our contractors and while also developing innovative solutions. This is the basis of our long-term suppliers and we are committed to promoting responsible supply chain relationships with customers. management practices. To this effect, our suppliers are expected to be Value to the Customer is one of our six Company values stating that “We quality-driven, innovative and efficient and to operate in accordance do our utmost to provide quality products and services with competitive with the applicable laws and regulations. Wherever possible, USJE sources terms, tailored to our customers’ needs and supported by the necessary locally thus ensuring benefit to the local community by creating local jobs. technological, environmental and commercial experience”. Our supply chain is integral to the sustainability practices of the USJE has a policy to serve the needs of customers and to be proactively organization. The TITAN Code of Conduct for Procurement guides the responsive on their expectations. Aiming at customer satisfaction and selection, management and evaluation of suppliers. Key criteria for support we undertake many activities in this regard, including: this process are considered quality, reliability, flexibility and location of business. ☺☺ Direct joint visits to our customers by management team and other key employees from all departments, together with the sales The contracts with our suppliers and contractors include clauses related representatives, to identify customers’ needs and concerns (more than to contractors’ obligation to respect health & safety, labour & human 150 visits in 2015) rights, and environment standards and regulations for which they sign a declaration. USJE’s Contractor Management System ensures safe ☺☺ Technical support to customers related to their equipment, recipes etc. operation and behaviour of contractors on our site. The project owner in ☺☺ Procedures for customer support; customer claims and customer USJE then monitors the compliance and observation of the contract by satisfaction the respective contractor and reports to the Central Committee. ☺☺ E-Order introduced in 2012 provides a tracking In 2013, TITAN took further action by coservice for customers, from issuance of the loading leading a new task force in the Cement TITAN Group: order to follow-up status. In addition, customers can Sustainability Initiative. Its aim was to develop also view their material and financial details. We co-lead both the CSR Europe’s a new framework for engaging with suppliers portal for buyers and suppliers and at industry level, based on the UN Global ☺☺ Over 40 silos and associated equipment for storing the Cement Sustainability Initiative’s Compact principles and CSI standards in areas bulk cement provided to the customers free-ofTask Force 10 such as safety at work. charge ☺☺ Special cement designed for the dam on Treska for energy sustainability Customer satisfaction survey is conducted every year to seek feedback from our customers aiming to strengthen our relations and cooperation and improve our service. 2015 results of the survey show that: Overall cooperation with USJE How our products meet customer needs Quality of our products 0 20 40 60 80 Excellent Very good Good Satisfies 27 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Community Development USJE with its 60-year tradition has become an integral part of the community in which we operate. We contribute with both financial and non-financial resources toward local development through a range of programs and activities, ensuring that we create shared value. We do this by addressing the issues that matter the most, considering local stakeholder needs, while taking a longterm approach. Priorities usually fall into one of our strategic social investment themes: safety, healthcare, education and environmental awareness. Committed to collaborative action, USJE conveys best practice and expertise gained through synergies at global and industry level to local networks and stakeholders. Local partnership initiatives such as the Skills for Jobs project, Partnering with Schools Project, support of children with special needs, collaborative and many other endeavours reflect our CSR strategy and policy based on our corporate values. In 2015 USJE continued to contribute to local community projects with financial, human and technical resources. Priority was given to long-term community and business engagement programs amounting to more than € 175.000 in total. Open Doors for Plant Visits Following TITAN’s policy on corporate social responsibility and transparency, USJE continues its endeavours towards developing close relations with the community, thus being and aiming to remain an active member of the society. Having into consideration that our first Open Day organized in 2011 was positively evaluated by all visitors, with recommendations to become a tradition, USJE organizes OPEN DAYS in the plant, every last Thursday of the month, during the whole year, when everyone interested is able to visit us, to learn about our production process and our commitment for its permanent improvement through highest standards of operation. 28 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Climate Change Endeavors – NGO Collaborative Actions In line with our corporate social responsibility strategy that rests on four main pillars, including climate change which is considered as important environmental challenge of our time, USJE supported the project “Go Green 4 Climate” implemented in cooperation with Go Green environmental NGO. PANEL DISCUSSION ON UN CLIMATE CHANGE SUMMIT CONCLUSIONS Panel discussion aimed to share views and perspectives on the “Paris agreement” from every sector perspective, including representatives from the Ministry of Environment, UN representatives, UN GC local representatives, ambassadors, NGO’s and USJE representatives took place in December. Target 2011 Results 2015 Target 2015 Improve health Implemented energy Continue Partnering & safety in efficiency actions in 2 with Schools Project. the local schools with €110.000 Expand H&S community investment initiatives in the local Active participation of communities in terms our contractors in such of scope and content. actions Branch out to other businesses Provide direct More than 120 students Company opensupport to the visited the company door policy & CLIMATE CHANGE EDUCATIONAL CAMPAIGN educational More than 130 students implementation The campaign is aimed at raising awareness among young students prospects of gained practical of the project about climate change. The program was developed in a consultation pupils and training “Introduction into process with the civic sector, ministries and other institutions. students in the 15 students were professions” Continue country interns in the Company with scholarships The program was implemented as lectures to students in 9 primary schools 46 students – children for university & MBA with attendance of 160 pupils. The lectures were held in the schools of our employees studies for young of the Municipality of Kisela Voda, Gazi Baba and Karpos and were received scholarships people in the country facilitated by volunteers (high school pupils) that were previously trained 3 students received and educated for that purpose. Promotional brochure was used by the MBA scholarships volunteers to explain the demands and to promote the partners of the #GG4Climate campaign. Diversify Participation of our Increase number Number of schools where lectures were held 9 corporate employees in the of employees volunteering initiative Let’s Do It engaged in corporate Number of pupils that participated in the lectures 160 activities with at Macedonia volunteering initiatives Number of volunteers involved in realization of the lectures 22 least one new Voluntary donation for Cooperation with Red Number of promotional brochures distributed 177 initiative Kozle Children Hospital Cross Macedonia 29 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Cooperation with Universities & Schools Following our strategic determination for support of development through education and building upon our strong local partnership, good neighbourly relations and responding to the needs of our community and the society at large, USJE provides practical experience and skills to young people in the country through different endeavours, including practical training, internships, scholarships, study visits, open days, job fairs and other activities. DEVELOPING SKILLS FOR JOBS Internship of university students Cooperation between USJE and Faculty USJE continued with the program for of Fine Arts in Skopje USJE has open doors for university students development of professionals through for one month internship in accordance with This year USJE initiated cooperation with practical training their study program. This year we had 15 the Faculty of Fine Arts aiming to enable USJE has recognized the need for developing students attending 2.610 hours of internship in students to learn more of the nature and the practical skills of young electrical and various departments, including production, characteristics of the cement as well as mechanical technicians in the country. mechanical and electrical maintenance, to encourage their artistic expression and With this project, that provides students finance, sales etc. creative work. Within this collaboration, USJE with practical experience, technical skills provided tools and materials for the students and know-how, we aim to increase the to create sculptures in the spirit of urban employability of high school graduates as well culture under guidance of their professors. as to create possible bench workforce. The students from the Faculty will visit USJE Study visit of students in technology Another goal of this project is to build strong where professional teams will bring more Aiming at deepening our cooperation with information about cement, which is widely connection between the business sector and universities, USJE established relations with used in sculptural art, and they way it is education of young students, especially in the professors in non-organic chemistry and produced. field of technical skills. as part of their study program a group of The project in 2015 included 135 students of The sculptures created by the young talents students from the Faculty of Technology final grades from two state technical high will be part of the annual exhibition FLU and Metallurgy paid a study visit of our schools SETU “Mihajlo Pupin” and SUGS “Vlado prepares every year and placed in a public plant in December. As the focus of the visit Tasevski” who in a period of three months space in our Municipality or the City of Skopje. was the quality control of our products, the undergo practical training in industry. The students had a tour around the plant and practical training of the students is under were introduced to the production process mentorship of USJE experts in the concerned of our plant our quality control process and fields, namely from mechanical and electrical standards. maintenance, along with their school SHARING EXPERTISE teacher. At the introductory class, students are introduced to the H&S standards and Our Group Senior Quality Expert delivered a commitments at our plant. lecture on quality topics to students from the state Faculty of Technology. USJE on BEST Job Fair for the fourth time Scholarships for postgraduate studies in For the fourth consecutive year, USJE took Our H&S Manager delivered a lecture on H&S management ten years in a row part in the traditional BEST Job Fair, this year topics to students from the state Faculty of Technology. Aiming to raise the level of education of with a stand at the Faculty of Technology. At the young people in the country, USJE the eleventh Job Fair in organization of the Our HR Manager delivered a lecture on strategically supports the education. To this Board of European Students of Technology organizational career development to HR effect, USJE awarded three scholarships for (BEST) students had the chance to meet USJE postgraduate students at the state Faculty of postgraduate studies in Management at the representatives and discuss about internship Economics. University American College Skopje. or job opportunities. 30 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative PARTNERING WITH SCHOOLS PROJECT Partnering with Schools Project is our ongoing commitment since 2010 for providing improved H&S and environmental conditions in the public schools and kindergartens in the territory of the local community where our Company operates as well as at raising awareness among children on their own health & safety. USJE supported energy efficiency efforts of Kiril Pejcinovic & Krume Kepeski Elementary Schools This year, having aligned with the school’s priorities and with our commitment for community development, USJE supported the energy efficiency efforts of Kiril Pejcinovic Elementary School in Kisela Voda by replacing 40 old windows with new modern and energy efficient windows. The new windows are five-chamber profiles with glass thermal transmittance of less than 1.4 W/m²K. The value of this support is more than 50.000 euro and USJE engaged its own contractors to provide the materials and execute the works. In August, we started a complete restoration of the facade of Krume Kepeski Elementary School in Kisela Voda worth more than 60.000 euro. We engaged our contractor to perform the activities in coordination with our experts in construction and civil engineering. The renovation of facade of the entire school building and other auxiliary buildings was finished early 2016. As of the beginning of the project, more than 250.000 euro have been invested in-kind and labor and more than 5.000 hours have been spent by our management and employees and more than 11.000 hours have been spent by our contractor’s and suppliers’ staff. USJE will continue with its voluntary commitment and endeavors to improve the living and studying conditions in the schools and kindergartens in the Municipality of Kisela Voda as well as to support the community development at large. Final grade students from the primary schools in Kisela Voda Summer Educational and Sports Camp for the children with visited USJE impaired hearing Final grade students from the primary schools in Kisela Voda had the As a result of its long-term commitment to supporting educational opportunity to visit USJE and to get acquainted with our Company, our projects and being socially responsible company, USJE supported production process and our manner of operation. again the Summer Educational and Sports Camp for 21 children Our team of engineers presented the production process to the ninth with impaired hearing from the Partenie Zografski Education and grade students of the primary schools of Partenija Zografski, Nevena Rehabilitation Center. Georgieva Dunja and Kuzman Josifovski – Pitu. The students had Within the summer educational camp, the children with impaired the chance to discuss issues of their interest that would help them in hearing have an opportunity to spend time together and to improve choosing their future occupation. USJE with this visits aims to encourage their communication skills. At the same time, through education, they students to choose technical vocational schools and occupations. create moral values and manners. 31 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Corporate Volunteering USJE EMPLOYEES VOLUNTARILY PARTICIPATED IN THE NATIONAL INITIATIVE GOING TO WORK WITHOUT CARS CAMPAIGN “LET’S DO IT 2015” FOR THE FOURTH TIME As of March, USJE employees began an action “To Work without Cars”. Every Wednesday our employees use public transport, cycling or walk to reach their job place. The employees voluntarily On October 3rd, 2015 the fourth national donate 150 denars when they come to work by car and from the funds collected from this initiative campaign “Macedonia without waste a spyrometer was donated to the Children’s hospital for respiratory diseases Kozle. 2015” took place in almost all municipalities Through this activity, the company’s management and employees want to set a personal example throughout the country as part of the global and to confirm their clear commitment to environmental protection and promote the principles of action “Let’s do it! World 2015” officially a healthy lifestyle. supported by the European Parliament With this initiative, which was warmly welcomed by the public, we go a step further, aware that happening in 112 countries with about 13 traffic is one of the key factors for the environment and through this symbolic action, we want to set million volunteers. The goal of the campaign an example and encourage others to join this action. is to encourage civil activism and voluntarism as well as to raise awareness and habits of the According to the data, thousands of residents of Europe suffer from dependence on their cars citizens for proper waste management. and refuse to walk, even short distances. Such habit negatively impacts human health and the surrounding area, and has negative impact on the economic situation. Therefore, the aim of this USJE supported this action by providing action is to create a habit not to use cars when it is not necessary. active support to the organizers. Applying USJE also invited other institutions, companies and associations to join this kind of activism and set the concept of corporate volunteering and personal example and commitment to contribute to the popularization of this action to change guided by our commitment for environmental the mindsets and habits. care USJE employees gladly joined this initiative. During the weekend we rolled up our sleeves and got to work. More than 50 employees, including the management team, volunteered on the territory in the vicinity of our plant. VOLUNTARY DONATION OF EMPLOYEES AND THE COMPANY TO HELP POPULATION AFFECTED BY THE FLOODS Guided by our commitment for voluntarism and contribution to the community, our people voluntarily raised funds for the families in the regions affected by floods this year. The amount of funds raised from personal donations of employees totals to nearly MKD 150.000 and the company OUR TEAM AT THE EUROPEAN MOBILITY WEEK doubled this amount, thus about MKD 300.000 were donated to the Red Cross as USJE joined again the European Mobility Week in September which promotes sustainable mobility an aid to relieve the consequences from in urban environments. The goal is by using various activities to improve human health and protect natural disasters. Furthermore, following the environment by using cars less. our policy for social responsibility and community development, USJE donated 200 Within this activity, a Bicycle Parade was held in Skopje on 22 September, organized on the Day tons of cement to the municipality of Stip without cars, as part of the European Mobility Week. USJE donated five bicycles for this event and, worth more than MKD 1.1 million aimed at additionally, our employees personally participated in the Bicycle Parade. improving the current living conditions. 32 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative 33 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative 60-year Anniversary CELEBRATING A SIGNIFICANT MILESTONE OF CEMENTARNICA USJE 60 YEARS OF CONTRIBUTION TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ECONOMY AND SOCIETY Committed to long-term sustainability and development with a special focus to environment and community, USJE this year marked 60 years of operation on the Macedonian market. The six-decade operation of USJE is accompanied by continuous investments and modernization, through which the company managed to respond to the needs of the Macedonian economy and society. 34 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative “CLASSIC VERSUS CLASSIC” CONCERT “QUALITY BUILDING MATERIALS COLLABORATIVE PROJECT WITH FOR ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS, FOR QUALITY CONSTRUCTION” FACULTY OF FINE ARTS PARTNERS AND FRIENDS STAKEHOLDER PANEL At the same time, marking the 60th The six-decade existence of USJE was In the year when USJE is celebrating 60 anniversary, USJE signed an agreement marked with a concert “Classic versus years of its operation, a Stakeholder Panel for partnership and support with the classic”. At the ceremony, special awards technical conference titled “Quality building Faculty of Fine Arts. The project is aimed at for long-term cooperation and outstanding materials for quality construction” was held encouraging artistic expression and opening contribution to the development of the and attended by top domestic and foreign new opportunities and space for creative construction industry were presented to the experts (more on Page 26). work of young talented artists. (more on companies Beton, Granit, Karpos, Adora page 30). and Actor. Special recognition was also CELEBRATION FOR OUR PEOPLE presented to the Municipality of Kisela Voda 60 STORIES FOR 60 YEARS OF USJE which is a long-term collaborative partner At the occasion of our 60-year anniversary, of USJE. Award was also presented to the USJE invited all our employees and retired Driven by our commitment to communicate Institute for testing of materials ZIM, which employees at a Communication Day. The our history, operation and vision for the future plays a significant role in the creation of event was opened by addressing speech of with all our stakeholders, at the occasion top-quality cement with the highest world the Chief Executive Director followed by the of our 60-year anniversary we issued a standards. Longtime director of USJE, first employee of Cementarnica USJE in 1951 monographic book titled “60 stories for 60 who gave outstanding contribution in the as well as our newest comer. years of USJE” (http://www.usje.com.mk/ development of the company, Mr. Gushkov, upload/pdf/Monografija_Titan_Noemvri_ also received a special recognition. Izahir en_2015.pdf). The book was handed over to Troni received special recognition for the all our employees and stakeholders. three-decade collaboration and sale of products of USJE on Kosovo market. 35 Message from the  TITAN Group Profile 2015 Corporate Governance CSR & Sustainability  UN Global Compact Chief Executive Director USJE Profile At a Glance & CSR Strategy Performance Initiative Un Global Compact Principles And Criteria By joining the UN Global Compact in December 2008, USJE embraced at the local country level the ten principles of good corporate management, which are the foundation of this Compact. 1 Support and respect the protection ALL of internationally proclaimed human rights BUSINESS SHOULD 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Target 2011 Results 2015 Target 2015 collective bargaining Actively engage in USJE is a member Actively build and 4 the Global Compact in the Board of the strengthen the Network Macedonia UNGC LN and works leadership of the Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor actively on branching Global Compact out the CSR in the Network Macedonia 5 country Uphold the effective abolition of Support the USJE actively Support the child labor implementation of supported the Global implementation of the initiatives under Compact Network, the initiatives under 6 the Global Compact including support the Global Compact Uphold the elimination of discrimination Network Macedonia of: Follows SGD’s Network Macedonia in respect of employment and and aligns priorities occupation accordingly Active 7 participation in “Growing on Ethics” Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges / “Last Call to Action for Europe 2020” 8 Conference on Responsible Business Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Promote CSR concept In November we Actively engage and UNGC principles signed the European in activities for 9 in the public Pact for Youth initiative broader and better Encourage the development and and in 2016 will start understanding of diffusion of environmentally friendly implementation the context and the technologies of the initiative at application of the 10 Cementarnica USJE ten universal UNGC Work against all forms of corruption, principles in the local including extortion and bribery context 36 0HVVDJHIURPWKH 7,7$1*URXS3URÀOH 2015 &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFH &65 6XVWDLQDELOLW\ 81*OREDO&RPSDFW &KLHI([HFXWLYH'LUHFWRU 86-(3URÀOH $WD*ODQFH  &656WUDWHJ\ 3HUIRUPDQFH ,QLWLDWLYH Aligning with the UN Sustainable Development Goals 'HÀQLQJRXUSULRULWLHV The Group CSR Committee has decided WRXWLOL]HWKH6'*VWRGHÀQHRXUIXWXUH SULRULWLHVDQGDUHDVIRUIXUWKHULPSURYHPHQW :HEHOLHYHWKDWWKH\RIIHUXVDXQLTXH RSSRUWXQLW\WRVWUHQJWKHQFROODERUDWLYH DFWLRQGHHSHQVWDNHKROGHUHQJDJHPHQW DQGLQFUHDVHWKHYDOXHZHFUHDWHDWORFDO OHYHO :HKDYHDOUHDG\EHJXQWKHDOLJQPHQWRI WKH*URXS·VJRDOVWKURXJKRXUPDWHULDOLW\ DVVHVVPHQWSURFHVV5DWKHUWKDQVHWWLQJ QHZWDUJHWVIRUWKHQH[WWKUHHWRÀYH\HDUV ZHDUHIRFXVLQJRQWKH´WULSOHERWWRPOLQHµ ²WDNLQJLQWRDFFRXQWÀQDQFLDOVRFLDODQG HQYLURQPHQWJRDOV²DQGEHQFKPDUNLQJRXU SHUIRUPDQFHH[WHUQDOO\ +RZHYHUZHKDYHDJUHHGWKDWQRWDOOWKH6'*VDUHRIHTXDOLPSRUWDQFHWRXVVRZHKDYHGHÀQHGWZRPDLQFDWHJRULHV 6'*VPRVWUHOHYDQWWRRXUEXVLQHVV 6'*VFRPSOHPHQWDU\WRRXUPDLQSULRULWLHV HEALTH CONSUMPTION EDUCATION WOMEN WATER ENERGY CLIMATE PARTNERSHIPS ECONOMY INFRASTRUCTURE COMMUNITIES ECOSYSTEMS
