Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Reporting Policy With Stakeholders For the EHS* *EHS: Environment, Health, and Safety Reporting Policy This report is created to intuitively share information with stakeholders on Terumo’s business activities conducted under its corporate mission, “Contributing to Society through Healthcare,” and promote communication with society. Scope of this report This report carries data for Terumo Group companies both in Japan and overseas, presented on a consolidated basis wherever possible, albeit with some exceptions depending on the data item. Report period Fiscal 2015 (April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2016) Activities reported include some recent activities. Publication schedule This report: October 2016 Previous report: October 2015 Next report: October 2017 (tentative) Referenced guidelines GRI, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (3.1 Version) (Standard Disclosures) Japanese Ministry of the Environment, Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 version) Report archives Past reports for each year are available in PDF format on our Web site. www.terumo.com 1 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Participation in United Nations In 2012, Terumo became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. This action reflects Terumo’s agreement with the Ten Principles of the compact, which relate to human rights, labor practices, the environment and anticorruption measures. Terumo has given shape to the mission of “Contributing to Society through Healthcare” by setting out Five Statements (formulated in 1996). These principles guide the Group’s global business development to make a valuable contribution to healthcare worldwide. Going forward, Terumo will continue to fulfill its responsibilities as a global enterprise, while aiming to achieve sustainable growth. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human Rights Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Principle 3 collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Labor Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section With Stakeholders Together with Customers We Value Communication with Customers 4 Providing Information to Customers 5 Responding to Customers 6 Applying Customer Feedback 7 Making the Relationship between Corporate Activities and Medical Institutions Transparent 8 Together with Shareholders and Investors IR Activities and Returns to Shareholders 9 Together with Partners Procurement Initiatives 11 Quality Assurance Initiatives 13 Together with Our Associates Employment and Motivation 14 Providing a Safe Workplace 18 Promoting Diversity 19 Human Resource Development 23 Work-Life Balance 26 Societal Contributions Activities Supporting the Dissemination of Medical Information 29 Contributing to the Wider Community 32 3 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Together with Customers We Value Communication with Customers We believe that Terumo’s role and responsibility is to support healthcare by providing safe, high quality products and services. Maintaining open and honest communication with our customers is part of that responsibility. Providing Products that are Valuable for Customers Terumo’s customers include healthcare professionals, information and support to ensure that customers can use patients, and general consumers who are concerned about our products with peace of mind. their health. Through direct and close communication with our At Terumo, we believe our role is to accurately customers, we conduct our business, comprising both ascertain customer needs and develop products of real product development and the provision of services in a value to them. We place equal importance on providing way that contributes to healthy living. Products and services Customer Contact Inquiries Customer Post-Market feedback Customers Medical Marketing DevelopProduction Call Center Surveillance and ment Representatives Vigilance Dept. Information Information Accumulation Discussion Product and service and improvement and consideration development 4 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Providing Information to Customers Promoting Proper Usage of Medical Devices and Pharmaceutical Products Terumo MRs* gather and swiftly provide accurate information to medical institutions to ensure the appropriate, effective, and safe use of medical devices and pharmaceutical products. At Terumo Medical Pranex, a comprehensive center for the technical training of medical professionals, Terumo offers a range of support instruction in areas such as interventional therapy, injections and the taking of blood samples. * MR stands for Medical Representative, which refers to Terumo associates Providing medical training support at Terumo Medical Pranex who provide information to medical institutions Supporting Training at Medical Institutions To prevent accidents during the use of syringes, transfusion sets, and other medical devices, Terumo conducts T-PAS training at medical institutions.* T-PAS emphasizes critical points in the use of individual devices and enables medical professionals to learn through hands-on training scenarios. The value of this program is illustrated by participant feedback, which indicates that T-PAS training provides a tangible sense of the situations that can lead to accidents, and demonstrates why the understanding of device use must be based on more than just assumptions or casual advice from others. The benefits of T-PAS training are often reported on by hospitals throughout Japan in yearly Supporting instruction in the correct usage of medical devices conferences on the quality, safety, and practice of medicine. * From fiscal 2009 through fiscal 2015, training was conducted at approximately 1,200 locations; approximately 1,000 medical facilities and 200 venues arranged for regional training or by sales representatives. 5 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Responding to Customers Responding to Customers at the Terumo Call Center The Terumo Call Center in Japan receives about 250,000 telephone and email inquiries per year from general consumers, medical institutions, and distributors. Emergency contacts from at-home patients and others are accepted 24 hours a day. To ensure that inquiries relating to different classes of our products—from those designed for medical institutions to those for home medical care— are addressed promptly and appropriately, the call center staff includes experts in every required field. Call center staff regularly participate in product and communication skill training, and are tested twice a year to ensure that they are properly equipped to respond to Inquiries are addressed by staff with specialized knowledge inquiries and provide customers with satisfactory results. In addition, steps are being taken to better incorporate customer feedback in the improvement and development of products. 6 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Applying Customer Feedback Accumulating and Applying Information from Customers in Japan The information from our customers on the quality, organizations, as well as by sending MRs to medical safety, and appropriate use of our products have been institutions to provide explanations face-to-face. accumulated in our Post-Market Surveillance and Vigilance Furthermore, we use the accumulated information to Dept. Using this information, we promptly develop and develop and improve our products and support medical refine our communications, delivering them in various safety training at medical institutions (T-PAS*). ways, including the labeling of important information * T-PAS: Terumo Proactive Action for Safety, training programs based on alongside our products, our Web site, or via industry Terumo’s predictive safety measures. Product and Service Development Based on Customer Feedback Terumo provides solutions to medical needs based on a broad range of input from patients, and physicians, nurses, pharmacists, and other medical professionals. For example, when we learned from medical professionals that diabetes patients discontinue their therapy if they do not understand the significance of monitoring blood glucose, we responded by creating a product that simplifies daily monitoring. The MEDISAFE Fit Smile blood glucose monitoring system incorporates a color-coded, five-level blood glucose scale, making it easy for the patient to know whether their condition is good or bad, and provides usage directions with a voice guidance system. These kinds of Terumo designs and concepts have MEDISAFE Fit Smile blood glucose monitoring system been well-received in Japan, and garnered international recognition including a 2016 iF Design Award, conferred by iF International Forum Design, of Germany. 7 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Making the Relationship between Corporate Activities and Medical Institutions Transparent Securing Transparency in Business Activities Involving Medical Institutions Terumo has contributed to the development of the life and regulations but also industry self-regulation provisions sciences by conducting business activities consistent based on the Fair Competition Code and other ethical with “Contributing to Society through Healthcare” our business standards. Regarding the payment of funds, corporate mission. The development of advanced medical we disclose information in accordance with regulations devices and pharmaceuticals requires the efforts of not in Japan and other countries. Concerning disclosures in only individual companies but also cooperation with Japan, in particular, we have formulated our Transparency university and other research and medical institutions. In Guideline for the Relationships between Corporate that connection, funds are paid as compensation, and Activities and Medical Institutions and our Transparency donations are made for research and other purposes. To Guideline for the Relationships between Corporate ensure a high degree of transparency as it engages in Activities and Patient Organizations, and disclose the such payments, Terumo abides by not only relevant laws amounts paid. Details on the amounts paid in Japan are available at the following link (Japanese only) http://www.terumo.co.jp/company/about/compliance.html 8 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Together with Shareholders and Investors IR Activities and Returns to Shareholders To provide stable returns to its shareholders through improved corporate value, Terumo is committed to open management which includes fair and timely disclosure, and communication with our shareholders and investors. Basic Policy Regarding Shareholder Returns To ensure higher profitability and sustainable growth, Our basic policy for profit allocation is to stably increase Terumo actively promotes appropriate, aggressive dividends to shareholders commensurate with business reinvestment of profits as we work to increase corporate performance, with a target medium to long-term dividend value yet further. We believe this serves the interests of our payout ratio of 30%. shareholders, and will lead to greater investment value. Related link Details on the Dividend Payout Ratio www.terumo.com/investor/stocks/return.html Basic Policy Regarding IR (Disclosure) In its aim to earn broad social trust, Terumo discloses transparency, fairness and continuity. In addition, Terumo information in accordance with the timely disclosure rules strives to provide timely and proactive disclosure of set forth by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act information which may be effective in providing a better and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, based on principles of understanding of the Company. Communicating with Shareholders and Investors General Meetings of Shareholders and Company Briefings For the benefit of robust, constructive dialogue with as many shareholders as possible, Terumo holds general shareholders’ meetings, in compliance with the law, and company briefings. We schedule general shareholders’ meetings to take place on afternoons, rather than mornings, when other companies tend to hold theirs, to facilitate attendance. And for the many shareholders who find it difficult to attend because they live outside of the Kanto Region, we began to hold company briefings in Osaka, in 2015, to create a dialogue opportunity for more shareholders. At both the general shareholders’ meetings and company briefings, we use slide and video presentations to discuss our operations and business performance. Following Company briefing held in Osaka both events, we hold health seminars and exhibit products to encourage deeper understanding of Terumo, medicine, and health. We will further increase transparency by creating more such opportunities for dialogue with shareholders, building and maintaining shareholder relationships underpinned by trust. 9 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Facility Tours to Better Inform Shareholders Once a year, we invite shareholders to visit Terumo Medical Pranex* so they can get a sense of the training we provide to medical professionals and others who handle our products. We believe this helps them to better understand not only what we make, but also our views and motivations. This opportunity has proven to be very popular, and given our desire to accommodate as many shareholders as possible, we extended the visitation period from one day to two consecutive days in fiscal 2014. * Terumo Medical Pranex: Multipurpose training facility where medical professionals can learn to use interventional devices and other advanced medical technologies, and groups of physicians and nurses can strengthen their teamwork abilities. Shareholders on a facility tour Results Briefings Results briefings are held for securities analysts and institutional investors quarterly (by teleconference for the first and third quarters). The Company’s President and Representative Director and other key associates attend the briefings, explaining business results and ongoing management strategy. Materials provided at the briefings, along with individual presentations, are also posted on our website. Results Briefings Briefings and Events for Individual Investors Terumo holds company briefings to provide opportunities for direct dialogue with individual investors. An event held for individual investors 10 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Together with Partners Procurement Initiatives Raw Material Procurement Policy In October 2009, we developed our “Human x Eco • Selecting materials that can be used effectively and Development Guidelines” in line with our commitment to produce no waste (saving resources) being a peopleand environment-friendly company. With these guidelines, we are making an effort to reach a new Based on these ideas, we maintain fair and equitable level of peopleand environment-friendly procurement, relationships with our suppliers. At the same time, we with particular consideration given to the following: continue to procure raw materials in compliance with • Selecting materials that will not produce harmful impacts pharmaceutical regulations and rules in the respective for the next generation (reducing environmental impact) countries concerned. Implementing a BCP for Stable Procurement Terumo manufactures products in seven factories within the Great East Japan Earthquake, we were able to keep and 18 factories outside Japan, and distributes them in medical supplies flowing to customers by working with over 160 countries. With rapid changes in procurement, we suppliers, based on the shared understanding that supplies place top priority on ensuring quality and a stable supply, for healthcare must come first—that healthcare must not and procure materials from the most appropriate sources be stopped. Based on this experience, we have sought the to deliver high-quality products to healthcare providers. cooperation of suppliers in making further improvements to In 2011, despite supply interruptions caused by enhance the safety and reliability of our supply chain. 11 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Ensuring Compliance in Procurement Conducting Supplier Surveys Terumo demands reliable procurement performance our business partners, we analyze the issues facing our from its suppliers and conducts surveys to promote materials division and provide feedback to our factory improvements. materials divisions. The feedback not only aids in resolving Survey questions cover a wide range of topics, the issues identified, but also serves as a tool for verifying including our own conduct in transactions with suppliers, the direction of and reflecting customer input in our business ethics, transaction-related matters that are useful procurement activities going forward. in evaluating suppliers, and matters concerning business When necessary, we also meet directly with partners, continuity plan (BCP) initiatives for preventing supply who provide their opinions, and work to further improve interruptions that would impact medical settings. our relationships of trust. Based on the survey responses and opinions from Ongoing Education to Promote Purchasing Compliance To promote clear communication with suppliers on procurement matters, Terumo takes steps to ensure that all associates clearly understand Japan’s Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors ( the “Subcontracting Law”), in particular, the basic rules covering supplier selection, order placement, invoicing, and payment procedures. To ensure compliance with the Subcontracting Law, order and payment processing are handled with meticulous adherence to a system of strict checks covering Subcontracting Law requirements. Internal Purchasing Compliance Training held by Procurement Department 12 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Quality Assurance Initiatives Promoting Improvements in Quality Assurance In order to further improve product quality, Terumo to gain suppliers' understanding of how the materials and proactively seeks to strengthen quality control--not only services they provide affect our finished product. Suppliers of raw materials, but also services (such as production cooperate by continuously improving their quality and equipment, mold design, and outsourced processes) enabling our regular audits of their quality systems. which can impact our quality system. We also share QA audit information and other quality In recent years, especially, regulatory bodies including information between Terumo Group production sites in an the U.S. FDA (Food and Drug Administration) have placed effort to improve the quality of our final products through increased importance on global supplier control. We work better procurement activities. 13 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Together with Our Associates Employment and Motivation What Our Associates Mean to Us Terumo respects the rights of its associates and corporate philosophy and social mission of “Contributing to offers fulfilling jobs. And the company gives maximum Society through Healthcare” and to contribute to Terumo’s consideration to enable each associate to take pride in development and growth. Our ultimate objective is for being a member of Terumo and to lead a happy life. Terumo and its associates to work together to improve At the same time, associates have an obligation medical care for patients around the world. to always improve themselves, bear responsibility of the Fostering a Motivating and Challenging Work Environment At Terumo, we respect the individuality of our associates, grow to widen their fields of activity. Our goal, based on while working to foster a work climate in which each these initiatives, is to enable each associate to contribute individual can realize his or her maximum potential. We also their individual strengths to their team, enhancing provide ample opportunities for those with a willingness to performance and creating a strong, motivating workplace. Patients’ Day Project Helping Associates Reconnect with Our Mission At the root of what motivates our associates is the strong belief that our work is meaningful. This is captured in our corporate mission, which has remained unchanged since our founding in 1921: “Contributing to society through healthcare.” “Y’s TP Day” (Your smile, our pleasure, Terumo Patient’s Day) was conceived as an opportunity for associates to reconnect with our mission and consider anew what it means to personally contribute to the advancement of healthcare, and to reflect on the value we provide to society. On each Y’s TP Day, associates listen to moving accounts of what patients have experienced in their struggle to overcome illness. Associates also have the Y’s TP Day presentation in Japan opportunity to visit medical settings. This enables them to see in person the connection between their everyday work and frontline patient healthcare. In Japan, other Y’s TP Day Projects include collaboration with the Japanese Nursing Association to enhance associate understanding of nursing work, and other events we plan and conduct. In fiscal 2015, we recruited participants for a public health volunteer activity in Ghana as part of our FVA Program for implementing our corporate mission. From among a pool of applicants, two associates were selected and sent to that African nation. (For more information on this activity, please see “Societal Contributions” on p.31.) 14 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section TOPICS Activities at Terumo Medical Products (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. With approximately 3,000 associates, Terumo Medical participating together fosters great unity. Products (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. (Hangzhou Factory) In addition, the factory’s workers’ union actively plays a critical role as one of our largest overseas arranges trips and activities for various intra-union facilities. The Hangzhou Factory has undertaken clubs, including flower arranging and cooking, which various initiatives to supply large volumes of highare particularly popular among female associates. quality products and develop human resources with In the plant’s dormitories for single employees, ever-higher skill levels. The aim of these initiatives is committees organize events such as 5S activities (Seiri to create a culture in which associates can work with [streamline], Seiton [organize], Seiso [clean], Seiketsu pride and vitality. [hygiene], and Shitsuke [self-discipline]), study groups, In a typical year, for example, the Hangzhou and birthday parties; all of these contribute to making Factory organizes a spring off-site event where life at the dorms enjoyable and family-like. associates can refresh both mentally and physically, We believe that maintaining these kinds of and an autumn athletic meet. All associates participate activities deepens relationships between associates, in the latter, and when they assemble for the event in contributes to unity at the Hangzhou Factory, and the large stadium serving as the venue, it is an amazing ultimately forms a strong foundation for Terumo’s sight. The families of associates also participate production and sales endeavors, which aim to deliver in what becomes quite a heated competition, but products safely and with peace of mind. Fall Athletic Meet and Carnival (Family Day) Workers’ Union club activity 360° Feedback and Motivation Surveys In Japan, to help create “a highly motivating and Associates. The results of these surveys are posted on our challenging workplace, with open and candid intranet and provide valuable insights to our management communication, and a forward-looking spirit,” we regularly and leadership team, enabling us to continually make conduct 360° feedback surveys of all executives and Terumo an even better place to work. general managers, and engagement surveys among 15 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Implementation of the ACE In-House Job Posting System In Japan, Terumo operates an in-house job posting postings on the ACE system so far, and over 160 have system called “ACE.” Set up in 1997, this system enables moved into new positions as a result. associates from a range of departments and job types to A talent pool of 46 candidates for global postings enhance their careers by taking on new challenges and has also been set up and over half of these associates are opportunities. For those with a strong desire to move already on global assignments outside Japan. their career to the next level, the system, which is open to associates regardless of age or gender, presents opportunities to gain experience and develop as business The ACE In-House Job Posting System logo urging associates to “Take Charge professionals. Over 700 associates have responded to job of Your Career!” Recognizing Associates with the “Genba-no Hokori” Award (Honor the Frontline Award) Terumo’s growth is supported not only by highly visible working behind the scenes to contribute to the Company associates who achieve outstanding results, but also and organization; 2) Having skills that others recognize as by the many associates who consistently produce solid clearly setting them apart; and 3) Devoting significant time results and work diligently “behind the scenes” every day. and energy to transferring a career’s worth of knowledge In Japan, we reward and recognize such associates with to younger associates. In fiscal 2015, award recommendations the “Genba-no Hokori” Award (literally, the “Honor the were received for around 70 associates and from this number, Frontline” Award) which is presented each year. five were selected for recognition based on contributions in Winners are selected based on exceptional performance, areas such as production and using training to help medical demonstrated in ways such as: 1) Steadfastness in professionals overcome problems and polish their surgical skills. Appointing Engineers as Fellows For Terumo to increase the value of its presence on a used their superior expertise and practical experience global scale and achieve ongoing growth, it is critical to produce outstanding innovations benefiting medical that we continuously contribute to the advancement of settings throughout the world. healthcare by creating new value in technology and R&D, As role models for up-and-coming engineers and which ultimately underpin Terumo’s growth. developers, Terumo Fellows will not only advise their Terumo has therefore appointed four associates as younger colleagues, but also drive the R&D activities that “Terumo Fellows.” These individuals have won praise both are the future of Terumo, and continue to create new value inside and outside the company for their achievements in through further innovation in medical settings. technology, research, and clinical development, and have Continuous Management-Worker Dialogue Terumo recognizes that a healthy management-worker where both sides have an opportunity to fully state their relationship based on trust and mutual understanding is views. The relationship between management and the extremely important for us to grow and develop together workers’ union is one in which both sides work as partners with our associates. to bring about mutual growth and development. Input from the workers’ union is treated as valuable Outside of the management-worker dialogue, views feedback, and we resolve issues by taking actions that are are freely exchanged throughout the company through acceptable to both management and associates. surveys conducted by the workers’ union, and through In Japan, dialogue with top management takes place other feedback received via different channels. in meetings and UC (Union and Company) Discussions, 16 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Associate Data Consolidated Staffing Data by Geographic Area Associates by Gender and Location (Standalone Data for Terumo Corporation) (Individuals) (Individuals) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Japan 5,011 5,070 5,195 5,310 Male, Japan 4,065 4,072 4,088 4,151 Europe 1,892 1,814 1,840 1,856 Female, Japan 656 639 656 695 Americas 5,656 5,936 6,345 6,995 Overseas 57 53 55 55 associates* Asia and 6,334 6,443 6,554 6,536 others Total 4,778 4,764 4,799 4,901 Total 18,893 19,263 19,934 20,697 * Figures for this row are totals for associates at Terumo Corporation’s Taipei Branch and South Africa Representative Office. 17 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Providing a Safe Workplace Promoting the Creation of a Safe Workplace At the Terumo Group, we strive to create a safe workplace so that our associates—valued assets of the Company—can realize their full potential. Compliance and Prevention of Harassment The Terumo Group has formulated the “Code of Conduct Associate of the Terumo Group” that provides guidance on all aspects of behavior and conduct associates are expected Consultation to adhere to in their daily business activities. Fulfilling their roles as outstanding corporate citizens, Counseling Resources associates bear the heavy social responsibility of not only Requests for assistance are received, and matters are investigated and resolved, while protecting the associate’s privacy. obeying the law but also demonstrating ethical behavior in all aspects of their work. Toward that end, each Terumo Internal Internal male counselor female counselor Outside attorney workplace holds an annual event aimed at promoting deeper understanding of the code of conduct, emphasizing compliance and preventing harassment. In addition, training incorporating examples that reflect familiar situations and that can be applied in daily work is regularly held for those in management positions to further their understanding of what is expected of them. In Japan, to give associates who feel they have been harassed or been the victim of unethical behavior access to immediate assistance, we have positioned male and female counselors under the immediate supervision of the Company’s President and made it possible to consult with an outside attorney, as well. Work to resolve reported issues will be undertaken with thorough measures to protect the privacy of anyone seeking assistance and to ensure that no one suffers mistreatment as a result of their seeking assistance. 18 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Promoting Diversity Building an Environment in which a Diverse Workforce Can Fully Exercise Its Abilities At the Terumo Group, we work hard to promote respect for Company from a variety of perspectives. individuals and other cultures, and we do not discriminate, In one such effort, we created a logo for use in whether by race, nationality, gender, religion, disability or purposes such as internal education activities. Based on on any other basis that would violate human rights. We the theme “overlap,” the logo is composed of overlapping believe that the diversity of our associates drives our growth upperand lower-case letters of different colors to express now and into the future. By striving to accept a wide range the idea of associates exercising their unique qualities of differing values, and promoting mutual recognition of and energetically pursuing productive activities while diversity, we aim to be a company where differing ideas and acknowledging values different from their own. knowledge are fused to create new value. In Japan, we established the Diversity Promotion Department to raise awareness of diversity issues among our associates, and we continually promote diversity in the Promoting Active Participation by Female Associates (in Japan) As a first step in channeling mutual recognition of diversity acknowledging each other and working in comfort, toward corporate growth, Terumo’s top management regardless of their backgrounds and abilities. has committed itself to promoting active participation by Examples of the various initiatives contributing to this female employees. effort include a mentoring system for women and seminars To create the environment, culture, and awareness for women who wish to resume their careers with us. that enable greater participation by women, we provide all associates, regardless of gender, with opportunities to Terumo’s Action Plan regarding the Law for Measures to think about their values and the careers they would like to Support the Development of the Next Generation and the Act to Advance Women’s Success in their Working Life build going forward. We also promote the development http://www.terumo.co.jp/company/csr/index.html of a working culture that is conducive to associates Developing Female Leaders through a Mentoring System This system pairs female associates in leadership positions working in different parts of the company or of different ages so that they can share experiences and ideas to broaden their perspectives and support one another’s career growth. Raising the awareness and skills of female associates and having more women assume leadership roles within Terumo will contribute fresh perspectives and promote value creation. Fiscal 2015 training under the Mentoring System 19 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Seminars for Helping Associates Return to Work After Childbirth and Child-care Leave Terumo is seeing an increasing number of men and women who want to continue with their careers while caring for children or providing nursing care. In fiscal 2013, we began holding an annual career-resumption seminar in Japan for female associates currently on childor nursing-care leave and their supervisors. In the seminar held in fiscal 2015, associates who participated in the previous year’s seminar gave talks on their personal experiences to 17 seminar participants, sharing their experiences in balancing work and childor nursingcare responsibilities and discussing the mental preparation and cooperation that ongoing professional growth requires. In addition, information was distributed to supervisors on how Fiscal 2015 Career Resumption Support Seminars to use interview sheets distributed to associates prior to their return, and on the various systems in place to support these associates, to facilitate their discussions of working styles with their returning subordinates. Opportunities to Share Ideas on What Makes a Comfortable Work Environment By providing opportunities for male and female associates to consider their own values and careers going forward, we promote a company culture in which associates acknowledge one another, and conditions that support their ability to comfortably exercise their full potential. In fiscal 2015, we carried on from the year before, conducting training aimed at getting the participants, approximately 100 female associates from throughout the Terumo Group, to think about factors that hinder the creation of a comfortable work environment. Starting with the question of how to prevent uncomfortable situations in the workplace, this training gave participants Communication Training an opportunity to learn communication skills that value and put all conversation participants on an equal footing, offering approaches for effectively communicating ideas. Joint Training for Managers From fiscal 2013, we began conducting annual training for female managers. In fiscal 2015, we focused on training the managers who develop associates. In this diversity management training, around 50 participants from different sections or regions of Japan learned interpersonal communication skills for guiding subordinates and tips to bring out the best from associates with diverse backgrounds and abilities. The training was also an excellent opportunity for female leaders to meet and network. Fiscal 2015 Diversity Management Training 20 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section In Japan, the number of female managers at Terumo is management staff). We will continue to advance initiatives gradually rising. As of March 31, 2016, there were 49 that enable ambitious female associates to play greater women in management positions (4.9% of the entire roles at Terumo. Numbers and Percentages of Female Managers (Figures for Terumo Corporation’s Japan operations and Japanese staff on full-time or temporary assignments to Group companies) Number of female managers in Japan Percentage (Employees) (%) 50 49 10 46 40 40 8 36 32 30 6 4.7 4.9 20 4 4.2 3.9 3.4 10 9 2 1.5 0 0 2001 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Engagement with People and Organizations in Other Countries (in Japan) With Japanese associates increasingly working with overseas associates, we took the step in fiscal 2015 of creating an opportunity for associates of various nationalities to freely discuss issues they face in their daily work and talk about their thoughts on careers. In learning about differences in culture and ways of thinking, and the skills necessary for effective communication, participants deepened their understanding of how to pursue work effectively in a global environment. Exchange with associates of various nationalities 21 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Rehiring Associates Who Have Reached the Mandatory Retirement Age In Japan, Terumo introduced TES, or the Terumo Expert These Terumo Experts are at work not only in highly System, in fiscal 1998 as a way to rehire retirees with specialized areas but also in a wide variety of other places outstanding skills and expertise. Many associates have where they contribute to the Company by drawing on their been brought back through TES and continue to make the wealth of experience to provide guidance and advice to most of the expertise they developed over many years. younger associates. Number and Percentages of Associates Rehired under TES Retirees Number of retirees rehired under TES Percentage (Employees) (%) 80 100 63 65 65 65 62 60 75 70.8 71.0 71.0 60.3 64.0 46 44 40 42 50 35 38 20 25 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Employing of People with Disabilities By providing job opportunities that match the capabilities of experience is valuable in guiding and advising younger and aptitudes of individuals, Terumo advances the associates. employment of people with disabilities so they can pursue As of March 31, 2016, people with disabilities made rewarding lives as independent members of society. up 2.13% of our workforce in Japan, more than the legally At Terumo, associates with disabilities are assigned mandated rate of 2.00%. We will continue to expand wherever their abilities are needed. Veteran associates, opportunities for individuals to fully exercise their capabilities. in particular, are deployed to positions where their wealth 22 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Human Resource Development Establishment of a Human Resource Development System that Supports the Growth of Ambitious Associates Terumo believes that true corporate value lies in the collective We believe that the most effective learning comes value contributed by each associate of the Company. from individual motivation and feeling of the necessity Human resource development starts with practical to learn; associates with this motivation can nominate skills acquired through on-the-job training (OJT) and a themselves to participate in various voluntary and selective variety of training programs designed to supplement them. training programs. Terumo Training Scheme in Japan Level-based Support Selftraining Voluntary and selective training system development Management External Executive assignment Academy Correspondence education, publication subscriptions, Inter-industry Global exchange Manager New Business school support training Appointees Global Management Challenge MBA/MOT support Overseas trainee Inter-industry Global management Mid-level Business Dojo exchange associate New TOEIC, English conversation school, Bookshelves of CEOs Appointees MBA, MOT, law school, MPH candidate training TGLP Second-year training Early-career associate On-the-job training Off-site training Veteran Employees Developing Monozukuri Associates Terumo promotes the transfer of skills, experience, and individual factories, veteran associates are appointed as “monozukuri” spirit from veteran associates to their Center instructors as part of our unified effort to develop younger colleagues. We have devoted significant effort new generations of associates skilled in manufacturing. to developing curricula, training environments, and instructors to this end. We conduct annual trainings for new associates and associates from overseas. As another step of this effort, we established the Production Human Resources Development Center in fiscal 2014 in Japan. Here, TES associates—veteran employees rehired after mandatory retirement—focus on transferring skills to globally accelerate the development of the younger individuals who will carry on Terumo’s monozukuri spirit through production, technology, quality assurance, and management. Training programs have been revised to include more practical content than in the past. At Training Vietnamese technicians 23 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Developing a New Generation of Leaders for Business-led Management To advance business-led management as we go forward, we are working to foster employees capable of realizing their ambitions, exercising leadership and developing business on a global scale. Establishing Development Programs Tailored to Individual Company Strategies We conduct a broad range of development programs that are based on companies’ growth strategies, are tailored to a broad range of roles and job types, and serve the gamut of needs, from those of business leaders to those of young associates early on in their careers. Topics covered differ by program, with examples that include strategic accounting and finance, project management, marketing, innovation, specialized technologies and sales skills. Follow-up programs are conducted after main training sessions to Practical training in which participants develop solutions to actual problems help ensure that the training is as effective as possible. Terumo Global Leadership Program In Japan, the Terumo Global Leadership Program (TGLP) develops leaders with the practical capabilities necessary to lead global business. Each program, involving around 20 highly motivated associates and were selected from a large number of applicants, lasts for five months. During the program, participants polish their abilities to discern the essence of business problems, work in groups to develop solutions to actual problems and then present solution proposals to management. This grueling program contributes to the development of associates who will have TGLP graduates with Terumo’s President the capabilities and drive to lead the company in the future. 24 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Support for Obtaining MBAs and Other Qualifications In Japan, we have created a system that aims to develop the global human resources needed to execute our future global strategies. We do this by supporting people with strong desires to develop themselves by choosing to earn an MBA or similar qualification. The system allows associates to take leave for as long as is needed to complete their studies and allows them to take unused paid leave including expired prior to the start of the period of leave for their studies. In addition, the Company may approve interest-free loans for tuition and living expenses, and under certain conditions, contribute towards entrance fees and tuition. Graduation ceremony for MBA graduates aspiring to become future global leaders Behind this support is an appreciation not only for the knowledge and skills that can be gained but also for the invaluable experience of interacting with people from other countries and facing difficult challenges in a different cultural context. 25 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Work-Life Balance Support for Achieving Better Work-Life Balance Terumo aims to increase flexibility (hours, location etc.) * Established under the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children, this system enables companies that so that associates can work enthusiastically and exercise have established a General Employer Action Plan and have met certain their full potential. Our employment system, which aims standards to apply to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare for certification as a company that supports the raising of children. to promote flexible work approaches, and our systems for accommodating child care, nursing care, and other life events, support associates at work and in their private lives, and will continue to be enhanced as necessary. Recognized for its efforts in this regard, Terumo was granted the Kurumin Authorization*, as a company actively working to support the raising of children. Childand Nursing-Care Support System (in Japan) The following table lists the primary systems in place as of March 31, 2016 to help employees meet childor nursing-care as well as workplace responsibilities in Japan. Childand Nursing-Care Support Systems System Description*1 Long term maternity/ Leave that can be taken up until the child reaches the age of three (up to 30 days of paternity leave unused paid holiday time can be taken at the beginning of leave). Shortened working Working hours can be shortened by up to two hours per day until the child finishes Child-care hours elementary school (approximately age 12). Adjusted working The start and end time of regular working days can be moved forward or backward by up hours to an hour until the child finishes elementary school (approximately age 12). Leave can be taken for a cumulative total of up to three years for each family member Special leave requiring nursing care. Up to 30 days of unused paid holiday time can be taken at the beginning of leave. Nursing-Care*2 Shortened working Working hours can be shortened by up to two hours per day for a cumulative total of up to hours three years. Adjusted working The start and end time of daily working hours can be moved forward or backward by up to hours an hour for a cumulative total of up to three years. Hour-based paid Other Paid leave may be taken in units of an hour for any reason. leave *1 These descriptions are excerpted from the Childand Nursing-Care Support Systems. *2 For nursing-care leave, the “leave,” “shortened working hours,” and “adjusted working hours” can be used for a cumulative total of three years. Number of Associates Taking Maternity and Child-Care Leave (Standalone figures for Terumo Corporation’s Japan operations) (Individuals) FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Associates Taking Maternity Leave 22 19 22 24 39 25 Female 22 28 27 26 30 53 Associates Taking Child-Care Leave Male 8 7 9 14 36 45 26 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Encouraging Men to Take Child-Care Leave (in Japan) The birth of a child is a prime opportunity to review Number of Male Associates Taking Child-Care Leave one’s professional life. At Terumo, male associates are Number Percentage encouraged to take child-care leave. Reminders of this policy are sent to the supervisors of male associates (Employees) (%) whose wives have just given birth, and to the associates 48 40 45 themselves. Interviews with associates using the system 36 36 31.5 30 are posted on the intranet to promote understanding of the system among other male associates and create an 24 22.1 20 environment where it is easier for men to participate in 12 14 10 child-rearing. As a result, Terumo has seen a gradual rise 7 9 9.2 in male associates opting to take child-care leave. 6.1 0 3.8 0 It is expected that male associates who have 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) taken child-care leave will have developed a strong understanding of the benefits of work-style diversity, and will be effective contributors to the creation of a work environment where everyone can fully exercise their skills. Supporting Greater Flexibility in Working Styles with a Work-at-Home System (in Japan) Terumo has adopted its “Work-at-Home System” to limit and work at home as many days as is necessary when give associates the choice of using a dedicated personal a child has been told to stay home due to an illness. computer to work at home on days when child-care, We will continue to support flexible working styles by nursing-care or other responsibilities make it difficult to come expanding the range of choices available to associates to to the office. Furthermore, in April 2015, we increased the continue using their skills and expertise, when demands maximum number of days the system can be used, making such as child-care or nursing-care, make conventional it possible for parents to exceed the four-day-per-month work difficult. Associates Using the Work-at-Home System (Individuals) FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Male 2 0 3 Registered Associates Female 17 13 31 27 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Rehiring Former Associates through the Career-Return System (in Japan) Terumo has opened a pathway to rehire associates who Terumo in Japan. have left because of marriage, childor nursing-care By supporting associates who have had to interrupt responsibilities, or the relocation of their spouse. The their careers return to work, we are making it possible for “Career-Return System” expands the range of employment them to put their broad experience and skills to use and choices for associates who wish to resume their careers at contribute to Terumo’s growth. Number of Former Associates Rehired (Individuals) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Registered Former Associates 11 9 8 8 Users 0 0 0 1 Proper Working Hour Management (in Japan) Terumo promotes work efficiency through strict is for work and off-time is for rest,” we institute company management of daily working hours and the establishment holidays and encourage associates to use their paid of “no-overtime” days in Japan. As part of our policy of vacation days. maintaining a workplace environment in which “work time Percent of Paid Vacation Days Taken FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Percent of Days Taken 49.5% 50.8% 49.7% 64.5% Measures to Help Associates with Nursing Care Responsibilities Remain on the Job (in Japan) In preparation for the challenges of nursing care, which many associates will eventually face, Terumo has instituted a system to support associates balancing work and nursing-care responsibilities. We have also taken steps to promote associate understanding of this system. During two two-month periods, one in the summer and the other at the end of the calendar year, when people traditionally visit their parents, we distribute a handbook of information related to nursing care and take steps such as posting on the intranet interviews where associates discuss their experiences with nursing care. This way we encourage families to talk about this oft-avoided topic. Through ongoing efforts to have associates think about and prepare for what may be sudden nursing-care responsibilities, we work to create an environment in which associates can keep using their professional skills even while nursing-care responsibilities make it difficult for them to work as they have in the past. 28 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Societal Contributions Activities Supporting the Dissemination of Medical Information Websites Offering Information on Preventive Medicine and Health Management Terumo uses websites to provide society at large with various types of medical information for promoting preventive medicine and routine health management. As of March 2016, information on topics such as the following could be found on these websites. (Japanese only) Infertility treatment via falloposcopic tuboplasty (FT) http://ft.terumo.co.jp/ Subarachnoid hemorrhages and one of their causes, cerebral aneurysms http://terumo-kumomakka.jp/ Body temperature and health The minimally invasive infertility treatment website (Japanese only) http://www.terumo-taion.jp/ Basal body temperature and health http://www.terumo-womens-health.jp/ Preventing falls by elderly people http://tentou.terumo.co.jp/ Our website which provides an explanation of cerebral aneurysms, which are a key cause of subarachnoid hemorrhages (Japanese only) Responding to New Influenza Viruses (in Japan) Following implementation of Japan’s Act on Special In the event of an influenza or new infectious disease Measures for Pandemic Influenza and New Infectious pandemic, Terumo will fulfill its social responsibility by Diseases Preparedness and Response in April 2013, the implementing this plan and working with institutions to Company was deemed a specified public institution and provide a continuous supply of syringes, needles and other has developed an operation plan as called for in Article 9 devices for administering vaccines. of the Act. 29 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Initiatives Contributing to the Development of Medicine The Terumo Foundation for Life Sciences and Arts The Terumo Foundation for Life Sciences and Arts, presented in the field of modern art. founded in 1987 as the Terumo Life Science Foundation, To date, the foundation has awarded subsidies took its current form on April 1, 2012, after its registration totaling 1.58 billion yen, to fund 1,078 projects. as a Public Interest Incorporated Foundation. Originally The second major category of the foundation’s created to contribute to medicine and better health by activities takes the form of prizes for outstanding research promoting the advance of life science technologies through accomplishments. The 3rd Terumo Global Science Prize subsidies and other forms of assistance, in FY2015 the was presented to Dr. Michael V. Sefton of the University of foundation took on the additional purpose of stimulating Toronto, and the 4th Terumo Foundation Award went to hearts and minds by helping to further the arts and culture Dr. Yasushi Kawaguchi of the Institute of Medical Science in Japan. Toward that end, it now also undertakes projects at the University of Tokyo. in the field of modern art. Promoting education is the third major category of The foundation pursues projects in three major the foundation’s activities. In 2009, a Japanese website categories. called “Life Sciences DOKIDOKI Laboratory” was created One of these is project financial assistance, in to provide life sciences-related information to junior and which aid is provided for life science research (in Japan senior high school students. Seven years on, the site now and abroad) and conferences and other gatherings; provides young users—leaders of the future—with easyfor activities (in Japan and abroad) aimed at improving to-understand information on cutting-edge research and medicine and health; and for creation, research, and other researchers in the life sciences. activities related to modern art. In August 2015, the foundation invited 33 high school In fiscal 2015, assistance in the field of life sciences students from 16 high schools across Japan to attend included three special research subsidies, including one an event at the Joint Institution for Advanced Biomedical for the development of a cartridge-type pancreatic islet Sciences, operated by Tokyo Women’s Medical University transplantation graft for the treatment of diabetes; 35 and Waseda University. The participants at this “Science general research subsidies; and 30 international exchange café” were able to experience simulations and other (academic conference) subsidies. In March 2016, all examples of the latest technology in regenerative medicine. of the research subsidy recipients came together at a The program met with a highly positive reception, and presentation ceremony. Subsidy awards included two for similar activities are in the works for fiscal 2016. overseas research projects—one in Nigeria and another in Vietnam—and six to groups aiming to contribute Life science DOKIDOKI laboratory (Japanese only) to improvement in medicine and health (including one http://www.terumozaidan.or.jp/labo/ overseas organization). Fifteen subsidy awards were Special Research Subsidy Memorial Address at the Fiscal 2015 “Science café” participants trying their hands at suturing on realistic practice skin presentation ceremony 30 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Public Health Volunteer Activities in Africa Terumo believes that having every individual associate and December 2015 related to public health in the understand and support the values underlying its corporate Republic of Ghana. mission—“Contributing to Society through Healthcare”— Two associates were selected from a pool of results in unity that leads to even greater corporate value. applicants and spent a total of six weeks in Ghana. During Through that unity we aim to do even more to live up to that time, they were engaged mainly in performing physical the faith society places in us. examinations for infants and providing wound care for Based on that line of thinking, we conducted an children. The two participants also underwent training at a FVA (Field Volunteering in Africa) Program in November hospital to better understand local medical conditions. Recording infant bodyweight information in a childcare diary Treating a child’s injured leg 31 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Contributing to the Wider Community Japan-China Friendship Initiative Terumo is cooperating in a project to give Chinese university students the chance to visit Japanese companies and further their understanding of Japan. Sponsored by the Japanese Chamber of Commerce and Industry in China on the Japan side, and the ChinaJapan Friendship Association on the China side, the project has brought Chinese students to Japan in spring and fall annually since 2005. Each occasion hosts about 30 students from one of a rotation of six Beijing-area universities. Students visit companies (headquarters, plants, research facilities, etc.) related to members of the Japanese Chamber of Commerce and Industry in China, and observe the society and industry (including A farewell party for college students an agricultural community), culture, and other aspects of Japan. They also meet with Japanese university students and spend a night with a Japanese family. Terumo associates, as homestay hosts, provide their guests with their first direct exposure to daily customs and culture in Japan, giving these future leaders of China a chance to experience the fun and warmth of Japanese culture. We believe that by having Chinese students interact with people and companies in Japan, we will deepen the relationship between the two countries, and that will lead to greater friendship and mutual understanding in the future. Assisting Areas Hit by the Kumamoto Earthquakes In response to the earthquake disaster that struck Kumamoto in April 2016, Terumo donated medical goods including items such as compression stockings, which are thought to be helpful in preventing deep vein thrombosis (“economy class syndrome”), thermometers, and blood glucose monitors. We also made a cash donation of three million yen to aid victims of the disaster via the Japanese Red Cross Society. Presenting a cash donation to the Japanese Red Cross Society 32 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Blood Drives throughout the Terumo Group Every year, all Terumo Group companies participate in participation by over 1,000 associates, including those who internal blood drives. In fiscal 2015, “Terukoro-kun” was donated blood on their own at an outside donation facility. designated the official character for Terumo BCT Japan, At Terumo, we will continue to contribute to society not only Inc., the Group’s Blood Management Company, to use in by making blood bags but also by making it easy for our encouraging associates to donate blood in Japan. In total, associates to participate in blood drives. 16 blood drives were held at Terumo locations in Japan, with Company blood drive Terukoro-kun encouraging associates to participate in a blood drive Supporting Non-Profit Organizations (Terumo BCT) Through Terumo BCT, Inc.’s Charitable Giving program, include the Cesar Chavez Blood Drive Challenge, National the company gave back more than $300,000 to local Blood Foundation, America’s Blood Centers, and a wide leukemia patient organizations in fiscal year 2015. The range of blood centers and educational institutions. In vast majority of donations align to the company’s promise addition, Terumo BCT matches donations associates to “Unlock the Potential of Blood.” These organizations make to non-profit organizations they personally support. 33 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section TOPICS Terumo BCT Raised $217,000 to Support the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Since 2007, Terumo BCT, Inc. has supported the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society’s (LLS) Light The Night campaign and its mission to cure leukemia, lymphoma, Hodgkin’s disease and myeloma, and to improve the quality of life of patients and their families. In 2015, Terumo BCT associates raised $217,000, the most raised by any company’s associates in and around Denver, Colorado (USA). In 2016, Terumo BCT associates will reach more than $1 million raised over nine years in support of the LLS mission to end blood cancer. Each event invites Light The Night event a patient to share his or her story—connecting all associates to Terumo BCT’s vision and purpose of the campaign. Terumo BCT Associates Support Non-Profits Around the World Terumo BCT’s Light The Night campaign has expanded each year to engage more associates around the world. In support of their Light The Night campaign kickoff and World Cancer Day, associates around the globe wore orange on 4 February 2016. These events initially started in Lakewood, CO USA, but efforts have expanded to the UK, Australia, Belgium, Singapore and other countries. Regional offices have partnered with local non-profits that also support ending blood cancer, World Cancer Day activity including Leukemia & Lymphoma Northern Ireland, and Leukemia & Lymphoma Foundation in Singapore. Activity in Northern Ireland 34 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Local Social Contribution Activities Terumo conducts many social contribution activities in local communities at our business sites in Japan. Here are some examples of Terumo associates’ social contributions through local activities: 1. Weekly cleanup of public roads and parks near the Head Office 2. Cleaning up the Tama river bank, Tokyo (every spring) 3. Cleaning up the surroundings of the R&D Center 4. Cleaning up the surroundings of the Fujinomiya Factory 5. Cleaning up the surroundings of the Ashitaka Factory, Kofu Factory and ME Center 6. Cleaning up the surroundings of sales branches * Note: Activities held in fiscal 2015 35 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section For the EHS* EHS Management EHS Basic Policy 37 EHS Management System 38 EHS Audits 39 EHS Education 41 EHS Award 42 For Employee Health and Safety Management System 43 Developing Environmentally-Friendly and Safety Products Development Direction 46 Product Examples 47 Initiatives to Deal with Climate Change Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities 53 Effective Use of Resources Reducing Waste 55 Proper Control of Chemical Substances Reduction of Chemical Emissions 57 Initiatives for Biodiversity Conservation Protecting Forests 62 Voluntary Programs 63 Material Flow 64 Environmental Data for Fiscal 2015 65 EHS Goals and Achievements 67 *EHS: Environment, Health, and Safety 36 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section EHS Management EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) initiatives are a social responsibility and a key for ongoing growth. The entire Terumo Group works to advance EHS initiatives as we endeavor to be a good corporate citizen. EHS Basic Policy Establishment of the Basic Policy on Environment, Health, and Safety The Terumo Global EHS (Environment, Health, and and health of our associates. The policy applies to the Safety) Policy was established in 2012 as the basic policy entire Terumo Group globally and forms the basis for all on lowering the environmental impact of our business corporate activities. activities, protecting biodiversity, and promoting the safety Terumo Global EHS Policy The Terumo Group aims to be a good corporate citizen, striving to reduce environmental impacts associated with business activities and to ensure the safety and health of employees based on its corporate mission, “Contributing to Society through Healthcare.” • We take action based on an environmental health and safety (EHS) management system, establish the following voluntary goals, and strive for continuous improvement: • Reduce the environmental impact and EHS risk of our business activities; • Develop environmentally friendly and safe products; and • Effectively use and appropriately manage energy and resources. • We comply with the laws, ordinances, agreements, and other rules relating to EHS in each country. • We carry out environmental conservation activities and strive to conserve biodiversity as a member of society and the community. • We work to ensure the safety and health of employees in all business activities and strive to create safe and comfortable work environments. • We strive to prevent EHS accidents such as environmental pollution and occupational injuries, and, in emergencies, strive to prevent damage from spreading by responding swiftly and appropriately. • We systematically and continuously provide education and training and strive to increase EHS awareness. • We actively disclose information pertaining to EHS activities, and strive to communicate with society and the community Established October 2012 37 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section EHS Management System Implementation of the EHS Management System The Terumo Group EHS Management System integrates confirm the operational status and effectiveness of systems environmental, health, and safety management in line with and ensure compliance with relevant laws and regulations, the Terumo Global EHS Policy (“EHS Policy”). the EHS Audit Committee conducts EHS-related internal As a key part of Terumo’s focus on sustainability in audits at all sites. business, the EHS Policy and related targets and plans Terumo views actions that lower environmental are deliberated and decided by the EHS Committee, impact and promote the safety and health of its associates and then reflected in EHS activities at Terumo Group as corporate social responsibilities and critical factors for sites worldwide. EHS Expert Subcommittees, consisting sustaining growth. of experts drawn from individual business sites and Going forward, we will continue working to improve functioning as subsidiary bodies to the EHS Committee, the Terumo Group EHS Management System in line with formulate strategies and proposals in specialized areas. To international standards. Organization for Company-wide Promotion of the EHS Management System Board of Directors Director in Charge of EHS EHS Audit Committee EHS Committee EHS Expert Subcommittees Secretariat : Environmental Management Department Health and Safety SC Eco-products and Safety SC Person in Charge of Site Industrial Waste SC Energy SC Site EHS Management Committee Chemical Substance SC Communication SC Members TOPICS ISO14001/OHSAS18001 Certifications Obtained for the Three Principal Factories in Japan In fiscal 2015, we obtained the ISO14001 environmental management system and OHSAS18001 occupational health and safety management systems certifications for the Ashitaka Factory. Both of these certifications have now been obtained for all three of the principal factories (Fujinomiya, Kofu, and Ashitaka) in Japan. The Terumo Group has also obtained certifications for the integrated safety and health management systems in place at the Haasrode Factory of Terumo Europe NV, in Belgium, and the blood bag Part of a certification examination factory of Terumo Penpol Private Ltd., in India. 38 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section EHS Audits EHS Internal Audits To prevent legal violations, environmental accidents, and industrial accidents, and reduce environmental, health, and safety risks, we conduct EHS internal audits based on Terumo EHS Committee Standards. When internal audits identify nonconformities, corrective and preventive actions are implemented and effectiveness-checked. For findings requiring improvement, remediation plans are submitted and those conditions are reviewed in the following year’s audit to determine if they have been improved. EHS Audits • Audit Tasks 1. Check the operational status of EHS management systems 2. Check compliance with EHS-related laws, conventions, etc. 3. Terumo Global EHS Policy and internal rules and standards, and internal rules and standards 4. Check EHS-related performance • Group EHS Internal Audit Results • No serious nonconformities were noted. In total, five minor nonconformities were identified and Request for Corrective and Preventive Actions/Response Forms were issued. Regarding three minor nonconformities identified in the previous fiscal year, it was determined that corrective measures have been implemented and that the nonconformities have been eliminated. • Regarding the introduction of new equipment and changes in work procedures, EHS risks and regulatory reviews were conducted in accordance with prior assessment procedures. Through these reviews, it was determined that proper actions have been taken to address EHS risks and that applicable laws and regulations are being complied with. • Regarding major EHS risks identified at individual business sites, it was determined that emergency response training has been conducted and that results have been properly reviewed. • Regarding EHS objectives at individual business sites, it was determined that progress is being achieved generally according to plans. Given an upward trend in work-related accidents requiring time off, reviews of corrective and preventive measures were conducted at work sites that have experienced accidents. 39 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Results of External Environmental Audits Conducting Audits of Waste-treatment Contractors To confirm that the sludge and waste plastics generated by Terumo are appropriately processed throughout all stages of treatment, we have prepared a checklist for our regular audits of waste collection and disposal contractors. In fiscal 2015, we conducted audits at 31 contractors and identified no problems. Audit of a waste-treatment contractor Results of External On-Site Inspections In fiscal 2015, local authorities conducted environmental on-site inspections and tested water samples at factories and the R&D Center based on the Water Pollution Control Act and the Air Pollution Control Act. No inspections or tests resulted in adverse findings by inspection authorities. Inspection by government authorities 40 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section EHS Education Deepening EHS Understanding among Associates Training and Education to Deepen EHS Understanding To ensure solid understanding of the Terumo Global EHS Policy and EHS activities, we have developed an education program on EHS basics. This e-learning-based program is conducted for all associates. We have also prepared education materials tailored to the needs of factories, the R&D Center, and sales offices, and use them in regularly conducted education and training programs. Apart from these systematic education initiatives, EHS information is distributed via the intranet and we conduct internal programs that are open to participation by associates’ families. Through these and other such Associates in EHS training initiatives, we are striving to increase EHS awareness among our associates. Emergency and Accident Response Training Individual business sites have established procedures to prevent EHS accidents and lessen the severity of any that should occur. They also regularly conduct emergency response training and review results. Emergency response training 41 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section EHS Award Recognizing Outstanding EHS Activities We created the Terumo Human×Eco Award in fiscal EHS activities. Four fiscal 2015 initiatives were selected for 2012 to recognize outstanding environmental, health, recognition in fiscal 2016. Details of all of these activities and safety activities in the Terumo Group worldwide, and were shared throughout the Terumo Group as examples of encourage participation in and sharing of information on good practices. Terumo Human×Eco Award recipients Terumo Human×Eco Award recipient (MicroVention Costa Rica S.R.L.) Award Project & Recipient Project Award Recipient Venoject II Material Savings General Hospital Products Company Reduction of usage of both plastic and thrombin R&D Dept. & Medical Devise D&T Kofu Factory Office Improvement via Introduction of MFPs and Other Equipment General Affairs Department, IT Planning Department Reduce paper usage and space devoted to office equipment by adopting CPU Project to paperless approaches Energy Reduction Target Achievement and Continuation of Zero Accidents Requiring Time Off Energy savings from improvements in equipment operation Terumo Clinical Supply Co., Ltd. EHS Committee Achieved 2,293 continuous days of zero work-related accidents requiring time off (as of March 31, 2016) Recycling Program Implementation Increase of Recycled Waste Rate MicroVention Costa Rica S.R.L. Facilities Department Reduction of Landfilled Waste Rate 42 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section For Employee Health and Safety Management System Ongoing Initiatives to Prevent Work-Related Accidents To protect the safety of our associates in Japan, we pursue initiatives including a 5S program, review of our Occupational Health and Safety Management danger zones, and risk mitigation measures. Results Committee holds regular meetings at our factories, R&D are reported to the Occupational Health and Safety headquarters, sales offices, and head office. To prevent Management Committee, which then discusses further industrial accidents and minimize the impact of those actions to take. Preventing deaths and serious accidents, that occur, we continually undertake initiatives aimed at and reducing the numbers of minor accidents, is an ensuring health and safety in the workplace. ongoing objective at Terumo. Aiming to prevent all types of work-related accidents, Industrial Accidents Resulting in Lost Working Days / Frequency*1 / Seriousness*2 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Accidents Resulting in 2 3 0 4 2 Lost Working Days Frequency (%) 0.97 1.68 0.00 0.45 0.44 Seriousness (%) 0 0.01 0 0.02 0.00 *1 Rate of Occurrence: Number of accidents resulting in injury or death per million working hours. *2 Seriousness: Lost working days per 1,000 working hours. 43 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Health Management Support for Associates Terumo’s mission is “Contributing to Society through our associates over 40 years of age now diagnosed with Healthcare.” In Japan, therefore, we actively strive to the syndrome. In response to this in 2015 we launched a protect the health of our associates and encourage them successful walking campaign with over 2,000 associates to practice “health management.” We pursue a range of taking part. Other initiatives to improve the health of our initiatives aimed at promoting the health of our associates. associates include ongoing support to stop smoking, For example, the Company, its health insurance promotion of annual health checks (100% participation) union, and industrial health staff collaborate to provide and additional detailed health checks (60% participation associates with health checkup opportunities, hold in 2012 and 90% in 2015). Furthermore, since 2016, our seminars and health-oriented events, and offer financial health insurance union started to cover cancer screening assistance to promote prevention, early detection, and costs leading to 60% to 80% of our associates taking early treatment. In addition, health guidance is provided to cancer screening examinations. We plan to increase this individual associates and their families. rate further going forward. Recently, the number of cases of metabolic * Terumo is a supporting member of the Kenko Keiei Kenkyukai, a Japanese NPO advancing understanding of the benefits to companies of promoting syndrome has been growing in Japan. This trend can good health among employees also be seen for us here at Terumo with around 22% of Prevention Early Detection Treatment Support Exercise Health Checkups Medical Expense Support Company-Sponsored Women’s Health Checkups Oral Care Gym Memberships Walking Campaign Financial Support for Smoking Cessation Financial Support for Vaccines Comprehensive Physical Exams Influenza Uterocervical Cancer Financial Support for Health Consultations Comprehensive Neurological Exams Vacation Time Financial Support for Breast Cancer MRIs Lodging subsidies for travel Follow-On Exams Health Promoting Programs (in Japan) In a campaign aimed at promoting walking, associates enter step counts into a web-based application and Walking receive prizes for achieving goals. Though we had already been offering ultrasound and mammography examinations, we began in fiscal 2015 to Breast-Cancer also provide financial support for MRI examinations, which are still not commonly used to diagnose breast cancer Screening Support in Japan. We also distribute breast-cancer information pamphlets to associates and their spouses, holding inhouse seminars, and take other steps to promote understanding of this disease. To help raise awareness of dental diseases, which can contribute to lifestyle diseases, we now offer oral care Oral Care Support subsidies in addition to the dental exams we have traditionally provided. Associates who would like to stop smoking but have not yet succeeded can receive subsidies for outpatient smoking cessation assistance. Those who do not succeed in quitting after one round of assistance are Stop Smoking encouraged to try again, and they can receive financial assistance again in the year following their first attempt. Support In addition, corporate physicians conduct in-house smoking cessation programs and lead seminars and discussions to encourage smokers to stop smoking. By implementing personal consultations with corporate health staff and establishing an external consultation system, Mental Health we have made it easy for associates to get assistance for mental health concerns. Furthermore, we address mental Support health care from various perspectives; for example, by conducting stress-care training for all associates, and trainings to help managers understand and address mental health issues among those they oversee. Healthcare To promote Healthy Company management, we have established a dedicated intranet website. With the aim of Information increasing health awareness, the site contains information on our Healthy Company management approach, top Website management’s position on associate health, and the health-improvement assistance available to associates. 44 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section In recognition of its achievements in employee health, Terumo is a member of the KENKO Kigyo Kai, an Terumo was selected by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, organization of companies committed to this idea. Under Trade and Industry for inclusion in its Health & Productivity the leadership of their top management, members of this Stock Selection* for fiscal 2014 and again in fiscal 2015. organization embark on an ongoing process of taking As a company involved in the healthcare industry, we steps to promote the health of their employees, reviewing are actively involved in health management for associates the results, and making improvements. Terumo embraces and, with a view to being a model for other companies, this approach to business management and contributes to advance management practices that treat employee health efforts to promote its wider adoption. as an important contributor to business performance. * This stock selection, determined jointly by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, is intended to spotlight companies where management addresses employee health as a matter of strategic importance. Updated just once a year, the Health & Productivity Stock Selection is chosen from among companies listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, with only one company selected from each industry segment. 45 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Developing Environmentally-Friendly and Safety Products With a goal of healthcare that is friendly to both people and the environment, Terumo develops products that are friendly to healthcare professionals, patients, and the global environment. Development Direction “Human×Eco®” Development Guidelines Terumo aims to make medical treatment kinder and “Human×Eco” Development Guidelines gentler. That means making medical procedures safer and more efficient by creating technologies that place less More friendly More advanced physical stress on patients, prevent infection, and facilitate Providing safety Contributing to the the work of medical professionals. and reliability advancement of healthcare Preventing infections, Less invasive, more Doing this leads to medicine that is friendly to the preventing medical errors, sophisticated, innovating environment. When an infection or medical accident easy to use healthcare occurs, it becomes necessary to use medical resources that would not have been needed otherwise. We believe, therefore, that developing products that emphasize safety Cleaner Less and efficiency in usage, as well as effectiveness, is good Reducing environmental Using resources for the environment. impact effectively Product/packaging designed Smaller/lighter, Terumo has established its own “Human×Eco” for better disposal energy-saving, space-saving, guidelines, a set of four principles and 24 directives, for and recycling multifunctional developing products that are friendly to both people and the environment. To promote these efforts, we display the “Human×Eco” logo on the best examples of our design philosophy. 46 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Product Examples Examples of Products that Save Resources and Costs TERUPACK® Eco Environmentally Friendly IV Solution Bag TERUPACK® Eco is an IV solution bag designed to be environmentally friendly. It is manufactured with less plastic, in a production process that consumes less energy and emits less CO2 than previous processes. In addition, because TERUPACK® Eco bags weighs 23% less than previous bag, it is expected to result in less waste and a lower overall environmental impact. “Human×Eco” certified TERUPACK Eco TRI Introducer Kit — Minimally Invasive and Medically Cost Efficient Cardiac catheterization can be performed by inserting a catheter at either the wrist or the groin. Inserting at the wrist, in a procedure called “Transradial Intervention,” or TRI, entails fewer complications, such as post-procedure bleeding, and is less invasive. Terumo has developed an innovative introducer kit that features a sheath with a thinner, more finely formed wall for a smaller outside diameter. A narrower sheath makes more treatment options available for patients with small arteries while also reducing costs and resource usage associated with postprocedure complications. TRI Introducer Kit PTCA Balloon Catheter* — Designed for Use in a Wide Range of Treatments We developed a PTCA balloon catheter that can be used with various types of therapies by using more advanced materials and improving the way the balloon is folded. This product has made it possible to reduce the number of catheters used to provide treatment to a patient. That means it is more comfortable for patients, helps to save resources and reduces treatment expenses. * PTCA balloon catheter is a medical device that is used to widen a clogged blood vessel by inflating a balloon at its tip. PTCA balloon catheter 47 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Concentrated Liquid Formula — Ready to Use without a Bottle Unlike conventional products in which fluidity and thickness must be adjusted, creating the need for a bottle, this readyto-use product produces less waste and eliminates the labor associated with the washing of bottles. Moreover, this mixture of water and concentrated liquid formula reduces the burden on healthcare professionals and caregivers. “Human×Eco” certified concentrated liquid formula Infusion Solution — Reducing Waste through Multi-Drug Kits This product combines necessary infusion solution in a single kit. This simplifies the mixing process and helps to prevent any microbial or other external contamination from coinjection, while also eliminating the risk for accidents involving needles. The product also helps to save resources and reduce medical waste by eliminating the need for medical equipment used when preparing infusion bags. Infusion solution kits like this are also designed to prevent administration before the inner partitions are properly breached. Infusion solution Prefilled Syringes — A Simpler, Safer Way to Administer Injections Prefilled syringes not only eliminate the need for suction and dissolution, but also replace ampoules and vials. Besides boosting productivity, this can also reduce the risk of microbial contamination, problems due to syringe misidentification, and accidents involving needles. Made of plastic, prefilled syringes are less fragile and easier to dispose of in terms of waste separation and weight compared with glass syringes. Injection solution prefilled syringes 48 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Oxygenator with Integrated Arterial Filter — Fewer Parts and Raw Materials By integrating an arterial filter into an oxygenator, we Screen filter reduced the number of parts used in the blood circuit. Oxygenator with integrated arterial filter Syringes and Other Products — Same Capacity and Functionality with Less Weight and Smaller Size We reduced the size and weight of our syringes while maintaining volume and functionality. This improvement enabled a 25% reduction in waste in terms of weight. Reduction in the size has also reduced costs and packaging during transportation. We also achieved a 40% reduction in the weight of our continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) bags used in home healthcare in an effort to reduce household waste. Syringe CAPD bag Blood Bags — Reducing Transportation Costs, Increasing Flexibility and Portability Aiming to improve safety in transfusion, Terumo marketed the first blood bag produced in Japan in 1969. Compared with products made of glass, Terumo’s plastic bag, incorporating a blood collection tube and a container, offered outstanding flexibility and portability, reducing transportation costs as well as waste volume. Blood bag 49 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Solution Pack® — Greater Efficiency, Less Waste Having developed a certified angiographic kit that eliminated excess packaging and procedures by providing in a single set the products needed to perform angiography for interventional therapies, we further reduced weight and waste by developing a better method and form of product packaging and redesigning the shape of the tray. This allowed a 53% reduction in materials, compared with Terumo’s conventional solution pack. “Human×Eco” certified angiographic kit Products that are Safer and Easier to Use Closed Infusion System for Chemotherapy Drugs — Reducing the Risk of Accidental Exposure While chemotherapy drugs help to control cancer, many have been reported to pose a potential risk to the health of those handling them due to carcinogenicity. Terumo’s system for infusion of chemotherapy drugs eliminates these risks through a closed system to prevent exposure to drugs during the process of administration and disposal. Since there is no need to use needles to prepare the infusion, the system contribute to safety for medical personnel by preventing the risk of needle accidents. Closed Infusion System for chemotherapy drugs Closed Infusion Systems — Contributing to Safer, More Efficient Infusion Line Management Keeping infusion line mixers closed helps to prevent contamination by external airborne microbes. In addition, our infusion line connectors are designed to retain no liquid, to deliver even very small amounts of drug solutions. With no need for special adapters, injecting drug solutions via syringes or infusion devices is simple and fast. Furthermore, easy physical management means reduced risk of improper use, as well as other safety and efficiency improvements in infusion line management. Infusion line connector 50 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Blood Glucose Monitor with Voice Guidance — Greater Ease of Use for Patients This device has a large and easily readable LCD screen and a voice guidance feature that provides audible measurement readings and error messages for easy operation even by first-time users. The raised power button is easy to distinguish by touch to ensure that diabetic patients with an impaired sense of vision or touch can use the device easily. Blood Glucose Monitor 51 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Products Free of Hazardous Substances Leading the Industry toward Mercury-Free Products The Minamata Convention on Mercury was adopted thermometers in 1984. That was over 30 years ago and signed at the Conference of Plenipotentiaries on and since then we have contributed significantly to the the Minamata Convention on Mercury in 2013. Under elimination of mercury from medical settings and homes by the convention, it will become illegal to manufacture and developing and introducing products such as mercury-free engage in trade involving products containing mercury digital thermometers and digital blood pressure monitors, beginning in 2021. Terumo ceased production of mercury which are friendlier to the environment and safer to use. Digital thermometer Digital blood pressure monitor Promoting PVC-free, DEHP-free Products Terumo helps reduce the release of toxic gas from ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) whenever possible since there incineration of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) by promoting use are concerns that it may be biologically harmful. of PVC-free packaging. We also use alternatives to di-2 Polybutadiene IV solution set PVC-free IV solution bag DEHP-free cardiovascular circuit 52 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Initiatives to Deal with Climate Change Climate change due to global warming is among the most critical environmental problems threatening humanity. Unusual weather events are expected to cause an increase in natural disasters and affect ecosystems in ways that will have serious health and other impacts. Terumo’s business activities will also be subject to greater risk. We are working to fight climate change by reducing CO2 emissions associated with our business activities. Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities Target for Reduction of CO2 Emissions (Scope1, 2*) The entire Terumo Group is working to reduce CO2 CO2 Emissions in Total and Per Unit of Consolidated emissions. The Energy Subcommittee (one of the EHS Net Sales Expert Subcommittees) leads the development and CO2 Emissions (Japan) Per unit of consolidated net sales (%) advancement of energy-saving measures. In fiscal 2015, CO2 Emissions (Overseas) efforts focused mainly on upgrades introducing once(1,000t-CO2) (%) through boilers, inverter compressors, and other types 300 100 100 of high-efficiency equipment, and on repairing air and 259 233 244 253 255 steam leaks in regular inspections. In office environments, 240 79 80 we conducted activities including promotion of energy78 70 68 saving by setting thermostats appropriately and turning 180 190 64 60 114 122 off unneeded lighting in order to involve the entire 131 131 132 77 Terumo Group in energy-saving activities. Overall, these 120 40 activities succeeded in lowering CO2 emissions per unit of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2015 to 36% of the figure 60 121 122 124 127 20 112 118 for fiscal 2005, an improvement of 4 percentage points from the previous fiscal year. 0 0 * Scope: Terumo uses the GHG Protocol’s Scope 1 and 2 standards to calculate 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) greenhouse gas emissions. The Scope 1 standard is for all direct emissions of * The electricity-related CO2 emissions coefficients for Japan were set greenhouse gases from corporate facilities and plants. The Scope 2 standard based on the actual results obtained for individual customers in fiscal is for indirect greenhouse gas emissions associated with the consumption of 2005. Overseas electricity-related CO2 emissions coefficients are defined purchased electricity. The Scope 3 standard (which Terumo does not employ) as the regional coefficients for 2005 published in IEA CO2 Emissions from is for all other greenhouse gas emissions from business activities. Fuel Combustion 2012. Long-term-target Reduce CO2 emissions per net sales unit for the entire Group to 50% of the fiscal 2005 level, by fiscal 2025 CO2 Emissions (Breakdown of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) Fiscal 2015 (t-CO2) Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Japan 39,719 87,185 126,904 Overseas 17,604 114,986 132,590 Global 57,323 202,171 259,494 Renewable Energy Usage Photovoltaic power (kWh) 400,155 Biomass gas (kg) 2,025 53 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section TOPICS Kofu Factory Awarded the Outstanding Energy Management Company, Director of the Kanto Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry Prize The Kofu Factory has upgraded its facilities to introduce advanced boilers, refrigerators, and other types of high-efficiency equipment, and is continuously implementing factory-wide energy-saving and other types of activities. As a result, from fiscal 2012 through fiscal 2014, the Kofu Factory achieved energy consumption reductions of approximately 4% annually. In recognition of this effort, the Kofu Factory was named a winner of the Outstanding Energy Management Company, Director of the Kanto Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry Prize. Scene from the award ceremony Reducing CO2 Emissions (Scope 3) Terumo is switching from truck-based to marine Distribution will remain the focus of our ongoing transportation, improving distribution vehicles’ carry efforts to achieve greater efficiency in transportation-related efficiency, revising distribution routes, and undertaking other CO2 emissions. measures to lighten the environmental impact of distribution. CO2 Emissions (Scope 3*) Product 3,932 t Distribution 116 t 62 t 5,530 t Terumo Warehouse Sales Agent Export Import Terminal Terminal Waste Transport 116 t Wastetreatment contractor * Scope 3 data is being disclosed to the extent it has been gathered 54 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Effective Use of Resources The Earth’s limited resources are what make Terumo’s business activities possible. That is why we strive to utilize needed resources effectively and efficiently through activities such as reducing waste and improving recycling rates. Reducing Waste Reducing the Amount of Landfill Waste Terumo is advancing efforts to reduce waste and reuse In fiscal 2015, only 0.19% of our total waste by resources to lessen the volume of waste that goes to final volume was disposed of in landfills, meaning that we disposal (landfills). achieved our target. Landfill Waste Generated in Japan Target Total emissions Ratio of Landfill Waste Reduce final disposal waste to less than 0.5% of Landfill Waste to Total Waste (%) total waste at the Terumo Group in Japan. (t) (%) 11,000 1.0 9,990 9,770 9,000 9,046 9,263 8,878 0.8 7,000 0.6 60 0.4 0.35 0.37 0.29 37 0.24 0.19 0.2 30 32 27 23 17 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Promoting Recycling While our Industrial Waste Subcommitee (one of our EHS Recycling Amounts and Rates (Global) Expert Subcommittees) plays a major role in the sharing Recycling volume Recycling rate (%) of important information between sites, all our associates make efforts to recycle. Due to their unique properties (t) (%) and product safety concerns, it is not usually possible to 20,000 100 recycle our products for use in other medical products. 84 83 84 87 86 We do, however, recycle various types of waste generated 14,025 14,649 14,634 13,850 15,000 75 in our production processes and office-based business activities for use in other plastic products, including floor 13,082 tiles, recycled plastic fuel (RPF), and organic fertilizer. In 10,000 50 fiscal 2015, our recycling rate reached 97% at Terumo sites in Japan and 86% globally. 5,000 25 Target Improvement of the group-wide waste recycling 0 0 rate to 85% or more 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 55 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Initiatives to Collect and Recycle Small Rechargeable Batteries Terumo works through the Japan Portable Rechargeable Collection and Recycling Performance in FY 2015 (kg) Battery Recycling Center (JBRC) to collect used NickelNickelSealed leadrechargeable batteries from Terumo products. This is cadmium hydride Lithium-ion acid batteries in compliance with Japan’s Act on the Promotion of Effective Utilization of Resources. To promote the proper 3,927 2,179 269 2,061 recycling of small rechargeable batteries, we display a recycling logo on our products and inform customers through product instruction booklets that batteries should be recycled. In addition, for products covered by our maintenance services, we regularly inspect and replace small rechargeable batteries, and recycle batteries that are no longer usable. Reducing Packaging To effectively use resources and improve customer usability, Terumo is working to reduce its use of packaging materials. These efforts include the development of smaller, lighter and slimmer packages and adoption of new package designs. Reducing the Amount of Paper Used for Shipping Boxes Based on a drop test evaluation, it was determined that the bottom liner of the boxes used for transporting infusion solution could be removed without endangering the products being shipped. Removal of this piece of cardboard reduces paper usage by approximately 5.5t a year and lightens the disposal burden for customers. Shipping box ready for use without a bottom liner Effective Utilization of Water Resources At Terumo, we are working to optimize our use of water Water Use resources through measures such as circulating and reusing Water use (Japan) Per unit of consolidated net sales our cooling water. We have reduced the amount of water we Water use (Overseas) use per unit of sales by about 18% over the past five years, (1,000m3) (1000m3/100 mil. yen) and will continue looking for ways to use water more effectively. 6,000 2.4 4,983 4,957 5,112 4,500 4,575 4,759 1.8 1,106 1,247 1,299 1,402 1,094 1.183 1.183 1.066 3,000 1.012 1.2 1,500 0.974 0.6 3,481 3,653 3,736 3,658 3,710 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) *Terumo Group business sites in Japan, overseas manufacturing sites 56 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Proper Control of Chemical Substances Terumo monitors and controls the use, emission, and disposal of chemical substances according to voluntary targets established under the Terumo Global EHS Policy. Reduction of Chemical Emissions Initiatives Supporting Proper Management of Chemical Substances At Terumo, the Chemical Substance Subcommittee (one of Guidelines, which set forth procedures for the acquisition, the EHS Expert Subcommittees) leads efforts to track both storage, handling, disposal, and other activities involving the amounts of chemical substances we handle and the chemical substances. In addition, risks in the working areas amounts we emit, reduce our usage of these materials, and where chemical substances are used are assessed based properly manage what we use. Chemical substances are on our Chemical Substance Risk Assessment Procedures. managed based on our Chemical Substance Management Voluntary Action to Reduce Chemical Substance Emissions Reducing Dichloromethane Emissions Terumo is working to reduce its emissions of Dichloromethane Emissions dichloromethane* based on own voluntary targets. (t) At our Kofu Factory, which handles large amounts of 400 394 dichloromethane, we have installed recycle system 300 to reduce emissions of this air pollutant. As an added measure, we monitor dichloromethane concentrations at 100 86 78 82 77 the boundaries of the factory site to ensure standards are 73 not exceeded. 50 * Dichloromethane is designated as a hazardous air pollutant (volatile organic compound) under Japan’s Air Pollution Control Law, which has set an 0 upper limit of 150 μg /ｍ3 on atmospheric concentrations. This standard 1996 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) does not apply to designated industrial areas, such as the location of the Kofu Factory. Nevertheless, Terumo has set and abides by a voluntary standard that is stricter than the official environmental standard. Target Keep dichloromethane emissions to less than 100 tons per year for the Terumo Group in Japan for the Terumo Group as a whole 57 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Reduce Ethylene Oxide Emissions Ethylene oxide is widely used to sterilize medical devices. Ethylene Oxide Emissions At Terumo, we are working to reduce ethylene oxide Amount used Emissions emissions to the outside environment, and have installed (t) catalytic oxidation emissions treatment systems at our 100 94 96 95 100 89 Ashitaka and Fujinomiya factories and our R&D Center, 75 along with combustion treatment equipment at the Kofu Factory. In addition, we have voluntarily set an upper 50 limit of 4.3 μg /ｍ3 on atmospheric concentrations at the 25 boundaries of the sites mentioned above and monitor the 6 6 3 4 0 3 atmosphere to ensure we abide by it. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) * Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan Alternatives to HCFC-225 In light of the Montréal protocol, an international agreement HCFC-225 Emissions for the phase-out of substances that deplete the ozone (t) layer, it has been decided that the production of HCFC50 47 49 225 will be prohibited in Japan beginning in 2020. Working 40 43 to select replacements for HCFC-225, Terumo’s Eco30 30 Products and Safety Subcommittee (one of the EHS Expert 26 Subcommittees) disseminates information on processes 20 that use HCFC-225 at individual business sites, on HCFC10 225 substitutes, and on the results of related discussions 0 at individual business sites. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) * Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan 58 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Tracking and Managing PRTR Substances At Terumo, monthly tracking of usage and emissions volumes for PRTR and other chemical substances, and reducing emissions at their source, is a top priority. Management of PRTR Substances (t) Fujinomiya Ashitaka Kofu Substance Volume R&D Center Total Factory Factory Factory Amount used 9.5 59.2 20.1 0.1 88.9 Ethylene oxide gas Emissions 0.3 1.8 1.0 0.0 3.1 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amount used 0.0 2.2 0.0 0.0 2.2 1, 2-dichloroethane Emissions 0.0 1.6 0.0 0.0 1.6 Amount transferred 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.5 Amount used 2.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.6 HCFC-141b Emissions 1.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.8 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amount used 9.9 24.9 6.5 0.0 41.3 HCFC-225 Emissions 3.6 18.6 3.4 0.0 25.6 Amount transferred 1.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.5 Amount used 0.1 6.5 158.3 0.1 165.0 Dichloromethane Emissions 0.1 4.0 73.0 0.0 77.1 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Amount used 0.6 0.0 8.1 0.9 9.6 Toluene Emissions 0.6 0.0 4.5 0.0 5.1 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 3.6 0.6 4.2 Amount used 443.2 3.7 110.9 0.0 557.8 Di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate Emissions 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 2.0 0.0 2.0 Amount used 0.0 20.0 0.1 0.0 20.1 Hydrogen fluoride Emissions 0.0 1.7 0.0 0.0 1.7 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amount used 0.0 7.0 0.0 0.0 7.0 n-hexane Emissions 0.0 3.5 0.0 0.0 3.5 Amount transferred 0.0 3.5 0.0 0.0 3.5 Amount used 0.0 4.6 0.0 0.0 4.6 N, N-dimethylformamide Emissions 0.0 3.0 0.0 0.0 3.0 Amount transferred 0.0 1.6 0.0 0.0 1.6 * PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Proper Disposal of Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) Terumo has removed all equipment containing high Ashitaka Factory was completed in fiscal 2015. Surveys concentrations of PCBs from its operations and stores to identify equipment that may contain small amounts of these items under strict controls. To ensure that they PCBs are ongoing. Processing of all equipment containing can be expeditiously and properly disposed of, we have PCBs is scheduled for completion by fiscal 2019. officially requested that the Japan Environmental Storage * The Japan Environmental Storage & Safety Corporation (JESCO) is a & Safety Corporation* handle such disposal. Processing special company wholly owned by the Japanese government. It was established in April 2004 as the only company in Japan to carry out of equipment with high concentrations of PCBs at the detoxification of items with high concentrations of PCBs. 59 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Compliance with Chemical Regulations Worldwide (REACH, etc.) Chemical regulations are being tightened throughout the world, and relevant Terumo departments are working to comply with regulations and to develop a regulatory compliance system to stay abreast of future changes. Construction of a System to Ensure Regulatory Compliance Collection of Regulatory Information Our Environmental Management Department gathers information on environmental regulations via the Japanese government’s Official Gazette and through industry activities, and it regularly receives information from local subsidiaries in Europe, which has the most advanced chemical regulations. It then shares this information within Terumo to address shortcomings in regulatory compliance and ensure ongoing compliance. Considerations in Design and Procurement At the product design stage, designers are informed of regulated substances and instructed to take all possible steps to avoid using these and other environmental pollutants. We use our “Human x Eco Development Guidelines” as a tool to raise designer awareness. Human×Eco Development Guidelines Identifying Chemical Substance Content of Procured Items To comply with increasingly strict chemical substance regulations throughout the world, it is necessary to identify and properly manage the chemical substances included in procured items. Relevant Terumo departments work to strengthen our chemical substance management system. Preparation for the future application of the chemSHERPA scheme* is one aspect of these efforts. * chemSHERPA is being advanced by Japan‘s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry as a way of sharing product chemical content information within the supply chain. 60 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Global Information Sharing Feedback to Local Sites To ensure legal compliance, the Environmental Management Department provides information to relevant Local subsidiaries (Outside Japan) departments and local subsidiaries. In addition, internal audits are conducted regularly, with the cooperation of experts, and steps are taken to share regulatory Related departments information and ensure the proper functioning of the Environmental Industry regulatory compliance system. associations Management Department Procurement Department, companies and Suppliers related departments Responding to GHS International Chemical Management Rules At Terumo, we provide GHS* -based information on * GHS: Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals hazardous chemical substances to all associates working in locations that handle chemical substances. Properly handling chemical substances in accordance with this information protects the environment and the health of associates. 61 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Initiatives for Biodiversity Conservation In line with its commitment to biodiversity conservation, Terumo promotes activities that support the development of a low-carbon, recycling-oriented society in which humans coexist with nature. Protecting Forests Mt. Fuji Reforestation Project—Ongoing Initiatives at Terumo Megumi-no-Mori Terumo has two factories in Fujinomiya City in Shizuoka, Japan. Both take water from springs at the foot of Mt. Fuji for use in the production of medical devices, pharmaceuticals, and other products. Recognizing that our business depends on the use of natural resources, we have undertaken the Terumo Mt. Fuji Reforestation Project to protect this area. This project involves the reforestation of parts of Mt. Fuji’s forests that have lost many trees to typhoons. Replanting these areas with native species will help them to become more resistant to future natural disasters and ensure that they can continue to serve as a source of groundwater. In fiscal 2011, three parties – Terumo, Shizuoka Prefecture, and a local forest owner entered into an Tending the forest in spring agreement called the “Shizuoka Mirai-no-Mori (Future Forest) Supporter Pact.” Under this agreement, we plant trees and maintain forested areas to create the “Terumo Megumi-noMori” reserve within the Fumoto district of Fujinomiya. In fiscal 2015, tree-planting and forest maintenance activities were conducted throughout the year. In the spring, trees were pruned to allow more sunlight to reach seedlings, and barriers were erected to protect them from wind and hungry deer. With the coming of fall, trees were Autumn activity volunteers planted, or replanted, by a total of approximately 300 volunteers including associates, their families, and local junior high school students. 62 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Voluntary Programs Terumo’s “ECO Challenge” Volunteer Campaign Every summer since 2006, we have held the “ECO Challenge”, in which volunteer Terumo associates in Japan, and their families, hold a variety of environmental conservation activities at home and work. At the beginning of the ECO Challenge, a “Challenge Sheet” describing specific eco activities is distributed to participants, who then perform them. Points are calculated based on the activities of participating associates, and Terumo uses the resulting figures to determine the size of its donation to the Organization for Industrial, Spiritual, and Cultural Advancement—International (OISCA). In fiscal 2015, a total of 4,131 associates participated in the ECO Challenge. Challenge Sheet Donations to Two Programs Supporting Environmental Education for Children through the Children’s Forest Program The Children’s Forest Program encourages children to get involved in greening activities to cultivate a love of nature and learn the importance of forests by nurturing seedlings on their school grounds and in their communities. Funds donated by Terumo are used to provide environmental education to children in the Philippines, to expand woodlands by planting and nurturing seedlings, and in other activities. Children’s Forest Program Supporting the Restoration of Coastal Forests Damaged in the Great East Japan Earthquake Coastal forests play an important role in preserving local living conditions, acting as sand and wind barriers, and as dampers against tsunamis. With the loss of coastal forests due to the tsunami generated by the Great East Japan Earthquake, salt damage along the coast of the Tohoku Project to Restore Coastal Forests region is growing worse. The Project to Restore Coastal Forests is intended to promote expanded production of seedlings and the planting and nurturing of forestland. The project also works for the recovery of disaster-affected regions through farmland restoration and job creation. 63 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Material Flow For the energy, raw materials and other inputs we use, we identify the environmental impact in terms of the CO2, wastewater, and waste generated by our business activities, and use this data as indicators for activities aimed at reducing environmental impacts going forward. INPUT OUTPUT Energy Atmosphere Electricity 212 GWh CO2 122,000 t-CO2 City gas 17 MNm3 Nitrogen oxides 19 t LPG 16 t Sulfur oxides 0t Heavy fuel oil A 1 kl PRTR substances 122 t Diesel 2 kl Gasoline 2,915 kl Bodies of water R&D/ Manufacturing/ Resources Wastewater volume 2,631,000 m3 Biochemical Oxygen Sales Industrial water 1,992,000 m3 Demand 6.7 t Well water 1,615,000 m3 PRTR substances 1.0 t Liquid raw materials 485 t Solid raw materials 23,998 t Waste Paper 20,750,000 sheets Waste generated 8,739 t Chemical substances Recycled 8,524 t Landfill 17 t PRTR substances 890 t PRTR substances 13 t Energy Atmosphere Distribution Diesel 3,437 kl CO2 9,800 t-CO2 Heavy fuel oil A 217 kl (Contracted) Nitrogen oxide 31 t Jet fuel 111 kl * Scope: Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan. * Based on fiscal 2005 CO2 emissions coefficients provided by electric power providers. 64 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Environmental Data for Fiscal 2015 Green Purchasing Results (Units and yen are stated in thousands) Overall Purchases Green Purchases Units 65 53 82% Cost 54,572 41,433 76% Site Data (Manufacturing and R&D sites) Fiscal 2015 (Japan) CO2 Water Hazardous Recycled Total Waste Site Location Emissions Usage Waste Amounts (t) (t) (1,000 m3) (t) (t) Fujinomiya, Shizuoka, Fujinomiya Factory 45,500 1,821 2,843 20 2,813 Japan Fujinomiya, Shizuoka, Ashitaka Factory 20,297 548 1,780 150 1,728 Japan Nakakoma, Kofu Factory 42,231 1,140 3,798 45 3,719 Yamanashi, Japan Ashigarakami, R&D Headquarters 5,957 76 198 43 149 Kanagawa, Japan Kakamigahara, Gifu, Terumo Clinical Supply Co., Ltd. 535 9 54 1 45 Japan Yamaguchi City, Terumo Yamaguchi Corporation 10,844 94 76 20 66 Yamaguchi Prefecture 65 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Site Data (Manufacturing and R&D sites) Fiscal 2015 CO2 Hazardous Recycled Water Usage Total Waste Site Location Emissions Waste Amounts (1,000 m3) (t) (t) (t) (t) Terumo Medical Corp. and Maryland, Terumo Cardiovascular 16,097 71 515 120 133 USA Systems Corp. Terumo Cardiovascular Michigan, Systems Corp. and Terumo 4,229 12 318 4 40 USA Heart Inc. Terumo Cardiovascular Massachusetts, 464 0.7 204 0 103 Systems Corp. USA California, MicroVention, Inc. 1,761 9 98 44 15 USA Colorado, Terumo BCT, Inc. 14,653 56 1,812 7 1,552 USA San Jose, MicroVention Costa Rica, S.R.L. 1,103 13 135 18 99 Costa Rica Leuven, Terumo Europe NV 9,605 48 697 137 333 Belgium Liverpool, Terumo UK Ltd. 177 0.5 108 0 90 UK Glasgow, Vascutek Ltd. 1,981 8 128 5 34 UK Larne, Terumo BCT, Ltd. 5,232 56 193 0 154 UK Terumo Medical Products Jilin, 30,341 514 937 65 822 (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. China Laguna, Terumo (Philippines) Corp. 23,304 271 860 56 796 the Philippines Kerala, Terumo Penpol Private Ltd. 9,162 36 682 0.6 673 India Vinh Phuc, Terumo Vietnam Co., Ltd. 6,380 167 181 52 129 Vietnam Dong Nai, Terumo BCT Vietnam Co., Ltd. 8,102 144 121 0.4 76 Vietnam * Waste densities used in the calculations are 0.2 t/m3 for general waste and industrial waste, and 1.0 t/m3 for hazardous waste. * CO2 emissions coefficients related to electricity use in Japan were calculated based on coefficients provided by electric power providers for fiscal 2005. CO2 emissions coefficients related to electricity use outside of Japan are the 2005 country emissions coefficients presented in IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2012. 66 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section EHS Goals and Achievements Fiscal Mid-term Targets: 2015 Initiative Fiscal 2015 Targets AssessFiscal 2016 Targets Fiscal 2014-2016 ment • Introduction of the Group Establishment EHS Management System to all • Expansion of application of the manufacturing sites in Japan, and •Management Expansion of application of the Group EHS group EHS Management System to all and Operation System to Ashitaka factory obtaining 3rd-party certifications at manufacturing sites in Japan of the major manufacturing sites Group EHS Management • Expansion of the application • Move forward with the preparation of a • Expansion of application of the Group of the Group EHS Management System global EHS Management System manual and EHS Management System to principal System to principal global documents global manufacturing sites manufacturing sites • Zero fatal or critical work-related accidents • Zero fatal or critical work-related • Zero fatal or critical work-related accidents • Reduction of work-related accidents by accidents • Reduce work-related accidents to less than 50% or more less than compared to that • Reduction of work-related 10 accidents per year of fiscal 2013 [Business sites in Japan, accidents by 50% or more less [Business sites in Japan,Terumo Corporation] Terumo Corporation] compared to that of fiscal 2013 • 100% periodic health-checkup rate and 80% • 100% periodic health-checkup rate and Reduction [Business sites in Japan, Terumo or more for the follow-up health-checkup rate 80% or more for the follow-up healthof Accident Corporation] [Business sites in Japan, Terumo Corporation] In checkup rate [Business sites in Japan, ProgTerumo Corporation] Risk, Health ress Enhancement • Develop procedures for responding to environmental accidents and emergencies, • Operation with no significant • Continuation of operation with no and conduct these trainings environmental accidents significant environmental accidents •facilities Enhance the corresponding equipment and • Strengthening measures of chemicalto improve response capability to leakage prevention accidents which cause serious environmental impacts • Achieve concrete results in the Develop of • Achieve concrete results in the development development and planning of at least one • Bringing 3 or more Human×Eco and planning of at least one Human×Eco Human×Eco product/production process Environmentally products to the market [Business product/production process [Business sites in Japan] Friendly and sites in Japan] [Business sites in Japan] • Bring 2 or more Human×Eco products to Safe Products the market [Business sites in Japan] and Production • Development of non-CFCs • Select the alternative solvents to • Development of non-CFCs productionProcesses production-technologies CFCs(HCFC-225) , and share the information technologies for each intended purpose [Business sites in Japan] among business sites [Business sites in Japan] [Business sites in Japan] • 1% reduction of group-wide CO2 emissions • 30% reduction of groupper unit of consolidated net sales compared to wide CO2 emissions per unit of the previous fiscal year • 1% reduction of group-wide CO2 Effective Use consolidated net sales from the • 1% reduction of CO2 emissions per unit of emissions per unit of consolidated net fiscal 2005 level of Energy and Terumo Corporation net sales compared to the sales compared to the previous fiscal year *Long-term target: Reduction of Resources previous fiscal year 50% by fiscal 2025 [Business sites in Japan, Terumo Corporation] (Reduction of CO2 Emissions) • Improvement of the group-wide waste • Improvement of the group-wide waste • Improvement of the group-wide recycling rate to 84% or more recycling rate to 85% or more waste recycling rate to 85% or • Reduce final disposal waste to less than • Reduce final disposal waste to less than more 0.5% of total waste [Business sites in Japan] 0.5% of total waste [Business sites in Japan] • Establishment of a chemical substance • Establishment of a chemical management system substance management system • Establish and implement chemical Regular implementation of chemical Compliance with the chemical substance management guideline substance management guideline substance management guidelines [Business sites in Japan] [Business sites in Japan] [Business sites in Japan] Implementation of chemical risk Proper Control assessment [Business sites in Japan] of Chemical • Improvement of organic solvents• Improvement of organic solvents-using Substances and using work environments • Improve work environments for highwork environments Reduction of Elimination of the class-3 (ie., high exposure area of organic solvents Elimination of the class-3 (ie., high exposure) Emissions exposure) working areas [Business sites in Japan] working areas related to the organicsolvent [Business sites in Japan] • Management of dichloromethane emissions using operations [Business sites in Japan] • Promotion of management of to less than 100 tons per year and EOG • Management of dichloromethane emissions and site-boundary concentrations at the site boundaries adjacent emissions to less than 100 tons per year and concentrations of chemicals to residential areas to no more than 4.3μg/m3 EOG concentrations at the site boundaries including dichloromethane [Business sites in Japan] adjacent to residential areas to no more than [Business sites in Japan] 4.3μg/m3 [Business sites in Japan] • Collaboration with NGOs to • Raising awareness of biodiversity• Promote internal eco campaigns and promote and expand biodiversity preservation activities through the internal expand covered business sites and preservation activities eco campaign participation [Business sites in Japan] Preservaiton of [Business sites in Japan] [Business sites in Japan] Biodiversity • Expansion of the Mt. Fuji • Conduct planting trees and conservation • Renew of the Shizuoka Future ForestReforestation Project to include activities throughout the year at ‘Terumo Supporter Agreement, and implementation of ongoing care of planted trees Megumi-no-Mori’ through the Mt. Fuji the Mt. Fuji Reforestation Project throughout [Business sites in Japan] Reforestation Project [Business sites in Japan] the year [Business sites in Japan] • Reconstruct annual report and enhance • Quality-improvement of the • Enhanced communication of overseas these contents disclosure activities in the annual information, corresponding to the -Preparation to adapt the G4 Sustainability Advancement report globalization of business Reporting Guidelines of EHS Communication • Development and improvement • Standardize EHS basic education tool and • Revision of the guideline on EHS education of the EHS education system, operate EHS basic education by e-learning and training associated with restructuring of including e-learning system system the EHS-related education system [Business sites in Japan] [Business sites in Japan, Terumo Corporation] [Business sites in Japan] is a trademark of Terumo Corporation. Terumo, Terumo Medical Pranex, T-PAS, MEDISAFE Fit Smile, Human×Eco, TERUPACK and Solution Pack are registered trademarks of Terumo Corporation. Fulcaliq is a trademark of Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation. 67 Terumo Corporation Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Section Tokyo Office Tokyo Opera City Tower, 3-20-2 Nishi-Shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 163-1450, Japan © Terumo Corporation October 2016
