Corporate Responsibility www.j-lauritzen.com 2015 Annual Report 2 J. LAURITZEN A/S · ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Table of Contents CEO Statement CEO Statement 2 Four years ago, we embarked on a journey to align our corthe shipping industry in general. Such challenges cannot be Highlights and Outlook 3 porate responsibility efforts throughout the Group; a journey solved by companies acting individually and strong coordinJ. Lauritzen Overview 4 that was amplified by our commitment to the United Nations ated global initiatives therefore need to take the lead here. Human and Labour Rights 5 Global Compact, which we signed in 2011. Environment and Climate 6 We support such global initiatives and always strive to seek Anti-Corruption 7 Since then, our business has undergone a considerable transindustry collaboration where deemed appropriate as a means Responsible Supply Chain Management 8 formation that has changed our business platform and operto share challenges, mobilise resources and create combined Lauritzen Bulkers 9 ations. Nevertheless, our commitment to the ten principles of leverage to ensure sustainable progress. This continues to be Lauritzen Kosan 11 the Global Compact remains unchanged as they continue to the basic philosophy behind our participation in industry partguide our corporate responsibility efforts and identify our businerships such as the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network, Triness impacts. dent Alliance and IMPA ACT. We believe that part of a quality service is to conduct business In 2015, we were especially honoured when we received an in a responsible manner creating benefits broadly, while being award for our efforts within responsible supply chain manageopen, honest and fair. Consequently, corporate responsibility ment and our commitment to the IMPA ACT programme from continues to be of strategic importance to our business. Howthe International Marine Purchasing Association. This is an ever, we are equally driven by good corporate citizenship, honour that we will take with us into 2016 as we continue to which is part of our DNA and ingrained in our values. work for increased transparency and sustainability in the supply chain and for closer collaboration within the industry with Even though maritime transportation is the most environthe purpose of joining forces to respond to social challenges. mentally friendly mode of transportation, there are still ample About this report opportunities for improvement. When operating in one of the We look forward to continuing our journey towards more reThis report has been prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements most globalised industries, global regulative initiatives are sponsible business practices within J. Lauritzen and the shipAct (Sec. 99a) and the UN Global Compact’s annual requirements for communicaneeded, also in the field of environmental protection. It was ping community in general, and we are confident that the printion on progress. The scope of our reporting is determined by our commitment to therefore disappointing to learn that shipping was not includciples of the Global Compact will continue to steer us in the the UN Global Compact and an assessment of materiality. The main aim of this reed in the COP21’s global climate change agreement in 2015. right direction. port is to give our internal and external stakeholders an overview of our corporate responsibility policies, actions and performance. J. Lauritzen will continue to work for global regulation as the I hope that you find the reading interesting. absence of this increases the risk of regional regulation and requirements which will not only lead to unfair competition Jan Kastrup-Nielsen but will also be of limited benefit to the environment. President & CEO, J. Lauritzen A/S Humanitarian issues, impacts on the environment, corruption and transparency in the highly global and extensive supply chains are key social challenges facing our business as well as 3 J. LAURITZEN A/S · ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Highlights and Outlook Our corporate responsibility efforts build on our core values Human rights due diligence and are aligned with our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on We have conducted due diligence of our potential and actual human rights impacts at our offices in Copenhagen and SinACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 Business and Human Rights. gapore, which is aligned with the expectations of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We consider corporate responsibility an integral part of our Relative cut in CO2 business and we continuously strive to implement our efforts Even if no severe human rights impacts were identified, some emissions of 19.5% in our day-to-day business operations. gaps were found in a few of our corporate policies and procefrom operated fleet dures. These have all been updated or are in the process of HIGHLIGHTS 2015 being evaluated to ensure that we do not cause or contribute since 2012 In 2015, our main corporate responsibility efforts were foto adverse impacts on our employees’ human rights. cused on developing a new corporate responsibility strategy and on conducting human rights due diligence. Through our human rights due diligence we identified a gap in our diversity policy as it only addresses gender diversity. In Anti-corruption training of 75% of Additionally, we continued the implementation of our energy2016, an assessment of the Group’s diversity profile and goals our shore-based personnel and ALL efficiency project, our anti-corruption compliance programme will commence to identify how working actively with other disenior officers and the IMPA ACT programme on responsible supply chain versity parameters may add value to our business. management. Our human rights due diligence has been quality assured by Corporate responsibility strategy external experts on business and human rights. During 2015, a new corporate responsibility strategy was developed to guide and shape our future efforts. OUTLOOK 2016 5 suppliers have been In 2016, we will take our corporate responsibility efforts to a engaged in dialogue The strategy rests on our corporate responsibility policy and new phase of integration with our business strategy and thus is designed to support our business objective of being considour overall value creation. Focus will be on the further impleered always approachable, always accountable and always mentation of our corporate responsibility programmes as well looking towards shared value creation. as human rights due diligence for our remaining offices and our vessels. Recipient of an IMPA award The core element of our corporate responsibility strategy is an for our efforts within action plan mapping and setting goals for our efforts within human resources (people), environment and business conresponsible supply chain duct. management 4 J. LAURITZEN A/S · ANNUAL REPORT 2015 J. Lauritzen Overview J. LAURITZEN FACTS 2015 Owned by the Lauritzen Foundation 100% 206 37% employees 63% ashore 678 seafarers onboard owned vessels J. Lauritzen has been serving the maritime trade since 1884 Lauritzen Bulkers operates bulk carriers in the handysize and and during our more than 130 years of existence, we have supramax segments of dry bulk shipping with main presence Average controlled been engaged in a range of different segments of the shipping in the handysize segment. fleet of 136 vessels industry. Lauritzen Kosan specialises in transportation of petrochemical Today, J. Lauritzen is a global provider of seaborne transportaand liquefied petroleum gases (LPG) a segment of the shipInvested capital tion of dry bulk cargoes as well as petrochemical and liquefied ping industry characterised by complex technical and operyear-end USD 531m petroleum gases. ational requirements. We offer our services through our operational business units Offices worldwide Lauritzen Bulkers and Lauritzen Kosan. Headquarter in Copenhagen, Denmark and overseas offices in Revenue Singapore, China, the Philippines, the United States, USD 349m Switzerland and Spain. 5 J. LAURITZEN A/S · ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Human and Labour Rights We consider respect for human and labour rights as part of Findings in 2015 our heritage and our commitment to the UN Global Compact. Even if no severe impacts were found in our human rights assessments, we identified some gaps in our corporate policies DUE DILIGENCE As shipowner and operator, we face human rights challenges and procedures, including our Guidelines on Maternity and Our human rights due diligence is an ongoing process ashore as well as at sea, and in this regard, we use the UN Paternity Leave which did not take same-sex parents into condesigned to help us address actual and potential adGuiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as a bluesideration. The policy was promptly updated to ensure that verse human rights risks and impacts that are linked to print to respect the human rights. entitlement to parental leave is gender-neutral. our business activities. Managing human rights risks In our assessment of our two largest offices, Right to Non-disWe perform human rights due diligence aligned with the excrimination was identified as a salient human right, and we pectations of the UN Guiding Principles to help us identify identified a gap in our diversity policy as it only addresses the Identification how we impact our employees’ enjoyment of their human matter of gender diversity. Consequently, an assessment of rights and how actual and potential human rights risks can afthe Group’s diversity profile and goals will commence in 2016. fect our business operations. Our human rights due diligence has been quality assured by In addition to human rights due diligence ashore and at sea, external experts on business and human rights, and in 2016, Communication Action we manage our human rights risks as part of our health and we will conduct human rights due diligence of our remaining safety and risk management systems anchored in our two overseas offices which are equally covered by our corporate business units along with the Group’s anti-corruption compolicies but operating in other geographical contexts that may pliance programme and responsible supply chain managepose different human rights challenges. ment programme. Tracking Human rights at sea Human rights due diligence ashore At sea, our human rights efforts are closely linked to our In 2015, we conducted human rights assessments of our health, safety and security policies and procedures, which are Aligned with the UN Guiding Principles, our due dilihuman rights risks and impacts at our offices in Copenhagen managed within each business unit in accordance with legisgence process covers human rights assessment, includand Singapore, which included assessments of our corporate lation, regulations and the nature of the operations. ing identification and assessment of our adverse hupolicies and procedures. man rights impacts, actions to prevent and mitigate We apply the Maritime Labour Convention 2006 (MLC) when identified impacts and to address relevant policies and We assessed all human rights outlined in the International Bill assessing our impacts on board our vessels, and in 2016 we procedures, a system for tracking milestones and folof Human Rights, Including the International Labour Organwill establish human rights due diligence for our vessels lowing up on action plans, and a mechanism for comisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at aligned with the UNGPs and the MLC. We will conduct two municating how we adress identified adverse impacts Work, equally to decide which ones are salient to our comhuman rights assessments; one for our bulk carriers and one to relevant stakeholders. pany given our geographical and business context. for our gas carriers as the two different business operations pose different human rights risks. 6 J. LAURITZEN A/S · ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Environment and Climate We acknowledge the environmental impacts of our operyears, we have realised a 19.5% cut in our relative CO2 emisations and assume our responsibility to always work towards sions from our operated fleet of dry bulk and gas carriers. PARTNERING FOR minimising our environmental footprint. Through our environmental policy, we are committed to mitigating emissions by Whereas the installation of various technical aids, i.e. to optiINNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS establishing relevant operational procedures, to follow the demise main and auxiliary engines, has improved our baseline velopment of new technologies relevant to our business and for conducting energy-efficient operations, we also work with We support the development of green and energy-effito disclose our environmental performance. voyage optimisation, weather routing, bunker management cient solutions for the Danish maritime industry, and in and other operational aspects to continuously improve our 2015, we became part of the Blue INNOship partnerWorking systematically with performance monitoring operational performance. ship, which is the industry’s contribution to the Danish We work in a structured manner with systems to monitor the government’s innovation strategy. performance of our vessels and depend on systematic and reIn the coming years, we will continue to monitor the performliable data to identify opportunities for optimisation and to ance of each vessel while striving to reduce our environmental Through the partnership, we actively engage in a work document our progress. footprint further by focusing our efforts on newbuildings, group seeking to develop an industry standard for perchartered and pool vessels to ensure that the vessels entering formance monitoring to promote more energy-efficient By constantly logging and analysing data related to the techour fleet have a high energy-efficiency rating. operations and thereby reduce emissions. Along with nical, commercial and operational aspects of our vessel operother shipowners, consultants and universities, we partations, we endeavour to increase transparency by providing Changing approach to emissions reporting ner on a project to develop a performance management clients and other stakeholders with greater and more open inFollowing a change of our business strategy over the past platform that can provide decision support for ship mansights into the actual energy-efficiency improvements of our years, we have chosen to change our approach to emissions agers, ship owners and ship operators in relation to optifleet. reporting, and we will from 2015 onwards disclose emissions mising energy-efficiency in technical and operational from vessels under our operational control, whereas we have components. Essential for succeeding with our energy-efficiency efforts previously disclosed emissions from vessels under our finanand performance monitoring is training of land and sea based cial control. A core element of the project is to examine how we can personnel, enabling them to make faster decisions and react optimise the flow of data between land and sea to more rapidly than previously and thereby move towards more This change of scope will not only ensure a continuous strong achieve more real-time indications of how vessels are energy-efficient operations. Part of the training includes imcorrelation between our business, our bottom line and our enperforming and thus how much they emit. Through the proved communication between land and sea to achieve a vironmental responsibility following our strategy change, it development of analysis tools enabling automated analmore structured data flow between vessel and office and also ensures that we report emissions that we are able to influysis of vessel data, the platform can help improve reportthereby increase reliability and transparency of our disclosed ence directly in the day-to-day operation, which increases the ing and exped-ite the decision making processes. emission figures. materiality and transparency of our corporate responsibility reporting. The project was launched in April 2015, and will run for a Technical and operational optimisation period of three years. Since the launch of our Group energy-efficiency project in Emission figures are disclosed in the environmental state2011, we have undertaken various initiatives to increase effiments of Lauritzen Bulkers and Lauritzen Kosan respectively, ciency and reduce emissions of our fleet. Over the past three see p. 10 and 12. 7 J. LAURITZEN A/S · ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Anti-Corruption We work against corruption in all its forms, and our AntiUpdate on our whistleblower scheme Corruption Policy provides strict guidance for all managers and employees within the Group. The policy is in line with the Since the implementation of our whistleblower scheme in 2014, the scheme has been introduced to all employees as FOCUS AREA IN 2016 principles of the United Nation’s Convention against Corpart of our compliance programme. To date, no concerns of We are committed to complying with all applicable ruption along with various national laws and is anchored in compliance violations have been reported through our trade sanctions, and we consider it essential to reour compliance programme. whistleblower portal, and in 2016, we will strive to increase sponsible business conduct to ensure that we do not the internal and external awareness of the whistleblower conduct business in violation of same. Training and awareness scheme through increased communication. We conduct training seminars for both shore based and seagoing personnel through face-to-face seminars focusing on Partnering on industry challenges Due to the international nature of our business, we are compliance and anti-corruption, and in 2015, we completed During 2015, we continued our active participation in the subject to increasingly complex and changeable sanctraining of all officers in both business units. At year-end 2015, Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN), the global busitions regulation, which means that we need to intensify 75 % of our shore based personnel had received training that ness network working towards a maritime industry free of corour efforts for complying with various sanctions regimes also included fraud, anti-trust and other related topics. ruption enabling fair trade to the benefit of the society at large. to ensure that we continue to conduct business in a reThrough MACN, we meet with other representatives from the sponsible manner. In 2016, our remaining shore based employees will receive industry to discuss and share best practice. In 2015, we furtraining, while an online training tool will be implemented to ther participated in two working groups, of which one was reSanctions Compliance Programme ensure that employees who have already received formal sponsible for drafting an anti-corruption clause for charter In 2016, we will further develop a Sanctions Compliance training remain updated on the Group’s anti-corruption polparties, launched by BIMCO in November 2015. Programme focusing on our specific operations to preicies and practices. vent and mitigate the risk of sanction breaches. Collective action in Argentina We are receiving positive feedback on our Gift and Hospitality In 2015, we took active part in the development of new reguThe objective of the programme will be to set forth polPolicy, which has been implemented as part of our compliance lation for cargo hold inspections in Argentina. icies and procedures for screening potential clients, seminars. We consider that the implementation has increased business partners and suppliers, and to provide strict transparency in relation to the gifts and hospitality received by Shipping companies have previously experienced frequent inguidance for all employees when trading globally. our employees. cidents of wrongfully failed cargo hold inspections in Argentinean ports due to lack of regulation. Through our agent in The programme will include compliance training for all A core element of our anti-corruption policy and our comArgentina we have provided assistance in the development of relevant managers and employees to enable them to pliance training is a commitment to work proactively to elimnew regulation, which sets forth strict guidelines for cargo identify risks presented by clients, transactions and inate facilitation payments. During 2015, the amount of dehold inspections and further ensures access to quick remeditrades, and thereby prevent infringements of trade sancmands for facilitation payments being reported by our crews ation if a vessel is wrongfully rejected. tions. was still scarce and in the future we will work actively with the communication between vessel and operations to encourage MACN also took part in developing the new regulation, which crews to report such demands in order to increase transis expected to come into force in early 2016. parency. 8 J. LAURITZEN A/S · ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Responsible Supply Chain Management Responsible supply chain management continues to be a core Supplier dialogue element of the Group’s corporate responsibility efforts focusThe centre of the dialogue between J. Lauritzen and our supA JOINED APPROACH ing on cooperating and engaging in dialogue with suppliers to pliers is a Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines our ensure decent social and environmental conditions in our min-imum expectations to suppliers regarding establishing J. Lauritzen works with responsible supply chain mansupply chain. pol-icies and procedures to help them identify, prevent and agement through implementation of the IMPA ACT promitigate potential impacts on human rights, labour rights, programme, an international standard that brings together By engaging in close dialogue with selected suppliers, we tection of the environment and anti-corruption. buyers and suppliers in their efforts to achieve responwork towards aligning expectations within human and labour sible supply chains. rights, environmental performance and anti-corruption. We believe that engaging in dialogue with suppliers on establishing internal processes rather that setting forth specific Focus on first tier suppliers requirements to their performance, provides suppliers with This joint approach provides leverage for ensuring that We continue to support the IMPA ACT programme when greater flexibility to implement systems adjusted to their spesuppliers make actual improvements in the fields of working with suppliers as we wish to contribute to uniformity cific organisation which will ultimately lead to more sustainhuman rights including labour rights, protection of the in the industry and avoid suppliers having to comply with difable solutions to challenges related to the principles covered environment and anti-corruption issues. As actual and ferent expectations from different buyers. in the supplier code of conduct. sustainable solutions require time and resources, IMPA ACT is a long-term commitment for both buyers and The focus of our responsible supply chain management proAdditionally, the approach increases the level of best practice suppliers. gramme is on first tier suppliers with whom we have a consharing as it enables us to better understand and relate to the tractual relationship as these are within our direct sphere of specific challenges facing our suppliers while also learning We are founding members of IMPA ACT, which is run by influence. All contracts include a clause requesting suppliers from their experiences. the International Marine Purchasing Association (IMPA). to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets forth We also serve on the programme’s Advisory Board. a set of social, environmental and economic principles aligned Through closer dialogue and stronger relations with suppliers, with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact along with we aim at increasing transparency throughout our supply See www.impa-act.org for more information and for a the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. chain. list of the participating companies. Each year we select a number of suppliers to engage in further Recipient of prestigious award dialogue, and in 2015, we engaged in dialogue with five new In 2015, we were honoured by the International Marine suppliers, selected from our largest suppliers based on spend, Purchasing Association (IMPA) with an award for our efforts dependency and frequency as well as known risk. within responsible supply chain. The award was presented to us by Her Royal Highness Princess Anne at the annual IMPA In 2016, we will engage in dialogue with another five first-tier conference in London. suppliers. 9 J. LAURITZEN A/S · ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Lauritzen Bulkers Lauritzen Bulkers operates bulk carriers in the handysize and Health and safety supramax segments of dry bulk shipping. With main presence in the handysize segment, our operations are based on a large Building open and strong relations with our external managers and crews is at the centre of our health and safety stratHIGHLIGHTS IN 2015 homogeneous fleet of owned, part-owned and long-term egy as it contributes to operational transparency. time-chartered vessels, vessels committed by partners as well Average age of vessels as a substantial number of short-term time-chartered vessels. We benchmark our two external ship managers’ safety performance through KPIs, vessel visits, office audits and Fleet management other initiatives to facilitate best practice sharing and to inTechnical management, including crewing, of our owned fleet crease the safety performance of our owned fleet. We also use is performed by New Century Overseas Management Inc., RightShip’s vetting scale as part of the performance assessOperated fleet Industry average Manila, and Synergy Maritime Pte., Singapore who provide ments. In 2015, our owned fleet had an average risk rating of safe, reliable and cost-effective operations in close collaboration with our in-house technical department. 4.9 (with 5.0 as the best rating). 6 years 8.3 years As part of our health and safety efforts, we communicate straWith ship management outsourced to external service providtegically with crews and external managers through regular ers, our in-house technical department specifies requirecrew letters and biannual officer seminars, which both seek to ments, aligns expectations and monitors performance on share best practice in terms of energy-efficiency, operational Average risk ranking of owned fleet at achieving safe, reliable and efficient operations. excellence and safety. We find that these initiatives support our overall strategy to increase efficiency and reduce risk in 4.9 on the 5 star RightShip Vetting Scale Disaster relief our entire value chain. In 2014, we established the Lauritzen Bulkers Major Disaster Assistance Fund to provide our seafarers with financial aid Both Lauritzen Bulkers and our technical managers annually should they experience property damage as a result of a natvisit all of our owned vessels during which time we follow up ural disaster. The fund was set up in the wake of Typhoon on our strategic communication to always ensure the highest 12% cut in CO2 Yolanda that hit the Philippines in 2013, after which a total of level of best practice and knowledge sharing. emissions since 2012 83 seafarers received donations in 2014. In the future, we will continue to strive for operational transIn 2015, the Philippines experienced a new natural disaster parency through ongoing and open dialogue between the when Typhoon Lando struck in October. Only few of our seaparties involved in the operation of our vessels to ensure confarers were affected by the typhoon, and, fortunately, no one tinued high safety performance. was injured. The affected seafarers received donations from 90 transits in high-risk areas with NO the fund to help repair the property damage caused by Lando. incidents 10 J. LAURITZEN A/S · ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Security Our technical department completed the implementation of Table 1: Emissions pr segment g/ton-miles When entering high-risk areas, we follow the Group’s overall the scheduled Vessel Energy Renovation Plans (VERP). VERP security guidelines. The guidelines state that before schedulis a fleet performance catalogue that covers the optimisation Segment Emission 2015 2014 2013 ing a voyage into a high-risk area, a risk assessment must be of auxiliary machine consumption, including pumps, fans and Total fleet sourced from an independent external party, and the necesair conditioning, plus additional initiatives for technical and CO2 11.07 11.84 12.13 sary precautions must be taken. operational optimisation. SOx 0.18 0.20 0.21 NOx 0.28 0.30 0.31 In 2015, Lauritzen Bulkers had approximately 90 transits in VERPs have been implemented on a total of ten vessels over Handymax high-risk areas compared to 50 in 2014. There were no incithe last three years and has improved the vessels’ fuel-effiCO2 8.28 9.34 9.76 dents related to these transits. It is mainly increased business ciency by 7% and realised an equivalent reduction in CO2 SOx 0.14 0.16 0.17 in the Persian Gulf that resulted in more transits in high-risk emissions. areas. NOx 0.21 0.24 0.25 Whereas technical improvements can only be applied to our Handysize Environment owned vessels, we continuously work to optimise the operCO2 11.90 12.41 12.84 We own and operate a modern and energy-efficient fleet with ational performance of our total operated fleet of bulk carriers SOx 0.20 0.21 0.22 an average age of 6 years, which is considerably below the to improve efficiency. In 2015, voyage optimisation, day-toNOx 0.30 0.32 0.33 global industry average of 8.3. day operations and voyage routing remained strong priorities for our operations department, and weather routing alone EMISSIONS NOTE A continued focus on fuel-savings, operational excellence and contributed to fuel savings in the excess of 2,600 metric Emission figures are reported per segment and based on actual energy-efficiency has enabled reductions of the total environtonnes and thus a significant cut in our CO2 emissions. consumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and are mental footprint of our dry cargo operations over the years, calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/Circ. and since 2013, we have managed to cut the CO2 emissions 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall related to our transport work by 12% across our operated Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have applied the operfleet, cf. Table 1. ational control approach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create a direct link between our business, our economic During 2015, we continued our efforts to stimulate a performbottom-line and our environmental responsibility. The reported ance-oriented culture, and with support from our performemissions are scope 1 emissions and include all operated vesance desk we endeavoured to work more structured with daysels. to-day performance analysis of both our technical and operational activities with the objective to reduce emissions. 11 J. LAURITZEN A/S · ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Lauritzen Kosan Lauritzen Kosan specialises in transportation of petrochemical Learning & sharing; Customer reassurance; Continual and liquefied petroleum gases a segment of the shipping inimprovement; and Management of change. HIGHLIGHTS IN 2015 dustry characterised by complex technical and operational requirements from regulators and clients. We will continue to focus on strengthening our culture of embracing safety until we reach our goal of incident-free operFleet management ations and ultimately operational excellence. 20% cut in CO2 Technical management of our owned fleet is conducted inemissions since 2012 house or by associated companies who devote top priority to Our seafarers the health and safety of our seafarers and to protection of the Our seafarers are amongst our most valuable assets, and environment and our clients’ cargo. skilled seagoing personnel are essential for safe and efficient operations of the highest quality. Therefore, we strive to map Frequency of accidents lower than target With strong focus on competitive ship management, we work the specific competences of our seafarers to support a more proactively with regulators to ensure that we are always at the strategic approach to competence development and enable LTIF of LTIF of 0.6 0.9 forefront of regulatory framework, which is becoming increasbest practice sharing. ingly demanding in terms of cost and complexity. A fair and reasonable relationship between hours of rest and Health and safety hours of work on board our vessels is vital for the safety and 2015 Target Health and safety continues to be a top priority for us and our well-being of our crews. Alternative watch routines were destakeholders, and we always work to strengthen our safety veloped in 2014 and further embedded in our daily operations culture in an environment often characterised by demanding during 2015. This has enabled us to eliminate avoidable rest circumstances. hour violations, and we managed to reach an all time low. The seafarer retention We continued to focus on leadership and management trainIn 2015, we completed implementation of internet access on rate was 95.7% for ing of senior officers as well as increased safety awareness for board all owned vessels, which has not only increased effiall crews. While we consider the human element to be key in ciency in our day-to-day operations, but has also enabled our officers and 100% for our safety culture, we also work with IT and business intellicrews to stay connected to their families when at sea. We beratings gence to help identify trends and patterns to improve our lieve that initiatives to improve crew welfare are key to attractsafety performance. With a Lost Time Injury Frequency of 0.6 ing and retaining skilled crew. In 2015, our seafarer retention in 2015, we exceeded our target of maximum 0.9. rate was 95.7% for officers and 100% for ratings. 11 transits in high-risk areas with NO During the year, land based and seagoing personnel have conTo avoid fatigue and maintain a healthy work-life balance, we incidents tributed to identifying focus areas for the coming years to help have focused on ensuring that contracts are only prolonged improve our safety performance. As a result, the following under special circumstances. In 2015, less than 5% of conheadlines have been formulated to provide the setting for our tracts were prolonged. future work: Behaviour & attitude; Maturing of competencies; 12 J. LAURITZEN A/S · ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Recognition for disaster relief efforts ther limit our environmental footprint, cf. Table 2. Table 2: Emissions pr segment g/ton-miles In 2015, we were nominated by the NGO Nordic Business Segment Emission 2015 2014 2013 Council of the Philippines for the Nordic-Philippine CSR ActivIn 2015, we focused on improving our operational efficiency ity of the Year-award. We became runner-up for the disaster through intensified weather routing efforts and increased Total fleet relief fund, jointly established in 2014 by Lauritzen Kosan and communication between land and sea to increase crew CO2 92.2 92.5 108.1 Lauritzen Fonden to help our seafarers recover from the masawareness of energy-efficiency. Both initiatives were impleSOx 1.2 1.4 1.6 sive devastation caused by Typhoon Yolanda in late 2013. mented via SEEMP and will undergo further implementation NOx 2.3 2.4 2.8 and integration in 2016. Ethylene Security CO2 83.0 77.4 91.3 A significant part of the liquefied and petrochemical gases Further developments were made to our data platform, inSOx 1.2 1.3 1.5 carried onboard our vessels is transported through some of creasingly creating a base line for benchmarking. Most of the NOx 2.1 2.0 2.3 the high-risk regions of the world. The risk to our crews and monitoring is now generated automatically, minimising the clients’ cargo due to piracy or violent crime-related activity in risks of human errors when recording, reading, and logging F/P certain parts of the world has our strictest attention. data manually and lessening the work load onboard. In 2016 CO2 145.3 150.1 162.2 we will continue these efforts to help us identify opportunities SOx 2.0 2.0 2.2 To mitigate exposure to this type of risk, our anti-piracy counfor further improvements. NOx 3.7 3.8 4.1 ter-measures include close internal dialogue, monitoring risk S/R patterns, using external experts’ risk assessments and the To further improve energy efficiency, a KPI structure has been CO2 93.4 104.9 121.7 employment of professional armed guards when transiting implemented to help motivate energy-efficiency efforts of SOx 0.9 1.4 1.7 high-risk areas. land-based and sea going personnel, also with the aim of imNOx 2.4 2.7 3.1 proving operational transparency. In 2015, Lauritzen Kosan had 11 transits in high-risk areas and EMISSIONS NOTE there were no incidents relating to these transits. During 2015 we carried out pilot projects related to ballast Emission figures are reported per segment and based on actual water treatment efforts to help us identify and select the right consumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and are Environment system for ballast water treatment in order to be ready for the calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/Circ. We continued our commitment to minimise our environrectification of IMO’s Ballast Water Management Convention. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall mental footprint through further development of our REJUICE The project will continue in 2016 where decisions will be made Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have applied the operprogramme. Our performance management department conregarding the further implementation. ational control approach as defined in the GHGP, because we tinues to refine the monitoring programme and has now inseek to create a direct link between our business, our economic cluded most of our energy-efficiency initiatives in the ship speIncreased focus on biofouling has also been central to our enbottom-line and our environmental responsibility. The reported cific Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP) ergy efficiency efforts in 2015, and ship specific Biofouling emissions are scope 1 emissions and include all operated vesManagement Plans have been implemented on board our vessels. Since 2012, we have managed to cut the CO2 emissions resels. This will contribute to further reductions of our fuel conlated to our transport work by more than 20% across our opersumption and emissions, and will thus have a positive influated fleet, and we continue to scrutinise our operations to furence on our environmental profile in the coming years. FINANCIAL YEAR CHINA SPAIN 1 January 31 December J. Lauritzen Shanghai Co. Ltd. Gasnaval S.A. Unit 2306, Chong Hing Finance Center PAE Ibarrabarri HEAD OFFICE No. 288 Nanjing Road West Edificio A-1 J. Lauritzen A/S Huangpu District, Shanghai C/Iturriondo 18 15 Tuborg Havnevej China 200003 E-48940 Leioa, Vizcaya 2900 Hellerup, Denmark Phone: +86 21 6358 0066 Spain Phone: +45 3396 8000 Fax: +86 21 6358 0077 Phone: +34 94 479 5600 Fax: +45 3396 8001 Fax: +34 94 416 7316 Website: www. j-lauritzen.com CVR: 55 70 01 17 PHILIPPINES SWITZERLAND Lauritzen Kosan Manila ROHQ J. Lauritzen S.A. OWNER Unit-B 6th Floor Glass Tower Building 6, Place de Eaux-vives Lauritzen Fonden No. 115 Don Carlos Palanca Jr. Street 1207 Geneva 28 Sankt Annae Plads Legaspi Village, Makati City 1229 Switzerland 1291 Copenhagen K, Denmark PHILIPPINES Phone: + 41 79 595 1424 Phone: +45 3396 8425 Tlf: +63 2 856 7929 Questions regarding this report or J. Lauritzen’s Fax: +45 3396 8434 Corporate Responsibility activities, please Email: lf@lauritzenfonden.com SINGAPORE USA contact: J. Lauritzen Singapore Pte. Ltd. J. Lauritzen (USA) Inc. AUDITORS 1 Harbourfront Avenue 4 Landmark Square, Suite 150 Julie Løkkegaard Ernst & Young #16-18 Keppel Bay Tower Stamford, CT 06901 CSR Assistant Oswald Helmuths Vej 4, Singapore 098632 USA Corporate Communication & CSR 2000 Frederiksberg, Denmark Phone: +65 6275 8000 Phone: +1 203 961 8661 Phone: +45 7323 3000 Fax: +65 6275 7208 Fax: +1 203 964 0350 Phone: +45 3396 8434 Fax: +45 7229 3377 Email: jul@j-l.com
