Communication on Progress Year: 2016 Statement of Continued Support of the UN Global Compact 23rd October,2016 Ms. Judy Njino Global Compact focal point Kenya United Nations Global Compact Nairobi Kenya. Dear Judy Njino, Re: TATA Chemicals Magadi Co Ltd. support to the UN Global Compact TATA Chemicals Magadi Limited (TCML) is committed to rendering support to the global compact programme of The UN and will endeavour to abide by the TEN principles of the United Nations Global Compact in The core agendas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. As a responsible business, TCML has been a leader in corporate social responsibility, environment, safety, and human resource management for over 100 years. As part of actions that demonstrate increasing commitment to sustainability, TCML continues in implementation of The IS026000 and remains an active member in the technical committee of sustainability by The Kenya Bureau of Standards With this communication we express our willingness to continue supporting and advancing the principles of The UN global compact through our policies, processes, products, and services. In case of any further enquiries do not hesitate to get in Page 1/15 touch with The Manager of The Magadi Soda Foundation-Mr. David Aoll on Telephone +254 722 773 492. For and on behalf of: TATA Chemicals Magadi Limited. Yours Sincerely, Eng. Jackson Muchira Mbui Managing Director. ______________________________________ 07/10.2016, ENG JACKSON MBUI,MANAGING DIRECTOR Company name: TATA Chemicals Magadi Ltd. Sector: Extractives Number of employees: 693 UN Global Compact signatory since: 2007/02/07 Contact person: David Omondi Aoll Address: Po Box 1-00205 Nairobi, Kenya Email: davidaoll@yahoo.com domondi@tatachemicals.com Phone: +254 722 773492 TATA Chemicals Magadi is the largest Soda Ash producer in Africa and one of the largest exporters in Kenya. Page 2/15 Scope of this COP The scope of This COP defines the activities of the last year in four areas: Human Rights, Anticorruption, Labour Rights and Environment. This COP provides a summary of activities and outputs in these four areas. In this year’s COP we wish to demonstrate unalloyed commitment to the ten principles of the UNGC Human Rights UN Global Principle 1: Business should support and respect the Compact protection of internationally proclaimed human rights principles Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not covered: complicit in human rights abuses Commitment : TATA Chemicals Magadi commits to the full support of Human Rights. Our Commitment by 2017 is to develop action plans and targets for identified priority human rights risks and to Carry out comprehensive human rights impact assessments across all our operations. We follow an integrated approach to report on our performance through our Human Rights Due Diligence Programme. As a result, we have identified six core agendas(those human rights at risk of the most severe negative impact on stakeholders through the company’s activities and business relationships, and therefore the Human Rights material issues that we have focused on include the following:  Human Rights Risk assessment Programs: Current  Human Risks Audits  Workers’ accommodation and access to basic needs: The Company provides all workers and contractors with housing with free water and electricity.  Safety and health: The Company operates a health and safety program that has is monitored religiously.  Data protection and privacy: The Company has clear policies on data protection and management.  Access to water and sanitation; All employees, contractors and community members have access to water and sanitation. Page 3/15 A brief description of our Processes or Systems:  The company maintains safety, health, and environment policy  The company has on its payroll a safety and environment manager who is tasked among other things with ensuring that human rights are adhered to.  Employees have free access to portable water, health services, and modern housing.  The company provides four schools and a hospital to guarantee access to education and health.  The company operates an effective first aid policy with well trained first aiders and rapid response teams in place.  The company supports the Magadi police station to ensure that the rights of every individual are safeguarded.  The company operates a whistle blower policy which ensures that all human rights violations are reported and dealt with.  The company maintains a sexual harassment committee that safeguards the residents and employees against all forms of sexual harassment.  The company strictly employs individuals that have reached the age of majority and strongly prohibits child labour.  The company works with the administration to ensure law and order and protection of human life and dignity is fully adhered to.  The company sponsors regular activities on health sensitization and health prevention to guarantee individuals rights to healthy services.  Employees are covered by group, personal accident insurance.  For the local community the company runs a robust community social responsibility program under The Magadi Soda Foundation –providing water, health, employment, microenterprise development, and education, etc  The company holds monthly consultations with the community.  A passenger coach provides service from Magadi to Kajiado for staff, their, families, and the community  Provision of protective clothing for staff and community members that visit the factory. Activities implemented in the last year  All suppliers and contractors signed the TATA code of conduct that safeguards all stake holders against violations of human rights. Page 4/15  Training of our security guards on respect for human rights  Rolling out of a motor rider training program for the community to reduce road accidents.  The company sponsored and participated in sensitization programs on child protection.  The company provided free medical care to victims of human rights abuses.  We rolled out intensive awareness programs on human rights for employees, contractors and suppliers.  Strengthening the whistle blower policy to take improve reporting of human rights violations  All employees signed the TATA code of conduct that has some provisions on human rights.  We conducted refresher training for managers, supervisors and senor staff on human rights.  We strengthened the employee works council to check on and report compliance on the human rights agenda.  Consultations were held with all stakeholders-employees, communities, suppliers, and contractors for a collaborative approach on human rights Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  No reported cases of human rights violation.  No litigation cases involving human rights  Non-discrimination in employment opportunities  Reduced incidence of gender based violence  Elimination of all forms of child labour and exploitation of children  Fair work practices  Cordial relations with all stakeholders through survey reports-union, local community, suppliers, and contractors  Zero targets for loss and injury in the work place  Improved preventive health care-leading to less sick off, high staff productivity Page 5/15 Activities planned for next year: 1. Human Rights audit for all processes, partners, suppliers, contractors. 2.Capacity building workshops for all staff on human rights 3.Active participation in national and international for a on human rights 4. Empowerment of human rights champions in the company and the Human Rights surrounding community. 5. Safety net programs for individuals at high risk of human rights violations. Future 6. Capacity building community leaders on children rights. 7. Comprehensive assessment of human rights risks. Labour Rights Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining UN Global Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all Compact forms of forced and compulsory labour principles covered: Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Page 6/15 Commitment :  The company strictly adheres to existing labour laws: Right to work; Right to equality at work; Right to equal pay for equal work; Right to organize and participate in collective bargaining; Freedom of association; Right to non-discrimination; Right to just and favourable remuneration  The company supports international labour laws including ILO.  Our code of conduct policy document-TATA code of conduct-has been extended to suppliers and contractors for fair labour practices  Employees are engaged in free and fair labour  The company does not discriminate persons on grounds of skin colour, sex/gender, religion, or tribe  Staff employed must be above 18 years of age and provide proof through a national ID card  The company has an affirmative action plan for marginalized groups such as minorities and disables in accordance with the constitution of Kenya.  Freedom of association and collective bargaining: The Company Labour Rights has an agile works council that affords employees opportunity for free association and grievance escalation.  Working time: The Company encourages fair working conditions including adherence to fair working hours. Current  Living wage: It is the policy of the company to pay wages that are above market rates.  Child labour: The Company disallows child labour.  Forced labour: The company completely disallows all forms of forced labour  Access to grievance mechanism: We have a monthly communication meeting; an employee relations section and the works council that are primary media for grievance resolution. A brief description of our Processes or Systems  Strong works council exists to deal with all staff grievances.  Staff wellness program is operational and active.  Policies on non–discrimination and non–segregation.  The employee relations office exists to take care of employee grievances and company climate.  Open door policy and monthly communication meetings exist to provide employees with the right to be heard.  Staff suggestion boxes and complaints mechanisms in place to capture Page 7/15 employee feedback and situations. Activities implemented in the last year  Full audit of labour practices carried out twice in the year using the TATA business excellence model and the report used to inform improvements in labour practices.  Full time internal auditor retained and routine audits conducted to obtain assurance on compliant labour practices. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  Company engagement survey measures the level of positive employee engagement  The grievance procedure records all incidents and runs through to resolution.  Zero incidents of child labour  Zero occurrences of forced labour  Fair and transparent recruitment policies with non –discrimination  Elimination of legal costs and legal occurrences due to violation of human rights.  Women have an equal right to compete for opportunities.  Promotion based on competence ,merit, and performance only  Activities planned for next year 1.Strengthening of the works council in handling employee grievances 2.Refresher course for managers on labour laws 3.Strengthened employee wellness program Labour Rights 4.labour laws compliance audit for suppliers and contractors 5. Capacity building of contractors and suppliers in labour laws. 6. Comprehensive Labour Rights audit. Future Environment UN Global Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary Compact approach to environmental challenges principles covered: Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to Page 8/15 promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment : TATA Chemicals Magadi has demonstrated over the years a commitment to environmental stewardship, protection, and sustainability.  This includes having an openly displayed policy as well as integrating environmental considerations in overall management systems and our operations.  The company has obtained a robust safety, Health, and Environment policy The company conforms to The National Environmental legislation under The  We comply with Environmental Management and coordination ACT of 1999 and other relevant legislation.  Audits of operations as per the International Finance Corporation(IFC)  Environmental and social audits once every two years  Annual environmental audits and environmental impact assessments A brief description of our Processes or Systems  We have a full time senior manager taking care of safety and Environment environment.  Monthly environmental audits with the objective of eliminating unacceptable risk to the environment and health of employees, Current customers and members of the public  Permanent Task force reports on weekly actions to reduce to a practicable minimum adverse effect of the environment  We consult regularly with employees, regulatory authorities, and local community Activities implemented in the last year  Planted over 250,000 trees in Kajiado and Magadi under an aggressive afforest ration campaign.  Rolling out of the solar project to further protect our environment.  Construction of gabions and other soil control initiatives to the north of Lake Magadi  Commissioning of the Lake Magadi integrated siltation and environmental conservation project to conserve Lake Magadi and the water towers  The flamingo conservation project Page 9/15  Construction of dikes and other initiatives to control the siltation of Lake Magadi Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  Minimum of dust released to the environment Construction o Electro Static Precipitator(ESP)to reduce the amount of dust emitted  Reduced evaporation rate of water at Oloibortoto River leading to sustainable water supply.  Rate of improved tree cover in Magadi Division.  Environmental action plan and environmental audits conducted monthly for sustainable environment policy  Result of 2016 environmental audits defining action plans for environmental conservation.  Greening project implementation-centenary park maintenance  Implemented policy on dealing with environmental breaches with clear mitigation plans.  Working with the county governments of Narok and Kajiado to conserve the natural habitat. Activities planned for next year  Conservation of the water towers  Reduce erosion upstream of Lake Magadi Environment  Water recycling projects  Community capacity building on environment Future  Opening up alternative livelihoods to community members to eliminate charcoal burning.  Introducing alternative sources of energy to eliminate use of charcoal. Page 10/15 Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all principles its forms, including extortion and bribery covered: Commitment :  TATA CHEMICALS Magadi Ltd. Commits and adheres to the highest standards of business conduct across all our operations. We work against corruption in all its forms and act decisively to put an immediate end to any potential breaches of integrity. Our objectives:  By 2017: Reinforce the TATA Chemicals Magadi Ltd. Anti-Corruption Policy Implementation Procedure and communicate it to all markets and businesses  Achieve zero level corruption a level in all operations by 2017.The company policy is for zero tolerance on corruption at all levels.  The company has a clear policy and very clear guidelines on issues of anti-corruption and this are well documented in standing instructions.  The TATA code of conduct which defines the employee code of conduct has a clause on anti-corruption and this clause is strictly enforced. Anti-corruption  The company operates in the international market with major operations in the UK and is keen to comply with The UK anti-bribery act which is enforced as part of the Code of conduct  The standing instructions of TATA Chemicals Magadi are clear on Zero Current tolerance for corruption.  The company is still committed to adhere to national legislation on corruption. A brief description of our Processes or Systems  The whistle blower policy encourages reporting of issues on corruption  The company has an innovation and quality team that routinely monitors and implements improvements in the ethics and integrity agenda.  The company carries out monthly communication meetings at corporate and departmental levels and policy briefs are given to staff and among the issues highlighted are issues of anti0corruption.  New staff are inducted and have to sign an anticorruption agreement before joining  The company participates in several forums and initiatives to combat corruption-both government and private sector Page 11/15  Robust audit procedures and a full time systems manager to ensure adequate internal controls to minimize/eliminate corruption incidences. Activities implemented in the last year  Our monthly monitoring systems enable us to monitor anti-corruption processes, and employees are encouraged to report misconduct through our Whistle blowing Program.  To the best of our knowledge, no public allegations of corruption were made against TATA Chemicals Magadi Ltd. In 2016 and no internal private bribery complaints were confirmed.  All employees, suppliers and contractors were sensitized on the TATA code of conduct Monthly meetings and communications targeting anticorruption through workshops and communication meetings.  The CEO Zero tolerance to corruption policy re-launched this year. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  Zero number of corruption cases reported during the year.  No financial losses incurred due to corruption.  Improvement in the perception index on corruption with suppliers and contractors with the company seen as a zero tolerance zone for corruption.  There have been no legal case and fines related to corruption and bribery in the last year  Zero reported incidences of corruption cases as monitored by the ethic committee  Zero reported incidents of fines and other costs related to corruption  Positive compliance scores on integrity in the corruption survey reports by anticorruption agencies  Improved reputation as a corruption free zone and organization  Resultant improvement in contractor and supplier services as a benefit from a corruption free operation. Page 12/15 Activities planned for next year  Increased advocacy in local and international forums on anti-corruption.  All suppliers and contractors to sign fresh anti-corruption agreements Anti-corruption  Greater visibility in the anti-corruption dialogue by partnering with and participating in national and international anti-corruption forums  Comprehensive audits on corruption. Future Page 13/15 How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders?  Regular Stake holder Meetings e.g. the monthly community meetings  Newsletters/ Email/ Posters  Email and Social media updates  Hard copy brochures, and posters  Newslettersmailed and emailed.  Sporting and community events as  partner and industry newsletters and forums  briefing meetings  publications, distribution of documents and invitations to comment  Reports-monthly and annual  Exhibitions and Events to showcase results  Stakeholder engagement forums  Use of the provincial administration and in local community administrative meetings Donations, awards TATA Chemicals Magadi’s Corporate Social Responsibility Program has won the Kenya Institute of Management’s Company of the Year (COYA) Corporate Citizenship Awards in six consecutive years in 2000, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006. The company was also the recipient of the Millennium Global Awards for sustainable education in 2012. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has also recognised our CSR Program, as a model for business/community partnership. Page 14/15 Environmental awards including The Petroleum Institute of East Africa (PIEA) and the Total’s ECO Challenge. The company is the led pilot organization for ISO26000 in the region. Page 15/15
