MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 ANNUAL CORPORATE SOCIAL 2015 RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 PREFACE MediaMonks is one of the biggest and fastest growing voluntary hours to charitable projects and those for the digital production companies in the world. 2015 marks public good in order to create the best campaigns that our 15-year anniversary. In the past number of years we contribute shared value. For example, for Dutch NGO took our business to the far ends of the world. Besides Fight Cancer we produced the Interactive Punching Bag. our brand new offices in LA and Dubai, we recently This installation helped raise funds and awareness for set foot in Stockholm, São Paulo and Shanghai. This the NGO by allowing people to donate by the punch for makes us the number one digital production company research concerning cancer development. What’s more, with most FWAs worldwide. In this leading position, MediaMonks contributed to various charities in different our business involves an ever-growing responsibility to sectors. contribute to a better world. Since we strive to be the best digital production agency in the world, we take our Nevertheless, we realize the energy and data centers responsibilities very seriously. needed to digitalize our economy puts a great pressure on the environment. The emissions we expel as an Digitalization helps us decrease our negative impact on industry shouldn’t be underestimated. Therefore, we the world around us through online communications and continuously strive to optimize our own organizational connectivity. As a digital production company, this is processes in order to make them more energy efficient. the area where we can make the biggest impact. What’s As we can’t do this alone, we actively involve our more, setting foot in cities like Singapore and São Paulo stakeholders and employees to encourage them to do helps us reducing our overall footprint and contributes the same. to a low-carbon economy too, especially when it comes to our worldwide logistics. OUR WAY FORWARD However, we can only point out the direction of where In the upcoming years we want to continue using our the digital economy is heading and make the first steps expertise and services for doing good in the world towards realizing it. Those who will actually shape it are by offering modern solutions for modern problems. the next generation of upcoming young talents. They are These include solutions for cyber crime, digital divide, the leaders of the future and the real architects of a lowe-waste and other polluting artifacts of our modern carbon economy. We see them as our biggest inspiration society. The digitalization of the economy is an ongoing as they help us realize we are heading in the right development. As a leader of the industry, it’s our job to direction. In this light, we developed the Digital Design make sure this development happens as responsibly as Master to give young talented people a stage to develop possible. themselves (in close collaboration with the HvA) and empower them with the tools they need to be a leader We have set an energy efficiency target for our of the future. We are proud that in 2015, the Master was Amsterdam headquarters in 2016: from energy label D awarded the “NVAO onderwijsplan” quality assessment. to B. We will achieve this by installing 76 solar panels on With a result that September 2016, 25 international the office roof, reconditioning our air channels, linking students will enroll in the very first year. light sensors in bathrooms, implementing LED lighting in common areas and stairwells, replacing circulators In the meantime, we make our best efforts to produce and improving heating by replacing outdated boilers for new digital innovations and to apply our expertise energy efficient models. and knowledge in doing good. We strongly believe in the power of combining strengths, as other important In the following report you will find the results of our parties can benefit from our digital expertise. We want 2015 operational daily practices as well as the choices to contribute to business and society in an impactful we’ve made in our efforts to become a more responsible way. That is why we dedicate a significant number of global company. VICTOR KNAAP Main Monk MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 This report reviews MediaMonks’ Corporate Social Responsibility performance of 2015. Complying with United Nations Global Compact, the report follows the GRI guidelines. MediaMonks is a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2012. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) The Global Reporting Initiative is a non-profit organization that promotes economic, environmental and social sustainability. GRI provides all companies and organizations with a comprehensive sustainability reporting framework that is widely used around the world. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Corporate Social Responsibility is a form of corporate self-regulation integrated into a business model. CSR is titled to aid an organization’s mission as well as a guide to what the company stands for and will uphold to its consumers. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 CONTENT 01 MANAGEMENT SUMMARY 02 2015 IN NUMBERS 05 LETTING TALENTS FLOURISH I PEOPLE II EDUCATION & INNOVATION 08 OFFERING OUR TALENTS WHERE NEEDED I CHARITY 10 A FAIR AND SUSTAINABLE WAY OF WORKING I ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT II SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT 15 APPENDIX MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 1 MANAGEMENT SUMMARY MEDIAMONKS 2015 develop themselves personally and in which they can let their talents flourish. Secondly, we are a frontrunner MediaMonks is a creative digital production company in taking Dutch Digital Design onto the next level, that works for and with advertising agencies to craft internationally. To this end, we are developing the Digital amazing digital work for global brands. You can find Design Master to educate new talent and to take Dutch us anywhere online as well as in Amsterdam, London, digital design to the international stage. In September Stockholm, New York, Singapore, LA and Dubai. As of 2016, 25 international students will be starting this 31.12.2015, MediaMonks boasts an in-house team of master that is funded by the government in the coming 365 Monks that are versed in a virtually infinite range of 10 years. digital disciplines, collectively covering almost anything you could possibly throw at a digital campaign. 2. Offering our talents where needed MediaMonks contributes to the world around us by We’ve recently set foot in São Paulo and Shanghai, but using our talents to make this world a better place. these offices were established in 2016 (or in the case of We believe the world can benefit from digital design Stockholm, at the end of 2015) and will therefore not be and production as it brings modern solutions to included in the performance overviews of this report. modern problems. Therefore, we put our talents and expertise in place to accelerate charity-projects and CREATING SHARED VALUE social initiatives to help them achieve their goals. A good example of this is Hope Locker: Our increasingly MediaMonks wants to be the best digital production cashless society is quick and convenient but has raised agency in the world. Being the best demands leadership a problem for charity organisations dependent on small and adding long-term value to our stakeholders and cash donations. As a creative solution, Proximity and the world around us. In 2015, we’ve put a strong effort MediaMonks produced Hope Locker: a digital kit that fits in adding value to the world that goes beyond a regular inside existing swimmingpool lockers to raise money Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program. Where as and awareness for WaterAid. Hope Locker is equipped CSR is reactionary (a response to a growing concern from with an interactive display that tracks how long people employees, customers and investors about our business swim. Upon their return, it shows the sobering reality of conduct), creating shared value refers to the process children who died because of drinking dirty water in the where business and society achieve success together. same timeframe. With this new poignant perspective, swimmers are asked if they’re willing to donate their Creating shared value for business and society lies at deposit to the cause. the heart of our way of doing business and forms the foundation of our business executions and the choices 3. A fair, sustainable and effective way of working we make. For us, being responsible and showing Our way of working is fair, sustainable and effective. leadership is inextricably linked to being the best Only by organising our business as such, will secure the production agency in the world. It is a logical way of future of our world and our company. Part of being the developing and innovating our business. Using our core best, is striving for operational excellence in every part of business and specialities, we want to add value to the your company. We did not set up a separate department areas where we can make our biggest impact. In this for this, but we make sure it is integrated in our general year, we therefore explored areas where we can really procurement and facility management. make a difference. We reformulated these areas into three pillars that we obtained in our corporate strategy: PERFORMANCE 2015 1. Letting talents flourish MediaMonks started measuring performance on CSR People have a central place in our business: their indicators over 2012. This assessment will be repeated talents make us who we are. They are the ones that every year and forms a basis for improvement policy. In help us achieve our goals, and we aim to be the best the following chapter you will read an elaboration of the employer because of this. We take care of our people. scores from 2015. As many employees enter the business at a young age, MediaMonks is their home base — the place where they grow up. We take this role very seriously and provide our employees with an environment in which they can MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 2 2015 IN NUMBERS 7 OFFICES (AMSTERDAM, LONDON, STOCKHOLM, NEW YORK, LA, SINGAPORE AND DUBAI) 365 EMPLOYEES 1175 PRODUCTIONS DELIVERED 36.8m TURNOVER IN EUROS 916 tonnes CO2 EMISSIONS 6 CHARITIES SUPPORTED *Figures at 31.12.2015 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 3 MOST IMPORTANT FIGURES *The MediaMonks CSR performance figures are based on the yearly average number of 244 employees in 6 countries. PEOPLE PEOPLE Employee / Employer ratio 0.26 lowest gross income / highest gross income [ratio] Health & Safety Absenteeism 2.32% absent hours / yearly worked hours [%] Accidents 0 number / year [#] Training & Education 436 € / FTE [€] Nationalities 37 number [#] Diversity 0.21 female / male [ratio] ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY CO2 emission [tonne] CO2 emission [kg] / FTE Mobility Car 87 372 Public Transport 130 556 Flights 556 2,377 Energy 127 544 Water 515 2.20 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 4 BUSINESS BUSINESS Innovation 19,320 hours / yearly worked hours [#] Suppliers CSR policy 48% number of top 20 suppliers [%] Publicity disclosing CSR policy 48% number of top 20 suppliers [%] COMMUNITY Donations Projects for Public good 5 projects per year [#] Unpaid / voluntary hours 1,849 hours per year [#] MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 5 LETTING TALENTS FLOURISH MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 6 I PEOPLE PERFORMANCE 2015 Employee / Employer ratio 0.26 lowest gross income / highest gross income [ratio] Health & Safety Absenteeism 2.32% absent hours / yearly worked hours [%] Accidents 0 number / year [#] Training & Education 436 € / FTE [€] Nationalities 37 number [#] Diversity 0.21 female / male [ratio] LOOKING AFTER OUR MONKS A DIVERSE FAMILY WITH EQUAL FAMILY VALUES The health & well-being of our people is a serious Like most global companies, there is a lot of diversity matter for MediaMonks. Our monks work hard. We present among our Monks. Numerous nationalities from want to make sure this happens in a safe and healthy all over the world work at MediaMonks. Almost 20% of environment. This means having all important safety the workforce of MediaMonks is non-Dutch. This diversity procedures and standards in place, such as having is highly valuable and encouraged by the management of emergency response qualified staff (in Dutch: BHV) and MediaMonks as it brings our organization lots of benefits. all health and safety regulations (in Dutch: ARBO). It But in general, recruitment is set to attract and align also means providing healthy catering and encouraging the most talented people to the organization. All monks them to take part in sport events such as the annual should breathe the same values and have the same skiing trip and outdoor activities like Mud Masters and working ethics. Therefore, MediaMonks puts a lot of effort bootcamp sessions. in preserving its cultural values among the entire family Aside from our health and safety measures during across the globe. work, MediaMonks also gives above-and-beyond support for our employees in their personal lives. If needed, we will provide loans, assistance with debt, as well as general advice and administrational support. With many of our staff coming from all over the country and even overseas, MediaMonks also pays careful attention to housing and accommodation. Aside from offering assistance in finding a home, each MediaMonks office also has its own MediaMonks house. Rooms are offered for free to interns, and at a low cost for full employees. Such premises drastically improve the potential for individuals all over the world to work for MediaMonks, making their move and relocation a far less stressful experience. In 2015 the combination of an excellent working environment, our health and safety measures have led to only 2,3% absenteeism and the successful prevention of any accidents. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 7 II EDUCATION & INNOVATION PERFORMANCE 2015 Innovation 19,320 hours / yearly worked hours [#] Our ambition is to be a frontrunner in digital design and inspire young talent whilst doing so. We want to provide talented people a platform to develop themselves and let them get enthusiastic about our working field. Furthermore, we continuously strive for innovation within our own sector and search for the latest technologies that will improve it. DIGITAL DESIGN MASTER DIGITAL LEADERSHIP & INNOVATION In 2014 MediaMonks started, in collaboration with several other partners from the digital design industry, MediaMonks wants to show leadership in digital design developing the first Digital Design Master in the and digital communication. This means improving and Netherlands. This master in digital design was set up optimizing all of our organizational processes as well as especially to educate new talent and to bridge the gap sharing our latest improvements with others within and between higher education in digital media and the actual outside the sector. We give our clients, suppliers and digital media industry. In this way MediaMonks wants partners the opportunity to grow with us by giving them to provide a platform for (young) talented people where insights to our latest innovations. This is also part of our they can develop themselves and get an internationally shared value-vision. Collaborating instead of competing recognised diploma in digital design. Furthermore, with each other. This applies to our stakeholders outside MediaMonks wants to take a leading position pushing the sector as well. Part of this is openly sharing the Dutch Digital Design to the international stage and to latest software developments and updates via an online improve its reputation worldwide. With that, the Digital platform. Design Master enhances the power to innovate for the entire sector in the Netherlands. MediaMonks’ innovation and development work is eligible for the fiscal stimulus of WBSO (Wet Bevordering The Digital Design Master is a two year-study Speuren Ontwikkelingswerk). In 2015, 19,320 hours of inclusive an official title. In 2015, the master received WBSO grant have been assigned to MediaMonks, which an official quality status (NVAO onderwijsplan/ amounts to 4.21% of the total amount of hours worked. macrodoelmatigheidstoets). We also safeguarded This gave us the time and capacity to do research & 10 years of financing for the master from the Dutch development activities and search for innovations government. The master will start in September 2016 regarding new software and creative products. with 25 international students. In the years to come, we will intensify our efforts to contribute to the development of young talent and making the Digital Design Master a comprehensive and progressive masterstudy. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 8 OFFERING OUR TALENTS WHERE NEEDED MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 9 I CHARITY PERFORMANCE 2015 Donations Projects for Public good 5 projects per year [#] Unpaid / voluntary hours 1,849 hours per year [#] OFFERING OUR EXPERTISE WHERE NEEDED CHARITY Another way MediaMonks wants to contribute We are investing a substantial amount of time and to society is by actively share our knowledge and resources into these great charitable projects. In 2015 offering our expertise to social initiatives and we have donated in kind a total of 1849 hours of our charity projects. Our expertise in digital design and professionalism to 3 foundations and projects for the communication provides modern time solutions to public good in the Netherlands and 2 in the UK. modern time problems in society. In doing so we help social initiatives and charity projects in achieving Our aid goes to charities with a diverse focus; for their goals. From our point of view, digital design example besides health care research (Fight Cancer) and communication can be strong drivers to enhance we focused in 2015 on equal rights. For the Gay Pride positive social change. This means we provide voluntary parade MediaMonks launched an initiative to let people hours to help build digital communication platforms, participate from anywhere in the world. Also, for digital videos, applications or productions to help them the Equal Pay Day campaign The Undubbed Truth we convey their message. In comparison to 2014 we almost produced an online platform. spent five times as many voluntary hours on charitable projects or projects for the good of the public. CHARITY CASE We always do this together with and for our customers: KPN: Pridestream for many years now we’ve supported our largest clients For the 2015 Amsterdam Gay Pride Canal Parade, N=5 to develop the best and most innovative charitable and MediaMonks launched an initiative to let people campaigns by contributing our talents and skills in participate from anywhere in the world. Equipped with digital communication. In doing so we create shared large LED screens and a 360 camera, the Pridestream value together. A great example of a charitable boat enabled almost 70,000 people from 128 countries campaign is the Interactive Punching Bag for Fight to sail along and show their pride to the crowds of Cancer: an inventive installation that shows how cancer Amsterdam. Pan around the canals of Amsterdam cells develop. The digital punching bag lets people in a 360-degree livestream on pridestream.org and donate by the punch to raise funds and awareness for experience Gay Pride in all its glory. cancer research. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 10 A FAIR, SUSTAINABLE AND EFFECTIVE WAY OF WORKING MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 11 I ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY PERFORMANCE 2015 Amount CO2 emission [tonne] C02 emission [kg] / FTE Mobility Commuting Car 354,431 km 73 312 Public Transport 2,954,742 km 130 556 Business Car 65,091 km 14 60 Flights 3,939,487 km 556 2,377 Energy Gas 12,158 m3 22 95 Electricity 230,916 kWh 105 449 Water 1,727 m3 515 2.20 TOTAL CO 2 TONNE PER FTE 0 1.25 2.5 3.75 5 AVERAGE MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 12 MediaMonks has the ambition of being the best in all makes use of cold corridors, smart meters and extensive we do. This also applies to the way we organize our virtualization of its servers. All these measurements have business processes and how we handle the impact we lead to a decrease in electricity and gas use this year. have on the world. We believe the ICT industry is a key player in creating a low-carbon society and provides As a growing international agency, our carbon footprint a significant contribution to pushing the world in this is increasing as well due to mobility. Therefore we have direction. In the first place, our digital communication been encouraging our Monks to use public transport products provide an interesting and low-carbon when commuting to work. We do this by offering every alternative to the printing industry. Also, as people are employee a yearly subscription for free public transport looking for ways to live a responsible and conscious to and from work, plus our careful choice of headquarters life, the digital interfaces we build can offer them next to the train station. In 2015, this again resulted innovative and low-carbon tools. A good example is the digital interface we developed for smart watches. in a growing number of Monks that commute to work by train. As for our increasing number of flights abroad At the same time however, digital production agencies we started opening offices in those parts of the world are large consumers of electricity due to the nature of we were visiting regularly, such as Singapore, New their work, which requires intensive use of computers, York, London, LA, Dubai and very recently Stockholm, displays and servers. To grasp the global impact of the São Paulo and Shanghai. Moreover, we highly promote total digital traffic worldwide, all the data centers in video conference calls between the offices and strive to the world together consume 2% of the global electricity compensate our flights in the upcoming year. In 2016, we supply. This is similar to the carbon footprint of the have the ambition to reach energy label B in our office in airlines industry. Hilversum. To do so, amongst other things, we will place 76 solar panels on our rooftop, install LED lightning and To address this challenge, over the last years we’ve renovate our heating and air-conditioning installations. implemented all necessary means to improve our business processes and reduce emissions, OUR WASTE HANDLING distinguishing three key areas: energy, waste and sustainable procurement. MediaMonks strives for As mostly all is digital at MediaMonks, we produce operational excellence in these areas and tries to minimal physical waste. We have hardly any paper waste decrease its environmental impact to a minimum. due to the use of digital administrative processes and our ambition to use as less paper as necessary. Notably, the ENERGY EFFICIENCY MEASURES majority of waste produced at MediaMonks is organic, and therefore biodegradable. What’s more, in addition The largest impact we can make regarding our carbon to paper and glass recycling, MediaMonks also collects footprint is the conservation of energy. One part of plastic waste. As our organization is growing we put our reducing our carbon footprint is making some basic best effort in getting all employees aligned to keep our efficiency measures in our electricity usage, one of our physical waste production to a minimum. largest emissions. These are measurements such as central power switches and energy saving lights, as well MediaMonks also uses a sustainable end-of-life policy as purchasing green-certified electricity. regarding old hardware. This policy distinguishes three scenarios: More importantly, together with our strategic partners we keep looking for ways to improve our energy efficiency. 1. If hardware is not working, we will first try to repair For example, we constantly strive for innovations in our it. If this is not possible, the hardware will be data center. We’ve deliberately chosen a data center that recycled in appropriate ways; 2. Workable parts of old hardware, will be re-used; 3. Hardware (or parts of old hardware) that we cannot use anymore will be sold. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 13 II SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT PERFORMANCE 2015 Suppliers CSR policy 48% number of top 20 suppliers [%] Publicity disclosing CSR policy 48% number of top 20 suppliers [%] We put a lot of effort in making our supply chain more sustainable. One key aspect in doing so is a conscious choice of suppliers. For all business partners and suppliers we apply basic sustainable procurement principles: in 2015 48% of our suppliers has a CSR policy and publically discloses their CSR performance on their website. This is a rise of more than 20% compared to 2014. Based on the size of the potential order and influence this has on our operational excellence, we’re able to make the best choice for sustainability. Moreover, we encouraged our suppliers and business partners to pay attention to CSR by underlining its importance. Energy, office supplies and other facility requirements thereby have our full priority. This helps us to maintain a fair and transparent relationship with all parties involved. SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT customers or other business partners. The same goes for all our suppliers that are dealing with our core business, Next to our own carbon footprint, we are aware of the or are in direct contact with our customers. They too sign fact that our choice of supplier has a significant impact a confidentially agreement. on our total carbon footprint. To ensure our sourcing is transparent, we assess the sustainability behavior of our On a more regular basis, employees are informed by their current suppliers by annually tracking the CSR policies team leader about developments regarding customer and publications of the largest 20 suppliers. data, privacy and integrity on specific assignments. Sometimes, a customer even requires the individual More than 48% of our suppliers are transparent about MediaMonks project team members to sign a special their CSR policy and activities and present them openly non-disclosure agreement. on their website. Examples of our top 5 suppliers who are transparent and serious about their CSR efforts are Again in 2015, our data and our office have been secured NS, Vodafone and Sligro NV. As part of our procurement by following the highest industry standards. All our policy of 2015, the amount of suppliers that are NDA work is processed on in-house servers, managed by transparent substantially increased since 2014. certified datacenter managers and secured by hardware firewalls. Also, the in-house servers are protected CLIENTS by an alarm and secured electric gates. All these measurements are taken to optimally secure all our and Our clients are what drives our business. Therefore, we our customers’ data and information. take our relationship with them, their data security and their privacy very seriously. We do this in two ways: 2. Integrity Secondly, to maintain fair relationships with our 1. Confidentiality customers, MediaMonks employees are prohibited from Both customer data and information about productions purchasing goods or services from a client unless the are treated confidential at all costs. Every MediaMonks purchase is made at the same price and if it is subject to employee has signed a confidentially agreement/nonthe same conditions as the public. It is also forbidden to disclosure agreement, acknowledging that they cannot accept money, gifts or goods or oblige oneself in any way disclose data or information from MediaMonks nor our to the client. This policy was still very valid this year. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 14 MEDIAMONKS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2015 The results below indicate MediaMonks’ performance relative to the ‘average’ office and best practices in the Netherlands. The scores are based on a benchmark set by the Dutch government. ELECTRICITY 2015 kWh PER FTE 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 GAS 2015 M3 PER FTE 0 75 150 225 300 WATER 2015 M3 PER FTE 0 1.75 3.5 5.25 7 COMMUTING BY CAR 2015 KM PER FTE 0 1750 3500 5250 7000 TOTAL CO2 AVERAGE 2015 MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE TONNE PER FTE 0 1.25 2.5 3.75 5 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 15 APPENDIX TEN UNIVERSALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: PRINCIPLES UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE Principle 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 6, 7, 13  MediaMonks takes a clear position and global responsibility against violations of basic human rights, such as the right to privacy and integrity. Principle 2 Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses 6, 7, 13 We contribute to this by promoting fair labour conditions in all our offices, and have integrated this in our human resource policy and procurement policy. Principle 3 Uphold freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 6, 7 MediaMonks respects the freedom of association and employees’ rights to organize or join employee organizations. Principle 4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 6, 7 Diversity is a prerequisite for success and all discrimination is prohibited. For example, in total 28 different nationalities are working for MediaMonks. Principle 5 Support effective abolition of child labor 6, 7 We do not tolerate bullying or other physical or verbal acts of an abusive character. Decisions that concern employment, promotions, development and compensation are based on the employees’ job knowledge and competence. Principle 6​ Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation 13 Active responsible supply chain management helps us track possible human rights violation such as child, forced or compulsory labor. Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 11, 12 MediaMonks works actively with minimizing our environmental impact it is part of our everyday business. Focus areas within our environmental policy are energy, mobility and waste. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 11, 12 Active sustainable supply chain management helps us raise awareness on energy efficiency amongst our suppliers, and work with them on innovations. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 11, 12 technologies Knowledge is an important factor to our environment and energy management. We work together with our strategic partners on innovative energy measurements. For example with our datacenter supplier. Principle 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 13 MediaMonks has zero tolerance with regard to all forms of bribes and corruption. We neither offer nor accept gifts and hospitality that are improper. This is integrated in our contracts with our employees. Also, they have signed a non-confidentiality agreement to prevent data breaches.  Our undertaking is to conduct ourselves in an ethically correct manner in everything we do, in compliance with applicable legislation and our company values, industry standards and international guidelines. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 16 OUR CSR PROGRAM For questions, recommendations or ideas about the MediaMonks policy, please contact us: facility@mediamonks.com MEDIAMONKS HQ MEDIAMONKS UK MEDIAMONKS STO MEDIAMONKS NY Schapenkamp 2 23 Heddon Street Norrlandsgatan 18 127 Elizabeth St 1211 PA Hilversum London, W1B 4BQ 111 43 Stockholm 10013 NY New York T +31 35 621 21 50 T +44 (0)20 7440 3580 T +46 8 50 70 35 00 T +1 347 767 6929 E info@mediamonks.com E london@mediamonks.com E stockholm@mediamonks.com E ny@mediamonks.com MEDIAMONKS LA MEDIAMONKS SG MEDIAMONKS DBX 1214 Abbot Kinney 30 Bukit Pasoh Road Boutique Offices, Villa No. 8 Venice CA, 90291 089844 Singapore Knowledge Village (Dubai Media City) T +1 907 891 8571 T +65 6438 9897 Po Box no. 502921 Dubai E la@mediamonks.com E singapore@mediamonks.com T +971 52 948 6613 E dubai@mediamonks.com www.mediamonks.com
