United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 www.nehmeh.com Setting the Standards Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support .................................................................................................... 4 Progress on Human Rights ............................................................................................................. 6 Progress on Labour Rights.............................................................................................................. 9 Progress on Environment .............................................................................................................. 11 Progress on Anti-Corruption ......................................................................................................... 14 Nehmeh Group and its subsidiaries and affiliates are sometimes referred to as the Group, or simply Nehmeh. Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 2 Statement of Continued Support “The UN Global Compact principles are the core for Nehmeh’s Vision for 2020.” Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 3 Statement of Continued Support Since its founding more than 60 years ago, Nehmeh has grown from strength to strength with dedication, focus, and above all goodwill. Our markets and territories continue to grow across the board; we embraced voluntarily the United Nations Global Compact as a further testimony to our commitment to business ethics, social and environmental responsibility and progress. Nehmeh continues to support the principles of UN Global Compact, which we acknowledge as a long-term commitment. Our Vision statement is derived from the UN Global Compact principles and is “to become a regional key player committed in delivering innovative excellence through sustainable and diversified businesses by 2020”. We are ever closer to achieving solid corporate governance which will include implementation of Global Compact principles, Value chain implementation and full stakeholder engagement all in context, transparency and disclosure. We at Nehmeh are aligned in our renewal of our support for UN Global Compact’s four pillars and its associated ten principles and this Communication of Progress report is once again such a testimony now more than ever as well celebrate more than 60 years of service along with various other publications. Together Forward 2020. Sincerely, Emil A. Nehme Chief Executive Officer Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 4 Progress on Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. “At Nehmeh, we believe in the Common Good.” Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 5 Progress on Human Rights Nehmeh’s human resources and its relevant policies and procedures ensure Nehmeh’s fair and consistent methods of recruitment and selection of employees is respected. Employees are recruited solely on the basis of their suitability to meet the requirements of the job without any discrimination. The recruitment is undertaken on the basis of a well-defined list of responsibilities and tasks as well as skills, knowledge and experience required for each available position.  Nehmeh’s goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment we have set up a code of conduct, published on our website and available to the public, to make our position clear for all our suppliers, employees and partners.  As our employees are our core assets, we are highly committed to provide them optimum working environment and get their continuous feedback both proactively – through quarterly feedback programs at all the locations & reactively – through providing communication channels such suggestion boxes at all locations, feedback on our online portal, a dedicated email helpline, etc... All the feedbacks received are treated as top priority by top management without disclosing identity of the employee. Appropriate actions are taken based on the severity of concerned raised with satisfaction of requesting employee.  All employees are entitled to medical insurance.  A training session is conducted yearly for employees to raise the public awareness on human rights issues as per the UN Global Compact framework.  Nehmeh assists continuously in the founding and support of various through fund raising or otherwise for cultural, community, educational centers in Qatar and elsewhere.  Nehmeh always looks to benefit charitable organisations especially in terms of donation-box placements in all our points of sales & service as well as in terms of stationeries and printed material.  Safety and wellbeing of our workforce are always nonnegotiable for us. All our work locations & accommodations are well equipped with fire alarms, fire extinguishers, etc... to meet (and exceed) international safety standards as well as local civil defense requirements and are upgraded periodically as & when required. We ensure that high-quality PPE (personal protective equipment) such as masks, hand gloves, helmets, etc... are used by all our technicians.  As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility and Nehmeh’s ongoing efforts to support community welfare projects, Nehmeh organized a blood donation campaign in Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 6 collaboration with Hamad Medical Corporation. The event was a grand success with many of the employees of Nehmeh voluntarily participating for the noble cause.  We further do our part to respond and alleviate persons faced with natural disasters such as the earthquake which hit Nepal in 2015 as well as the ongoing plight of Syrian refugees.  Nehmeh participated at Run the World Festival 2016. The festival revolves around sports and culture of all mediums. It serves as an exciting platform for youth to celebrate their talents and capabilities, while emphasizing the importance of healthy living and leadership for a better society. The festival has been operating successfully for the last 5 years in Qatar, making it one of the largest youth and sports festival in the Middle East.  For every location operated by the Group, a certified warden has been selected and trained in first aid and resuscitation procedures. Result: Less panic, more control, lives protected from harm. Nehmeh Community Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 7 Progress on Labour Rights Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. “We believe in doing good while doing well” Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 8 Progress on Labour Rights Nehmeh’s Corporate Policy and Goal: is combined in a Human Rights and Labour Rights policy based on the communicated understanding that employees are our most important asset (as per our values) and their welfare is of utmost importance. We work to raise benefits and living conditions to a level that meets or exceeds the national legislation or to industry standards. Maintaining, monitoring, reviewing, auditing and continually improving the HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) standards with certification requirements of OHSAS 18001:2007, which was renewed as per the latest audit by the authorized body. As per the periodic review of results by senior management, below are some of the renovation programs that have recently been undertaken in our central accommodations as a direct response to suggestions from our people:  Revamped various offices with quiet areas and some have fully upgraded facilities entirely  Security is an important element @ Nehmeh and the safety of our people and our assets is of our great concern, and accordingly we have taken the initiative to increase CCTV in common areas and a new security company to safeguard our locations  Upgrading works at the corporate headquarters  Renovating various facilities throughout Qatar  Ensuring secure working and living quarters for our people in accommodations and workplace Nehmeh sponsored and actively participated in the California Tortilla Reverse Walk, an event for the promotion of good health and at the same time helping raise awareness to health issues especially diabetes. Nehmeh is committed to equal opportunities employment, employing staff from more than 18 ethnics’ background, both male and female. Further, women are represented at all levels in the company, including management. Nehmeh is proud of its consistent record in local labour ministries. “The Nehmeh Way” is much more than our Code of Conduct for which we fully disclose on our website to the general public. Result: More transparency with all our stakeholders in line with our strategy. The Nehmeh Way Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 9 Progress on Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. “At Nehmeh, we wish to keep our planet Green” Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 10 Progress on Environment Nehmeh has adapted a corporate policy across the board with its own initiative named Nehmeh Green. We took it upon ourselves to connect our name with the word “green” to reflect such a high-level of importance. Our merited certification in ISO 14001:2004 ensures Maintaining, monitoring, reviewing, auditing and continually improving environmentally-friendly standards with the said certification requirements.  Nehmeh was awarded Certificate of Appreciation by Qatar Green Building Council for the valuable participation in no paper day campaign 2016. The campaign aims to encourage the local community to adopt eco-friendly initiatives geared at reducing paper waste nationwide. It also reminds the public that reducing the use of Qatar’s resources not only can improve business efficiency, but help to preserve the environment’s long-term health.  Nehmeh uses environmentally-friendly products to clean its equipment and machinery (and insists on using organic, mineral and biodegradable solvents).  Nehmeh-branded plastic bags (with every purchase from our point of sale or service) are being replaced by eco-friendly and recyclable oxo-biodegradable bags made of renewable sources and are 100% biodegradable and compostable within 180 days.  Nehmeh manufactures products taking utmost care in converting waste from hazardous to environmentally friendly (filtering systems for liquids and gases).  Nehmeh sells various anti-pollution solutions, putting more in use water-based paints rather than oil-based ones, as well as green evaporative coolers eliminating poisonous exhausts and reducing power consumption (Look out for the “Green” tag in our Products).  Nehmeh is gradually replacing its IT assets (computers and their accessories) with more environmentally friendly units. Result: some of our electronic equipment has reduced the relevant power consumption by 30%  The whole Nehmeh family of men and women participate in green events and try to do their part in keeping our planet Green (from recycling to participating in the Earth Hour).  We continuously half the waste of paper by encouraging the use of printing on both sides of papers; double-sided printing. Result: we have reduced the number of paper usage and reuse existing papers and expenses on paper are expected to be reduced by 50%.  With the replacement of water taps with timed-push buttons, Nehmeh is saving water and limiting wastage. Result: a dramatic decrease in water consumption. Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 11  With the beginning of replacement of regular light switches with motion sensors, we are certain to save on energy wastage.  Nehmeh also continuously informs all its partners (customers and suppliers) not to print their emails, unless it is absolutely necessary.  We have started using reusable envelopes for mailing and communication across our Group. Result: further reduced our paper wastage.  We have begun more automation by utilizing more fully our ERP and thus reducing the workaround times of various tasks. Result: less paper usage  Nehmeh conducts air quality monitoring by measuring occupational exposure for Lead (pb) at its manufacturing unit. The testing is conducted by one of the world’s leading testing group who are accredited through the National Accreditation Bodies of the various countries in which they operate globally.  Nehmeh conducts periodic noise level monitoring to ensure that noise levels are maintained at acceptable levels. Sound level measurements are made with an analyzer which can measure ranges from 40 dB to 130 dB at frequencies between 31.5Hz and 8KHz. Nehmeh Green Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 12 Progress on Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. “Nehmeh’s one of four core values is Trust, which we describe as our most valuable property” Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 13 Progress on Anti-Corruption With 60 years of continuous service, we understand that trust is earned and not given and as such we take the greatest pride for being recognized as a trusted partner for industrial solutions. Nehmeh upholds the value of Trust throughout its business units and through its enabled management & staff. As a quality-endorsed firm, we are committed to earning that trust everyday by being open, truthful, and accurate within the limits of commercial confidentiality. In all our communications, both written and spoken, we provide reliable and relevant information on our activities in a timely, regular manner. We consider interaction important and therefore have a positive attitude toward constructive dialogues with all of our stakeholders.  Nehmeh’s policy of zero tolerance on corruption and bribery including political donations and gifts, and transparency, anti-competitive and illegal activities is embedded in its daily operations and dealings involving employees, business partners, suppliers and interested parties.  An employee feedback program takes place at each location quarterly for employees to submit their complaints and/or issues with regards to reporting illicit activities. Such complaints are escalated to the top management immediately and dealt with swiftly.  The Group Strategic Initiatives Office’s (SIO) email has been recognized as an effective whistleblowing tool for checks & balances and further enabled the Corporate Integrity Alert Program to report non-compliance online & offline.  Nehmeh has conducted awareness campaigns to all employees to raise the flag on illegitimate activities and encourage a whistleblowing environment along with an ongoing and yearly undertaking signature of all employees & staff of their renewed commitments.  An Internal Audit team has been put in place to ensure transparency and a best-practice business model is on the horizon.  The publically available “The Nehmeh Way” is a document which fully discloses our position to our anti-corruption initiatives to the general public. It is based on Nehmeh’s commitments to its Values and code of conduct which is published publicly as to make our position clear for all our stakeholders, and it is much more than a code of business conduct but a code of conduct that everyone should expect from Our People and Our Companies. The Nehmeh Way Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 14 Contacts Ajay Kotian Group Head of Internal Audit T: + 974 4434 4000 E: ajay.kotian@nehmeh.com Alexander A. Nehme Chief Shared Services Officer T: + 974 4434 4000 E: alexander.nehme@nehmeh.com www.nehmeh.com We further support Business for Peace. Copyright © 2016 Nehmeh Agencies & Trading (Offshore) SAL. All rights reserved. The Nehmeh name and logo are registered trademarks of Nehmeh Agencies & Trading (Offshore) SAL. Other products and companies referred to herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies or mark holders. Publication name: UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2015-2016 Publication number: 5 Publication date: June 2016 Communication on Progress SIO-C-2012-05 15
