Annual Report 2015 and Sustainability Report “We contribute to Sweden as a nation of knowledge” Akademiska Hus 2015 Transfer of major HSB Living Lab in Gothenburg construction projects During the year several of our major construction projects were completed and the tenants moved in. These projects included Malmö University’s iconic new Niagara building, as well as the Ull Building in Uppsala, which is the new main entrance to the Ultuna Campus, and the prize-winning School of Architecture at the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, which can be seen on the cover. Collaboration in the energy supply of the future In 2015 Akademiska Hus initiated several innovation and research collaborations, including with property companies and energy suppliers within the Sustainable Region research project at Linköping University. The initiative aims to find regional cooperation models to achieve a more The Humanities Theatre in Uppsala effective provision of resources. Other good examples include our participation in HSB Living Lab, ElectriCity and Important construction Citylab. Read more about our energy work on pages 28–29. starts Awards 2015 Our properties have received several awards during the We have a large project portfolio with many planned and year. The School of Architecture at the KTH Campus won ongoing projects. In 2015 one of the most important the 2015 Kasper Salin Award, the oldest and most prestigbuilding starts was the Albano Campus, which upon comious award for the built environment. Other awards include pletion in 2022 will be one of the most attractive educathe Swedish Lighting Design Award for LUX in Lund and tion and research environments in Sweden. Construction the Steel Structure Award for Aula Medica in Solna. The has also begun on the Education Building at the Royal Skandion Clinic in Uppsala garnered the Swedish sheet Institute of Technology in Stockholm, the Humanities metal award and KTH’s campus plan won the International Theatre in Uppsala and Biotronen, the new research facilSustainable Campus Network Award during the year. ity at the Alnarp Campus in Skåne, southern Sweden. Adaptation of capital strucCollaboration results in ture to the owner’s objective over 10,000 more student In October 2015 Akademiska Hus held an Extraordinary General Meeting, which resolved to pay an additional dishousing units tribution of SEK 6,500 million to the owner, the Swedish Good access to student housing makes the centres of state. The purpose of the additional distribution was to education more attractive. We provide our own construcadjust the capital structure to the owner’s objective of tion services and help others to build by selling or leasing an equity ratio between 30 and 40 per cent. land to other stakeholders. Read more on pages 3 and 19. FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 INCOME STATEMENTS, SEK M Property management income 5,701 5,681 5,588 5,511 5,378 Net operating income 3,703 3,717 3,506 3,588 3,389 Change in value, properties 2,655 3,529 232 –291 361 Profit before financial items 6,323 7,200 3,665 3,231 3,704 Net financial income/expense -182 –939 –390 –682 –452 Profit before tax 6,141 6,261 3,275 2,549 3,252 Profit for the year 4,780 5,215 2,568 3,149 2,394 KEY FIGURES Return on operating capital, % 6.9 7.3 7.2 7.8 8.0 Yield, % 6.3 6.9 6.8 7.1 6.9 Net operating income ratio, % 65 65 63 65 63 Equity ratio, % 40.7 48.0 46.8 46.0 43.4 Contents The cornerstones Our mission Statement by the President Value-adding 1 2 4 of our business Driving forces 6 Stakeholders 9 Materiality analysis and objectives 11 Vision Strategy 12 Objectives and objective achievement 14 Description of business 17 Leading knowledge environments. Property and campus planning 18 Construction process 22 Management and leasing 28 Employees 32 Business concept ADMINISTRATION REPORT Our performance 34 Five-year summary 36 Working in collaboration with our customers, we develop, build and Property valuation 37 manage knowledge environments that further Sweden’s success Risk 39 as a nation of knowledge. Financing 44 Through our experience, expertise and size, we provide effective, Corporate Governance Report 47 sustainable environments for education, research and innovation. Board of Directors 49 Executive Management 52 Board of Directors’ Internal Control Report 54 Other information 56 Values Allocation of unappropriated earnings 57 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES ATTENTIVE Income Statements 58 Attentiveness and mutual understanding are essential for building Statement of Comprehensive Income 59 strong, long-term relationships. At Akademiska Hus we treat Balance Sheets 60 everyone with respect, humility, tolerance and curiosity. Changes in Equity 62 Statements of Cash Flows 64 COMMITTED Notes 65 Wholeheartedness and commitment are reflected in everything we Signatures of the Board of Directors 92 do. The starting point is our genuine interest in service, learning Audit Report 93 and people. Our strong commitment leads to customer satisfaction, motivated employees, more attractive campuses, a strong econSUSTAINABILITY omy and long-term sustainable development. About the Sustainability Report/GRI data 94 GRI and COP index 96 VALUE-ADDING Signatures of the Board of Directors 98 Together we take overall responsibility for building lasting success Auditor’s report 99 for customers, shareholders and each other. By employing good business practice and decisiveness we find DEFINITIONS 100 long-term solutions that are smarter, more sustainable and more ADDRESSES Inside cover effective. This benefits everyone – our customers, ourselves and the environment around us. PROPERTY SPECIFICATION See: www.akademiskahus.se Code of Conduct The Akademiska Hus Code of Conduct offers guidance on how we should work in order to act correctly in business and in other relaAnnual Report 2015 tionships. The Code applies to all Akademiska Hus employees and The audited Annual Report comprises pages 34–92. Our representatives. sustainability initiatives are incorporated in the Annual Akademiska Hus also has an Ethical Council that employees can Report and presented in line with GRI G4 guidelines. contact with questions or suspicions of irregularities linked to the The Sustainability Report comprises the pages listed Code of Conduct or other guidelines. The Ethical Council includes on page 94 and has undergone a cursory audit. both employees and an external lawyer. This is a translation of the original Swedish Annual Report. Akademiska Hus: One of the largest property companies in Sweden Akademiska Hus owns, develops and manages properties with a focus on higher education and research. We are wholly owned by the Swedish state. Our property portfolio is worth SEK 66.6 billion and we have a market share of 60 per cent in our segment. We want to offer internationally attractive campus and knowledge environments As a market leader, we promote progress by strengthening Sweden as a nation of knowledge. Together with our customers we develop 300 THOUSAND RESEARCHERS AND STUDENTS creative environments that attract students, researchers, teachers IN OUR PREMISES EACH DAY and business partners both domestically and internationally. Our dedicated employees with their cutting edge expertise, who develop our offer in collaboration with our customers, are the key 3.2 to our success. Effective and sustainable resource management SQUARE METRES MILLION Optimising operations, energy efficiency, and choosing the right materials are important aspects of our sustainability efforts. By partRENTABLE SPACE nering with both customers and suppliers, we can make better progress in our efforts to reduce both environmental impact and costs. Long-term contracts with creditTOTAL 66.6 PROPERTY PORTFOLIO worthy customers form our base Colleges and universities, which are essentially government agencies and therefore have the highest credit rating, are the source of 89 per cent of our revenue. The terms of our contracts are long, and the occupancy rate is high, which contributes to operating stability. But we are not sitting back on our laurels. Continuous SEK BILLION development is essential to shape the knowledge environments to meet the challenges of tomorrow. High credit rating – 17.5  PROJECT PORTFOLIO a requirement for financing investments SEK BILLION Akademiska Hus has a substantial investment portfolio. Although IN APPROVED AND cash flow from operating activities is very good, the debt portfolio PLANNED PROJECTS will grow further. We strive to achieve relevant disclosure with high transparency to enable financiers and rating agencies to find support for their credit assessments of Akademiska Hus. HUVUDAVSNITT Underavsnitt 1 OUR MISSION –to contribute to strengthening Sweden as a nation of knowledge “Akademiska Hus Aktiebolag will own, develop and manage properties for universities and colleges where the primary focus is on education and research and it will carry on operations compatible therewith. Operations will be run on a commercial basis and generate a yield that is in line with the market by setting rents that take into account the operating risk. Akademiska Hus Aktiebolag will work to bring about long-term sustainable development of university and college campuses.” “Akademiska Hus will contribute to the creation of more student housing by making clear that the company’s focus includes the construction and management of student housing.”  AKADEMISKA HUS’ MISSION IS DECIDED BY THE RIKSDAG 2 STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT Our contribution to Sweden as a nation of knowledge Our mission is to contribute to strengthening Sweden as a nation of knowledge. We have built up unique expertise over the more than 20 years that we have been in business. Our commitment and our ability to effectively leverage our own and our customers’ expertise is the key to succeeding with our mission. INTEGR ATED APPROACH AND DIGITALISATION The method also includes an analytical model for sustainable camAttracting successful students and researchers from all over the pus development, in order to integrate issues related to vibrant and world is crucial for Sweden’s centres of education and research to be attractive campuses with innovative and sustainable environments. counted among the top-ranked institutions worldwide in the future. In 2015, we also adopted an innovation strategy and an energy Students and researchers are moving increasingly across geographstrategy, to intensify our efforts to achieve our ambitious goals. We ical boundaries and are active in various collaborations with indussupport and operate our business in accordance with the corporate try. In addition to high quality teaching and research, they look for responsibility principles of the UN Global Compact and the OECD efficient, accessible interfaces that enable inspiring encounters and Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. interaction with industry and the city. Housing, services, jobs and active recreation opportunities are other influential factors. SusBREAKTHROUGH YEAR FOR UNIVERSITY CAPITAL tainability today has evolved from its initial focus on the green per2015 was an important year in many ways. After a 13-year long spective to permeating everything. Taking the big picture into planning process, a groundbreaking ceremony was finally held for account is perhaps the most important future trend of all. the Albano Campus in November. The Albano Campus will be Digitalisation is, of course, also an important trend that affects completed in 2022 as one of Sweden’s premier education and us and our customers. The accelerating digitalisation of teaching research environments, with university facilities, housing and methods means that this aspect needs to be integrated into all conspace for commercial services. The area, which is being built for struction planning. 15,000 students and researchers, links Stockholm University, KTH, Karolinska Institutet and the city of Stockholm. With this project UNIQUE ABILITY TO DEVELOP LEARNING ENVIRONMENTS we take sustainable urban design to a new level since we will build OF THE FUTURE an entire neighbourhood that not only takes nature into account, Akademiska Hus has the experience and expertise necessary to but also helps to develop it through its design. During the planning accept full responsibility and be an important partner in the develprocess we collaborated with a research group at Stockholm Resilopment of tomorrow’s campus and knowledge environments. We ience Centre and KTH Architecture, where researchers contributed have the knowledge to build and manage everything from classvaluable comments and suggestions, based on socioecological urban rooms and offices to advanced research facilities. Our talented and design. The Albano Campus is also a pilot project within Citylab dedicated employees have a thorough understanding of the activiwhere the aim is to develop a certification system for entire neighties of our tenants. bourhoods. In 2015 we also continued construction of Biomedicum for CONTINUE WORKING BASED ON A LONG-TERM STR ATEGY Karolinska Institutet in Solna, which in 2018 will be one of the A long-term perspective, sustainability and collaboration are key largest experimental research laboratories in Europe. Yet concepts that permeate our strategy. Constant development is crucial another important collaboration is the Green Innovation Park for success. In 2015, we further developed our campus planning projoint initiative between Akademiska Hus and the Swedish cedures, to ensure that improvements to the physical environment University of Agricultural Sciences – an initiative support the long-term vision and strategy of the centres of education. that will position the Ultuna Campus in Uppsala as the centre of green business in Sweden. OUR AIM IS TO HELP ACHIEVE NOT ONLY OUR OWN SUSSTRONG MARKET GROWTH TAINABILITY GOALS, BUT ALSO THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS The property market continued to demonOne successful example is the campus plan for our customer strate strong growth in 2015. Interest in our the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm (KTH), where property segment, community properties, is we worked in close collaboration with the customer and many stronger than ever. As a result of strong market other stakeholders to develop a campus plan with a focus on sustainability. In 2015 the campus plan garnered the prestiggrowth, the value of our property portfolio continued ious International Sustainable Campus Network Award. to improve and this year’s change in value was SEK 2,655 million. In October 2015 Akademiska Hus held an Extra­ AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT 3 ordinary General Meeting, which resolved to pay an additional distribution of SEK 6,500 million to its owner, the Swedish state. STUDENT HOUSING – The additional distribution was a measure in response to rising fair A KEY ISSUE FOR UNIVERSITY CITIES value of properties, to adjust the capital structure to the owner’s We are contributing to the construction of more than 10,000 objective of an equity ratio between 30 and 40 per cent. The equity student housing units on our own campuses, through measures such as selling or leasing out land, assisting with detail ratio at year-end was 40.7 per cent. planning and incorporating housing in our campus plans. One issue that has arisen in connection with the additional disSince 2015, when the owner clarified our mission, we have tribution relates to Akademiska Hus’ rent levels. Since the centres also had the ability to provide our own construction services. At the KTH Campus in Stockholm and the Solna Campus we of education are government agencies, they are unable to own are currently planning construction of 570 housing units with properties; instead, they must rent premises on an open market. room for about 840 students and visiting researchers. Akademiska Hus’ mission includes offering premises at market rent. One reason is that Akademiska Hus should not distort competition in the property market, nor should it favour individual unithis investment volume to increase over the next few years to an versities, thereby offering different conditions to Sweden’s centres average of SEK 3.5 billion annually. All projects are developed to of education. Transparency in our rent-setting model is important permit long-term management, which provides us with excellent to us. You can read more about it on page 31. The dividend does not opportunities to invest in sustainable and innovative solutions. affect our ability to perform our obligations or to implement future Strong market growth and an internal focus on efficiency and energy investments. The additional distribution savings have provided resources enabling us to undertake important has no connection with the level of major investments in the future. As a major purchaser, Akademiska rental revenue. Hus also has a positive impact on the industry by setting high standards in areas such as the environment, quality and safety. INVESTMENTS IN KNOW­ The expertise and dedication of Akademiska Hus employees LEDGE ENVIRONMENTS along with everyone who participates in our projects form the core OF THE FUTURE of a successful construction project. Good leadership, effective proWe have a project portfolio with ject management and a safe working environment are our cornerapproved and planned projects stones. I am proud that Akademiska Hus has succeeded in gathering of SEK 17.5 billion. In 2015 we the industry leaders in the network that will work for an Accident-­ invested approximately SEK 2.5 Free Workplace. In the current economic boom, with tight schedbillion in new construction and ules, all companies in the industry have a great responsibility to redevelopment. We expect work proactively with workplace environment and occupational safety issues. Such initiatives drive our industry forward. Our talented employees possess the operational expertise that enables us to provide stable and efficient management. Our building maintenance technicians play an important role in reducing environmental and climate impact and thus energy costs. WE CONTRIBUTE TO A NATION OF KNOWLEDGE Everything that my colleagues and I do helps to increase the attractiveness of Sweden’s centres of education. It is my firm conviction that by working in close collaboration and promoting constructive dialogue with the universities, we also help to strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge. “Continual development is crucial for success with our long-term strategy.” Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 4 VALUE-ADDING How we create and enhance value Akademiska Hus creates value in a variety of dimensions. Most important is our contribution to strengthening the fundamentals for higher education and research in Sweden. We also create sustainable campuses, increase integration with the surrounding community and generate a good return for our owner, the Swedish state. A variety of The materiality driving forces Our stakeholders analysis lays the affect our have high foundation for development expectations our goals A variety of external Insight into the issues By analysing the issues factors, internationally that are relevant to both that are most essential and in Sweden, affect the internal and external for our long-term value conditions under which stakeholders is crucial for creation, we become Akademiska Hus conducts our ability to prioritise aware of how we can add business. Such factors the right activities. value for our customers, range from changing Through our insight, we owner and other stakeeducational needs to propcan act in good time on holders. erty value growth trends. issues that Akademiska The materiality analysis Hus stakeholders consider These driving forces are forms the basis for setting to be urgent. key factors that serve as specific targets to ensure the foundation of value Our ongoing dialogue with that we guide the busicreation for Akademiska stakeholders is particuness in the right direction. Hus. larly important now, when conditions in both our industry and the higher education sector are rapidly changing. page 6 page 9 page 11 VALUE-ADDING 5 Assessing fulfilment of Long-term objectives ensures strategy guides that we are on the our work right path A long-term perspective, Short-term and long-term sustainability and collaboration objectives ensure are key concepts that permeate continual development. Akademiska Hus’ strategy. By measuring our performance we can adapt and Our strategy can be broken down adjust our activities so we into business and operational remain on course towards plans so that each employee can our long-term goals. apply the strategy in their daily work and help us to create value. The road may have its twists and turns, but by Leveraging our expertise in listening to and pursuing collaboration with our customers a dialogue with our is crucial if we are to achieve our customers, we improve goals. our opportunities to strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge. page 12 page 14 VALUE-ADDING 6 Driving forces Sweden as a nation of knowledge: driving forces and influential factors The internationalisation of education and research, digitalisation of learning environments and the increased integration of campus and community, are key components that affect our business in the ongoing development. Several trends create exciting opportunities for Akademiska Hus, at the same time that they raise expectations regarding our promise. INTEGR ATION OF CAMPUS AND COMMUNITY — CRUCIAL FOR GROWTH The interaction between the campus environment and business approach and collaboration when planning and designing camincubators, nearby industry and the local city centre is imporpuses will therefore become even more important in the future. tant from a growth perspective. As more companies choose to Active integration of campus and community is increasingly interact with activities on campus, central growth hubs in encouraged by regional policy makers who see the value of a regional and urban development are created. A long-term strong link between academia, industry and community. INTEREST IN COMMUNITY PROPERTIES INCREASED DIGITALISATION OF INTENSIFIES COMPETITION LEARNING ENVIRONMENTS Community properties are properties that are predomiRight now a number of strategic initiatives are under way, nantly used and leased by tax-funded activities that are aimed at increasing digitalisation of Swedish centres of tailored for community services, which include Swedish education. When planning for new construction, expansion colleges and universities. Market interest in community and renovation projects, digitalisation of the learning properties has grown in recent years since demand environment is a central starting point. As students purremains high, leases are long, and counterparty risk is low. sue increasingly mobile and individualised educations, we More and more privately owned property companies are see a greater degree of digital laboratories, as well as intelooking for stable investments and therefore want to round grated physical and virtual teaching emerge. off their property portfolios with an expanded portfolio At the same time, digitalisation of administration and that includes community properties. operations management support systems is under developThe community property sector is a knowledge-intenment at the centres of education. sive area that requires specialist expertise. As interest Competitive knowledge environments must satisfy from more market participants intensifies, so too does the today’s needs for flexibility and multi-functionality for competition for both skilled employees and tenants. various teaching methods with an adaptable design that can meet the changing needs of the future. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 VALUE-ADDING Driving forces 7 Campus Albano SWEDISH CENTRES OF EDUCATION ACT STUDENT BASE GROWTH IN A GLOBAL ARENA — UNCERTAIN LONG-TERM PROGNOSIS Swedish colleges and universities depend on students, Swedish colleges and universities have had a record researchers and staff. Increased opportunities for mobility number of applicants in recent years, partly because of the and strong interest in internationalisation are associated relatively weak employment situation, and partly because with growing competition among centres of education in the of continued large cohorts in the education system. This international arena. The need for competitive knowledge situation may change, but the uncertainty is great and the environments that appeal to both students and researchers prognosis difficult to assess. According to the demographic is therefore constantly present. Since the target groups of the forecast, the age group that mainly applies to higher educacolleges and universities prioritise centres of education with tion is declining, but the curve has flattened. It will flatten attractive and highly functional knowledge environments, further due to the extremely high level of immigration in both dedicated research facilities and the appeal of campuses recent years. The new arrivals are mainly younger individas a whole are important from a competitive perspective. uals. Political decisions, such as support measures for Research in collaboration with industry is an important adult education, can affect both the number of openings international development trend. Commercialisation of and the number of applicants with respect to older age research is an important aspect for profiling the university groups. and for attracting researchers. Knowledge environments Offering attractive knowledge environments, which that encourage successful research projects in collaboration attract international students and researchers, is a good with the private sector are therefore extremely important. way to expand the applicant pool and become less sensitive to domestic demographics and the economic situation. Another good policy is to work with elasticity and generality when planning premises, which means that occasionGOOD GR ANT TREND, SOMEWHAT ally more people have to be accommodated in a smaller LOWER COST OF PREMISES area. We always aim to design premises so they will be as Sweden’s colleges and universities are financed by both general and useful as possible, to leverage our ability to government grants and external funding. The level of rent to others when demand declines. grants for education purposes is based on the number of students and their accomplishments. Grants are also 19–23-YEAR-OLDS IN THE POPULATION 2002–2015, awarded for research and education at the postgraduate FORECAST 2016–2028 level. In recent years research grant levels in particular Thousands have gradually increased. Between 2013 and 2014 resource 800 allocation increased by 4.2 per cent. Sweden invests the 2015 equivalent of 3.3 per cent of GDP in research, which pro600 portionally is one of the largest investments in the world. 400 At the same time that grant levels have increased in 200 recent years, the centres of education have undergone a 0 shift in total costs incurred. The proportion of costs for 2002 2010 2020 2028 Year Sweden’s colleges and universities that are attributable to premises has fallen during the period, compared with perSource: Statistics Sweden, May 2015 sonnel costs, which have risen. Read more on page 31. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 VALUE-ADDING 8 Driving forces Market overview Luleå and our stance Umeå The Swedish economy is steadily improving. Östersund The lack of inflation represents a challenge, however, accompanied by a continued loose Sundsvall monetary policy. Overall, growth and low interest rates have resulted in strong growth in the property market in 2015. Gävle Given the strong demand for premises Falun/Borlänge and rising rental prices, the property market Eskilstuna/Västerås has become extremely attractive in recent Uppsala years. Investors have had good access to Karlstad Stockholm capital at low interest rates and properties Örebro have provided good risk-adjusted return Norrköping Skövde compared with other assets. Strong demand Trollhättan Linköping continues to apply upward pressure on prices Visby Gothenburg and make investors increasingly willing to Jönköping invest in more secondary cities and locations. Borås Växjö Kalmar The buyer side continues to be dominated Halmstad Karlskrona by Swedish stakeholders, who account for the Alnarp Kristianstad majority of invested capital. In 2015, however, Malmö Lund the proportion of foreign investors sharply increased and now accounts for about 28 per Akademiska Hus’ share The size of the circle indicates the total area of cent of the acquisitions. Pension funds and university or college premises in each town/city. Other property owners other institutions that have historically Akademiska Hus has a presence here had low exposure to property have become Akademiska Hus does not have a presence here important players who are dedicating more and more capital to the property market. this segment. Transaction volume for comentails an increased risk, particularly in There is strong interest in housing and munity properties declined during the year small communities with fewer potential modern office space with efficient design, compared with 2014 due to the lack of supply tenants. The risk taken by Akademiska Hus though community properties are also rather than the lack of interested buyers. in these locations is limited by access to a attractive. Community properties are charAkademiska Hus has a market share of very efficient and active rental market. There acterised by stable returns in relation to about 60 per cent in the segment of premises are also university cities in which Akade­ risk, long leases and state or municipal tenfor higher education and research. Viewed miska Hus does not have a presence. Market ants. Buyers of community properties are across the country, Akademiska Hus has a share calculated based on the total number primarily Swedish stakeholders backed by broad geographic presence with properties of college and university cities in Sweden is pension capital. Several of these stakeholdin good locations in attractive cities. A large about 65 per cent of university cities, while ers have declared their intention to expand in proportion of specially adapted premises it is around 30 per cent in college cities. MARKET SHARES BY REGION AND LARGER CENTRES OF EDUCATION, % South 44 West 49 East 66 Uppsala 71 Stockholm 75 North 68 University of Linköping Uppsala Stockholm Umeå Lund University 57 Gothenburg 52 University1 73 University 71 University 78 University 70 Chalmers Swedish UniverUniversity Örebro sity of Agricultural Karolinska Luleå University of Malmö University 38 of Technology 45 University 83 Sciences, Ultuna 88 Institutet 89 Technology 81 Market share, Akademiska Swedish UniverHus’ largest Kristianstad Karlstad Royal Institute sity of Agricultural customers University 95 University 90 University of Gävle 89 of Tehchnology 91 Sciences, Umeå 72 Swedish University of Agricultural University of Sciences, Alnarp 88 Borås 78 University of Skövde 47 1) Including Norrköping Source: Swedish National Financial Management Authority AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 VALUE-ADDING Stakeholders 9 Dialogue and collaboration with our stakeholders Conducting a dialogue with our stakeholders and creating opportunities for cooperation are fundamental strategies for us to be able to develop Sweden’s most attractive campus and knowledge environments. Together with our customers, we want to ers and other stakeholders. Through a develop the knowledge environments of planned meeting structure, we strengthen the future. Dialogues with customers and our relationships and create an important other stakeholders affecting our business basis for developing new offerings and furhelp us to understand each other’s objecther developing the business. JOHANNA SENNMARK, tives and challenges. Such understanding Through customer and employee surENVIRONMENTAL MANAGER, SLU is vital if we are to assume long-term veys, we increase our understanding of “The Swedish University of Agricultural responsibility that is in line with the which issues to prioritise. During the year a Sciences (SLU) operates in several locaexpectations of the outside world. decision was made to redesign the customer tions in Sweden. The university has a survey, which targets property departments strong focus and knowledge about the sustainable use of biological natural AK ADEMISK A HUS’ at the centres of education, known as the resources, the environment and the life KEY STAKEHOLDERS Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI). The new sciences. We have high ambitions for the The key stakeholders for Akademiska Hus survey will be conducted in 2016. AkademUniversity’s sustainability efforts, where a nationwide collaboration with Akademare customers, the owner, financiers, iska Hus also meets regularly with the iska Hus is an important success factor. employees, suppliers and politicians, as Association of Swedish Higher Education We consider it to be crucial to have a well as the local and business communities at different levels and in different groups, dedicated and knowledgeable partner in our work towards a sustainable campus (see page 10). Our customers and employees and try to build up a collective picture of in all of our locations.” constantly share their knowledge and the needs of our customers through collabexperiences, thereby contributing to the oration and dialogue. development of Sweden’s knowledge environments. During the year we strengthened IN-DEPTH DIALOGUE WITH FOCUS strive to achieve relevant disclosure with and clarified our process for conducting ON SUSTAINABILITY high transparency to enable financiers, ratdialogues and interacting with our customAkademiska Hus conducted an internal ing agencies and banks to find support for risk inventory in 2014 to ensure consensus their credit assessments of Akademiska Hus. on the major sustainability-related risk In addition to the published informaareas. The inventory served as the basis for tion, we hold personal meetings, telephone an in-depth stakeholder dialogue, where conferences and video meetings. LEIF LJUNGQVIST, STATE-OWNED interviews were conducted with stakeholder COMPANIES UNIT representatives. In addition to sustainabilRELATIONSHIP WITH RATING AGENCIES AT THE MINISTRY ity-related challenges and risks, AkademiAkademiska Hus has had a rating from OF ENTERPRISE AND INNOVATION. ska Hus’ objectives were also discussed. Standard & Poor’s since 1996. We meet them After the dialogues, Akademiska Hus drew annually for a comprehensive update on our “We believe that corporate social responsibility is a prerequisite for longthe conclusion that the objectives were development, investment plans and financterm value creation. We encourage our deemed relevant and balanced. Stakeholders ing activities. The President, CFO and companies to be pioneers in their indusnoted a few areas – other than those with Treasurer participate at these meetings. tries. Akademiska Hus has an important and unique position in the property targets – that were important: supplier In addition to these meetings, Standard & industry that few other property compamanagement, transparency, clarity in comPoor’s is informed about issues that are nies have – a status that offers the oppormunication and sustainable campuses. important for their analyses and assesstunity to shape and develop entire neighbourhoods. By proactively developing and ment. In connection with the additional streamlining inspiring campuses AkadeCREDIT MARKET TRUST distribution to adjust the capital structure, miska Hus can strengthen the competiAkademiska Hus continues to maintain a Standard & Poor’s carried out an extra risk tiveness of the centres of education. This role is important in the development of substantial investment portfolio. Although exposure analysis and subsequently conSweden as a nation of knowledge.” cash flow from operating activities is stable, firmed Akademiska Hus’ rating of AA / the debt portfolio will grow further. We A-1+ in a research update. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 VALUE-ADDING 10 Stakeholders The table below shows our major stakeholders, how we conduct a dialogue with them and the issues on which each one focuses. STAKEHOLDERS & DIALOGUE VENUE ISSUES IN FOCUS CUSTOMERS (AND THEIR EMPLOYEES) • Provide attractive knowledge environments and campuses that • Regular customer dialogue through meetings with enable the customer to compete in national and international various executives. arenas. • Development of the campus plans. • High resource efficiency and proactive sustainability efforts. • Error reporting and dialogue as well as follow-up • Contribute to increased construction of student housing. measures. • Clarity of the Akademiska Hus business model and rent setting. • Customer Satisfaction Survey (not 2015). • Contribute to the customer’s long-term sustainability efforts. OWNER • To contribute to the Government’s objective of reinforcing • Board meetings. Sweden as a nation of knowledge. • Annual strategy seminar. • Increased customer benefit through collaboration with centres • Meetings with owner representatives with a focus of education. on corporate governance. • Act as a forerunner in corporate social responsibility. • High resource efficiency. • Contribute to increased construction of student housing. FINANCIERS, BANKS AND RATING AGENCIES • Capital structure. • Financial statements. • Professional risk exposure management. • Presentations at personal meetings. • Stable, long-term operations with profitability and yield in accordance with objectives and strategies. • Clear financial communication. EMPLOYEES • An attractive employer that offers good working conditions. • Staff meetings. • A safe and healthy working environment. • Annual performance reviews and goal-setting process. • Good opportunities for competence development. • Employee survey. • Understanding one’s own role in the operations of • Akademiska Hus-days during which all employees Akademiska Hus. meet to share knowledge and information. SUPPLIERS • Clear and relevant procurement terms and conditions. • Meetings related to procurement of framework • Clear and ambitious requirements for the environment, health contracts, purchase orders and supplier meetings. and safety, quality and social responsibility. • Audits. • Long-term relationships. LOCAL AND BUSINESS COMMUNITIES • Active participation in dialogue on how society and the • Commitment and active participation in urban and region can be developed, e.g. in urban development projects. regional planning and development. • Possibility of including businesses on campus. • Contribute at meetings with interest groups, trade • Contribute to increased construction of student housing. organisations and other forums. • D ialogue meetings to discuss future establishment plans. POLITICIANS • Contribute to the development of Sweden as a nation of • Active participation and dialogue about urban knowledge, both nationally and regionally. and regional development. • Contribute to the long-term sustainable development of knowledge environments. • Contribute to increased construction of student housing. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 VALUE-ADDING Materiality analysis and objectives 11 Issues underpinning our business The materiality analysis combines our views with those of external stakeholders to identify the aspects that are most crucial for Akademiska Hus. The analysis lends support to the priorities of our continued efforts and provides a base for the company’s strategy and business. ISSUES THAT ADD VALUE VERIFICATION OF MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Every year Akademiska Hus arranges a strategy day during which For the most part, the key issues that were identified in last year’s the Board of Directors and management work in close collaboration analysis are still relevant, as was confirmed in conversations with to identify the issues of greatest strategic significance to the comour stakeholders. We continue to work hard to develop and improve pany’s future role and long-term value creation. The initiative is our offering to our customers. The key issues therefore serve as an based on an analysis that includes everything from trends to marimportant basis for the company’s planning. Read more about how ket and skills issues, as well as the insights and lessons extracted we handle strategic, operational and financial risks on pages from dialogues with our stakeholders. The end result is a business 39–43. plan for the next three years. In 2014 we conducted a large number of interviews with our OUR OBJECTIVES stakeholders focusing on the essential aspects of sustainability. During the year, we further developed our strategic sustainability The dialogues addressed Akademiska Hus’ challenges, risks and goals. Great emphasis has been placed on formulating strategic posiobjectives. Key issues were prioritised based partly on their effect tions in the energy sector in order to take a value-adding approach on Akademiska Hus and partly on how important they are to the that promotes energy efficiency in our operations; read more on stakeholders’ assessment of the company. page 28. In addition, Akademiska Hus’ initiative to establish an Akademiska Hus engages in a dialogue with customers to clarify industry-wide alliance to promote an accident-free workplace also one of the most important issues for tenants: the model used to set made progress, read more on page 15. The details of the alliance are rental prices. Gaining and maintaining the trust of our customers being hammered out, but interest and commitment in the industry requires clear, transparent communication, an area where we have is strong, which is perceived as very positive. We also adopted an focused in recent years. innovation strategy during the year. The objective is to develop sustainable products, services and practices through structured innovation partnerships, thereby adding value for our customers and contributing to sustainable development in the community. ESSENTIAL QUESTIONS OWNER’S FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES: • Closer collaboration with customers • Return on operating capital should be at least • E xceptional ability to deliver premises and 6.5 per cent (excluding change in value). knowledge environments • D ividend should be between 40 and 60 per cent • Maintaining excellence in campus development of the profit for the year after tax, after reversal of changes in value and with related deferred tax. • Student housing • Equity ratio should be between 30 and 40 per cent. • Efficient use of resources • A safe working environment STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY GOALS: • Good supplier management • Energy purchased each year, in kWh/m2, will • High transparency decrease at such a rate that there will be a 50 per • Diversity cent reduction by 2025 compared with 2000 • Effective anti-corruption programme • Eliminate CO2 footprint from operations • Initiate sustainability initiatives with customers • Accident-free workplaces. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 VALUE-ADDING 12 Strategy Strategy for increased value creation Our well-established long-term strategy extends to 2025 and focuses primarily on constant development. Through cooperation and dialogue with our customers, we create attractive campus environments that contribute to our common goal – to strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge. • Campus and urban development EMPLOYEES • Building and energy technology FUTURE-ORIENTED ENERGY STR ATEGY l o fe r ve of p Deliverables rf M o r ea Climate change adaptation and good m s resource efficiency are the key to the future. De he an ur t ce e To achieve our overarching sustainability pe goals for energy reduction and CO2 elimiCOMMUNICATION nation, we work in the following main areas: SUSTAINABILITY DevelopDialogue • Reduce energy consumption in our curment rent property holdings and build energy efficient projects. • Influence the production of the energy er g we use. om in R ex e i n s t nd • Create new renewable electrical energy cu ta er rs Insight p e fo r t rc t t de in cooperation with suppliers. is ed B e un e Akademiska Hus has adopted an energy strategy to ensure progress towards the company’s overarching sustainability goals. Annual targets are set and activities are AN EFFICIENT COMPANY designed based on the long-term sustainaThe primary focus of our strategy is cooperation with our customers. Through dialogue with custombility goals. ers we promote insight and consensus on important issues such as sustainability and campus development. Consequently, even in the future we will be able to provide modern knowledge environments that help to make the centres of education attractive. Our strategic model comprises a ‘development wheel’ that drives us forward toward our vision and an operational platform that serves as the foundation for everything we do. Akademiska Hus’ strategy includes not INNOVATION STR ATEGY FOR Risks and opportunities only the development of our business proINCREASED CUSTOMER VALUE cesses for increased customer value, but Our ability to provide cutting edge premalso a financial strategy aimed at ensuring ises and knowledge environments and Akademiska Hus must have both favourable long-term financing; read more maintain our expertise in campus developthe strategic and operational ability to manage both risks and opportunion page 45. ment is important. In order for Akademiska ties if profitability is to achieve the Each year Akademiska Hus’ Board of Hus to be able to create customer value and owner’s requirement of a 6.5 per cent Directors addresses the company’s long-term contribute to sustainable development in return on operating capital. The business plan is based on Akademiska strategy and decides on a new business plan. the community, a proactive systematic Hus’ long-term strategy. The company The company manages risks and opportuapproach to innovation is crucial. During carries out its overarching risk nities by continuously monitoring external the year, a clear innovation strategy was identification process as part of the business planning process. Read developments and by incorporating shortadopted that focuses on three areas of more about how the company hanterm and long-term objectives and activities great strategic significance: dles its strategic, operational and in the business plan. Implementation and • K nowledge and learning environments financial risks on pages 39–43. outcomes are continuously monitored. of the future AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 VALUE-ADDING Strategy 13 IMPROVED FACT-BASED Deliverables Dialogue Our main focus is to enhance customer value by conThe customer dialogue will provide mutual knowledge stantly improving our products and services. Measuring and clarify Akademiska Hus deliverables, enabling us performance along the entire value chain and in the to work with customers to develop attractive campus processes that support the work provides a basis for and knowledge environments. Our ambition is for us dialogue with customers. The goal is to achieve better and our customers to have a common view of our deliverables for our customers than our competitors do. business and rental model. In order to increase customer value and to take an approach that addresses PRIORITIES: the big picture, we also involve industry, city and • Analyse property holdings to identify development region in the dialogue. opportunities and to ensure long-term customer value. • Secure cutting edge expertise within property and PRIORITIES: campus development. • Further develop the dialogue process for customers and • Promote flexible floor space solutions that can adapt to other stakeholders. changes in demand. • Ensure that we conduct dialogues on all appropriate • Make our knowledge environments more attractive by aiming levels, especially in customer organisations, but also for greater overall responsibility and a coordinating role. among business and community stakeholders, politicians and others. • Ensure effective and sustainable resource management. • Increase transparency relating to our market-based rent • Continuously streamline, improve and coordinate setting. internal processes. DEEP CONTINUAL Insight Development Through dialogue, trend analysis, and collaboration Development of products and services is crucial if we with customers and other stakeholders, create insight are to be able to offer the most attractive campus and into how future leading campus and knowledge enviknowledge environments. We create development and ronments can be developed. This leads to more ideas demonstration projects through a structured innovaand collaborative projects. tion process and based on dialogue with customers. PRIORITIES: PRIORITIES: • Effectively transfer experiences and best practice. • Collaborative projects for new learning environments/ • Always have an updated overview of customers’ visions efficient design and further development of effective and goals as a base for development and innovation. forms of collaboration. • Develop and use our expert channels, such as our national • I ncreased internal efficiency. and international expertise network. • Joint sustainability initiatives with customers. • Continued work for an innovation-friendly corporate culture and a learning organisation. • Continuous review and further development of the risk management process so that opportunities are used and material risks are managed. • Systematic innovation efforts in three areas: Knowledge and learning environments of the future, campus and urban development, as well as building and energy technology. OPERATIONAL PLATFORM EMPLOYEES COMMUNICATION AN EFFICIENT COMPANY SUSTAINABILITY Our employees are our most We have open, effective comWe improve the efficiency of We incorporate sustainability in important asset – we work munication with all stakeholdour working routines, we make everything we do – we aim to continuously to develop our ers – we communicate openly our processes and development work sustainably and cooperate expertise as an active, and frequently and we are programmes as consistent as on sustainability with our cusfuture-oriented partner and good at listening. possible and we quickly pass tomers, who also value it highly. with a focus on constantly on our best practices and the improving customer value. lessons we have learned. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 VALUE-ADDING 14 Objectives and objective achievement Management by objectives towards our vision Our mission is to own, develop and manage properties with a focus on higher education and research. Operations will be run on a commercial basis and generate a yield in line with the market. Several overarching goals guide us towards our vision – to create leading knowledge environments. DESCRIPTION FULFILMENT OF OBJECTIVES 2015 COMMENT OWNER OBJECTIVES RETURN ON OPERATING CAPITAL 6.9 per cent See the sensitivity analysis in Note 2 on At least 6.5 per cent (excluding page 69. change in value).1 DIVIDEND The proposed dividend will amount For more information about the allocation Between 40 and 60 per cent of to SEK 1,290 million, corresponding of profit see page 57. profit for the year after tax, after to 50 per cent of profit available for reversal of changes in value and the payment of a dividend. with related deferred tax. EQUITY RATIO 40.7 per cent. Additional distribution of SEK 6,500 The equity ratio should be between million paid to adapt to owner’s goal. 30 and 40 per cent. BUSINESS GOALS ENERGY The amount of purchased energy fell Energy strategy adopted. Energy purchased each year, kWh/m2, during the year by 4.8 per cent. Major investments in energy efficiency will decrease at such a rate that measures. there will be a 50 per cent reduction by 2025 compared with 2000. ELIMINATE CO2 FOOTPRINT This objective is under development and Energy strategy adopted with high level FROM OPERATIONS progress is described mainly through of ambition regarding renewable energy. Refers to CO2 footprint for heating, the activities that support the objective cooling and electricity. and are carried out during the year. SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES 19 joint sustainability initiatives have Innovation strategy adopted. Initiate 16 sustainability initiatives been implemented. jointly with our customers. ACCIDENT-FREE WORKPLACES This objective is under development Focus on reporting of accidents and The objective applies both to our and progress is described mainly incidents. Statistics guide improvement own employees and to those whom through activities that support the efforts and provide a base for future we hire for our projects. objective and are carried out during measurements. the year. Initiated an industry-wide network to work on occupational safety challenges. EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION INDEX (ESI) The Employee Satisfaction Index Common values formulated and Increase Employee Satisfaction was 61. implemented. Index (ESI) to 72. CSI No measurement carried out in 2015 Customer relationship process implemented. Increase Customer Satisfaction following decision to revise the survey Dialogue with customers regarding rental Index (CSI). questions and method. model. 1) Earnings before financial items, excluding changes in value in relation to average operating capital AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 VÄRDESK APANDE Mål och måluppfyllesle 15 case Initiator of industry network #1 for accident-free workplaces The construction industry is accident-prone. In the ambitions into a formal alliance with an estabcurrent economic boom, with tight schedules, all lished project organisation during the year. companies in the industry have a great responsibilTop priorities include common standards and ity to work proactively with workplace environment uniform reporting methods, better definition of and occupational safety issues. One of the objecrequirements in the purchasing process and comtives of Akademiska Hus is to provide an accident-­ parable measurement points for monitoring. In free workplace for our own employees and for those 2016, the project organisation will propose clearly we engage on our projects. defined plans for how network members and the In our role as a State-owned company, besides setindustry as a whole will integrate improved safety ting a good example, we also want to help to improve initiatives into existing work processes. the industry as a whole. In 2015, we therefore initiImproving the working environment and employee ated an industry-wide network that focuses on key safety are areas that are important for collaboraissues in certain construction work environments. tion within the entire industry. In this case we are The network, which includes several leaders in connot competitors, but partners. struction and contracting, merged the common AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 HUVUDAVSNITT 16 Underavsnitt case Visible construction for the future of learning #2 In September, the Education Building project kicked off. This building is designed to contribute to a new, future-oriented model for tomorrow’s learning at the architects. The Education Building will be in the vanguard from a sustainability perspective, where Akademiska Hus and KTH share the goal of having KTH Campus in Stockholm. The building is scheduled the building certified to comply with the standards for completion in the autumn of 2016 and the design set for the Swedish Miljöbyggnad gold certification and installation technology will be fully visible to the level. Students and teachers participated in the planuser. This educational tool will offer new educa-­ ning of the building to capture the latest advances tional methods for aspiring community builders and in pedagogy and knowledge environments. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 17 We develop, build and manage for colleges and universities We take a long-term strategic approach to continually create attractive and sustainable campus plans with our customers. We take full responsibility for the development of campuses at colleges and universities, where student housing plays an important role. Akademiska Hus owns and manages several to build Sweden as a nation of knowledge. Hus has broad expertise and extensive of Sweden’s most sophisticated knowledge For many of our customers, who conduct experience that is crucial not only for planenvironments for education, research and research and work in our premises, years of ning and construction, but also for coninnovation. As a stable, long-term partner work could be wasted in moments if there stantly improving our management. for universities and colleges, we are helping was a breakdown in operations. Akademiska Property and campus planning Campuses that are vibrant during all the hours of the day and interact with the surrounding community are crucial for Sweden’s higher education institutions to be competitive. Consequently we formulate campus plans to develop entire campuses in close cooperation with our customers. With our collective knowledge we create campuses that provide, in addition to education and research, other services such as cafés, sport facilities, restaurants and supermarkets. Our campus plans always include the issue of student housing. Read more on pages 18–21 Construction process The construction process represents a substantial portion of Akademiska Hus’ business. The construction projects vary in nature, from small-scale renovations to new advanced research facilities. Akademiska Hus has a large project portfolio that evolves in close cooperation with our customers and other players. One of our strengths is the ability to coordinate and run the extensive and complex collaborative processes that are the key to a successful result. The purchasing process and strategic sourcing are also important aspects of the construction process. The ability to build sustainably is a key competitive advantage. Read more on pages 22–26 Management and leasing We work strategically in the management of our facilities and properties. The focus is on continually delivering high-quality maintenance services, while taking a long-term approach to efficient resource management. Proactivity in collaboration with our tenants is essential for increasing business benefits and value for our customers. Close collaboration and an open dialogue with our customers are therefore top priorities for the entire management organization at Akademiska Hus. Read more on pages 28–31 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 18 Property and campus planning Collaboration to develop tomorrow’s campuses and learning environments Our development of knowledge environments is based on the needs of the centres of education. With over 20 years of experience and a broad geographic presence, we have both the ability and unique expertise to develop sustainable and efficient environments, while achieving economies of scale. Akademiska Hus contributes to strengthhow centres of education are profiled to CAMPUS ENVIRONMENTS WHERE ening Sweden as a nation of knowledge. appeal to an increasingly international PEOPLE LIVE LIFE Developing the campuses of tomorrow, with target group of researchers and masters The campus environment is an extension room for all aspects of life, is part of the job. students. Akademiska Hus has employees of the place where people work or study. Campuses become more attractive with with extensive experience and cutting edge It is a venue for knowledge transfer, where increased accessibility and integration expertise and the key to success is to leverresearchers and students spend more and with the surrounding urban environment. age the joint knowledge we share with our more of their time. But the campus is also Opportunities for meetings and collaboracustomers and convert it into clearly a venue for encounters with the business tion with others are further examples of defined development plans. community and the interface for encouncase #3 Albano – a key element in the university capital Just a stone’s throw from Stockholm, right at the opment and to achieve it Akademiska Hus, in a intersection of Stockholm’s three largest universiunique collaboration with various researchers, has ties, is Albano, an area that will be transformed formulated solutions based on socioecological into an attractive research and education environurban design. ment with 100,000 square metres of college and “Albano will be a modern university environment, university facilities. The area is being built for a place for research and higher education with 15,000 students and researchers. In November excellent conditions for meetings and collabora2015, ground was broken and the Albano Campus tions across disciplines and institutional boundais expected to be completed in 2022. About 1,000 ries,” says Astrid Söderbergh Widding, Vice-­ undergraduate and graduate student housing Chancellor of Stockholm University. units, along with premises for commercial services, will be built adjacent to the campus. The campus “The area is crucial for the development of the will be developed in harmony with nature, giving Greater Stockholm region, as a motor for innovagreat consideration to biodiversity. The goal is tion, pioneering research and expertise,” says to be at the forefront of sustainable urban develPeter Gudmundson, Vice-Chancellor of KTH. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Property and campus planning 19 Future campus environments Construction process Management and leasing 24 40 7,200 centres of campuses m2 solar cell education surface ters with the community at large. In addistruction of more than 10,000 student One example of facilities that support tion to developing efficient and inspiring housing units on our own campuses, learning is the Active Learning Classroom learning environments, we promote growth through measures such as selling or leasing (ALC), which promotes effective teaching by working in collaboration with other out land, assisting with local planning and in interactive classrooms using digital stakeholders to ensure an attractive range incorporating accommodation for undertools. We have been working since 2014 of services. Restaurants, opportunities for graduate students and researchers in our with Umeå University, where we are buildcultural and sports activities and access to campus plans. Since 2015, when the owner ing interactive learning environments that child care and preschools in close proximclarified our mission, we have also had the will be completed in 2018. In addition to ity to campus are examples of services that ability to provide our own construction learning environments, we are also creatmake life easier and increasingly integrated services to build student housing. At the ing focus environments where students, into and around the campus. Sustainable KTH Campus in Stockholm and the Solna researchers and business representatives transport services and access to accommoCampus we are currently planning to build can engage in common activities. In order dation are other important issues that are 570 flats for about 840 students and visitto leverage the knowledge gained from these necessary to take into account. ing researchers. projects, Akademiska Hus is funding two research projects to effectively evaluate the STR ATEGIC INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY IN FOCUS new learning environments. Akademiska Hus established a structured Many centres of education have their own innovation process during the year. We sustainability goals. We strive to integrate CURRENT CAMPUS PLANS ENSURE have a long history of establishing partner-­ sustainability throughout our business to SUSTAINABLE URBAN DEVELOPMENT ships with our customers, but see potential help achieve our own sustainability goals The campus plan provides a framework for in focusing on innovation efforts to as well as those of our customers. One future changes in the physical environment. increase customer value. We will develop example is the campus plan for the Royal The plan ensures that the physical environsustainable products, services and practices Institute of Technology in Stockholm (KTH), ment sustainably supports the university’s through structured innovation partnerwhere we worked in close collaboration with long-term vision and strategy. Akademiska ships, thereby contributing to sustainable the customer and many other stakeholders Hus works actively and methodically with development in the community. Knowledge to develop a campus plan with a focus on campus plans throughout Sweden. The and learning environments of the future, sustainability. In 2015 the campus plan campus plan is always developed in close along with campus and urban develop-­ garnered the prestigious International collaboration with our customers, based ment, are two areas in which we have priSustainable Campus Network Award. on the situation of the individual centre of oritised innovation. education. Our role is usually to lead and PREMISES FOR EFFECTIVE LEARNING coordinate the process. Plans may involve ESTABLISHMENTS THAT INCREASE THE Premises and rooms in the buildings need both the development and modification of APPEAL OF CENTRES OF EDUCATION to be adaptable and functional to optimise existing environments, as well as new conCollege and university cities are attractive, use in both the short term and the long term. struction. Developing a campus plan is a and our properties are often in very good The flexibility of the premises to allow difcomprehensive dialogue process in which locations. To increase this appeal we parferent learning methods is important. Durall stakeholders who can influence and be ticipate in projects that enhance the caming the year, Akademiska Hus continued influenced by the campus development pus environment even when Akademiska to work on the “Learning Space” network, should be represented. Akademiska Hus Hus is not a principal stakeholder. In addiwhich was initiated by Akademiska Hus and has a total of around 40 campuses. In 2015 tion to the range of services that contribute three centres of education in 2014. Through Akademiska Hus developed a structured to a simpler and more inspiring lifestyle, this network, educators, local planners, IT approach to campus planning aimed at student housing is also a key issue. Student managers and other stakeholders share their ensuring a process and a methodology with housing is often in short supply in attracexperiences on how the physical environthe focus on sustainability and a long-term tive cities. We are contributing to the conment impacts learning. approach. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 20 Property and campus planning case #4 Structured approach to campus planning For us at Akademiska Hus, the development of tomorrow’s attractive campuses, where there is room for life, is a crucial issue. Campuses are integrated and interact more and more with the community. Environments designed for natural meetings that encourage collaboration and the transfer of knowledge are becoming increasingly important, as is access to, for example, services, culture and sport. The campus plan is always based on the vision of the individual university or college, and is developed in close cooperation with our customers. We follow a structured approach with a focus on the long-term and sustainability. Formulating a campus plan is an extensive dialogue process involving many parties, which we view as a factor for success. The vision for the University of Gävle is to “have a leading position in education and research for a sustainable human living environment”. Campus plan for the University of Gävle (HiG) Startup Analysis Vision Key internal and external stakeholders The analysis identified a number of The vision describes an open campus, for those were identified, who subsequently constrengths worth encouraging and enhancworking at the Gävle University College as well as for tributed in the project group at a series of ing, such as green spaces on campus and in stakeholders from industry, the city and the region. workshops and meetings. the surrounding area, aesthetically appealing buildings and proximity to the TechnolThe campus is a living environment where, alongside At the start-up meeting, the stakeholders ogy Park and city centre. The analysis also the academic journey, people learn to function in a presented their main issues, after which identified a number of challenges, such as a sustainable context – socially, economically and ecothe project plan was adapted to their main entrance that is perceived as unclear, logically. Those who are active on campus are needs and expectations. The geographic classrooms that need to be designed more encouraged to behave sustainably and the students, boundaries of the campus plan were set, flexibly and the need for more student housthe decision-makers of the future, are provided with along with the level of ambition for certiing near campus. the foundation for and knowledge about a sustain­ fication of the area and buildings. able lifestyle. A campus that shapes the future. To encourage participation and understanding of all the steps in the process, great emphasis was placed Communication on communication. During the process conclusions and suggestions were communicated back to the project Akademiska Hus’ campus development process Project requirements and manThis dynamic phase analyses needs, the Now it is time for long-term thinking. A good susdates are clarified. Decisions are current status and external factors, while tainable campus plan has a clear link to the Unitaken regarding goals, boundaries, generating ideas – all at the same time. versity’s vision, strategies and goals. The ideas organisation, schedule, deliveraIdentifying the requirements that the that have been identified are evaluated in light bles and budget. The groups that physical environment must meet is cruof the University’s vision to facilitate a well-­ are affected most and have the cial. Stakeholders are invited to discuss supported and sustainable vision for the physigreatest interest in campus develhow it can contribute to their activities. cal environment. opment are identified in this phase. Parameters that affect development It is also important to consider are identified, such as those found in The campus plan should capture the unique sustainability certification from general and local zoning plans. The traits of the higher education institution, with the start to meet the implementaanalysis of external factors identifies a link to its identity and strengths. Measurable tion requirements of the various trends and good ideas that influence objectives are now also identified to allow monicertifications. the process and provide inspiration. toring of the effect of the campus plan over time. The ideas take shape and become plans as project conditions are clarified. Communication Through ongoing communication with stakeholders, valuable feedback is captured and the campus plan gains AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Property and campus planning 21 Future campus environments Construction process Management and leasing Model for sustainability issues Land use, architecture To ensure that the campus and urban offers a sustainable environdesign THE CAMPUS PLAN DESCRIBES A ment, Akademiska Hus has DESIRED VISION FOR THE PHYSICAL developed a model that ENVIRONMENT AT HIGHER EDUCATION Ecology and Resources addresses a series of issues environment and energy INSTITUTIONS IN 2030: related to living and attractive • An environment that creates campuses, as well as innovaconditions for a sustainable living tive financially and ecologienvironment for people – today cally sustainable environParticipation and tomorrow ments. The model is designed and process • An environment for learning and with a special focus on the innovation that encourages meetneeds of centres of education ings – in higher education, with Innovation Transport and its activities. industry and with the city and business and travel • An open, accessible and nearby campus Social welfare Design Popular support Implementation The campus plan describes a future campus that is When the project group finished the The recently adopted campus plan is integrated with the surrounding area through clear campus plan report, it was sent out already a key policy document. Several paths, enhanced communication and new construcfor comments. During this period, the proposed projects have already been comtion. The Technology Park is connected to the Gävle campus plan was available on the pleted and additional projects have been University College premises to stimulate exchanges University’s website and a summary initiated. between academia and industry. Accommodation, was posted. The plan was presented expanded trade, and a broader range of services creduring an information meeting where For example, two student housing projects ate life and movement during more hours of the day. project group representatives were were recently completed and the municiA new entrance will open up the campus for more available for discussion. The campus pality initiated a project to review how the people and clarify the Gävle University College’s presplan was then modified based on the entire neighbourhood adjacent to the camence in the area, at the same time that new venues comments and the people who compus should be developed. The campus plan will pave the way for meetings within the campus. mented received feedback. will be an important tool in this process. group and revised as needed. An electronic suggestion box was also open throughout the process, where anyone who wanted to could leave suggestions. Once the vision for the physical environment of A campus plan affects many activiThe campus plan should be viewed as the campus is formulated, a proposal is produced ties and individuals, and arouses a guiding document for any changes in for the physical design. The design can be develgreat interest. Encouraging particithe physical environment on campus. oped by a previously appointed architect, or pation and gaining strong support Practical projects are checked against through a parallel assignment. All design proposfor the plan is therefore crucial to the campus plan to ensure that they als are tested against the vision for the campus how well it is received and how support the vision, strategies and goals plan and adjustments and adaptations are made, effective it will be as a campus for the physical environment. The goals both to the design proposal and to the vision, so development tool. It is important to that were defined as part of the campus that consensus is reached in the working group. consider who should be included in plan are then monitored periodically to the support process and how to ensure that the effect of the campus organise a system for dealing with plan is achieved. change proposals before efforts are made to gain support. support over the course of the project. This approach lays the foundation for a better reception when the campus plan is completed. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 22 Construction process Long-term investments – we build for the future We are one of Sweden's largest property developers with a project portfolio worth SEK 17.5 billion. One large project involves the Albano neighbourhood, which will link Stockholm’s three largest centres of education into a single common university campus. Based on possibilities identified in the long-­ term campus plans for the centres of education, our customers’ needs for premises are translated into planning and design studies. Possibilities are discussed in cooperation with the customer and other relevant stakeholders before projects are planned and approved. Our strength lies in coordinating and running these comprehensive and often complex, collaborative processes required for construction to increase customer value. The project portfolio with decided and planned projects totalled SEK 17,500 million, of which SEK 3,500 million has already been invested in ongoing projects. The focus Biomedicum will be one of the largest research laboratories in Europe, with an area of about 80,000 square metres. of investments is primarily in Stockholm, where new construction projects for Karolinska Institutet are the largest element. We EXPERTISE TO BUILD COMPLEX INVESTMENTS FOR THE FUTURE also have a series of concept projects worth RESEARCH FACILITIES Akademiska Hus’ investment operations are SEK 5,300 million. Akademiska Hus’ expeWe have great diversity in our construction pursued in accordance with a systematic rience and expertise are essential for secuprojects. The nature of the projects vary evaluation process from project concept to rity in all construction processes. All profrom minor renovations and car parks to approved investment, please see the illusjects are developed to permit long-term high-tech research facilities and entire tration on page 24. Investments exceeding management, which provides us with excelurban development projects. In addition to SEK 30 million are decided by Akademiska lent opportunities to invest in sustainable extensive experience and expertise, conHus’ Board of Directors. Leases are signed and innovative solutions. Wherever possible, struction of this kind of specialised buildbefore construction begins, which limits the we also build so that over time buildings can ing requires a very good understanding of risk of vacant space. Our project portfolio be used in different ways, which is accomthe type of activities in which the tenants largely consists of research facilities and plished through flexible premises and soluwill engage. learning environments for higher education. tions that can be tailored to customer needs. PROJECT PORTFOLIO SEK m 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 The different investments are categorised as: Decided projects 9,600 11,800 • Decided projects. Planned projects 7,900 9,200 • Planned projects – have an inquiry or planning framework, where some form of agreement DECIDED AND PLANNED PROJECTS 17,500 21,000 exists between the Company and the tenant. of which already invested in current projects –3,500 –5,400 • Concept projects – projects likely to be carried REMAINDER OF DECIDED AND PLANNED PROJECTS 14,000 15,600 out within five years. Concept projects 5,300 4,200 TOTAL REMAINING PROJECTS 19,300 19,800 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Construction process 23 Future campus environments Construction process Management and leasing Our largest projects COMPLETED PROJECTS, DECEMBER 31, 2015 > SEK 100 MILLION New Total Annual construction/ investment, Lease, rent, Project name Location redevelopment SEK m Customer years SEK m Centre for Veterinary Medicine Uppsala – and Animal Science Ultuna New construction 1,416 Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences 20 104 Niagara Malmö New construction 751 Malmö University 10 52 Uppsala – New construction Ull Building Ultuna and redevelopment 618 Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences 20 52 Arrhenius NPQ Stockholm New construction 561 Stockholm University 10 38 New architecture Stockholm New construction 405 Royal Institute of Technology 10 29 Constructional Engineering and Design Stockholm Redevelopment 117 Royal Institute of Technology 10 7 COMMISSIONED PROJECTS, DECEMBER 31, 2015 > SEK 100 MILLION New Total Annual construction/ investment, Lease, rent, Project name Location redevelopment SEK m Customer years SEK m Biomedicum Stockholm New construction 2,795 Karolinska Institutet 25 184 Biomedicum – Comparative Medicine Stockholm New construction 989 Karolinska Institutet 25 51 New construction Royal College of Music Stockholm and redevelopment 848 Royal College of Music 20 45 Segerstedt Building Uppsala New construction 716 Uppsala University 20 42 Valla Student Building Linköping New construction 394 Linköping University 10 39 New construction Built Environment Project Gothenburg and redevelopment 345 Chalmersfastigheter AB 10/15 33 New construction V-Building Lund and redevelopment 284 Lund University 10 26 New construction Police programme, Södertörn Stockholm and redevelopment 282 Södertörn University 10 21 New construction MBC Umeå and redevelopment 277 Umeå University 20 16 Albano Development costs Stockholm New construction 258 Stockholm University —1 —1 ÖM 54:4 A House Stockholm Redevelopment 238 Karolinska Institutet 5 15 Luleå A-house Renov for ETS New construction and SRT Luleå and redevelopment 195 Luleå University of Technology 10 15 43:25 KTH Stockholm New construction 185 Royal Institute of Technology 10 13 Police training programme Umeå University Umeå New construction 165 Umeå University 10 14 Education Building Stockholm New construction 128 Royal Institute of Technology 10 9 Humanities Theatre Uppsala New construction 126 Uppsala University 10 8 GIH swimming centre Stockholm Redevelopment 118 Idrottsförvaltningen (Sports Administration) 20 6 Parking level, Solna Campus Stockholm New construction 115 Karolinska Institutet 10 6 1) No rental period or annual rent since it is part of the total Albano project – see planned projects. PLANNED PROJECTS, DECEMBER 31, 2015 > SEK 100 MILLION New Total Annual construction/ investment, Lease, rent, Project name Location redevelopment SEK m Customer years SEK m FR Albano expanded construction scheme Stockholm New construction 3,794 Stockholm University 20 188 New construction Ångström Phase 4 Uppsala and redevelopment 1,170 Uppsala University 20 72 New construction Humanisten Project Gothenburg and redevelopment 662 University of Gothenburg 10 55 KAR New construction accommodation for researchers Solna New construction 384 Karolinska Institutet 10 31 ÖM Student housing teknikringen Stockholm New construction 311 Akademiska Hus 1 22 JSE-Johanneberg södra phase II Gothenburg New construction 290 Several, though not completed 10 20 KAR 198:1 Lab of the future Huddinge Redevelopment 276 Karolinska Institutet 10 28 KTH EES school Stockholm Redevelopment 121 Royal Institute of Technology 10 10.5 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 24 Construction process Our construction process – from idea to investment Campus plan Dialogue Concept Cost Planned A current campus Akademiska Hus projects agreement projects plan, prepared conducts a systemConcept projects The details are Once the agreejointly with the cusatic and future-­ are designed in ironed out and ment is reached, tomer, is the startfocused dialogue consultation with agreement reached the project is clasing point for propwith the tenants. the customer. with the customer sified as planned. erty development. Such projects on the division of Approved projects will probably be costs incurred if the are those that are implemented project fails to under construction. within five years. materialise. PROCESSES IN COLLABOR ATION trol and monitoring, while reducing project erties to maintain good quality for a long GENER ATE HIGH QUALITY risk. With advanced process methods and time, but also a competitive advantage. Akademiska Hus has a well-developed conincreased digitalisation, we can achieve Many of our customers have their own susstruction process where planning is based efficient construction by optimising matetainability goals and strive to reduce both in part on customer requirements and in rial usage and processes in the projects. their energy costs and their environmental part on the complexity and size of the Impact assessments and risk analyses that impact. Akademiska Hus is in the vanbuildings. The main process was developed include management aspects, life cycle cost guard, building properties of high architecin cooperation with our customers over analysis, design and functionality, are cartural and technical quality. We keep ourmany years to leverage the potential of ried out as early as possible to achieve the selves constantly updated on new technolstructured collaboration and the exchange highest possible quality in the project. ogy, both on the installation side and from of expertise. The process is adapted a purely construction engineering perspecdepending on the type of project and conSUSTAINABILITY AS tive. Akademiska Hus strives to build flexitract. Collaborative contracting is a proA COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE bly, sustainably and energy-smart both cess that provides high efficiency and good As one of Sweden’s largest property develwhen we build new and rebuild, which is in opportunity to take advantage of the opers, we can and will make a difference. line with our ambition to provide long-term knowledge and experience of the contracBuilding with a long-term and sustainable management. For example, we analyse how tors. Project briefings ensure quality, conapproach is not only essential for the propclimate change could affect our property case #5 Focus on improved supplier monitoring Our largest purchase volumes are in construction, architectural and construction engineering services, as well as in the energy sector. This is where we focus our supplier monitoring and development. Through continuous dialogue with suppliers we work proactively to improve the quality of our deliverables both economically and in terms of sustainability. The procurement policy of Akademiska Hus describes the fundamental values that underlie purchasing and procurement. We require suppliers to meet criteria, including environmental, quality and safety standards, and conduct audits on a sample of them. In 2016, we plan to implement a dedicated code of conduct for suppliers, to further clarify our requirements and expectations. In 2015 we also improved the methodology for project monitoring during the construction process in an effort to correct deficiencies more rapidly and to work with our suppliers to find development opportunities. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Construction process 25 Future campus environments Construction process Management and leasing case #6 Sweden’s foremost hub for green business Akademiska Hus and the Swedish University of “An important factor for success in the Green Agricultural Sciences are working together on the Innovation Park project is that the Swedish Green Innovation Park – an initiative that will University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) and position the Ultuna Campus in Uppsala as the Akademiska Hus are working together. Through leading centre of green business in Sweden. The our collaboration, we can create an attractive area will be a brand new neighbourhood for innooffering for businesses that includes both vation and entrepreneurship that will be inteappropriate facilities, state of the art research grated into the city of Uppsala. The development infrastructure, venues and a number of forms plans for the area include the potential to build of collaboration with SLU researchers and stuover 100,000 square metres of new premises and dents,” says Martin Melkersson, University approximately 1,500 residential units, as well as Director at SLU. strengthening the communications infrastructure. in the real estate industry regarding sustainCERTIFICATION OF BUILDINGS Accident-free ability certification and energy efficiency. AND NEIGHBOURHOODS All new construction and major renovation workplaces ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF CONSTRUCTION PRODUCTS projects must qualify, at a minimum, for a silver rating in the Swedish ‘Miljöbyggnad’ Since 2014 we have had a goal of We set sustainability standards in all of our certification system. ‘Miljöbyggnad’ is a achieving a completely accidentfree procurement and one of the requirements is certification based on Swedish construction workplace for our own employees and for everyone we engage on our the environmental assessment of construcand official rules, as well as on accepted projects. Read more on page 15. tion products according to what is known as Swedish construction practices. The system Byggvarubedömningen (BVB). Akademiska provides confirmation of important qualities Hus is one of several partners in BVB, which in a building in terms of energy, indoor enviaims to influence product development of ronment and materials. The Miljöbyggnad portfolio in order to proactively adapt our construction products in order to achieve a system ranks buildings for bronze, silver or planning guidelines and existing buildings. non-toxic and good built environment. The gold level certification. Achieving maximum We are also working to increase accessievaluations of materials are relatively extensustainability benefits, as well as the highest bility to ensure that everyone can use our sive and provide a good overall picture of the score in the certification system, requires facilities. We always meet current legal total environmental impact that a material good cooperation and a common goal between accessibility requirements, but we want to or product generates during its life cycle. property owner and customer. The Miljö­ do more; therefore, for some time we have Akademiska Hus requires BVB to be used byggnad system also requires a high proporcomplied with directives formulated by the both internally and by all of our externally tion of energy from renewable sources. This Swedish Agency for Participation. We also engaged suppliers. The basic premise is that applies pressure on several district energy have a clear focus on sustainability in relaproducts that are assessed as ‘To be avoided’ suppliers to gradually increase the proportion to the working environment, where a must not be used unless there are particular tion of renewables, because otherwise entire strong safety culture is crucial for increased reasons or arguments for doing so. In 2015, communities and cities would lose the potensecurity and efficient construction, as well as a project was carried out in collaboration tial to have buildings certified. Akademiska a requirement for attracting qualified staff. with other partners in BVB to include social Hus has a total of 25 certified buildings, of Akademiska Hus is one of the founders responsibility requirements. This initiative which 23 qualify for a silver rating and 2 of Sweden Green Building Council, where we resulted in a number of new evaluation qualify for a gold rating. engage in spreading knowledge, developing criteria that include requirements that supindustry-wide systems and addressing issues pliers must meet regarding human rights. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 26 Construction process Forecast – investments for the future Investments during the past five years have term will increase, since the properties that ations are pursued with a high degree of resulted in a significant expansion in Akadare being added to our property holdings efficiency and cost awareness. We take into emiska Hus’ property holdings. have long leases. account factors such as projects that are Demand for new premises is greatest In the project portfolio, it is the approved gradually being completed. No changes in in those centres of education that focus projects, at a value of almost SEK 10,000 the value of properties are forecast and nor on research. The investment portfolio million, that will affect the financial stateare acquisitions or sales. includes new construction, redevelopment ments over the next few years. At the yearFuture yield is also expected to remain and refurbishment of existing properties. end, about SEK 3,500 million had already stable at around six per cent. During the The majority of the project portfolio can been invested. The annual investment rate construction period, the large project portbe found in Stockholm and Uppsala, with moving forward is expected to continue to folio will result in a charge on the cash flow. examples like Biomedicum for about SEK be about SEK 3,500 million per year. Despite this, the interest coverage ratio is 3,800 million and the Segerstedt Building strong and will increase as the new properfor about SEK 700 million. As the investFORECASTING ties begin generating rental revenue. ment portfolio is gradually completed, it is Akademiska Hus makes annual long-term expected that the average remaining lease forecasts to ensure that our property operFORECAST ASSUMPTIONS FORECAST Forecast Forecast Forecast % 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Increase in cost 1.0 2.0 2.0 PROPERTY HOLDINGS October index, CPI 314.3 0.5 2.0 2.0 Average rentable floor space, 1,000 m2 3,186 3,221 3,227 3,290 Salary increase 2.5 2.5 2.5 Assessed property values, SEK m 66,575 69,975 73,975 76,975 Cost of capital 1.8 1.8 1.8 Net investment in properties, SEK m 2,466 3,500 4,000 3,000 KEY FIGURES Net operating income, SEK/m2 1,162 1,242 1,286 1,337 Yield, properties, % 6.3 6.0 5.8 5.8 FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES Rental revenue, SEK m 5,505 5,700 5,800 6,050 Net operating income, SEK m 3,703 4,000 4,150 4,400 Profit before tax, SEK m 6,141 3,600 3,700 3,950 Interest-bearing net loan liability, SEK m 24,385 28,500 31,000 32,500 Equity ratio, % 40,7 41 41 41 Return on equity, % 15.0 9.0 8.9 9.0 Interest coverage ratio, % 743 796 768 776 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 HUVUDAVSNITT Underavsnitt 27 Framtidens campusmiljöer Byggprocessen Förvaltning & uthyrning Key Building, Linköping University DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 28 Management and leasing Active ownership and long-term management Akademiska Hus’ property management organisation focuses on high quality and sustainable development. We work together with our customers to find the most effective and resource-efficient solutions for each individual property. With a property portfolio with an estimated management team with experienced and Since 2014 we have had specific sustainabilfair value of SEK 66.6 billion, we are one of talented managers and operating techniity goals under which we engage in cooperSweden’s largest property owners. We mancians. We work together with our customation initiatives with a focus on sustainabilage 3.2 million square metres of rentable ers and share our experience and knowlity with our customers every year. Examples space. Around 300,000 people work, study edge in order to find the most effective and of sustainability initiatives include the develand carry out research in our buildings every resource-­efficient solutions for each indiopment of activity-based offices, deployment day. The majority of the property portfolio vidual property. of land inventory, installation of charging focuses on higher education and research; stations for electric cars and an evaluation classrooms and advanced laboratory faciliOPER ATING AND MAINTENANCE COSTS of the climate impact of climate change. ties occupy the majority of the space. Heating, cooling, water and electricity costs About one third of our facilities are labaccount for 36 per cent of our operating and oratories. In advanced laboratories, standLONG-TERM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT maintenance costs. The costs are thus largely ards are set for parameters such as noise, Our facilities must maintain a high standdirectly linked to energy consumption. vibrations and electromagnetic fields. A ard for a long time. Property management Electricity is the single largest cost compolaboratory also generally has higher energy includes all of the technical and financial nent. In addition to reducing electricity costs consumption, since the need for air volumes measures carried out during the life of a through reduced power consumption, we is larger and the buildings are generally building. With our long-term property also hedge price risk, for the next four years, more energy-intensive. ownership, we have a unique opportunity through a hedging strategy for electricity. to take responsibility to ensure that our This strategy provides a high level of preENERGY STR ATEGY INCREASES FOCUS property holdings are of good quality and dictability in our future electricity costs. Through our energy strategy, which was resource efficient for a long time moving Through foresighted and long-term adopted in 2015, we continue to work forward. Dialogue and collaboration with maintenance, our buildings can maintain towards our goals by reducing energy conour tenants promote proactive and longa high standard for a long time. Carefully sumption, influencing our suppliers and term property management. To increase planned maintenance reduces the risk of producing renewable energy. customer value, we need to change in pace accidental damage and disruption and proWe reduce energy consumption in our with the customers so that the premises vides a high level of operational reliability. current property holdings and build energy are continually adapted. efficient projects. Regardless of the type of Akademiska Hus has its own property COLLABOR ATION TO REACH energy, we always strive to design each buildA LONG-TERM GOAL ing to use as little energy as possible. EnsurImproved energy efficiency of all kinds serves ing that a building design is durable and DISTRIBUTION PREMISE CATEGORY as the basis for reducing the environmental energy efficient is the first step. After that impact of the properties. Akademiska Hus we continually ensure throughout the lifehas ambitious goals in the energy sector: to time of each building that it has well-adapted reduce the amount of energy delivered by 50 and energy-efficient systems and solutions. per cent by 2025 and to eliminate the CO2 In order to achieve our sustainability footprint from operations in our buildings. goals, we need to focus on our existing portOur statistics and goals cover all the energy folio at the same time that we continue to that is used in our buildings, including that meet cutting edge demands on new buildused by tenants. One way to reduce energy ings. We accomplish this through carefully consumption and thus operating costs, is to planned maintenance schedules and by Office building, 14% distribute the energy between Akademiska optimising operations. Knowledgeable Laboratory building, 35% Hus and the customers in a way that probuilding maintenance technicians with a Education building, 45% Other building, 6% vides incentives for both parties to save good understanding of customers’ energy the energy that we can also influence. consumption contribute greatly to the work AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Management and leasing 29 Future campus environments Construction process Management and leasing by optimally controlling operating times, tion based on fossil fuels in favour of renewEnergy Portal temperatures and flows so that as little ables. Purchasing electricity with its origin energy as possible is used. labelled is one way to have an impact. We also Our campuses are also designed so that the proximity of several buildings enables collaborate with our suppliers to find ways to customise and streamline their producgives an overview excess energy in the area to be used. This tion patterns with our energy consumption. Our Energy Portal is an IT system for collation, monitoring and strategy enables us to reduce the need for We produce renewable energy. In some analysis that provides a clear energy delivered. buildings, we also have the opportunity to overview of energy use in the We influence suppliers’ production of take advantage of local renewable energy buildings. Automated energy readings provide opportunities to the energy we use. We consider minimising sources that can be connected to the buildeffectively address and measure environmental impact when we choose ing. With this strategy they can become self-­ the impact of investments. energy sources. Wherever possible, we sufficient. Solar cells, geothermal energy require energy suppliers to reduce producand small-scale wind power are examples. DISTRIBUTION OF ENERGY COSTS % 15 Our aggressive energy targets are based should also benefit financially from the 10 in part on a partnership with our tenants reduction in energy use. The aim is to alloon energy issues. For this initiative to be cate energy costs between Akademiska 5 effective, the party that actually uses Hus and our customers so that both parties 0 the energy must have the incentive to act. have an incentive to improve energy effiIn our existing buildings investments are ciency for the aspects over which each –5 required to reduce energy consumption and party has control. In practice this means –10 sometimes this involves maintenance to that as property owner, in most cases, –15 replace equipment that is still functional Akademiska Hus has the greatest control but wastes energy. An incentive model is over the building’s utilities (heating, cool–20 needed that is based on the principle that ing and some of the electricity). –25 the party that makes the investment 10 11 12 13 14 15 Year Billed energy Non-billed energy Total AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 30 Management and leasing Long-term contracts with creditworthy tenants Colleges and universities, which are essenthe average remaining lease term for all cent of rental value. The largest individual tially government agencies and therefore properties was 5.8 years (6.0). blocks of vacant space can be found on the have the highest credit rating, are the Ultuna Campus outside Uppsala and amount source of 89 per cent of our revenue. The HIGH LEASING LEVEL to about 75,000 square metres. One reason terms of our contracts are long, and the At the turn of the year the rentable area is that Klinikcentrum (the Clinical Centre, occupancy rate is high, which contributes of the property portfolio was 3.2 million KC) is almost vacant after tenants moved to operating stability. The average lease square metres. In all, 122,000 square to the Centre for Veterinary Medicine and term for educational facilities is 10.5 years, metres of this space was vacant, for a Animal Science (VHC). The occupancy rate while for special buildings the average vacancy rate of 3.8 per cent. The vacant is high compared with the sector at large. term is 11.4 years. Because these buildings space has a distinctly lower rental value One reason is that when decisions are taken require major investments, long leases are than the average for the holdings. A large on new projects the leases are already required to repay a large part of the investproportion of the vacant space is in simpler signed. ment within the term of the lease. Lease premises with a lower than average rental terms that are 10 years or longer require value. In terms of value, the vacant space Government approval. At the end of 2015, amounts to SEK 64 million or just 1.1 per LEVEL OF VACANT SPACE MATURITY STRUCTURE, PROPORTION OF LEASE VALUE % SEK m 4 700 600 3 500 400 2 300 1 200 100 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Year 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 Year Vacant space, area Vacant space, rent AVERAGE REMAINING LEASE TERM TENANT CATEGORIES Year 9 8  olleges and universities, C 7 state-financed, 86% 6 Chalmersfastigheter, 3% 5 Publicly financed operations, 4% 4 Other, 7% 3 2 1 0 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Year AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Management and leasing 31 Future campus environments Construction process Management and leasing How Akademiska Hus sets rents Internal rent Market rent level Market rent Akademiska Hus charges rent Akademiska Hus directly to the centres of edurents comprise a cation, which then divide this basic rent that is rent between the various intended to cover departments. The departments Market costs operating, mainteare then charged an internal • Operation and maintenance nance and capital rent that often also includes • Land value costs, and somecosts for central premises, • Construction cost times a supplesuch as communal spaces. ment for tenant Sometimes the internal rent adaptations. also includes supplements for equipment, security and cleaning. The internal rent that Market risks departments pay per square metre can therefore be higher • Financing than the price per square • Property metre that Akademiska Hus • Location has agreed with the centre of • Counterparty education. MARKET RENT LEVELS Market conditions and local composition Our rent setting reflects market risks and vary between our regions, with higher rents Detailed information about the cost of construction and management. in metropolitan regions and regions with rent levels per building can be found in our property specificaConsideration is also taken to the type research and laboratory facilities. For tion at www.akademiskahus.se of property, lease term and the general example, the average rent level in Stockholm market rent level for the city and location. is SEK 2,292/m2, while in the Northern Increased operating and maintenance region it is SEK 1,271/m2. costs as well as the risk of vacant space when agreements expire are also taken into account. To earn the trust of our cusPROPORTION OF COST OF PREMISES FOR SWEDEN’S CENTRES OF EDUCATION tomers it is important for our rent-setting model to be transparent. During the year % We customise plans on customer request regularly, we continued our dialogue with customer 15 at the same time that we representatives in order to transparently do our utmost to reduce 12 operating costs and save demonstrate how rental prices are set. energy in the properties. Our size presents us with We regularly review the parameters 9 considerable coordination included in the rent-setting model. To 6 opportunities and we measure our efficiency compare rental prices charged by Akademthrough, among other 3 things, the net operating iska Hus in relation to those charged by income ratio. Rent costs as part of our customers’ other property owners in a comparable 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Year total cost mass have held portfolio, comparisons are carried out regsteady at /13–14 per cent since 1993. ularly with assistance from an external valuation company. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 32 EMPLOYEES Committed employees We must continuously improve our skills and expertise in collaboration with our customers. We work with our customers to develop knowledge environments for the future. Commitment and the ability to transform experience and lessons learned into practical customer benefit create value. CUTTING EDGE EXPERTISE value in all of our relationships and contacts. Education is expressed through our involveFOR THE FUTURE Efforts to develop our joint customer offerment at vocational colleges in several cities Akademiska Hus’ long-term success depends ings will continue as they strengthen our around Sweden through internships, job on our ability to contribute to campus and offering and our ability to deliver customer fairs, field trips, lectures and opportunities knowledge environments that successfully benefit. for summer jobs. attract students and researchers under The Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) international competition. A focus on the declined and the result for the year was EMPLOYEE COMMITMENT long-term and sustainability are crucial in 61 compared with 66 the previous year. TO INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT everything we plan and implement. In order The Motivated Employee Index (MEI) was Our employees take great responsibility to succeed, we need cutting edge expertise 63, compared with 69. From having had for contributing to the development of the in campus development, together with an extremely high ESI ratings we are now at property industry and the construction ability to work closely with our customers the level of public organisations and somesector. This commitment includes active to effectively take development concepts what below the private sector. In 2016, we participation in the framework of the IQ from design to final construction. Our talwill divide the questions so that we measure Built Environment, which can be described ented employees possess the operational the situation on more occasions, but with as a catalyst for research, innovation and expertise that enables us to provide stable fewer questions. The areas we are monitorquality improvement. A better built environand efficient management in technologiing are primarily the working environment, ment is also the goal of our involvement in cally advanced premises. expertise and leadership. the BIM Alliance, which focuses on structured digital information management. As VALUES AND CORPOR ATE CULTURE KNOWLEDGE TR ANSFER members of Byggherrarna, an association Common values were anchored in the As a major player in the market, Akademiska of property developers, we work to advance organisation through a series of activities Hus has a responsibility to contribute to the industry and the built environment throughout 2015. Our corporate culture is the development of the industry. We have primarily in the areas of the environment, based on these values, where we strive to chosen to become involved in several ways. occupational safety, technology and quality. be attentive and committed in order to add Our commitments can mainly be found We are one of the co-founders of Sweden within the Property Industry education Green Building Council, which promotes committee, “Tekniksprånget” (Technology green construction while developing and Leap) and Higher Vocational Education influencing environmental and sustainaprogrammes, but we also have student and bility initiatives in the industry. EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION INDEX (ESI) trainee programmes for college and univerAND MOTIVATED EMPLOYEE INDEX (MEI) sity students, as well as a strategic partnerSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY % ship with KTH. Within the Property Social responsibility is important to our 100 Industry education committee, an NGO, commitment and daily work. Our employees we contribute actively to skills assurance, have conducted a collection in response to 80 with representation in the National Industry the global refugee disaster by collecting 60 Council and the Education Council. Through points within the framework of our well40 “Tekniksprånget”, a long-term national ness programme. initiative run by the Royal Swedish Academy Equality and diversity are central com20 of Engineering Sciences (IVA) aimed at ponents of our social responsibility. During 0 convincing more high school students to Akademiska Hus Days 2015 all employees 11 12 13 14 15 Year study to become engineers, we offer upper attended a mandatory workshop – aimed at ESI MEI secondary school students a chance to try highlighting our own prejudices and what 2013 was the first year for the MEI. out a job in engineering for four months. we can do to actively promote diversity. Our commitment to Higher Vocational AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 EMPLOYEES 33 case #7 Focus on values jointly strengthens Akademiska Hus In 2015 Akademiska Hus continued working on the important values initiative that began in the autumn of 2014. The values serve as the professional compass of our employees and serve as an aid to achieve our business goals and steer us towards the correct decisions and action in our daily business. In recent years Akademiska Hus has had a strong focus on finding working methods based on common processes, common products and common values. By being attentive and committed, our work can increase value for our customers, our owner and for each other. Akademiska Hus holds regularly scheduled leadership forums during which our managers work with case studies based on how we should practice what we preach in everyday life. The principles of our values are also part of the analysis and management of the results of the Employee Survey. In 2016 we will continue to work with our values and the theme for the spring is issues related to diversity. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY goal. We also continued to work on building Job satisfaction and a safe and healthy workplace are factors for success that are given our safety culture during the year. We conducted workshops with our project managAttendance high priority throughout our operations and ers to improve our procedures and planned 96.3 per cent in all projects we manage. We work with a training package to strengthen knowledge Absenteeism due to illness during identified risks and to improve operations and understanding of occupational safety the year was 3.7 per cent (3.1), of which long-term absenteeism due through safety committees and work enviwithin the organisation. We also started to to illness was 2.0 (1.6) percentage ronment networks. Akademiska Hus has measure our progress. We can see that our points. Akademiska Hus works been certified in systematic work environgoal of increasing reporting of both incidents actively with health issues. ment management, AFS 2001:1, for many and accidents has yielded results. This is years. encouraging since incident reporting proIn 2014 Akademiska Hus set the goal of vides important knowledge about areas that AkaFrisk, with over 70 per cent participaachieving a completely accident-free workneed improvement – a prerequisite for tion, the theme was Motivation. place. The goal applies to both our own working preventively. In 2016, we will continue to develop employees and everyone who works with us Absenteeism due to illness during the sustainable employee and leadership skills, on projects. An action plan is being develyear was 3.7 per cent, compared with 3.1 including by continuing to work with our oped to address both internal and external the previous year. Preventive work in 2015 values, diversity and wellness. perspectives, where the major focus going occurred in many ways, including through forward will be on raising safety awareness formal health and safety committees in and eliminating ambiguities in processes which 49 employees (11 per cent) are and responsibilities. In 2015, efforts to involved. Each region has wellness coaches improve the incident reporting process who plan and carry out activities for our continued as part of our work towards this employees. In our wellness initiative, AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 34 Our performance Our performance GENER AL INFORMATION PROPERTY MANAGEMENT EXPENSES CHANGES IN VALUE Akademiska Hus AB (publ), registration Operating costs for the year amounted to The changes in property values for the year number 556459-9156, is a limited liability SEK 771 million (808), equivalent to SEK in the income statement amounted to SEK company registered in Sweden. The Com242/m2 (252). Of the operating costs, media 2,655 million (3,529), of which SEK 1,245 pany’s registered office is in Gothenburg. provision amounted to SEK 519 million million (3,070) is a result of reduced yield Akademiska Hus is wholly owned by the (567), equivalent to SEK 163/m2 (177). The requirements and cost of capital. Swedish state. decrease is mainly attributable to lower The Company is the parent company in costs due to our systematic energy work, as NET INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE the Akademiska Hus Group, the principal well as to somewhat lower energy prices. Net interest income and expense totalled task of which is to own and manage univerMaintenance costs amounted to SEK SEK –182 million (–939), of which SEK 165 sity and college properties. 673 million (621). The increase can be million (–548) relates to changes in value The Parent Company’s functional curattributed mainly to maintenance within of financial derivatives. SEK 297 million rency is SEK. All amounts are in SEK 1,000 projects. The cost amounts to SEK 211/m2 (–383) of the change in value is unrealised unless stated otherwise. Figures in paren(194). We continue to invest in maintenance and SEK –132 million is realised (–165). theses refer to the previous financial year. in order to maintain a good standard in our The changes in value are attributable to A corporate governance report has been property holdings. Costs for property somewhat rising market interest rates and prepared and can be found on pages 47–55. administration for the year amounted to steeper return curves. SEK 353 million (326). The increase is INCOME FROM PROPERTY attributable to our decision to co-finance PROFIT BEFORE TAX MANAGEMENT SEK 40 million for an expansion of the Pre-tax profit was SEK 6,141 million (6,261). Rental revenue was SEK 5,505 million underground from Odenplan to Arena­ (5,495). Completion of new buildings staden over the next five years. The project INVESTMENTS AND SALES increased revenues by SEK 247 million, will be carried out with others, including Net investments in properties totalled SEK while the loss of rental revenue due to the City of Stockholm and the City of Solna. 2,466 million (252) in 2015. The change is properties that were sold in 2014 amounted attributable to the sales that occurred in to SEK 136 million. Rental revenue per NET OPER ATING INCOME 2014. Properties worth SEK 33 million square metre increased somewhat comManagement has generated a positive net (2,752) on the balance sheet were sold in pared with the same period the previous operating income of SEK 3,703 million, 2015. year, mainly because of completion of new which is the same level as the previous year. buildings. NET OPERATING INCOME EQUITY RATIO TOTAL YIELD SEK m % % % 4,000 80 50 14 12 45 3,000 60 10 40 8 2,000 40 6 35 4 1,000 20 2 30 0 0 0 25 –2 11 12 13 14 15 Year 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Year 11 12 13 14 15 Year Net operating income, SEK m Upper target Total yield, % Net operating income ratio, % Lower target Change in value, % AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Our performance 35 CASH FLOW ratio at a satisfactory level. Return on Owner The Group’s cash flow from current operaequity remains steady and amounted to tions amounted to SEK 2,845 million 15.0 per cent (15.5), which was largely due (3,161). Cash flow from investing activities totalled SEK –2,204 million (–439). The to the unrealised changes in the value of the properties. objectives decline is attributable in its entirety to sales of properties in 2014. Dividend paid YIELD AND TOTAL YIELD Return on operating capital should amounted to SEK 5,945 million. The diviThe yield (excluding properties under be at least 6.5 per cent (excluding change in value). dend is primarily debt-financed. construction) was 6.3 per cent (6.9) on assessed fair value. Yield targets in the Dividend should be between 40 and 60 per cent of the profit for the year PARENT COMPANY market dropped in 2015 and properties after tax, after reversal of changes in The Company’s revenue totalled SEK 5,805 have provided good risk-adjusted return value and with related deferred tax. million (7,227). Of this amount, revenue compared with other assets. Total yield for Equity ratio should be between 30 from subsidiaries accounted for SEK 0 mil2015 was 10.9 per cent (13.4), where the difand 40 per cent. lion (0). The profit before financial items ference compared with the direct yield is was SEK 2,192 million (4,044) and net 4.6 percentage points (6.5) and comprises financial income/expense was SEK –290 the change in value of the properties. million (–1,073). The profit after financial items was SEK 1,902 million (2,971). RETURN ON OPER ATING CAPITAL The yield on operating capital in 2015 was CAPITAL STRUCTURE 6.9 per cent (7.3). The lower return on operDuring 2015, the equity ratio in the ating capital is due to the somewhat lower Group, as a result of the decision on the profit before financial items, but mainly additional distribution of SEK 6.5 billion, because equity and borrowed capital was adjusted to the owner’s goals and at together are larger than last year. year-end amounted to 40.7 per cent (48.0). The owner’s yield target is that the The stable result from management, along return on operating capital, excluding with unrealised changes in the value of changes in value should be at least 6.5 per properties, helped to maintain the equity cent. RETURN ON OPERATING CAPITAL LOAN-TO-VALUE RATIO INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO % % % 10 40 800 8 600 35 6 30 400 4 25 200 2 0 20 0 11 12 13 14 15 Year 11 12 13 14 15 Year 11 12 13 14 15 Year Return on operating capital, % Target, % AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 36 Our performance Five-year summary 2015 2014 2013 20124 2011 Income statements, SEK m Property management income 5,701 5,681 5,588 5,511 5,378 Operating costs –771 –808 –889 –870 –885 Maintenance costs –673 –621 –668 –564 –603 Property administration –353 –326 –272 –278 –268 Net operating income 3,703 3,717 3,506 3,588 3,389 Change in value, properties 2,655 3,529 232 –291 361 Central administration costs –35 –46 –73 –66 –45 Profit before financial items 6,323 7,200 3,665 3,231 3,704 Net financial income/expense –182 –939 –390 –682 –452 Profit before tax 6,141 6,261 3,275 2,549 3,252 Profit for the year 4,780 5,215 2,568 3,149 2,394 Statement of financial position, SEK m Fair value, properties 66,575 61,437 57,557 54,677 52,071 Other assets 7,858 8,282 5,785 6,955 9,002 Equity 30,271 33,432 29,614 28,336 26,521 Interest-bearing liabilities 30,831 26,082 23,860 24,212 24,693 Other liabilities and provisions 13,331 10,205 9,868 9,084 9,859 Cash flow, SEK m Cash flow from current operations 2,485 3,161 3,060 2,126 2,017 Cash flow from investments –2,204 –439 –2,459 –2,388 –1,898 Cash flow before financing 281 2,722 601 –262 119 Cash flow from financing –534 –853 –1,159 –1,081 3,779 Cash flow for the year –253 1,869 –558 –1,343 3,898 Property-related key figures Total yield, properties, % 10.9 13.4 7.2 6.8 7.8 of which direct yield, %1 6.3 6.9 6.8 7.1 6.9 of which change in value, % 4.6 6.5 0.4 –0.3 0.9 Rental revenue, SEK/sq. m. 1,728 1,715 1,664 1,644 1,599 Operating costs, SEK/sq. m. 242 252 276 272 277 Maintenance costs, SEK/sq. m. (including tenant adaptations) 211 194 208 176 189 Net operating income in relation to administration income, % 65 65 63 65 63 Net operating income, SEK/sq. m. 1,162 1,160 1,089 1,120 1,059 Level of vacant space, area, % 3.8 3.6 2.1 2.6 2.6 Level of vacant space, rent, % 1.1 1.2 0.9 1.0 1.2 Fair value, properties, SEK/sq. m.2 19,238 17,471 16,188 15,504 15,220 Energy use, kWh/sq. m. 223 224 231 235 239 CO2, kg/sq. m. 8 11 12 12 9 Financial key figures Return on equity after standard tax, % 15.0 15.5 8.8 6.9 9.2 Return on operating capital, %3 6.9 7.3 7.2 7.8 8.0 Return on total assets, % 10.7 10.9 6.1 5.6 7.0 Interest-bearing net loan liability, SEK m 24,385 18,871 19,278 18,528 16,778 Equity ratio, % 40.7 48.0 46.8 46.0 43.4 Interest coverage ratio, % 743 671 647 558 619 Interest cost in relation to average capital in interest-bearing liabilities, % 1.2 5.0 2.6 4.2 3.0 Loan-to-value ratio, % 36.6 30.7 33.5 33.9 32.2 Internal financing level, % 132 278 124 93 112 Dividend, SEK m 1,290 1,445 1,374 1,355 1,245 Additional distribution, SEK m5 6,500 — — — Personnel Average number of employees 409 408 407 403 396 Employee Satisfaction Index, ESI 61 66 68 69 70 1) Excluding properties under construction. 4) 2012 recalculated according to IAS 19R. 2) Excluding the value of properties under construction and expansion reserves. 5) Decision at Extraordinary General Meeting on 19 October 2015. 3) T  he owner’s yield target is that the return on operating capital, excluding changes in value should be at least 6.5 per cent. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Property valuation 37 Property valuation As a result of the favourable property market and major investments, the assessed fair value of Akademiska Hus properties increased in 2015 by SEK 5,138 million to SEK 66,575 million as of 31 December 2015. The value of Akademiska Hus’ property dominant customer group: colleges and account being taken of portfolio effects. holdings has grown in recent years, largely universities. All centres of education, apart The estimated property value is combecause it now provides its own construcfrom Chalmers University of Technology, posed of three types of valuation consisting tion services, but also because of the unrehave the Swedish state as principal and of: properties valued according to an interalised change in value due to the general thus have the highest credit rating. Akadenal cash flow valuation (91 per cent), expanmarket trend, as well as new and renegotimiska Hus has a good geographical spread, sion reserves (2 per cent) and properties ated agreements in connection with prothough it is strongest in large cities and with uncertain future cash flows (7 per jects. Construction relates largely to growth areas. Because the supply of comcent). Read Note 15 for more detailed inforimprovements of existing space and the munity properties is relatively low, invesmation. total fair value has increased in recent tors are also increasingly interested in All property valuation involves estimayears, even though the number of square more secondary objects and locations. The tion elements, which customarily is associmetres decreased or remained at even. broadening of the market, in line with ated with some uncertainty. A normal The fair value has been calculated by increased demand for community properuncertainty range in property valuation is means of an internal property valuation ties, will have a positive effect on the value +/– 5 to 10 per cent, which in Akademiska covering all the Company’s properties. The of Akademiska Hus’ property portfolio. Hus’ portfolio would be equivalent to yield requirement is a key figure in the approximately +/– SEK 3,300 million to property industry and is used as a measure VALUATION METHODS SEK 6,600 million. of risk. The risk exposure in Akademiska Akademiska Hus valuation models comply Hus’ property portfolio has primarily been with good market practice in the property RESIDUAL VALUE RISK handled by variations in yield targets. industry and the cash flows and yield targets Akademiska Hus operates in a specific segThe property market remained positive that are used are justified based on both ment of the property market, which means during the year and interest in objects with property-specific conditions and industry-­ that several of our properties are more long leases is strong. Around 89 per cent of specific conditions. The properties have adapted to specialist uses and consequently Akademiska Hus’ income derives from the been valued individually without any they have a slightly more uncertain residual PROPERTIES YIELD REQUIREMENTS AND Change in property holdings, SEK m 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 COST OF CAPITAL Opening fair value 61,437 57,557 % + Investment in new construction and redevelopment 2,497 2,904 9 + Acquisitions 2 100 + Capitalised interest expense 108 134 8 – Sales –33 –2,752 7 +/– Change in value, unrealised 2,564 3,494 Of which change in value due to a change in the 6 cost of capital and yield requirement 1,245 3,070 Of which change in value due to adjusted value index (valuation status, average remaining term, 5 11 12 13 14 15 Year property type) 256 –172 Average cost of capital, % Of which capitalised interest expense –108 –134 Average yield requirement, % Of which other change in value 1,171 730 Closing fair value 66,575 61,437 SEK 60,660 million (91 per cent) of the fair value has been set by means of an internal cash flow valuation. Other properties have been valued individually using the most appropriate valuation method, see Note 15. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 38 Property valuation value than for more general properties, index is SEK 256 million (–172). It is mainly EXTERNAL VALUATION such as office buildings and residential the rental period that changes from year to To assure the internal valuation, selected buildings. Residual risk for our customised year as contracts gradually expire and new properties are also valued each year by properties is quantified mainly in the form leases are signed. external valuation companies. As of 30 of charges to cash flow and in the direct September 2015, 74 valuation buildings yield target. OTHER CHANGES IN VALUE and 25 building rights at a fair value of The post ‘Other changes in value’ refers to SEK 18,069 million were valued externally, CHANGE IN VALUE 2015 cash-flow related changes that derive from corresponding to approximately 28 per Total change in value for the year was a change in net operating income. Change cent of Akademiska Hus’ total fair value. SEK 5,138 million (3,880), for a closing fair for the year amounted to SEK 1,171 million The valuations in 2015 were carried out by value, including construction in progress, (730) and largely depends on new leases Cushman & Wakefield, as well as NAI of SEK 66,575 million (61,437). The unrealsigned or renewed after renegotiation. Svefa, both of which are authorised by the ised change in value in the balance sheet Impairment losses arise when premises are Swedish Society of Real Estate Economics. was SEK 2,564 million (3,494). vacated or when costs such as operation The external valuations confirm the reliaand maintenance increase. bility of the internal valuation model. INVESTMENTS, PURCHASES AND SALES In 2015 several major projects were commissioned, including the Centre for Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science (VHC) in Ultuna outside Uppsala, Niagara in Malmö, the Ull Building in Ultuna and the School of Architecture at the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) in Stockholm. Projects in progress at year-end include Biomedicum in Solna, which is one of Akademiska PROPERTY PORTFOLIO’S ACCUMULATED VALUE GROWTH AND NUMBER Hus’ largest projects ever with a project OF SQUARE METRES FLOOR SPACE framework of SEK 3.8 billion. Investments in new construction and redevelopment SEK m Thousand m² totalled SEK 2,497 million (2,904). 80,000 3,400 Only minor land acquisitions took place 60,000 3,300 m2 floor space during the year. O  ther change 40,000 in value 3,200 Construction VALUATION CONDITIONS AND 20,000 Other acquisitions CHANGED VALUE INDEX 3,100 A  cquisitions from To reflect the general rise in prices and 0 the Swedish state -10,000 3,000 demand for community properties, the yield 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Year Sales targets and cost of capital in the internal valuation were lowered by between 0.05 and 0.35 percentage points in 2015. The average cost of capital was 7.9 per cent (8.1) SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, PROPERTY VALUE and the average yield target was 5.8 per Impact on Impact on fair value, cent (6.0) after adjustment for stamp duty. Change fair value, SEK m1 percentage points The positive change in value due to the Rental revenue, +/– one percentage point 386 0.6 reduction amounted to SEK 1,245 million Vacant space, +/– one percentage point 398 0.6 (3,070) in 2015. Operating costs, +/– one percentage point 81 0.1 In Akademiska Hus’ valuation model, of which media provision 41 0.1 the cost of capital and yield targets are Cost of capital, + one percentage point –4,112 –6.2 adjusted for each valuation building based Cost of capital, – one percentage point 4,523 6.8 on rental period, city, location, type of Yield target, + one percentage point –5,084 –7.6 building, collectively referred to as the Yield target, – one percentage point 7,346 11.0 value index. The change in value for the 1) Refers only to properties subjected to discounted cash flow analysis. year attributable to the changed value AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Risk 39 Risks and risk management Akademiska Hus is one of Sweden’s largest property companies with a focus on knowledge environments designed for higher education and research. The company can strategically and operationally manage risks and opportunities, which is a requirement for continuing to create value and develop its role in society. ‘Risk’ in this case refers to a possible impact guides the company towards its established business areas. The purpose was to ensure due to external events. Risk generally is not goals. Each year the Board of Directors consensus on the major sustainability-­ unequivocally negative with cost-driving addresses the strategy and decides on a new related risks. effects, but rather is an expression of business plan. This work includes assessTo further develop and expand the comuncertainty. There is also a dimension of ments of long-term trends, the competitive pany’s risk management a project was initipotential and opportunities that can be situation and the overall risk exposure of ated in 2015 aimed at both shaping and exploited. the Company’s activities. Each year the implementing a company-wide process for The mandate from the owner stipulates Board Of Directors also adopts policy documanaging risks, and at providing a risk that operations will be run on a commerments such as the sustainability policy, Code management tool to clarify substantial cial basis by setting rents that take operatof Conduct, financial policy and procurerisks and responsibilities in the organisaing risk into account. The yield targets will ment policy. Implementation and outcomes tion. The project included a comprehensive be achieved over time by leveraging opporof the business plan are continuously monirisk inventory in which risks were identitunities and managing exposure to signifitored during the year to ensure compliance fied. The analysis included the probability cant risks. with planned activities and objectives. of occurrence, possible consequence and the company’s ability to manage the risk. ANNUAL BUSINESS PLAN PROCESS FOCUS ON TR ANSPARENCY IN One result of the inventory was a risk The risks identified in the business plan PROCESSES AND RESPONSIBILITIES matrix that identifies the most important will be managed by applying Akademiska In 2014 an internal risk inventory was areas of risk on a comprehensive level. Hus’ long-term strategy as the base, which conducted with representatives from all HIGHLY PROBABLE Fair value, properties Project risk Transparency Income and vacancy risk and trust PROBABILITY Operation and maintenance LIKELY Political risk as well as facilities risk Financial risks Compliance Skills supply Environmental risk risk UNLIKELY CONSEQUENCE/IMPACT VERY LIMITED SERIOUS DISASTER AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 40 Risk Description of the most significant risks Strategic risks Operating risks consist of external market factors that cannot be mainly refer to the risks of financial consequences controlled, but whose negative impact could be limited. and consequences related to trust which ensue from shortcomings in internal procedures and systems. Akademiska Hus’ strategic risks are linked to property holdings on the Swedish market. Economic conditions, As one of Sweden’s largest property developers, industry trends and education policy are examples of Akademiska Hus has a large responsibility to external factors that affect the company’s ability to formulate efficient processes, systems and controls. develop and manage the property portfolio. Legal risks Financial risks encompass both ethical positions for our employees Exposure to financial risks derives from Akademiska and our stakeholders, as well as good knowledge of Hus’ capital structure. Financing activities mainly the rules and laws that apply in construction and involve exposure to interest rate and refinancing risk. management. Legal risks can usually be managed and limited through proactive risk management and clear procedures and instructions to employees and other stakeholders. Changes in the estimated fair value of Akademiska Hus’ property value is affected by both property-specific and macroeconomic facportfolio constitute a risk that could affect the Group’s financial tors, where changes in the cost of capital or yield targets are factors performance. However, change in value does not affect cash flow, that affect the valuation most. since it is an estimate and is not something that is realised. Fair SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, IMPACT ON PROFIT Change Impact on pre-tax profit, SEK m Rental revenue, +/– one percentage point 55 Vacant space, +/– one percentage point 51 Operating costs, +/– one percentage point 8 of which media provision 5 Cost of capital, + one percentage point –4,112 Cost of capital, – one percentage point 4,523 Yield target, + one percentage point –5,084 Yield target, – one percentage point 7,346 A more detailed sensitivity analysis can be found in Note 2 on page 69 and Note 15 on page 79. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Risk 41 STRATEGIC RISKS DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT FAIR VALUE A change in the fair value of the properties Our core business of properties for higher education and OF BUILDINGS affects the company's financial performance, research has been established for many years. A large share but also serves as an unrealised profit that of the property portfolio is located in cohesive campuses does not affect cash flow. Fair value is influthat are intended for educational and research purposes. enced by market trends, yield targets, rent The buildings often have long lease terms with a high probtrends and vacancy rates, as well as new conability of renewal. Akademiska Hus engages in continuous struction, additions and renovations. The cost business development, updating and modifying the propof capital and the yield targets used to calcuerty portfolio through purchases, sales and investments late fair value are affected by factors such as in new construction and redevelopment. The risk profile city, location, rental period and type of premise and business opportunities of the property portfolio are for each property. analysed regularly. A presence primarily in university cities entails a concentration of the property portfolio to markets with development potential and good sales opportunities. Because lease terms are long, changes in value demonstrate less variation when yield targets change. The properties are insured for their full value. TRANSPARENCY Akademiska Hus is a state-owned company. We conduct a continuous dialogue with our stakeholders, AND TRUST Gaining the trust of the owner and the public on many different levels, to identify and understand the places demands on exemplary conduct and needs and expectations placed on Akademiska Hus and transparency in matters such as rent setting, the projects we deliver, and to provide the information planning and development of campuses and that is required in a clear and credible way. We also work the company’s sustainability efforts. By acting continuously with understanding and insight relating to transparently, good relations can be achieved, our values and corporate culture, both internally and with with a positive impact on the company’s finanour suppliers. cial performance. INCOME AND Cash flow from the property business is an Akademiska Hus strives to achieve generally designed VACANCY RISK expression of how efficient the business is facilities that can be redesigned for alternative usage. given certain conditions. Ultimately, it is the The specially adapted buildings for research and developexpectations of future cash flows, in terms of ment often have long lease terms with a high probability net operating income that determines growth of renewal. Colleges and universities, which are essentially in value of the property portfolio. Future cash government-financed, are the source of 89 per cent of our flow from operations is affected by the design revenue. The risk of reduced income over time and non-­ of the properties and the ability to adapt to payment is therefore low. There is also a good spread of meet future needs of both existing and new renewal dates on lease agreements. Investing in properties customers. requires leases to be signed before construction begins. Taken together, this gives a low risk of vacancy. In recent years, the interest of private property companies in community properties, strong To respond to increased competition, we must be able to regional players and increased client demands quickly meet customer needs for premises with attractive have contributed to intensified competition. locations and design. At the same time Akademiska Hus’ efficiency and expertise are challenged. To meet this challenge we conduct market analyses and engage in dialogue with customers and the surrounding community. A major focus has also been placed on developing internal procedures and working methods. POLITICAL RISK The operation is affected by Government The risk scenario can be kept up to date through a policies in general and education policy in systematic business intelligence analysis. From a shortparticular. term perspective, our ability to manage such exposure is limited, but a long-term perspective usually allows scope A change in this brief from the owner, the for action and opportunities to make a difference. Swedish state, could entail both risks and opportunities. We engage in continuous dialogue with our owner to ensure consensus on goals and strategies. Changes in national and international energy policy could have an impact on the Company as a major energy user. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 42 Risk OPERATING RISKS DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT RISK Each year Akademiska Hus invests billions Investments begin only after we have agreements with of SEK to build new and develop existing tenants that justify the investment. Construction cost risk properties. is limited to the greatest extent possible contractually in relation to both entrepreneur and tenant. In order to staff and run all construction projects, with both our own and external Risks linked to the physical design and implementation employees, project activities need to be are minimised by project briefings, thereby contributing to conducted efficiently in a safe and secure good governance and monitoring. A high level of expertise working environment. and structured sustainability initiatives, including the objective of achieving an accident-free workplace, provide In light of its role as a major developer, higher cost effectiveness and quality. Analysing scenarios Akademiska Hus has a great responsibility resulting from the effects of future climate change are in the purchasing area. The actions of our part of the plan to adapt planning guidelines and existing suppliers affect both our company and buildings. society. We encourage our suppliers to act in compliance with our Code of Conduct. By continuously following up on the work of suppliers, we can ensure that they comply with our requirements. OPERATION AND A focus on operation and maintenance costs is To ensure high level of operational reliability, each building MAINTENANCE AS important for the net operating income ratio of has a maintenance plan, which leads to cost-effective WELL AS FACILITIES the properties and thus their fair value. A large maintenance of the properties. We engage in dialogue with RISK proportion of operating costs are energy costs, our customers to learn about their activities in order to which have substantial seasonal variations and achieve high operational reliability and prevent disruptions. are affected by conditions at the global level. Neglected maintenance can lead to higher Akademiska Hus works actively to hedge future electricity maintenance costs in the long term. prices, providing greater security regarding future costs. There is a long-term price hedging strategy. The risk Several of our customers have advanced and approach and mandate for handling the electricity price sensitive activities; consequently disruptions risk is governed by the guidelines for purchasing electricity. in operations, both temporary and long-term, Trade in physical electric power (spot) and financial can have serious consequences. price-hedging instruments takes place through Nord Pool. To limit the counter-party risk, all financial trading is There is a risk that the future price of electriccleared through Nord Pool. ity, including currency effects, will have a negative impact on the Company’s operating costs. SKILLS SUPPLY RISK Today there is strong competition and high We cooperate with several vocational colleges and training demand for skills in property management programmes, participating in activities in the industry to as well as in construction and project manageencourage young people to find work in the property and ment. Akademiska Hus builds and manages built environment sector. campuses, which places great demands on both scope and cutting edge expertise in We actively work to ensure attractive working conditions several areas. with good skills development and duties that encourage growth. Our safety culture is a high priority and we aspire to be the industry leader. ENVIRONMENTAL RISK When developing campuses, as well as in new Akademiska Hus works with long-term strategic developconstruction and redevelopment, it is imporment of campuses by formulating campus plans with a tant to plan the change in such a way that strong focus on sustainability. responsibility is taken for ensuring that materials and resources are used in a responsible All new construction and major renovations are environmanner. Management of a property portfolio mentally certified according to the Miljöbyggnad system, is associated with the risk of adverse environfor at least a silver rating. Materials are assessed with mental impact if it is not done wisely. regard to their impact on the environment through the Byggvarubedömningen (BVB) scheme. Resource and energy efficiency initiatives are conducted throughout the operation. The company is certified to ISO 14001 for the environment and AFS 2001:1 for the working environment. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Risk 43 LEGAL RISKS DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE Compliance with applicable laws and regulaAkademiska Hus’ Code of Conduct offers guidance on tions affecting our business is of great imporappropriate behaviour. Each year, managers and employees tance to Akademiska Hus to avoid unnecessary engage in a dialogue on compliance with the Code of Concosts and to ensure that we set a good examduct. We also encourage our partners to act in compliance ple as one of Sweden’s largest property with the Code. companies. The Company has established an ethical council and whistle-blower procedures. The Council addresses issues raised by employees related to the ethical guidelines. The whistle-blowing system is completely independent of the Company and both employees and external partners can use it to report suspected irregularities. FINANCIAL RISKS DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT INTEREST RISK Risk that profit will vary because of changes Fixed interest mandate for the basic portfolio: 2–6 years. in market rates. Long-term bond portfolio: maximum of 20 per cent of total portfolio, index-linked bond portfolio maximum of 10 per cent. REFINANCING RISK The risk that the cost is higher or financing A maximum of 50 per cent of the total loan volume may fall potential is limited when loans are due to be due for renewal within a 12-month period. refinanced. CREDIT AND The risk of a loss because a counter-party The credit limit is based on the rating and the term of the COUNTER-PARTY does not meet its undertakings. commitment. ISDA agreements are always signed before RISK derivative transactions are carried out. CSA agreements are desirable. CURRENCY Risk that exchange rate changes affect the When financing in a foreign currency, the exchange rate risk EXPOSURE RISK Income Statements and Balance Sheets. must be eliminated. The exposure to financial risks derives from the capital structure; i.e., the distriINTEREST RISK, NET LOAN LIABILITY, SEK MILLION PER BASIS POINT bution between loans and equity. FinancSEK m ing activities mainly involve exposure to 15 interest rate and refinancing risk. In a normal situation, financial markets price 12 in long-term fixed interest periods and 9 maturities at higher risk premiums than 6 short-term. The objective of risk management is therefore to balance the additional 3 costs of long-term fixed interest periods 0 and maturities, and thus limit the uncerQ1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 tainty, against savings of more short-term fixed interest periods and maturities, and Interest risk in derivatives Risk 0–3 years Risk 3–7 years Risk 7–10 years accept greater uncertainty. The risk analyRisk 10–15 years Risk long-term portfolio Risk index-linked bond portfolio sis also includes identifying and utilising The total interest rate risk of the debt portfolio is measured for both loans and interest rate derivatives. opportunities that arise in financial marAccording to market practices, risk is expressed in terms of change in present value for an interest rate change of 0.01 per cent, or one basis point, with a parallel shift in the yield curve. kets. For a more detailed description of financial risk management, see the financing section on pages 44–46 and Note 33 on pages 87–89. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 44 Financing Financing The lax monetary policy continued to influence financial markets in 2015. One result was upward pressure on risk premiums in credit markets. The increased need for financing led to a higher level of activity in the bond market. Twelve issues raised a total of SEK 8 billion during the year. FINANCIAL MARKET IN 2015 likely be gradual. In this environment with the underlying tenGlobal growth continued to improve in 2015, particularly in the US dency towards disinflation, the potential for rising long-term interand Europe. Emerging economies that previously contributed to est rates is considered to be limited. Higher risk premiums and the positive trend have begun to sputter as commodity prices have reduced liquidity have been noted in the fixed income markets. fallen and their wealth accumulation has slowed. Falling prices for The permanently too low inflation is still a problem for the key commodities that would normally be interpreted as promoting Riksbank with the strict price stability objective. The continued growth and a positive factor now appear to be challenges due to joint focus among most of the central banks to promote increased subduing inflation. The added uncertainty produces volatility in inflation through the currency limits the Riksbank’s ability to purfinancial markets and the risk that this could have repercussions in sue an independent and more restrictive policy in this low-inflation the real economy and interfere with the continued stable recovery. environment. In 2015, the Riksbank surprised analysts by not only The growing political uncertainty in oil-producing countries can continuing to lower the repo rate down into negative territory, but be particularly destabilising. also by initiating the purchase of government bonds. The growing debt in the global economy represents a continued challenge with increasing vulnerability to economic downturns DEBT MANAGEMENT IN 2015 and rising interest rates. There is considerable uncertainty as to Conditions in the international fixed income market have continwhether the growth rate is sustainable in the long term. Developued to be uncertain with generally rising risk premiums, especially ments in China are becoming increasingly influential in financial during the second half of the year. One important explanation is the markets and question marks were raised in 2015 about the Chinese extraordinary circumstances with negative interest rates in shorteconomy, which with its lack of transparency is difficult to analyse. and medium-term maturities that require risk premiums to generate The devaluation of the Chinese currency has increased exposure to any return at all. At the same time that the central banks are pursudeflationary impulses through trade. ing a highly expansionary policy, however, regulatory changes in the The central banks continued to pursue the extraordinarily financial system are having a restrictive and cost-driving effect. The loose monetary policy in 2015, with both extremely low policy time horizon for monetary tightening was gradually moved forward rates and purchases of government bonds. The purpose has been during the year and the negative repo rate reached a record low of to bring up inflation and inflation expectations. Although the US minus 0.35 per cent in July. In the current market, availability of Federal Reserve raised interest rates in December, in line with liquidity has been very good with favourable pricing for borrowers expectations, the return to more normal interest rate levels will with good credit. FINANCING SOURCES DEBT MATURITY STRUCTURE SEK billion SEK billion 30 30 25 25 20 20 15 15 10 10 5 5 0 0 Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Oct 16 20 24 28 32 36 40 44 Year 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Other MTN/EMTN SEK EMTN CHF EMTN excl. CHF ECP CP Bank loans AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financing 45 The adjustment of Akademiska Hus’ capital structure approved by atives continue to serve as an important means to maintain the the owner and the financing of the additional distribution have been fixed interest period. the dominant issues during the year. The change prompted a review and several adjustments to the risk mandate since this increase in OUTLOOK FOR FINANCING ACTIVITIES IN 2016 indebtedness takes place in an extraordinary situation in the credit The new year began with unexpected turbulence on financial marmarket with low interest rates and rising risk premiums. With good kets. The reasons are multifaceted and derive in part from genuine foresight it was possible to obtain financing within the established uncertainty about actual developments in the Chinese economy and structure of the public financing programmes. The additional disits continued economic policy. In addition, the falling trend from tribution of SEK 4,500 million was financed during the fourth 2015 for commodity prices – and oil prices in particular – continues, quarter and SEK 2,000 million remains during the spring of 2016. accompanied by uncertainty. Consequently the world’s central banks The equity ratio at year-end was 40.7 per cent and SEK 2,000 milface continued challenges since the recovery and upturn in inflation lion comprised a non-interest bearing debt to the owner. Additional and inflation expectations have yet to appear. The Riksbank cut the committed credit facilities of SEK 2,000 million were arranged. repo rate once again in February to minus 0.5 per cent. The period of Standard & Poor’s confirmed that Akademiska Hus would retain its extremely lax monetary policy, with the central banks jointly proAA/A-1+ rating with stable outlook in conjunction with the change. moting continued expansionary conditions, will probably be considActivities in the financial market have been significant and erably longer than was previously expected. Thus, the challenges in Akademiska Hus was able to raise a total of approximately SEK the financial markets persist and investors face continued trials in 8,000 million through twelve bond issues in 2015, including SEK their efforts to find returns. Consequently there is a risk that the 4,100 million in refinancing and SEK 3,900 million new financing. credit risk premiums which rose in the autumn of 2015 may persist. The issues represent an extremely broad spectrum in terms of The challenge for debt management in this environment maturity, from the shortest at 2.5 years to the longest at 30 years. involves dealing with continued growth of debt when credit risk The amounts have varied from SEK 220 million to about SEK 2,200 premiums remain in place. Continued steep yield curves place million. Of these issuances, SEK 2,600 million originate from demands on proactive interest rate risk management. non-Swedish markets. After a prolonged absence, a ten-year issue In 2016, the refinancing need consists of maturing bonds of SEK in the Swiss market raised CHF 250 million (around SEK 2,200 2,100 million, as well as short-term financing in the ECP and cermillion). Diversification of interest risk exposure was also achieved tificate market of SEK 7,600 million. In addition, the final instalthrough two index-linked bonds totalling SEK 900 million. ment of the additional distribution of SEK 2,000 million remains Once again, the ECP programme was the main short-term to be paid. Investments in the property projects portfolio are source of funding in 2015 and it was supplemented with some increasing and are estimated at about SEK 3,500 million. At yearissues on the commercial paper programme. To ensure adequate end cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 4,300 million. liquidity prior to the autumn’s additional distribution and refinancing of bonds, investments in cash and bank balances were FINANCING POLICY, STR ATEGIES AND OBJECTIVES maintained at a high level. Akademiska Hus carries on active debt management where the Prior to the planned increase in the debt portfolio the fixed strategy is to weigh up the financial risks against the desired low interest period was extended to offset the somewhat asymmetric financing cost over time. The two key policy documents adopted by risk picture with medium-term rising long-term interest rates. The the Board are: fixed interest period in the basic portfolio was thus maintained • Finance Policy: Describes the long-term strategic orientation, the over the year. Unlike the clear downward trend in 2014, interest Group’s approach to financial risks and the mandate to handle rates have been somewhat more stable in 2015. Interest rate derivthese risks, as well as the allocation of liability. INTEREST RATE TRENDS AND AKADEMISKA HUS’ COMPARISONS, DIFFERENT CALCULATIONS FINANCING COST OF FINANCING COST % % 6 6 5 5 4 4 3 3 2 2.13 2 1 1.22 0 1 –1 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Year 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Year Annualised Interest, Accrued Mortgage bonds, 5 years Period-allocated financing cost, rolling 12-month basis, % Government bonds, 5 years STIBOR 3 months Financing cost according to IFRS rolling 12-month basis, % AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 46 Financing • Plan for handling financial risks (risk plan): Justifies annual FORMS OF FINANCING AND R ATING mandates for financial risk management in the light of the risk Exposure to the various financial risks is managed within each scenario and existing exposure. Also includes analysis of develmandate adopted annually in the risk plan. The choice of fixed opments in financial markets, including both opportunities and interest period and the percentage of the long bond portfolio has a challenges from the point of view of debt management. large impact on net interest income and expense. The financing objectives are: • Use centralised financial management to leverage economies of FINANCING PROGRAMMES AND RATING scale and facilitate efficient handling of exposure to financial Material Rating contractual risks within the Group. Standard Framework Utilised terms and & Poor’s 2015 2015 conditions • Use the strong financial position and good rating, within the Committed credit framework of the risk mandate, to achieve as low a financing cost facilities in bank SEK 4,000 m 0 — as possible. Commercial paper A1+/K1 SEK 4,000 m SEK 2,000 m — • Use public financing programmes to maintain stable and continECP (Euro uous access to cost-effective financing in relevant markets. Commercial Paper) A1+ EUR 1,000 m EUR 605 m — MTN (Medium Owner Term Note)1 AA SEK 8,000 m SEK 1,120 m clause FIXED INTEREST PERIOD AND MATURITY IN SUBPORTFOLIOS EMTN (Euro Medium Owner In order to structure debt management and to distinguish three Term Note) AA/A1+ EUR 3,000 m EUR 1886 m clause different mandates for managing interest rate risk, the debt port­ 1) Not updated since 2009. folio is divided into three portfolios: • Long-term portfolio – bonds with fixed interest and maturity FINANCING COST terms in excess of 15 years. Net interest income and expense amounted to SEK –182 million • I ndex-linked bond portfolio – bonds linked to the real interest rate. (–939) during the period, of which SEK 165 (–548) relates to • Basic portfolio – remaining portion of commercial paper, loans, changes in value of financial derivatives. SEK 297 million (–383) of bonds and interest rate derivatives. the change in value is unrealised and SEK –132 million is realised (–165). The changes in value can be explained by somewhat rising This division allows effective interest rate risk management, where market interest rates and steeper return curves. Net interest different motives for fixed interest period and maturity can be leverincome and expense is equivalent to an interest cost of 1.2 per cent aged more systematically. (5.0) during the period, in which the changes in value correspond to a reduction in interest expense of 0.7 percentage points (increase 2.6). Interest-bearing net loan liability increased by SEK FIXED INTEREST PERIOD AND MATURITY 5,514 million during the year and amounted to SEK 24,385 million. Fixed Fixed The interest coverage ratio, calculated on the cash flow impact of interest, interest, Maturity, Maturity, years, years, years, years, net interest income and expense, amounted to 743 per cent (671). Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 Long-term portfolio 3,619 24.7 25.6 24.7 25.6 FINANCING COST, BREAKDOWN Basic portfolio 19,475 3.6 3.4 2.6 1.6 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Index-linked bond portfolio 900 6.8 — 6.8 — Loan financing cost, including charges, % 1.38 2.01 2.24 2.75 2.78 1.21 Total portfolio 6.9 7.1 6.1 5.8 Interest swaps, net interest, % 0.58 0.42 0.39 0.40 0.44 0.96 Financing cost, % 1.96 2.43 2.63 3.15 3.22 2.17 Changes in value, financial derivatives, % –0.74 2.61 –0.01 1.06 –0.23 –0.33 MATURITY STRUCTURE FOR FIXED INTEREST PERIODS AND NET DEBT MATURITY AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2015 Total financing cost, % 1.22 5.04 2.62 4.21 2.99 1.84 Year Maturity, SEK m Fixed interest, SEK m 2016 6,847 7,896 Since derivative financial instruments account for a significant 2017 1,000 1,364 proportion of the fixed interest period, variations in the outcome 2018 3,408 1,600 of net interest income and expense will become noticeable during 2019 2,120 2,120 periods of major interest rate changes. The diagram on page 45 2020 870 2,250 presents a comparative calculation in which the present value 2021 2,579 2,750 effect of changes in value, both realised and unrealised, is placed 2022 0 1,200 against the remaining term of the instruments. 2023 and later 7,561 5,205 TOTAL 24,385 24,385 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 47 Corporate Governance Report Akademiska Hus AB (publ) is a property company that is wholly owned by the Swedish state. The Company applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and the State’s ownership policy and guidelines for companies with state ownership. This corporate governance report describes the structure and processes for governance, management and control. FOUNDATIONS OF CORPOR ATE ciently. Since the company is wholly owned ute to strengthening Sweden as a nation GOVERNANCE AT AK ADEMISK A HUS by the Swedish state, certain provisions of of knowledge. Akademiska Hus AB applies the Swedish the Code do not apply, as it is primarily Code of Corporate Governance (the Code) written for companies with diversified which aims to strengthen confidence in ownership. See the deviations from the Swedish companies by promoting positive Code on page 48. development of corporate governance in Akademiska Hus’ remit is to own, Owner objectives these companies. In the spirit of the Code, develop and manage properties for colleges Akademiska Hus formulates policy docuand universities, where the primary focus ments and procedures to ensure transparis on education and research, as well as The owner has three financial ency, a clear allocation of responsibility activities compatible therewith. Long-term objectives for Akademiska Hus; between different Company bodies and and sustainable development permeate read more on page 35. that the Board discharges its duties effiAkademiska Hus and its efforts to contribGovernance and organisational chart External regulations that General Meeting affect governance: • Companies Act • Accounting Act • Annual Accounts Act External auditor Finance Committee • State ownership policy • IFRS • Swedish Code of Corporate Board of Directors Audit Committee Governance • Code about gifts, rewards and other benefits in business Remuneration Committee Internal audit • UN Global Compact principles • Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) guidelines G4 • Stock market rules President Internal documents that affect governance: Vice President • Articles of Association • The Board’s Rules of Procedure • Instructions to the President Business & Finance • Allocation of responsibility HR Property and authority Purchases Sustainability • Strategy documents Legal • Code of Conduct IT Communication • Sustainability policy, procurement policy and financing policy • Guidelines for the Company’s operations • Attestation and authorisation Southern Western Eastern Uppsala Stockholm Northern guidelines Region Region Region Region Region Region AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT GENER AL MEETING Annual General Meeting it was decided to elect KPMG AB as audiThe General Meeting is the highest decision-making body at tors for the period up to the end of the 2016 Annual General MeetAkademiska Hus. The shareholder exercises its influence at the ing, which appointed authorised public accountant Björn Flink to General Meeting. Members of the Riksdag and the public have the serve as auditor in charge. The fee to the auditors during the year right to participate. Members of the Riksdag must report their was paid as billed. intention to participate at the AGM to the Company. INTERNAL AUDITOR Annual General Meeting 2015 Akademiska Hus has an internal audit function comprising an According to the State’s ownership policy, Akademiska Hus must employed internal auditor. The internal auditor reports directly to hold its Annual General Meeting before 30 April each year. The the Company’s Board of Directors. notice is published on the Company’s website. The Annual General The work of the internal audit function is based on a risk analyMeeting was held on 28 April 2015. The Chairman of the Board of sis that is made at least once a year and which is updated as necesAkademiska Hus, Eva-Britt Gustafsson, convened the meeting and sary. An internal audit plan is adopted by the Board of Directors was appointed to run it. Also present were Malin Fries, shareholder prior to each financial year. representative, Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President, Michael Walmerud, Vice President, Björn Flink, authorised public accountBOARD OF DIRECTORS ant, KPMG, and Carolin Åberg Sjöqvist, secretary. In addition, all The Board of Directors is responsible for the organisation and for members of the board were present. management of the affairs of the company. The Board of Directors convenes the Annual General Meeting. The work of the Board is Decisions at the 2015 Annual General Meeting governed by the Rules of Procedure adopted by the Board of DirecFirst, the meeting adopted the income statement and balance sheet tors each year. The Rules of Procedure lay down the Board’s workfor the Parent Company and the Group for the 2014 financial year. ing methods and instructions for the Board’s committees. In addition, the AGM approved the Board’s proposal for profit distribution, which entails a dividend of SEK 1,445,000,000 to the Nomination process owner. The principles for remuneration and other terms of employAkademiska Hus applies a structured nomination process in conment for senior executives were adopted. These principles and junction with the appointment of Board members and auditors. The terms are in line with the ‘Guidelines for terms and conditions of nomination process for board members is conducted and co-ordiemployment for senior executives in state-owned companies’, nated by the state ownership unit at the Ministry of Enterprise and which the Government passed on 20 April 2009. The AGM also Innovation. Members are selected from a broad recruitment base. resolved to amend the Articles of Association to add the location in The nomination process is presented in the Government’s ownwhich the general meeting can be held. The Annual General Meetership policy. Board membership requires a high level of expertise ing also resolved to reduce the Parent Company’s share capital by a within relevant current business operations, business developtotal of SEK 5,000,000,000 for allocation to non-restricted equity. ment, industry know-how, financial issues, or in other relevant In addition, the Annual General Meeting approved bonus issues of areas. In addition, there should be a strong sense of integrity and a a total of SEK 5,000,000,000 by raising the value of properties. capacity to act in the Company’s best interests. Extraordinary General Meeting 2015 Composition of the Board of Directors The Company held an Extraordinary General Meeting on 19 OctoThe Board of Directors for Akademiska Hus consists of eight member 2015. The Meeting resolved that Akademiska Hus AB would bers elected by the General Meeting, as well as two members who pay an additional distribution of SEK 6,500,000,000. represent the employees of the Company. The composition of the Board should be such that the Board always has knowledge of the Annual General Meeting 2016 industry or other know-how relevant to the Company. The compoThe Annual General Meeting will be held in Stockholm on 28 April 2016. sition should also be such that a balance is achieved in terms of background, age and gender. The Articles of Association do not AUDITORS contain any stipulations regarding appointment or dismissal of Procurement of auditors took place in 2013/2014. At the 2015 Board members. DEVIATIONS FROM THE CODE NOMINATION (CODE RULES 1.3–1.4, 2.1–2.7, 4.6, 8.1 AND 10.2) REPORTING OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF BOARD MEMBERS The Code has mainly been prepared for companies with a spread of (CODE RULE 4.5) ownership. At such companies, the election committee is in the The purpose of this code rule is to protect minority shareholders in first instance a body for shareholders to prepare decisions regardlimited liability companies, which is not applicable to wholly stateing appointments. For state-owned companies, the rules regarding owned companies. an election committee are replaced by principles governing a structured nomination process according to the Government’s ownership policy. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 49 Board of Directors EVA-BRITT GUSTAFSSON BRITTA BURREAU OLOF EHRLÉN THOMAS JENNLINGER ANDERS LARSSON Chair since 2007. Chair of Member since 2014. Chair Member since 2011. Employee representative Employee representative the Audit and Remuneraof the Finance Committee Year of birth: 1949. (Ledarna union) since 2008. (SEKO) since 2009. tion Committee. Year of birth: 1964. Year of birth: 1956. Year of birth: 1963. Other positions: Board Year of birth: 1950. Position: President of member of Wingroup AG Position: Operating manPosition: Operating engiOther positions: Board Nordea Liv since 2004. and Instalco Holding AB, ager at Akademiska Hus neer at Akademiska Hus member of Svenska Spel AB. Other positions: Board Chair of Svevia AB and Uppsala. Stockholm. Previous positions: member of Svensk advisor to FSN Capital. Education: Production Previous positions: President of Apoteks­ Försäkring and Nordea Liv Previous positions: Presiengineering studies. Employee representative gruppen i Sverige Holding Fastighet Holding AB. dent and CEO of NCC AB. (SEKO) Akademiska Hus AB and Apoteksgruppen i Previous positions: Education: MSc Eng. Stockholm AB, 1998–2009. Sverige AB, Bank Director, Accenture 1992–2004. Education: Production Nordbanken; Vice President engineering studies. Securum Finans AB, PresiEducation: MSc and MBA. dent of Venantius AB; President of Apoteket Omstrukturering AB. Education: MBA. INGELA LINDH LEIF LJUNGQVIST PIA SANDVIK GUNNAR SVEDBERG INGEMAR ZIEGLER Member since 2014. Member since 2012. Member since 2011. Member since 2009. Member since 2007. Year of birth: 1959. Year of birth: 1971. Year of birth: 1964. Year of birth: 1947. Year of birth: 1947. Position: Deputy city manPosition: Company manPosition: President of Other positions: Member Other positions: Stockager and CEO of Stockholm ager at the State OwnerLänsförsäkringar Jämtland. of the board of Kemakta holm Concert Hall and the Stadshus AB. ship Unit at the Ministry of Other positions: Chair of Konsult AB and the Göran Clara Foundation. Other positions: Board Enterprise and Innovation. RISE AB. Member of the Gustafsson Foundation for Previous positions: Presimember of the Royal ColOther positions: Board board of the Strategic Scientific and Medical dent of AB Storstockholms lege of Music, Board memmember of Apoteket AB, Research Council, LänsResearch. Member of the Lokaltrafik, Locum AB, ber of Sweden Green BuildSamhall AB and Statens försäkringar AB and the board of IVA and KVVS in Diösförvaltning, Stockholms ing Council. Bostadsomvandling AB. IVA Industry Council. MemGothenburg. Markoch LokaliseringsPrevious positions: Previous positions: Board ber of the board of IVA. Previous positions: Presibolag. Finance Secretary, Director of City Planning, member of AB Svensk BilPrevious positions: dent of Innventia AB, Vice-­ City of Stockholm. Stockholm. President of provning, Vasallen AB and Vice-Chancellor of Luleå Chancellor of University of Education: BA. AB Stockholmshem. AB Bostadsgaranti. Stock University of Technology Gothenburg and Mid Swemarket analyst Kaupthing and Pro Vice-Chancellor den University and Deputy Education: Architect MSA. Vice-Chancellor of the Royal Bank, Nordiska Fondkomof Mid Sweden University. mission and Hagströmer Institute of Technology. Education: PhD. in engi& Qviberg. neering Education: PhD. in engiEducation: MBA. neering Professor of Energy Technology. AUDITORS, KPMG AB, BJÖRN FLINK, LEAD AUDITOR Born 1959. MBA. Lead auditor at Akademiska Hus since 2014. Authorised public accountant. Other audit assignments, selection: Hemfosa Fastigheter, Axfast and Stenvalvet. Directorships: Member of the board of KPMG AB, FAR, the trade association for auditors, accounting consultants, and advisers. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS – WORKING CYCLE • Decision on • Year-end report business plan Q4 Q1 • Approval of the annual accounts • Approval of the principles for remuneration and other terms of employment for senior executives • Interim report Q3 for presentation to the AGM. • Adoption of the notice to attend the AGM • Interim report Q1 Q3 Q2 • Statutory meeting after AGM •A doption of the Board of Directors’ Rules of Procedure, instructions to the President and policy documents • Decision on EMTN prospectus • Interim report Q2 • External analysis and strategy meeting Work of the Board of Directors in 2015 In 2015 the Board held fourteen (14) meetings at which minutes The work of the Board of Directors follows the above cycle each were taken. In addition to regular meetings, extra meetings are year, with Board meetings scheduled at specific times. The Board’s scheduled when necessary, such as occasions when investment working year begins at the statutory meeting in the spring. The decisions require Board approval. The attendance by the members agenda for that meeting includes appointing members to the Board of the Board of Directors is presented in the tables below. At regucommittees and adoption of important policy documents. lar meetings the President presents a report on significant events involving the Company and the committee chairs present reports • April – Statutory meeting is held following the AGM, usually from the committee meetings that were held between Board in late April. meetings. Several of the Board meetings in 2015 were held on site • May – International bond programme (EMTN prospectus). at the centres of education and were combined, as far as possible, • June – Strategy meeting. with meetings with the management of these centres. The Board • June – Investment matters. of Directors visited the following centres of education: the Lund • July – Interim report January–June. Campus, Frescati in Stockholm, Medicinareberget in Gothenburg • September – Investment matters. and the Solna Campus. Extra meetings are held at the request of • October – Interim report January–September and investment a Board member or the President. In 2015 one extra meeting was matters. held in February regarding the decision to submit a bid for a public • December – Adoption of business plan and investment matters. contract and one in September when the Board Of Directors • February – Year-end report and investment matters. decided to recommend that the General Meeting approve an • March – Adoption of annual report and sustainability report, additional distribution of SEK 6,500,000,000. as well as agenda for the Annual General Meeting. • April – Interim report January–March and investment matters. Evaluation of the work of the Board and the President in 2015 According to the Code, the Board of Directors evaluates the work of the Board and the President using a structured, systematic process. Evaluation takes place once a year with the aim of developing the working forms and efficiency of the Board of Directors. The chairATTENDANCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS man leads the evaluation, which is carried out by all members of – FINANCIAL YEAR 2015 the Board. The owner, through the Government Offices, is informed Number of Number Number of Number of meetings of about the results of the evaluation. The work of the Government of Board meetings of meetings of the Remumeetthe Finance the Audit neration Offices related to the Board nomination process also includes an ings Committee Committee Committee ongoing evaluation of the boards of all state-owned companies, which Eva-Britt Gustafsson 14/14 2/2 3/3 1/1 includes their work, the composition of the Board and their skills. Britta Burreau 14/14 5/5 Olof Ehrlén 11/14 3/3 Board committees Thomas Jennlinger 12/14 The Board shall, without otherwise affecting the responsibility and Anders Larsson 12/14 duties of the Board Directors, appoint committees. The Board of Ingela Lindh 12/14 Directors has appointed three committees from within its number. Leif Ljungqvist 13/14 2/3 6/6 1/1 • The tasks of the Finance Committee are to: Pia Sandvik 10/14 5/5 3/3 – represent the Board of Directors in ongoing issues related to Gunnar Svedberg 12/14 1/1 financing, Ingemar Ziegler 14/14 5/6 – support and follow up financing activities, AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 51 – annually evaluate and propose changes to the Finance Policy, Executive Management is a forum for information, discussion and – evaluate, prepare and report on matters to be decided by the decisions regarding joint strategic Company matters. Executive Board. Management is also the steering committee for the prioritised pro• The Audit Committee will supervise the Company’s financial cesses. The Company’s common support functions are presented reporting and: in the organisational chart on page 47. – w ith regard to the financial statements, monitor the efficiency of the Company’s internal control systems and risk management. Regions – remain informed about the audit of the annual accounts and Each region has a regional management team. Investment matters the consolidated accounts. are initiated and prepared by the regional management and are – examine and monitor the impartiality and independence of the then reviewed by the Executive Management. In the case of major auditor and in doing so be particularly attentive if the auditor investments, a matter, after receiving the support of the Executive provides the Company with services other than auditing services. Management, passes to the Board of Directors for a decision. – assist in the preparation of proposals for the election of auditors at the Annual General Meeting. Ethical Council and whistle-blowers • The tasks of the Remuneration Committee are to: Akademiska Hus has an Ethical Council that provides support to – prepare decisions regarding terms and conditions for salaries and employees. The Council addresses issues raised by employees related employment for the President and the Executive Management. to the ethical guidelines in the Company. Employees can also report – monitor and evaluate the application of the guidelines for suspected deviations from the guidelines or other irregularities to remuneration to senior executives, which will be decided at the the Council. The Ethical Council consist of the General Counsel, Annual General Meeting, along with the applicable remuneraHuman Resources Director, Corporate Communications Director, a tion structure and remuneration levels within the Company. Property Manager, a Project Manager, and an Administrative Manager. The Company has established a system for whistle-blowing The Group’s President, Vice President, CFO, and Treasurer can that is completely independent of the Company. Employees within attend the meetings in the capacity of presenters. Akademiska Hus as well as external partners can anonymously report suspected irregularities through the whistle-­blower function. GOVERNANCE OF AK ADEMISK A HUS The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for ensuring that REMUNER ATION the company is managed in an exemplary manner. As part of this Remuneration and other terms and conditions of employment for work, the Board formulates relevant policies and guidelines based on persons in an executive position are in accordance with the Governthe State ownership policy and ownership directives. Akademiska ment’s ‘Guidelines for terms and conditions of employment for Hus’ strategy is the basis of the annual process of formulating a senior executives’. business plan. The Business Plan, together with policy documents, comprises the overall basis for control of the Company, built on the Principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors and senior executives Company’s values: attentiveness, commitment and value creation. • A fee is paid to the members of the Board of Directors according to a decision reached at the Annual General Meeting. The memPresident, management and common support functions bers of the Board of Directors who are employed within AkadeThe Business Plan describes the way Akademiska Hus deals with miska Hus and the Government Offices do not receive any fee for customers, manages assets and addresses the future. It also describes this work. how Akademiska Hus is working to achieve the owner’s objectives • Remuneration for committee work was set at the 2015 Annual through the strategic control parameters that are monitored interGeneral Meeting. nally, linked to a long-term economic plan. Business planning begins • Payment to the President and other senior executives comprises with strategy days held by the Board and management in the spring a basic salary and a pension. Payment to the President is decided and ends when the Board adopts the plan at its December meeting. by the Board of Directors following a recommendation from the The strategy process includes an external analysis of customers, Remuneration Committee. Payments to other senior executives locations, market segments, financing and so on. The business plan are decided by the President following consultation with the is formulated for the Company as a whole and broken down into Remuneration Committee. Remuneration comprises a basic salclear operational plans in the regions and support functions to the ary and a defined contribution pension based on the ITP premiPresident, with operational objectives and activities to meet them. ums according to a collective agreement. No variable or bonusThe business plan is continuously monitored with quarterly based remuneration is paid. Salary surveys are conducted to feedback sessions between management and the respective regions make a comparison with other property companies. No changes and functions during which the operational objectives and operawill be made regarding the principles for remuneration to the tional control parameters are addressed. The Executive ManageBoard of Directors and senior executives for 2016. ment comprises the President, Vice President, the six Regional Directors, the CFO, the Corporate Communications Director, For a detailed description of remuneration, pensions, periods of the Purchasing Director, the General Counsel and the Human notice, severance pay and fees to auditors, see the administration Resources Director, all of whom report directly to the President. report on page 56 and Notes 9 and 10. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Executive Management KERSTIN LINDBERG GÖRANSSON MICHAEL WALMERUD PETER BOHMAN DAVID CARLSSON President Vice President Regional Director, Uppsala Regional Director, North Employed 2011 Employed 2012 Employed 2013 Employed 2003 Year of birth: 1956 Year of birth: 1967 Year of birth: 1972 Year of birth: 1976 Other assignments: Board Other assignments: Board member Other assignments: Board memPrevious positions: Regional member of Jernhusen AB, Board of BIM Alliance and Board member ber of Realus AB and IFU Arena AB. Director, Uppsala, Head of Property member of Byggherrarna, Board of Smart Built Environment. Previous positions: Terminal Management and Property Manager, member of K2 National Knowledge Previous positions: President, Manager and on-call Airport Akademiska Hus Uppsala; Business Centre for Public Transport. Projektgaranti AB; Head of transDirector, Stockholm-Arlanda AirDeveloper, SP Production AB. Previous positions: Airport actions, Catella Swedebroker AB; port. Various management posiEducation: MSc and MBA. Director, Stockholm-Arlanda Property Manager, Postfastigheter tions within Swedavia. Business Airport; Accounting and Finance AB; Project Manager, NCC Fastig­ developer/property developer. Director and Vice President of heter AB. Board member of BIM Education: BSc. in Business the Scandic Group. Alliance and Board member of Administration with focus on real Education: MBA. Smart Built Environment. estate. Education: MSc Civil Engineering. BIRGITTA VAN DALEN ULF DÄVERSJÖ LARS HAGMAN Regional Director, Western Region Purchasing Director Regional Director, Eastern Region Employed 2005 Employed 2014 Employed 2012 Year of birth: 1958 Year of birth: 1979 Year of birth: 1953 Previous positions: Planning Previous positions: Management Other assignments: Board adviser, Akademiska Hus Head consultant, Capgemini Consulting, member at Linköpings Expo AB. Office; Head of property supply Global Purchaser, Arla Foods, BusiPrevious positions: Business and operating manager, Karlstad ness Analyst, Arla Foods. developer, JM AB; President of University; Planning Manager, Education: MSc Business Adminisa subsidiary of Vattenfall AB. Property Department, Karlstad tration. Regional Manager, Partena Municipal Authority. Security AB. Education: BA Soc. Admin. Education: MBA. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 53 KRISTINA KORSGREN CECILIA NIELSEN JONAS RAGNARSSON Human Resources Director CIO CFO Employed 2010 Employed 2012 Employed 2014 Year of birth: 1969 Year of birth: 1969 Year of birth: 1962 Other assignments: Board Previous positions: Head of Previous positions: CFO at member Almega FastighetsarbetsCorporate Communications, SP Tradedoubler, CFO at EQT Partners givarna. Sveriges Tekniska Forsknings­ AB, acting CFO at Swedish Space Previous positions: HR positions institut AB. Corporation (SSC). Accounting and within the Volvo Car Corporation Education: BA. Finance Manager, Radisson SAS and Volvo Truck Corporation. Hotels & Resorts, Administrative Manager and Vice President, Grand Education: Human resources Hotel Holdings AB. specialist. Education: MBA. TOMAS RINGDAHL STEN WETTERBLAD CAROLIN ÅBERG SJÖQVIST CHANGES IN Regional Director, South Regional Director, Stockholm Region General Counsel (Secretary to GROUP MANAGEMENT Employed 2013 Employed 2008 the Executive Management and Jonas Ragnarsson left his position Year of birth: 1960 Year of birth: 1957 the Board of Directors) on 12 February 2016. Anders Ruth Employed 2004 took up the position of acting CFO Previous positions: Division Other assignments: Board on 13 February 2016. Director for Residential Construcmember, Stockholm Construction Year of birth: 1968 tion, Skanska Sverige AB; Vice Association; Chair, Sthlm6000+ Previous positions: Lawyer, Kristina Korsgren left the position President, Skanska Sverige AB; (Student Housing Fair 2017). Advokatfirman Glimstedt; Associof Human Resources Director on Chair of Myresjöhus, Chair of ate Judge of Appeal, Court of 29 February 2016. Fredrik Färm took Previous positions: Property up the position of acting Human BoKlok AB, Head of Development, Director, City of Stockholm; Market Appeal for Western Sweden. Nordic Region, Skanska AB; Resources Director on 1 March 2016. Hall Director, City of Stockholm; Education: LLM. President, LB Hus. Vice President, Stockholm ParkerEducation: MSc Eng. ing; Property Manager, Kullenberg Fastigheter i Stockholm AB; Site Manager/Project Manager, Platzer Bygg AB. Education: MSc Eng. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal control of financial reporting The responsibility of the Board of Directors for internal control is Akademiska Hus’ business is conducted in six regions, but all governed by the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Code of accounting is handled by a common department for accounting Corporate Governance. This report has been prepared in accordand reporting. In addition to internal accounting guidelines, the ance with the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Code of CorCompany has designed a structure for reporting and follow-up that porate Governance and is thus limited to internal control of finanincludes an analysis and review of financial statements by managcial reporting. ers of each region at each closing date. Guidelines for financial The purpose of internal control of financial reporting is to proreporting are updated in the event of a change in legal requirements, vide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of external stock exchange listing requirements or accounting standards. financial reporting in the form of interim reports and annual reports, and to ensure that external financial reporting complies RISK ASSESSMENT with the relevant laws, regulations, accounting standards and the Risk assessment regarding financial reporting aims to identify and specific guidelines for external reporting that apply to state-owned evaluate the business areas and processes where there is the greatcompanies. est risk of errors that could have a material impact on financial The description of internal control of financial reporting at reporting. Akademiska Hus identifies and evaluates ongoing risk Akademiska Hus is based on the five components of internal manareas in order to ensure that reliable controls aimed at avoiding agement and control as defined by the Committee of Sponsoring errors in financial reporting are in place in the relevant processes. Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in its frameGenerally speaking, there is an increased risk of material misstatework for internal management and control. ments in financial reporting when items in the balance sheet and income statement contain a large element of judgment, where the CONTROL ENVIRONMENT values of transactions are high or where the process involves great The basis for internal control comprises the control environment complexity. Risk analysis and risks relating to financial reporting with the organisation, decision procedures and responsibility. are regularly discussed with the external auditors. Akademiska Hus has a number of policy documents such as Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors, instructions to the PresiCONTROL ACTIVITIES dent, allocation of responsibility and authority, attestation and Control activities that are designed to prevent, detect and correct authorisation guidelines and financing policy that state how errors and deviations are incorporated in the financial reporting responsibility shall be distributed and authorities delegated. The process used by Akademiska Hus. These controls have been control environment also encompasses the culture and the values designed to deal with the most significant risks that can arise in based on which the Board of Directors and management communifinancial reporting, and include both general and detailed checks. cate and act and thereby influence employee awareness of internal Control activities take place at several different levels in the comcontrol issues. pany and include approval of transactions, account reconciliations The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for internal and analytical follow-up. control of financial reporting. The Board of Directors has estabAll IT systems that are used for financial reporting include lished an Audit Committee which has tasks that include preparing built-in automatic controls to ensure reliable financial reporting. the Board’s work with quality assurance of the Company’s reportControl measures also take place in the general IT environment, in ing. The responsibility of the Board of Directors and the internal the form of well-developed regulations that govern system permisallocation of work within the Board and its committees are clarisions, system updates and backup procedures. fied in the Rules of Procedure. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 55 INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION FOLLOW-UP AND EVALUATION Akademiska Hus have formalised and well-established procedures Internal management and control of financial reporting are monifor both internal and external information and communication. tored and evaluated continuously by the Board of Directors, PresiExecutive Management receives information about results and dent, Executive Management and the accounting and finance financial position through financial briefings conducted with all department to ensure that procedures are appropriate and efficient. regions and support functions at each closing date. The Board Opportunities for improvement are identified through controls receives financial information from Executive Management at and analyses. Any shortcomings in the system are reported to the each balance sheet date. relevant person to ensure that improvements can be made. All financial reports are published on the Company’s website in Each quarter the Board receives financial information and an direct connection with the Board meeting for the relevant financial analysis, as well as a report from the most recent meetings of the period. The Annual Report is also produced as a printed publication. different committees. The Audit Committee has a specific responInternal information channels include regular meetings of Execsibility to follow up audit matters and more extensive matters of utive Management and regional information meetings for all staff. principle with regard to financial reporting, including property The Company’s governing documents are available to all valuation. employees on the intranet. The internal audit unit is instructed by the Board of Directors Guidelines and other instructions relating to final account to independently review and evaluate the company’s internal manevents are distributed to all concerned employees through a shared agement and control procedures, including internal control over files area. financial reporting. The Audit Committee receives regular updates from both the Akademiska Hus continuously reviews and updates internal Company’s internal auditor and external auditors and is thereby management and control procedures within the company, for kept up to date on current findings in internal management and example, to take into account and implement measures regarding control. recommendations from both the internal audit and the company’s external auditors. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 56 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Other information REMUNER ATION OF SENIOR EXECUTIVES the event of notice being given by the Company, severance pay is Principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors payable for a further 18 months. The severance pay shall be considand senior executives ered to include payment for holidays and pension benefits. The sevAkademiska Hus follows the owner’s guidelines governing terms erance pay is reduced by any amount Kerstin Lindberg Göransson and conditions of employment for senior executives. Payment to may receive from other employment or through other activities. the President and other senior executives comprises a basic salary Other senior executives within the Group have an agreed period and a pension. Pension expenses refer to the cost charged to the of notice of between six and twelve months depending on when the profit for the year. Payment to the President is decided by the Board agreements were signed. Agreements entered into after 2009 follow of Directors following a recommendation from the Remuneration government guidelines with a period of notice of six months and in Committee. Remuneration to other senior executives is decided by the event of notice being given by the Company, severance pay is the President of the Parent Company following consultation with payable for a maximum of eighteen months. Agreements entered the Remuneration Committee. Remuneration comprises a basic into before 2009 stipulate a period of notice of twelve months and salary and a defined contribution pension based on the ITP premiseverance pay for twelve months. All agreements, however, fall ums according to a collective agreement. No changes are proposed within the framework of twenty-four months, including the period regarding the principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors of notice. Salary payable or remuneration for work performed during and senior executives for 2016. the time severance pay is received shall be set off on a krona-byA fee is paid to the members of the Board of Directors according krona basis. to a decision reached at the Annual General Meeting. Board memOther information about salaries and remuneration can be seen bers who are employed in the Akademiska Hus Group, or who work in Note 9 on pages 72 and 73. at the Government Offices, do not receive any fee for this work. Remuneration for committee work was set at the 2015 Annual PERMITS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS General Meeting. A number of facilities within the Group require a permit or need to be reported to a supervisory authority in order to be used. These Pensions facilities have been reported and applications for permits (as Akademiska Hus has taken out an individual occupational pension required) were submitted to the supervisory authorities concerned solution for the President, Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, where the and have been granted. The facilities in question are as follows: agreed retirement age is 65 years. Akademiska Hus allocates 30 per Two boilers for combustion technology research, two boilers cent of Kerstin Lindberg Göransson’s fixed monthly salary, which for heating and power generation and a number of geoenergy faciliis paid into an occupational pension insurance plan according to a ties and sewage facilities. special agreement drawn up with a pension company. The pension package includes a sickness and early retirement SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE YEAR-END pension, a retirement pension and optional survivor’s pension and/ There were no events of a material nature after the end of the or repayment cover. reporting period. Other senior executives have similar defined contribution agreements with a maximum allocation of 30 per cent of their salary, FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS or what is termed a high-income earner solution with an opt-out Akademiska Hus has a project portfolio with approved investments premium that is costneutral compared with traditional, collectively of SEK 17.5 billion. The property portfolio is expected to increase agreed ITP. by about SEK 3.5 billion annually over the next few years. As new properties are completed, efficiency efforts will continue, econoPeriods of notice and severance pay mies of scale will be leveraged and net operating income will also An agreement has been reached with the President, Kerstin Lindberg increase. The robust cash flow will limit the need for new financing Göransson, regarding a mutual period of notice of six months. In to about SEK 2.5 billion per year. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 57 PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF UNAPPROPRIATED EARNINGS STATEMENT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PURSUANT TO According to the owner’s financial targets for Akademiska Hus, SECTION 18, SUB-SECTION 4 OF THE COMPANIES ACT which were adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the Company’s liquid2014, the dividend should amount to between 40 and 60 per cent ity can be maintained securely. On observance of the relationship of the net profit after tax after reversal of changes in fair value and between the Company’s assets, liabilities and equity, and with due related deferred tax. When deciding on a dividend, consideration consideration given to profit forecasts and investment requirements should be given to the Group’s capital structure and capital requireas of this date, we believe that the proposed dividend is justifiable ments (equity ratio 30 to 40 per cent). The other economic objectives in the light of the demands that the nature, extent and risk of operare that the return on operating capital should be at least 6.5 per ations make on the level of equity. The proposed dividend is thus cent and the Group’s equity ratio should be 30 to 40 per cent. The acceptable in the light of the Company’s consolidation requireaverage yield on operating capital over five years was 7.4 per cent ments, liquidity and position in general. whilst the target was 6.5 per cent. Return on operating capital in The dividend does not affect the Company’s capacity to discharge 2015 was 6.9 per cent. At the end of 2015, the equity ratio was 40.7 its short-term and long-term obligations or to implement necessary per cent for the Group and 20.0 per cent for the Parent Company. investments. It is also the opinion of the Board of Directors that the After the proposed dividend, the equity ratio will be 39.6 per cent Company’s financial position, in the light of the proposed dividend, for the Group and 17.8 per cent for the Parent Company. is secure for the creditors. Nor can the Board of Directors identify any other circumstances that indicate that the dividend ought not Available for allocation at the Annual General Meeting: to be paid in accordance with the proposal presented by the Board Retained earnings SEK 939,582,948 of Directors. The proposed value transfer can thus be justified in Profit for the year SEK 1,350,424,022 the light of what is stated in Section 17, sub-section 3, paragraphs Total SEK 2,290,006,970 2–3 of the Companies Act. The Board of Directors and the President propose that the profit be allocated in such a way that SEK 1,290,000,000 is paid to the shareholder and SEK 1,000,006,970 is carried forward. For details of the financial results and the financial position in general, reference can be made to the following financial statements. The Annual General Meeting will be held on 28 April 2016 in Stockholm. PROFIT USED AS A BASIS FOR CALCULATION OF DIVIDEND, SEK M Outcome consolidated Changes in value Profit used for calculation results in the Group of dividend Income from property management 5,701 — 5,701 Property management expenses –1,998 — –1,998 Net operating income 3,703 — 3,703 Central administration costs –35 — –35 Changes in value, properties 2,655 –2,655 0 Profit before net financial income/expense 6,323 –2,655 3,668 Total, financial items –182 –165 –347 Profit/loss before appropriations and taxes 6,141 –2,820 3,321 Tax/current tax –1,361 620 –741 Profit after tax 4,780 –2,200 2,580 Dividend, 50% of the profit available for the pay-ment of a dividend 1,290 The dividend as decided at the Annual General Meeting held on 28 April 2015 was SEK 1,445 million. Moreover, an additional distribution of SEK 6,500 million was approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting on 19 October 2015. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 58 Income Statements Income Statements Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 2015 2014 2015 2014 INCOME FROM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT 3 Rental revenue 5 5,505,189 5,494,934 5,505,189 5,494,934 Other property management income 6 195,591 185,743 299,467 1,732,355 Total property management income 5,700,780 5,680,677 5,804,656 7,227,289 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT EXPENSES Operating costs 8 –770,685 –807,816 –768,620 –808,788 Maintenance costs –672,609 –621,415 –672,609 –624,710 Property administration 8 –353,446 –325,430 –334,594 –312,050 Other property management expenses 7 –200,936 –209,395 –203,933 –215,305 Total property management expenses 4 –1,997,676 –1,964,056 –1,979,756 –1,960,853 NET OPERATING INCOME 3,703,104 3,716,621 3,824,900 5,266,436 Central administration costs 4 –35,613 –45,928 –35,612 –45,928 Depreciation and impairment as well as reversed impairment in property management 8 — — –1,597,712 –1,176,518 Changes in property values, positive 3,683,216 4,147,532 — — Changes in property values, negative –1,027,851 –618,564 — — Total changes in property values 15 2,655,365 3,528,968 — — PROFIT BEFORE FINANCIAL ITEMS 9, 10, 28 6,322,856 7,199,661 2,191,576 4,043,990 Financial income 360,299 56,767 360,299 56,767 Financial expense –541,733 –995,829 –649,965 –1,129,786 Total, financial items 11, 27, 28 –181,434 –939,062 –289,666 –1,073,019 PROFIT AFTER FINANCIAL ITEMS 6,141,422 6,260,599 1,901,910 2,970,971 Appropriations 12 — — –157,558 –243,332 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 6,141,422 6,260,599 1,744,352 2,727,639 Tax 13 –1,361,314 –1,045,938 –393,928 –270,213 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 14 4,780,108 5,214,661 1,350,424 2,457,426 Of which attributable to the shareholder in the Parent Company 4,780,108 5,214,661 PROFIT PER SHARE Profit per share, SEK 2,239 2,442 Profit per share after dilution, SEK 2,239 2,442 Number of shares, average and at the year-end 2,135,000 2,135,000 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income 59 Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 2015 2014 2015 2014 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 4,780,108 5,214,661 1,350,424 2,457,426 ITEMS THAT HAVE BEEN RECLASSIFIED OR CAN BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 26 –21,217 69,557 –21,217 69,557 Tax attributable to cash flow hedges 13 3,542 –7,276 3,542 –7,276 Cash flow hedges, net after tax, dissolved against profit or loss 26 5,118 –36,486 5,118 –36,486 ITEMS THAT CANNOT BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Revaluation of defined benefit pensions 28 22,025 –62,637 — — Tax attributable to defined benefit pensions 13 –4,845 13,780 — — Total, other comprehensive income 4,623 –23,062 –12,557 25,795 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 4,784,731 5,191,599 1,337,867 2,483,221 Of which attributable to the shareholder in the Parent Company 4,784,731 5,191,599 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 60 Balance Sheets Balance Sheets Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Tangible non-current assets Properties 15, 16 66,574,882 61,436,648 39,899,507 32,605,258 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 17 14,189 13,716 14,189 13,716 Total tangible, non-current assets 66,589,071 61,450,364 39,913,696 32,618,974 Financial assets Shares in Group companies 18 — — 650 700 Derivatives 19, 32 1,657,964 1,477,697 1,657,964 1,477,697 Other non-current receivables 20 343,273 471,158 343,273 471,158 Total financial assets 24 2,001,237 1,948,855 2,001,887 1,949,555 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 68,590,308 63,399,219 41,915,583 34,568,529 CURRENT ASSETS Current receivables Rent receivables and accounts receivable 21 271,407 230,261 271,407 230,261 Current prepaid tax 13 32,655 74,114 32,655 74,177 Other receivables 22 896,413 560,622 896,412 560,621 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 23 86,688 90,301 86,688 90,301 Derivatives 19, 32 250,618 806,787 250,618 806,787 Total current receivables 24 1,537,781 1,762,085 1,537,780 1,762,147 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS/CASH AND BANK BALANCES Short-term investments 32 2,503,989 2,786,700 2,503,989 2,786,700 Cash and bank balances 1,800,596 1,771,393 1,800,447 1,771,182 Total cash and cash equivalents/cash and bank balances 25 4,304,585 4,558,093 4,304,436 4,557,882 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 5,842,366 6,320,178 5,842,216 6,320,029 TOTAL ASSETS 74,432,674 69,719,397 47,757,799 40,888,558 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance Sheets 61 Balance Sheets Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY (ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE PARENT COMPANY’S SHAREHOLDER) RESTRICTED EQUITY Share capital 2,135,000 2,135,000 2,135,000 2,135,000 Other contributed equity 2,134,950 2,134,950 — — Statutory reserve — — 2,134,950 2,134,950 NON-RESTRICTED EQUITY Hedge reserve 26 –31,415 –18,858 — — Actuarial profit and loss 40,029 22,849 — — Fair value reserve 26 — — –31,415 –18,858 Retained earnings, including profit for the year 25,992,695 29,157,587 — — Retained earnings (in the Parent Company) — — 970,998 1,458,572 Profit for the year (in the Parent Company) — — 1,350,424 2,457,426 TOTAL EQUITY 30,271,259 33,431,528 6,559,957 8,167,090 Untaxed reserves 12 — — 3,850,452 3,692,894 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Loans 27 18,621,944 13,032,159 18,621,944 13,032,159 Derivatives 19, 32 601,526 735,556 601,526 735,556 Deferred tax liability 13 8,761,330 7,752,579 2,074,187 627,410 Other liabilities 29 50,747 12,353 50,747 12,353 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 28 401,434 407,140 271,800 270,208 Total non-current liabilities 28,436,981 21,939,787 21,620,204 14,677,686 Current liabilities Accounts payable 301,808 342,874 301,808 342,874 Liabilities to Group companies — — 2,152 2,205 Other liabilities 29 3,570,029 1,999,301 3,570,629 1,999,901 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 30 1,858,660 1,804,626 1,858,660 1,804,626 Loans 27 9,776,909 10,092,359 9,776,909 10,092,360 Derivatives 19, 32 217,028 108,922 217,028 108,922 Total current liabilities 15,724,434 14,348,082 15,727,186 14,350,888 TOTAL LIABILITIES 31 44,161,415 36,287,869 37,347,390 29,028,574 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 74,432,674 69,719,397 47,757,799 40,888,558 MEMORANDUM ITEMS Pledged assets 35 588,748 349,788 588,748 349,788 Contingent liabilities 36 4,116 3,934 4,116 3,934 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 62 Changes in equity, Group Changes in equity, Group Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder Other Actuarial Profit for the contributed Hedge profit and year brought Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note Share capital capital reserve loss forward Total equity OPENING BALANCE AS OF JANUARY 1, 2014 2,135,000 2,134,950 –44,653 71,706 25,316,926 29,613,929 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — — 5,214,661 5,214,661 Other comprehensive income Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 26 — — 25,795 — — 25,795 Revaluation of defined benefit pensions — — — –48,857 — –48,857 Total, other comprehensive income — — 25,795 –48,857 5,214,661 5,191,599 Bonus issues, etc. Reduction of share capital1 –1,000,000 — — — 1,000,000 0 Bonus issue1 1,000,000 — — — –1,000,000 0 Total bonus issues 0 — — — 0 0 Transactions with shareholders Dividend — — — — –1,374,000 –1,374,000 Total transactions with shareholders — — — — –1,374,000 –1,374,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2014 2,135,000 2,134,950 –18,858 22,849 29,157,587 33,431,528 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — — 4,780,108 4,780,108 Other comprehensive income Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 26 — — –12,557 — — –12,557 Revaluation of defined benefit pensions — — — 17,180 — 17,180 Total, other comprehensive income — — –12,557 17,180 4,780,108 4,784,731 Bonus issues, etc. Reductions in share capital 2 –5,000,000 — — — 5,000,000 0 Bonus issues2 5,000,000 — — — –5,000,000 0 Total bonus issues 0 — — — 0 0 Transactions with shareholders Dividends3 — — — — –7,945,000 –7,945,000 Total transactions with shareholders — — — — –7,945,000 –7,945,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2015 2,135,000 2,134,950 –31,415 40,029 25,992,695 30,271,259 1) O  n 28 April 2014 the Annual General Meeting reached a decision to reduce the Parent Company’s share capital by a total of SEK 1,000,000,000 for allocation to non-restricted equity. Furthermore, the Annual General Meeting approved a bonus issue of SEK 1,000,000,000 by raising the value of properties. 2) O  n 28 April 2015 the Annual General Meeting reached a decision to reduce the Parent Company’s share capital by a total of SEK 5,000,000,000 for allocation to non-restricted equity. Furthermore, the Annual General Meeting approved bonus issues of a total of SEK 5,000,000,000 by raising the value of properties. 3) D ividend of SEK 1,445,000,000 authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2015 and additional distribution of SEK 6,500,000,000 authorised by the Extraordinary General Meeting 19 October 2015. Other contributed capital comprises a share premium reserve of KSEK 2,134,950 (applies to both the opening and closing balances for all the above reporting periods). AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Changes in equity, Parent Company 63 Changes in equity, Parent Company Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Profit for the Statutory Fair value year brought Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note Share capital reserve reserve forward Total equity OPENING BALANCE AS OF JANUARY 1, 2014 2,135,000 2,134,950 –44,653 1,832,572 6,057,869 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 2,457,426 2,457,426 Other comprehensive income Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 26 — — 25,795 — 25,795 Total, other comprehensive income — — 25,795 2,457,426 2,483,221 Bonus issues, etc. Reduction of share capital1 –1,000,000 — — 1,000,000 0 Bonus issue1 1,000,000 — — — 1,000,000 Total bonus issues 0 — — 1,000,000 1,000,000 Transactions with shareholders Dividend — — — –1,374,000 –1,374,000 Total transactions with shareholders — — — –1,374,000 –1,374,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2014 2,135,000 2,134,950 –18,858 3,915,998 8,167,090 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 1,350,424 1,350,424 Other comprehensive income Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 26 — — –12,557 — –12,557 Total, other comprehensive income — — –12,557 1,350,424 1,337,867 Bonus issues, etc. Reductions in share capital 2 –5,000,000 — — 5,000,000 0 Bonus issues2 5,000,000 — — — 5,000,000 Total bonus issues 0 — — 5,000,000 5,000,000 Transactions with shareholders Dividends3 — — — –7,945,000 –7,945,000 Total transactions with shareholders — — — –7,945,000 –7,945,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2015 2,135,000 2,134,950 –31,415 2,321,422 6,559,957 1) O  n 28 April 2014 the Annual General Meeting reached a decision to reduce the Parent Company’s share capital by a total of SEK 1,000,000,000 for allocation to non-restricted equity. Furthermore, the Annual General Meeting approved a bonus issue of SEK 1,000,000,000 by raising the value of properties. 2) O  n 28 April 2015 the Annual General Meeting reached a decision to reduce the Parent Company’s share capital by a total of SEK 5,000,000,000 for allocation to non-restricted equity. Furthermore, the Annual General Meeting approved bonus issues of a total of SEK 5,000,000,000 by raising the value of properties. 3) D ividend of SEK 1,445,000,000 authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2015 and additional distribution of SEK 6,500,000,000 authorised by the Extraordinary General Meeting 19 October 2015. Share capital is divided into 2,135,000 shares at a par value of SEK 1,000 with one (1) vote per share (applies to both the opening and closing number of shares for all the above reporting periods). AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 64 Statements of Cash Flows Statements of Cash Flows Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 2015 2014 2015 2014 CURRENT OPERATIONS Profit after financial items 37 6,141,422 6,260,599 1,901,910 2,970,971 Adjustment for items not included in the cash flow 38 –2,593,655 –3,222,416 1,645,793 60,301 Tax paid –295,669 –632,495 –295,607 –632,493 CASH FLOW FROM CURRENT OPERATIONS BEFORE CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL 3,252,098 2,405,688 3,252,096 2,398,779 CASH FLOW FROM CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL Increase (–)/decrease (+) in current receivables –373,324 186,898 –373,324 191,495 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in current liabilities –394,467 568,357 –394,403 570,807 CASH FLOW FROM CURRENT OPERATIONS 2,484,307 3,160,943 2,484,369 3,161,081 INVESTING ACTIVITIES 39 Investment in shares in Group companies — — — –300 Investment in properties –2,498,769 –3,003,659 –2,498,769 –3,003,659 Sale of properties 124,134 2,736,720 124,134 2,736,720 Sales of new construction in progress — 60,354 — 60,354 Investment in other non-current assets –6,867 –2,784 –6,867 –2,784 Sale of other non-current assets 209 — 209 — Increase in non-current receivables — –229,978 — –229,978 Decrease in non-current receivables 177,630 — 177,630 — CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES –2,203,663 –439,347 –2,203,663 –439,647 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Raising of interest-bearing loans, excluding refinancing 5,410,848 521,497 5,410,848 521,497 Dividend paid –5,945,000 –1,374,000 –5,945,000 –1,374,000 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES –534,152 –852,503 –534,152 –852,503 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR –253,508 1,869,093 –253,446 1,868,931 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 4,558,093 2,689,000 4,557,882 2,688,951 Closing cash and cash equivalents 25 4,304,585 4,558,093 4,304,436 4,557,882 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 65 Notes 1 2 3 Amounts are in SEK 1,000 unless stated otherwise. 4 5 6 7 Note 1 General accounting principles 65 1 General accounting principles 8 Note 2 Estimates and assessments 69 The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the 9 Note 3 Segment reporting 70 EU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as of Note 4 Categorised operating costs 71 10 31 December 2015. The Group also applies Swedish Financial Reporting Note 5 Leases 71 Board recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Rules for Consolidated 11 Note 6 Other property management income 71 Financial Statements, which specifies the supplements to IFRS disclo12 sures required pursuant to the rules in the Annual Accounts Act. Note 7 Other property management expenses 72 13 In the Annual Report, items have been valued at cost except with Note 8 Depreciation, impairments and reversed impair72 regard to revaluation of properties, financial assets that can be sold and 14 ments in property management financial assets and liabilities (including derivatives) valued at fair 15 Note 9 Employees and personnel costs 72 value in the Statement of Financial Position. The following is a description of the more material accounting principles that have been applied. 16 Note 10 Fees and disbursements to auditors 74 Note 11 Financial income and expense 75 17 NEW AND AMENDED IFRS STANDARDS AND Note 12 Appropriations and untaxed reserves 75 INTERPRETATIONS 2015 18 (Parent Company) No new or amended IFRSs that have a material impact on Akademiska 19 Note 13 Tax 76 Hus’ reporting have entered into force in 2015. 20 Note 14 Dividend 77 NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 21 Note 15 Properties (Group) 77 THAT HAVE NOT YET COME INTO EFFECT 22 Note 16 Properties (Parent Company) 79 The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has issued the Note 17 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 79 following new and amended standards, which had not yet come into 23 effect at the time of publication of this Annual Report: 24 Note 18 Shares in Group companies 80 Will be applied for the financial year Note 19 Derivatives (Group) 80 Standard commencing: 25 Note 20 Other non-current receivables 82 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 1, 2018 or later 26 Note 21 Rent receivables and accounts receivable 82 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts 27 with Customers1 January 1, 2017 or later Note 22 Other receivables 82 28 IFRS 16 Leases1 January 1, 2019 or later Note 23 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 82 29 1) Not yet approved for application in the EU. Note 24 Due date structure, receivables 82 30 Note 25 Cash and cash equivalents/Cash and bank balances 83 The new standards are not expected to have any significant effect on 31 Note 26 Hedge reserve/Fair value reserve 83 the financial position, performance or disclosures of the Group or the Note 27 Loans 83 Parent Company. 32 Note 28 Provisions for pensions 85 33 CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS Note 29 Other liabilities 86 The consolidated accounts cover the Parent Company and companies 34 Note 30 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 87 over which the Parent Company has a controlling influence. A controlling 35 Note 31 Due date structure, liabilities 87 influence means a right to formulate strategies for financial activities 36 with the aim of securing financial advantages. The existence and effect Note 32 Financial instruments valued at fair value 87 of potential voting rights that can currently be exercised or converted 37 Note 33 Financial risk management (Group) 87 are taken into account when assessing whether the Group can exercise 38 Note 34 Asset management (Group) 90 a controlling influence over another company. All subsidiaries are wholly owned. The subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts with 39 Note 35 Pledged assets 90 effect from the point at which the controlling influence is achieved and 40 Note 36 Contingent liabilities 90 they are not included at the point at which the controlling influence 41 Note 37 Interest received and paid 90 ceases. Note 38 Adjustments for items not included in the cash flow 91 The consolidated year-end accounts have been prepared according 42 to the acquisition method, which means that the Parent Company’s Note 39 Purchase sum in conjunction with investments, 91 carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries is eliminated against equity, acquisitions and disposals including the capital share of untaxed reserves in the subsidiaries. Note 40 Change in interest-bearing net loan liabilities 91 Note 41 Transactions with related parties 91 SEGMENT REPORTING Operating segments are reported in a way that concurs with the internal Note 42 Events after the year-end 91 report presented to the highest-ranking executive decision-maker. The highest-ranking executive decision-maker is the function that is responsible for allocating resources and assessing the results of operating segments. At Akademiska Hus, this function has been identified as the President of the Parent Company. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 66 Notes 1 The Group is organised and controlled based on a geographical division • Net interest cost or net interest expense into markets/administration areas. The geographical areas (segments) • Revaluations 2 are exposed to similar risks and opportunities, which differ compared to 3 other geographical areas (segments). Geographical areas concur with each The first two categories are reported in the Statement of Comprehenregion and thus constitute the segments for which reports are presented. sive Income as a personnel cost (service cost) or net interest income and 4 Segments are consolidated according to the same accounting prinexpense (net interest expense). Profits and losses in respect of reductions 5 ciples as for the Group as a whole. and adjustments are reported as service costs from previous periods. Revaluations are reported under Other Comprehensive Income. 6 REVENUE RECOGNITION The defined benefit pension obligations reported in the Statement 7 In its capacity as property owner, the Group has signed operational of Financial Position are equivalent to the current surplus or deficit 8 lease agreements with customers and consequently the Group’s related to the Group’s defined benefit obligations. A surplus is only reported income mainly comprises rental revenue. Where applicable, reported to the extent that it is equivalent to the current value of future 9 reported rental revenue has been reduced by the sum of the discounts repayments from each pension plan or future reductions in premium 10 granted to tenants. In those cases where lease agreements result in payments into the plan. reduced rent during a certain period, which is equivalent to a higher rent 11 during another (later) period, this higher or lower rent is allocated to a TAX 12 specific period over the term of the lease. Rental revenue, lease revenue The tax expense (– income) for the period comprises current and 13 and parking revenue are reported in advance and the allocation of rents deferred tax. Taxes are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive to specific periods therefore takes place so that only part of the rents Income with the exception of the underlying transaction, which is 14 that accrue to the period are reported as revenue. Revenue recognition reported under Other Comprehensive Income or directly against 15 normally takes place linearly over the term of the lease agreement apart equity, whereupon the associated tax effect is reported under Other from exceptional cases when another method better reflects how finanComprehensive Income or against equity. 16 cial advantages accrue to the Group. Current tax is the tax computed on the taxable profit for a period. 17 Other property management income is reported, where applicable, The taxable profit for the year differs from the reported profit for the in the same way as rental revenue. This post largely comprises revenues year in the fact that an adjustment has been made for non-taxable and 18 as a direct result of the leases and mainly consists of revenues from non-deductible items. The Group’s current tax liability is computed 19 parking, services for tenants and other management tasks. according to the tax rates stipulated or notified as of the year-end. 20 Interest income is reported as income divided across the term on Deferred tax is reported in accordance with the Statement of Finanapplication of the annual equivalent rate method. cial Position method. According to this method, deferred tax liabilities 21 Dividend income is reported when the right to receive payment has are reported in the Statement of Financial Position for all taxable tem22 been confirmed. porary differences between the carrying amounts and taxable values of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are reported in the Statement 23 PAYMENTS TO EMPLOYEES of Financial Position with regard to deficit deductions and all deductible 24 Remuneration to employees in the form of salary, paid holiday, payment temporary differences to the extent it is likely that the amounts can be while off sick etc., as well as pensions, are reported as they are earned. offset against future taxable surpluses. The reported value of deferred 25 As regards pensions and other remuneration following termination of tax assets is examined at each year-end and reduced to the extent it is 26 employment, these are classified as defined contribution pension plans no longer probable that a sufficient taxable surplus will be available for 27 or defined benefit pension plans. utilisation. Deferred tax is computed using the tax rates that are expected to 28 Defined contribution plans apply for the period in which the asset is recovered or the liability settled. 29 In the case of defined contribution plans, the Company pays fixed conTax receivables and tax liabilities are offset and reported at a net tributions to a separate, independent legal entity and has no obligation amount in the Statement of Financial Position when there is a legal 30 to make further contributions. The Group’s profit is charged with costs right to offset and when there is an intention to either receive or pay a 31 as the benefits are earned, which normally concurs with the point at net amount or receive payment of a receivable and pay the liability at 32 which premiums are paid. the same time. 33 Defined benefit plans TR ANSLATION OF ITEMS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY 34 For defined benefit pension plans, the cost of the pension plan is based Financial assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated at the on actuarial calculations according to what is termed the Projected year-end rate, whereupon realised and unrealised translation differ35 Unit Credit Method. A calculation is made each year by an independent ences are capitalised. Translation differences in operating receivables 36 actuary. Revaluations, including actuarial gains and losses, effects of and liabilities are reported under Other property management income changes in the asset ceiling and the yield on plan assets (excluding the or Other property management expense whilst translation differences 37 interest component, which is reported in the Statement of Comprehenattributable to financial assets and liabilities are reported under Net 38 sive Income) are reported directly in the Statement of Financial Position interest income and expense. 39 as income or a cost equivalent to the change in the Statement of Total Comprehensive Income during the period in which they arise. RevaluaPROPERTIES 40 tions, which are reported under Other Comprehensive Income, affect Properties, i.e. properties that are held to generate rental revenue or 41 the retained earnings and will not be reversed to profit or loss. Service gains from an increase in value, are valued continuously at fair value costs from previous periods are reported in the Statement of Comprehen(assessed market value). The fair value is based on the assessed market 42 sive Income for the period in which the plan was changed. Net interest value at the year-end, which means the value at which a property could is calculated on application of the discount rate at the beginning of the be transferred between knowledgeable parties who are independent of period on the net defined benefit liability or asset. each other and who have an interest in the transaction being impleThe discount rate is the interest rate at the year-end on high-quality mented. Changes in fair value are reported in the Statement of Compremortgage bonds with a maturity corresponding to the Group’s pension hensive Income under the heading Changes in value of the properties. obligations. When there is not a functioning market for such mortgage The term ‘properties’ includes buildings and land, land systems, bonds, the market for government bonds with similar maturity is used building and land equipment as well as properties under construction instead. (new construction in progress). The defined benefit costs are divided into the following categories: Property sales and property purchases are reported in conjunction • Service costs (including service costs for the current period, service with the risks and benefits linked to title being transferred to the purcosts for previous periods and profits and losses in respect of reducchaser or seller, which normally takes place on the completion date, as tions and/or adjustments) long as this does not conflict with the terms and conditions in the conAKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 67 tract of sale. For property sales through companies, the sale is reported the market’s assessment of risk-free interest and risk linked to the spe1 at the date of taking possession. cific asset. For an asset which does not, independent of other assets, A profit or loss that arises on the sale or disposal of properties comgenerate any cash flow, the recoverable value of the cash-generating 2 prises the difference between the sales price and the most recent valuaunit to which the asset belongs is calculated. 3 tion (reported value based on the most recent revaluation at fair value). Reversal of previous impairments takes place when the recoverable 4 The result in conjunction with sale or disposal is reported in the Consolvalue for a previously impaired asset exceeds the carrying amount and idated Statement of Comprehensive Income under the heading Changes the need for impairment made previously is no longer considered nec5 in the value of properties. In the Parent Company the result is reported essary. The reversal is reported in the Statement of Comprehensive 6 as other property management income/expense. Income. An examination of past impairments takes place on an indiIn those cases where Akademiska Hus uses part of a building for its vidual basis. 7 own administration, the property is only classified as a property for 8 investment if an insignificant part is used for administrative purposes. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS If a property is reclassified as a property held for resale or an invenThe general principles for the valuation of financial instruments are 9 tory item, the property is reported at the assumed acquisition value, that financial investment assets and all derivatives should be valued at 10 equivalent to the fair value of the property at the time of reclassification. fair value whilst other financial assets and financial liabilities are valued 11 at the accrued acquisition value. FAIR VALUE, PROPERTIES Financial instruments are reported initially at the acquisition value, 12 When valuing the properties at fair value (assessed market value), an corresponding to the fair value of the instrument with an addition for 13 internal valuation model is used which is quality-assured through the transaction costs for all financial instruments apart from those that checking of the conditions with external property valuers and through belong to the category Financial Assets, which are valued at fair value 14 externally performed valuations. The valuation is based on each propthrough profit or loss. Reporting subsequently takes place depending 15 erty’s expected cash flow during the coming ten years and an estimated on how they are classified, as stated below. 16 residual value for year eleven. The yield target has been differentiated A financial asset or financial liability is recorded in the Statement for different types of property and the rental period as well as the town of Financial Position when the Company becomes a party to the con17 and location assessment. The rental revenue included in the valuation tractual terms and conditions of the instrument or when applicable 18 has been assessed on market terms and in the model, normalised operaccording to ‘regular way purchase’ principles. Accounts receivable are ating costs have been used. Maintenance costs have been calculated on recorded in the Statement of Financial Position when an invoice has 19 a standardised basis according to the use of the property. been sent. A liability is recorded when the counter-party has performed 20 and there is a contractual obligation to pay, even if an invoice has not CARRYING AMOUNT INVESTMENT PROPERTIES yet been received. Accounts payable are recorded when an invoice has 21 Depreciation according to plan is based on the original acquisition value been received. 22 reduced by the estimated residual value and takes place on a linear basis A financial asset is removed from the Statement of Financial Position 23 over the estimated useful life of the asset. when the rights in the agreement are realised, fall due or the Company Depreciation according to plan is normally carried out using the loses control over them. The same applies to part of the financial asset. 24 following percentages of the acquisition value: A financial liability is removed from the Statement of Financial Position 25 when the obligation in the agreement is discharged or is extinguished in Land systems 5% some other way. The same applies to part of a financial liability. 26 Buildings 2.5 % 27 Building equipment 10 % The Group categorises its financial instruments as: • Assets valued at fair value through profit or loss 28 Land equipment 20 % Assets in this category are reported initially at the acquisition value, 29 i.e. fair value at the time of acquisition, and are subsequently valued 30 EQUIPMENT, FIXTURES AND FITTINGS continuously at fair value. The change in value is reported continuEquipment, fixtures and fittings mainly comprise IT equipment and ously through profit or loss. All Akademiska Hus investment assets 31 office equipment. These are reported at the acquisition value reduced by and outstanding derivatives (with a positive fair value) fall into this 32 depreciation according to plan and possible impairment. category. Depreciation according to plan is based on the original acquisition • Loan receivables and accounts receivable 33 value reduced by the estimated residual value and takes place on a linear Assets in this category are non-derivative financial assets with estab34 basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. lished or establishable payment flows that are not listed on an active 35 Depreciation according to plan is normally carried out using the market. These assets are reported and valued on a continuous basis at following percentages of the acquisition value: the accrued acquisition value. Akademiska Hus’s accounts receivable 36 also fall into this category and are reported and valued continuously 37 Computer equipment 33 % at the acquisition value. At each period-end, an impairment examinaEquipment, fixtures and fittings 20 % tion is made of this asset. Non-current security holdings fall into this 38 category and are valued at the accrued acquisition value unless an 39 impairment requirement has been identified. Depreciation according to plan of equipment, fixtures and fittings is • Liabilities valued at fair value through profit or loss 40 reported as an operating cost or under property administration. These liabilities are reported initially at the acquisition value and 41 The profit or loss that arises on scrapping or disposal of equipment, thereafter on an ongoing basis at fair value. The change in value is fixtures and fittings is reported as Other property management income reported on a continuous basis through profit or loss. Akademiska 42 or Other property management expense. Hus’s outstanding derivatives with a negative fair value fall into this category. IMPAIRMENT • Other financial liabilities Impairment takes place in those cases where the reported value of the Liabilities in this category are reported and valued at the amortised asset exceeds the recovery value. Reported values for the Company’s cost according to the annual equivalent rate method. Direct costs assets are checked at each period-end to determine if there is any indiwhen loans are raised are included in the acquisition value. All debt cation of an impairment requirement. If there is such an indication, the financing is included in this category. Akademiska Hus’s accounts recoverable value of the asset is calculated. The recoverable value is the payable and other liabilities are classified under this category but are higher of the value in use and the net realisable value. reported at the acquisition value. When computing the value in use, future cash flows are discounted at a rate of interest before tax that it is envisaged will take into account AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68 Notes 1 Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities Financial derivatives Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported at a net amount Derivatives are held primarily with the aim of securing long-term, 2 in the Statement of Financial Position when there is a legal right to offcost-effective debt financing and handling the Group’s financial risk 3 set and when there is an intention to settle the items at a net amount or exposure by hedging interest and currency exposure against fluctuaat the same time realise the asset and settle the debt. Information tions in interest rates and exchange rates. 4 relating to offset financial assets and liabilities under IFRS 7 can be Derivatives are valued at fair value and changes in value are reported 5 seen in the notes to the balance sheet. on an ongoing basis against net financial income and expense with the exception of the outstanding derivatives, which comprise hedging 6 Calculation of fair value, financial instruments instruments. In a hedging situation where the underlying Statement of 7 When establishing the fair value of current investments, derivatives Financial Position item is business-related, the changes in value of the 8 and loan liabilities, the official market listing at the period-end is used derivative are reported against operating profit. Changes in value and calculation takes place according to generally accepted methods. attributable to the derivatives that comprise hedging instruments in a 9 In those cases where such listings are not available, a valuation is made cash flow hedge are reported under Other comprehensive income, are 10 through discounting of future cash flows at the listed market interest accumulated in equity and are reported against financial or operating rate for each term. Translation into Swedish kronor takes place at the profit at the time the underlying exposure affects the profit. 11 listed rate at the period-end. Calculated and estimated fair values are Interest derivatives (interest future contracts, interest swap agree12 indicative and will not necessarily be realised. ments, FRA contracts and interest options) are held mainly to secure 13 The nominal value of accounts receivable and accounts payable, the desired fixed interest period in existing debt financing. Interest reduced by possible estimated credits, is assumed to be equivalent to derivatives are valued on an ongoing basis at fair value and the effects 14 their fair value. Information according to IFRS 13 about the level in the attributable to the changes in value are reported against net interest 15 fair value hierarchy for different items can be found in Note 32. income and expense in conjunction with hedging of fair value and against Other comprehensive income in conjunction with cash flow hedging. 16 Rent receivables, accounts receivable and other receivables The net of the accrued interest income and interest expense is allocated 17 Rent receivables and accounts receivable are reported initially at the fair to specific periods and expensed over the term of the derivative. value and are then reported at the invoiced amount following a deducIn conjunction with financing in a foreign currency, all future pay18 tion for any impairment (bad debts), which is equivalent to the accrued ment flows are hedged so that no currency risk remains. Currency risk 19 acquisition value. The estimated term of rent receivables and accounts hedging takes place with the aid of currency derivatives (currency future 20 receivable is short and consequently the value is reported at the nominal contracts, currency swap agreements or combined with an interest swap amount without discounting. Doubtful receivables are assessed individagreement). Currency derivatives are translated at the period-end 21 ually and any impairment is reported within operating costs. exchange rate and when hedge reporting is applied, the effects of the 22 currency translation of the derivative naturally meet the effects of the Cash and cash equivalents currency translation of the debt in the financial result. 23 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances and current Independent derivatives, i.e. derivatives that are not included in any 24 investments with a term shorter than three months. These assets are hedging relationship, are valued at fair value and the change in value is 25 regarded as being sellable immediately with a negligible risk of changes recorded directly against the net interest income and expense. in value, which means that the reported value (acquisition value plus With the aim of evening out price variations on the electricity market, 26 accrued coupon) is equivalent to the fair value. and in doing so achieve an even trend for the Group’s electricity costs, 27 future electricity use is hedged with the aid of electricity futures. ElecCurrent investments tricity futures are valued continuously at fair value and when hedge 28 Current investments with a term in excess of three months comprise reporting according to the cash flow method is applied, the changes in 29 interest-bearing securities and are reported and valued at fair value. value are reported directly against Other comprehensive income. The Changes in value (unrealised profits and losses) are reported on a coneffects of price hedging, the difference between the electricity future’s 30 tinuous basis through net interest income and expense. hedged price and the average spot price during the term of the electricity 31 In the Statement of Cash Flows, current investments with a term in future, are offset against profit and are transferred on maturity from 32 excess of three months are not classified as cash and cash equivalents. equity and reported as an operating cost. Consequently, the result of the electricity future and the Group’s physical electricity purchases 33 Loan financing constitute the actual electricity cost. 34 All loan financing is reported initially at fair value, net after transaction In accordance with the currency mandate in the guidelines for purcosts. Borrowing is subsequently reported at the accrued acquisition chasing electricity, currency risk exposure attributable to outstanding 35 value and any difference between the amount received and the repayelectricity futures is currency hedged with the aid of currency futures. 36 ment amount is reported in net interest income and expense divided Currency futures are valued on an ongoing basis at fair value and when over the loan period on application of the annual equivalent rate hedge accounting according to the cash flow method is applied, the 37 method. changes in value are reported directly against Other comprehensive 38 Borrowing that constitutes a hedged item in conjunction with fair income. The effects are expensed on settlement, i.e. the effects are 39 value hedging is reported and valued on an ongoing basis after the transferred from equity and reported as an operating cost. acquisition point at fair value with account taken of the hedged risk. 40 Changes in value are reported in net interest income and expense. Hedge accounting 41 Loan financing in foreign currency is translated and the effects are Akademiska Hus’s hedge accounting takes place through a division into reported through profit or loss. two different methods of hedging depending on the aim of the hedging: 42 The Group applies IAS 23 Borrowing Costs. IAS 23 means that the fair value hedging and cash flow hedging. Group capitalises interest expense attributable to properties under In the case of fair value hedging, both the hedged item/exposure construction that take a significant period of time to complete. Capitaland the hedging instrument are valued at fair value. The changes in ised interest expense has a positive effect on net interest income and value are reported continuously in profit or loss. expense and a negative effect on the change in fair value of properties With cash flow hedging, the hedging instrument is valued at the fair to the equivalent amount. Financing costs for properties under convalue at the same time that the hedged item in conjunction with borrowstruction that do not take a significant period of time to complete are ing is valued according to the current valuation method (categorisation). charged in full to the financial result for each year. According to the demands for cash flow hedging, a change in value attributable to a derivative that qualifies for hedge accounting is reported on Accounts payable and other liabilities an ongoing basis in other comprehensive income and is accumulated in Accounts payable and other liabilities have a short expected term and equity until the underlying transaction/exposure affects the Statement are valued at the nominal value without discounting. of Comprehensive Income. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 69 One of the criteria for hedge accounting to be applied is that the hedging Amended accounting principles 1 relationship is expected to be effective both at the time of entering into No amendments to RFR 2 with a material impact on the Parent Compathe relationship as well as during the hedging period. The ineffective ny’s financial statements were made during 2015. 2 part of the hedging, i.e. the difference between the changes in value in 3 the exposure (interest, electricity price or exchange rate risk) which Properties 4 are hedged in the underlying transaction/flow and the change in value Properties are reported in a legal entity at the acquisition value with in the hedging instrument’s (derivative’s) equivalent risk is expensed. a deduction for accumulated depreciation, impairments and reversed 5 When a hedging measure is entered into, the relationship between impairments. The depreciation period is based on each property’s 6 the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with the aim of the useful life. hedging measure and the method used to calculate the effectiveness, During the year 34 (3) properties were revised upwards. Deprecia7 are documented. tion on the upwards revaluation occurs linearly with such an amount 8 that the revaluation is completely written off when the properties are PROVISIONS 9 otherwise fully depreciated. Provisions are reported in the Statement of Financial Position when 10 the Company has a formal or informal undertaking because of an event Shares in subsidiaries 11 that has occurred and where it is probable that an outflow of resources Shares in subsidiaries are reported at the acquisition value. is required to settle the undertaking and a reliable estimate of the 12 amount can be made. Payments to employees 13 The Parent Company’s pension undertakings have been calculated PARENT COMPANY, ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES and reported based on the Safeguarding of Pension Commitments Act. 14 The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts according to the Application of the Safeguarding of Pension Commitments Act is a pre15 Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Accounting Standards Board requisite for the right to make a tax deduction. 16 recommendation RFR 2 Reporting for Legal Entities and applicable statements from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. Deferred tax 17 RFR 2 means that in the annual accounts for the legal entity, the The amounts that are allocated to untaxed reserves comprise taxable 18 Parent Company shall apply all EU-endorsed IFRSs and statements as temporary differences. Because of the link between accounting and far as this is possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act taxation, the deferred tax liability that is attributable to the untaxed 19 and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and with consideration given reserves is not reported separately in a legal entity. These are thus 20 to the link between accounting and taxation. The recommendation reported at the gross amount in the Statement of Financial Position. states the exceptions and addenda that are to be made to IFRS. The difThe appropriations are reported at the gross amount in the Statement 21 ferences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting of Comprehensive Income. 22 principles are stated below. 23 24 25 26 2 Estimates and assessments When calculating the Group’s pension liability in accordance with IAS 27 19, a number of assumptions are made, including the discount rate in When preparing reports in compliance with IFRS, the Executive current value assessment, expected salary increases, inflation, staff 28 Management and the Board of Directors must make assessments and turnover, remaining period of service for those covered by the pension 29 assumptions that affect the reported asset and liability items and plan as well as expected mortality assumptions. The levels of these income and cost items in the final accounts as well as information proparameters are adapted to company-specific conditions and partly to 30 vided generally, including contingent liabilities. These assessments are normal external conditions (see also Note 28). 31 based on historical experience and different assumptions the Executive 32 Management and the Board of Directors have considered reasonable SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, IMPACT ON PROFIT under the prevailing circumstances. The conclusions drawn form the The sensitivity analysis shows how the pre-tax profit, return on equity 33 basis for decisions regarding reported values of assets and liabilities in and fair value of the properties would be affected in the event of changes 34 those cases where these cannot be established easily through informain different variables. The analysis shows the impact on an annual basis tion from other sources. The actual outcome could differ from these at full effect. 35 assessments if other assumptions are made or if other conditions Changes in the cost of capital or yield target are factors that affect the 36 emerge. Assessments could have a material impact on the Akademiska fair value most. The impact on profit of a change in value, however, would not affect the cash flow as it is unrealised. In the sensitivity analysis, 37 Hus profit and financial position, particularly within regard to valuation of properties (see also Note 15). the current lease portfolio has been taken into account with regard to 38 rental revenue and vacant space. 39 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, IMPACT ON PROFIT 40 41 Impact on return on Impact on pre-tax profit, operating capital, Impact on fair value, Impact on fair value, 42 Change SEK m percentage points SEK m1 percentage points Rental revenue, +/– one percentage point 55 0.1 386 0.6 Vacant space, +/– one percentage point 51 0.1 398 0.6 Operating costs, +/– one percentage point 8 0.0 81 0.1 of which media provision 5 0.0 41 0.1 Cost of capital, + one percentage point –4,112 0.3 –4,112 –6.2 Cost of capital, – one percentage point 4,523 –0.3 4,523 6.8 Yield target, + one percentage point –5,084 0.3 –5,084 –7.6 Yield target, – one percentage point 7,346 –0.4 7,346 11.0 1) Refers only to properties subjected to discounted cash flow analysis. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 70 Notes 1 3 Segment reporting ‘Investments’ refer to gross investments in properties, construction of properties in progress and equipment, fixtures and fittings. ‘Other 2 The Group’s operations are controlled and reported on a regional basis. operations’ refer to operations that are not attributable to the regions. 3 Segment reporting has been prepared using the same accounting prinNet operating income is the most important measure of perfor4 ciples applied to the Group as a whole. Revenue per segment is based on mance and is reported and followed up on a regular basis by the Group’s the tenant’s geographical location whilst assets and liabilities are supreme decision-maker. The profit after net operating income is not 5 reported and is not followed up for each segment. Properties are the based on the tenant’s physical location. 6 All revenue is generated in Sweden and all regions carry on propasset measurement that is reported internally and is followed up for erty management. each segment. Internal follow-up of other assets and liabilities only 7 For details of larger customers, see Note 5. takes place on the overall level for the Group. 8 No sales between the segments have taken place. 9 Total, operating Other 10 Segment information 2015 South West East Uppsala Stockholm North segments operations Group 11 Rental revenue 773,179 749,725 539,312 1,051,076 1,911,463 480,434 5,505,189 — 5,505,189 12 Other property management income 28,056 49,327 10,674 16,883 74,786 15,431 195,157 434 195,591 13 Total income 801,235 799,052 549,986 1,067,959 1,986,249 495,865 5,700,346 434 5,700,780 14 Operating costs –121,767 –111,821 –84,548 –150,805 –240,702 –61,042 –770,685 — –770,685 15 Maintenance costs –96,862 –104,527 –57,626 –85,814 –223,927 –103,853 –672,609 — –672,609 16 Property administration –24,920 –25,833 –14,759 –24,557 –79,342 –11,693 –181,104 –172,342 –353,446 17 Other property management expenses –28,163 –36,522 –5,351 –17,789 –86,626 –25,325 –199,776 –1,160 –200,936 18 Total costs, property management –271,712 –278,703 –162,284 –278,965 –630,597 –201,913 –1,824,174 –173,502 –1,997,676 19 NET OPERATING INCOME 529,523 520,349 387,702 788,994 1,355,652 293,952 3,876,172 –173,068 3,703,104 20 21 Central overheads –35,613 22 Changes in value, properties 2,655,365 23 Profit before financial items 6,322,856 24 25 Profit/loss from financial items (net) –181,434 PROFIT BEFORE TAX ACCORDING TO THE STATEMENT 26 OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 6,141,422 27 28 Properties 8,191,267 8,123,673 4,934,488 12,690,913 28,214,159 4,420,382 66,574,882 — 66,574,882 29 of which invested during the year 207,792 124,700 26,461 241,465 1,752,309 146,041 2,498,768 — 2,498,768 30 Total, 31 operating Other Segment information 2014 South West East Uppsala Stockholm North segments operations Group 32 Rental revenue 717,241 753,183 539,311 1,018,370 1,957,517 509,312 5,494,934 — 5,494,934 33 Other property management income 27,825 50,345 9,570 19,317 60,348 17,164 184,569 1,174 185,743 34 Total income 745,066 803,528 548,881 1,037,687 2,017,865 526,476 5,679,503 1,174 5,680,677 35 Operating costs –119,455 –116,606 –84,606 –154,699 –269,357 –66,388 –811,111 3,295 –807,816 36 Maintenance costs –103,019 –86,873 –51,846 –93,789 –162,778 –126,405 –624,710 3,295 –621,415 37 Property administration –24,327 –24,097 –14,380 –24,922 –65,592 –13,655 –166,973 –158,457 –325,430 38 Other property management 39 expenses –23,247 –43,402 –4,085 –17,582 –95,692 –26,964 –210,972 1,577 –209,395 Total costs, property management –270,048 –270,978 –154,917 –290,992 –593,419 –233,412 –1,813,766 –150,290 –1,964,056 40 41 NET OPERATING INCOME 475,018 532,550 393,964 746,695 1,424,446 293,064 3,865,737 –149,116 3,716,621 42 Central overheads –45,928 Changes in value, properties 3,528,968 Profit before financial items 7,199,661 Profit/loss from financial items (net) –939,062 PROFIT BEFORE TAX ACCORDING TO THE STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 6,260,599 Properties 7,889,166 7,454,342 4,933,064 12,458,510 24,536,646 4,164,920 61,436,648 — 61,436,648 of which investments 596,547 161,502 11,948 590,983 1,569,909 72,770 3,003,659 — 3,003,659 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 71 4 Categorised operating costs 1 Group Parent Company 2 2015 2014 2015 2014 3 Functions reported in the Income Statements 4 Property management –1,997,677 –1,964,056 –1,979,756 –1,960,853 5 Central administration costs –35,612 –45,928 –35,612 –45,928 6 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS ACCORDING TO FUNCTION –2,033,289 –2,009,984 –2,015,368 –2,006,781 7 8 CATEGORISED FUNCTION COSTS Energy, fuel and water –563,347 –607,246 –563,347 –607,246 9 Property administration –119,253 –98,526 –100,402 –85,145 10 Maintenance costs, material and services purchased –722,407 –673,813 –722,407 –677,109 11 Site leasehold charges –58,226 –57,168 –58,226 –57,168 12 Property tax –3,737 –3,555 –3,737 –3,555 13 Personnel costs –352,830 –348,022 –352,830 –348,022 14 Depreciation –6,190 –7,169 –6,190 –7,169 15 Other costs –207,299 –214,485 –208,229 –221,367 TOTAL CATEGORISED OPERATING COSTS –2,033,289 –2,009,984 –2,015,368 –2,006,781 16 17 18 5 Leases 19 All properties are leased under operational lease agreements and genyear includes KSEK 533,395 (565,152) for variable charges. Lund Uni20 erate rental revenue. The rental revenue during the period amounted versity and Karolinska Institutet account for 11 per cent and 10 per cent 21 to KSEK 5,505,189 (5,494,934) and the direct costs for the properties of rental revenue, respectively. during the period totalled KSEK 1,997,677 (1,964,056). Profit for the 22 23 CONTRACTED RENTAL REVENUE AS OF 31-12-2015 LEASE TERMS AS OF 31-12-2015 ACCORDING TO THE SIZE OF THE LEASE 24 Number of Contracted Number of Contracted 25 Due date leases annual rent Proportion, % Annual rent leases annual rent Proportion, % 26 Non-residential premises Non-residential premises 2016 294 518,520 9 > 70,000 3 388,306 6 27 2017 267 505,958 8 30,000 – 70,000 35 1,483,735 25 28 2018 223 703,859 12 10,000 – 30,000 144 2,401,392 40 29 2019 131 453,878 8 7,500 – 10,000 55 472,101 8 30 2020 84 649,533 11 5,000 – 7,500 73 450,820 7 31 2021 45 447,597 7 2,500 – 5,000 112 414,355 7 32 2022 and later 184 2,730,300 45 < 2,500 806 398,936 7 33 Other 259 22,842 0 Other 259 22,842 0 TOTAL 1,487 6,032,487 100 TOTAL 1,487 6,032,487 100 34 35 36 6 Other property management income 37 Group Parent Company 38 2015 2014 2015 2014 39 Parking revenue 60,297 57,690 60,297 57,690 40 Profit on the sale of other non-current assets — — 103,876 1,546,612 Income from external property management assignments 41 and similar assignments 78,154 78,813 78,154 78,813 42 Income from services performed on behalf of tenants 48,298 45,343 48,298 45,343 Other 8,842 3,897 8,842 3,897 TOTAL 195,591 185,743 299,467 1,732,355 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 72 Notes 1 7 Other property management expenses 2 Group Parent Company 3 2015 2014 2015 2014 4 Site leasehold charges, property tax and insurance costs –67,945 –67,137 –67,945 –67,137 Studies –20,336 –11,388 –20,336 –11,388 5 Loss on the sale and disposal of other non-current assets — — –2,211 –32,257 6 Costs for external property management assignments and similar assignments –53,394 –48,025 –53,394 –48,025 7 Costs for services performed on behalf of tenants –41,133 –44,127 –41,133 –44,127 8 Other –18,128 –38,718 –18,914 –12,371 9 TOTAL –200,936 –209,395 –203,933 –215,305 10 11 12 8 Depreciation, impairments and reversed impairments in property management Group Parent Company 13 2015 2014 2015 2014 14 Properties — — –1,591,522 –1,169,744 15 Equipment, fixtures and fittings –6,190 –7,169 –6,190 –7,169 16 TOTAL -6,190 –7,169 –1,597,712 –1,176,913 17 18 In the Group and Parent Company, KSEK 3,095 (3,585) has been reported as property administration and KSEK 3,095 (3,584) as operating costs. 19 20 9 Employees and personnel costs SALARIES, OTHER REMUNERATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS 21 2015 The average number of employees was as follows: 2014 22 Parent Parent 2015 2014 Group Company Group Company 23 AKADEMISKA HUS AB SALARIES AND 24 REMUNERATION Head Office, Gothenburg 86 78 25 Board members, President Southern Region 48 49 and Vice President 6,005 6,005 5,569 5,569 26 Western Region 59 59 Other employees 221,462 221,462 217,734 217,734 27 Eastern Region 27 28 TOTAL 227,467 227,467 223,303 223,303 28 Uppsala Region 59 64 Stockholm Region 97 96 29 SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS Northern Region 33 34 30 Board members, President and Vice President 3,511 3,511 3,231 3,231 31 Subsidiaries — — (of which pension costs) (2,065) (2,065) (1,865) (1,865) 32 GROUP, TOTAL 409 408 Other employees 104,200 104,200 103,964 103,964 33 (of which pension costs) (56,994) (56,994) (57,287) (57,287) 34 The proportion of women (based on the average number of employees) TOTAL 107,711 107,711 107,195 107,195 in the Parent Company and the Group is 26 per cent (26). 35 (of which pension costs) (59,059) (59,059) (59,152) (59,152) 36 GENDER DIVISION, BOARD, GROUP MANAGEMENT AND OTHER PERSONS IN EXECUTIVE POSITIONS The Group’s and Parent Company’s outstanding pension obligations to 37 The Board comprises 8 (8) members elected at the Annual General the President, Regional Directors and other members of Executive 38 Meeting and 2 (2) members appointed by the employees. 4 (4) of the Management total KSEK 3,349 (2,839). The subsidiaries do not have members are women, i.e. 40 per cent (40). any employees and no salaries have been paid. 39 Overall management of the Group rests with the Executive Manage40 ment, which comprises 8 (7) men and 5 (4) women. The Executive 41 Management comprises the President, Vice President, CFO, Human Resources Director, Corporate Communications Director, Purchasing 42 Director, General Counsel and Regional Directors. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 73 REMUNERATION TO THE BOARD 1 2015 2014 Remu­ Remu­ 2 Director’s neration Finance Audit Director’s neration Finance Audit 3 fees Committee Committee Committee fees Committee Committee Committee 4 Chair Eva-Britt Gustafsson 260 10 10 10 250 10 20 — Member Britta Burreau 1 130 — 20 — 62 — 10 — 5 Member Olof Ehrlén 130 — — 10 125 — — 20 6 Member Per Granath1 — — — — 62 — 10 — 7 Employee representative Thomas Jennlinger — — — — — — — — 8 Employee representative Anders Larsson — — — — — — — — 9 Member Ingela Lindh1 130 — — — 62 — — — 10 Member Leif Ljungqvist — — — — — — — — Member Pia Sandvik 130 — 20 10 125 — 20 — 11 Member Gunnar Svedberg 130 10 — — 125 10 — — 12 Member Maj-Charlotte Wallin 1 — — — — 62 — — — 13 Member Ingemar Ziegler 130 — — 20 125 — — 20 14 TOTAL 1,040 20 50 50 998 20 60 40 15 1) Member for part of 2014. 16 REMUNERATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES 17 2015 2014 18 Basic salary7 Pension cost Basic salary7 Pension cost 19 CEO/President Kerstin Lindberg Göransson 3,108 813 2,871 630 Vice President Michael Walmerud 1,689 454 1,678 497 20 Regional Director, South Tomas Ringdahl 1,516 326 1,468 341 21 Regional Director, West Birgitta van Dalen 1,258 495 1,187 452 22 Regional Director, East Lars Hagman 1,168 227 1,174 251 23 Regional Director, Uppsala Peter Bohman1 1,469 313 1,148 243 24 Regional Director, North David Carlsson2 1,344 277 1,510 355 25 Regional Director, Stockholm Sten Wetterblad 1,829 480 1,721 461 26 CIO Cecilia Nielsen 968 184 991 166 General Counsel Carolin Åberg-Sjöqvist 939 228 — — 27 CFO Jonas Ragnarsson3 1,994 461 480 120 28 Acting Director, Accounting 29 and Financing Joakim Hugosson4 — — 1,121 326 30 Purchasing Director Ulf Däversjö5 1,167 215 — — Human Resources Director Kristina Korsgren6 1,103 260 997 243 31 TOTAL 19,552 4,733 16,346 4,085 32 1) Peter Bohman took up the position of Regional Director in Uppsala on 1 May 2014. 33 2) David Carlsson was Regional Director in Uppsala from 1 September 2013 to 30 April 2014. 34 3) Jonas Ragnarsson took up the position of CFO 1 October 2014 and stepped down on 12 February 2016. 4) Joakim Hugosson was Acting Director, Accounting and Financing, from January to September 2014. 35 5) Ulf Däversjö became a member of Executive Management on 1 February 2015. 36 6) Kristina Korsgren left Executive Management on 29 February 2016. 7) No payments were made in addition to the above reported basic salary. 37 38 39 40 41 42 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 74 Notes 1 10 Fees and disbursements to auditors out of pocket expenses 2 Group and Parent Company 3 2015 2014 4 KPMG AB Audit assignment 833 1,165 5 Audit work in addition to the audit assignment 185 279 6 Tax consulting 137 — 7 Other services 150 — 8 TOTAL 1,305 1,444 9 10 Deloitte AB 11 Audit assignment — 633 Audit work in addition to the audit assignment — 8 12 Tax consulting — 301 13 Other services — 4 14 TOTAL 0 946 15 KPMG AB was elected to serve as auditors at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2014. 16 ‘Audit assignment’ refers to payment to the auditor for the statutory such an examination or the performance of other such duties. ‘Tax con17 audit, such as work necessary to submit the audit report. ‘Audit work in sulting’ is self-explanatory. ‘Other services’ refers mainly to fees for 18 addition to the audit assignment’ in effect refers to what can be desigconsulta-tion in conjunction with examination of tax returns and con19 nated quality assurance services (for example, examination of a prosultation regarding financial instruments, the Sustainability Report spectus for an EMTN programme) as well as the provision of advice or and accounting-related issues. 20 other assistance as a result of observations made in conjunction with 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 75 11 Financial income and expense 1 Group Parent Company 2 2015 2014 2015 2014 3 OTHER INTEREST INCOME AND SIMILAR PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS 4 Interest income, other1 11,918 24,371 11,918 24,371 5 Changes in value, independent derivatives 348,381 32,396 348,381 32,396 6 RESULT, FINANCIAL INCOME 360,299 56,767 360,299 56,767 7 8 OTHER INTEREST EXPENSE AND SIMILAR PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS Interest expense, other 1 –187,360 –373,498 –295,592 –507,455 9 Changes in value, independent derivatives –259,305 –498,736 –259,305 –498,736 10 Changes in value, fair value hedges –95,068 –123,595 –95,068 –123,595 11 RESULT, FINANCIAL EXPENSE –541,733 –995,829 –649,965 –1,129,786 12 13 RESULT, NET FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE –181,434 –939,062 –289,666 –1,073,019 14 1) o  f which interest income/interest expense deriving from financial instruments that are not valued at fair value through profit or loss. –175,442 –349,127 –283,675 –483,083 15 16 Group Parent Company 17 Changes in value, financial items, are as follows: 2015 2014 2015 2014 18 UNREALISED CHANGES IN VALUE Independent derivatives 221,520 –301,733 221,520 –301,733 19 Fair value hedging, hedging instruments –95,068 –123,595 –95,068 –123,595 20 TOTAL 126,452 –425,328 126,452 –425,328 21 22 REALISED CHANGES IN VALUE 23 Independent derivatives –132,444 –164,607 –132,444 –164,607 24 TOTAL –132,444 –164,607 –132,444 –164,607 25 TOTAL CHANGES IN VALUE –5,992 –589,935 –5,992 –589,935 26 27 28 12 Appropriations and untaxed reserves (Parent Company) 29 Parent Company 30 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31 APPROPRIATIONS 32 Change in tax allocation reserve –52,265 –142,594 Difference between recorded depreciation and depreciation according to plan –105,293 –100,738 33 TOTAL –157,558 –243,332 34 35 UNTAXED RESERVES 36 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2009 — 458,536 37 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2010 397,454 397,454 38 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2011 437,485 437,485 39 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2012 449,374 449,374 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2013 441,894 441,894 40 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2014 447,887 447,887 41 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2015 510,801 — 42 Additional depreciation 1,165,557 1,060,264 TOTAL 3,850,452 3,692,894 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 76 Notes 1 13 Tax 2 The following components are included in the Group and Parent Company tax expense: 3 Group Parent Company 4 2015 2014 2015 2014 5 TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 6 Current tax 7 Current tax on profit for the year –337,129 –312,343 –337,129 –312,343 8 Total current tax –337,129 –312,343 –337,129 –312,343 9 10 DEFERRED TAX ATTRIBUTABLE TO TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES Financial instruments –73,498 77,931 –73,498 77,931 11 Properties –942,398 –782,109 16,699 –35,801 12 Tax allocation reserve –11,498 –31,371 — — 13 Pension provisions 3,239 1,877 — — 14 Other –30 77 — — 15 Total deferred tax –1,024,185 –733,595 –56,799 42,130 16 TOTAL TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR –1,361,314 –1,045,938 –393,928 –270,213 17 The difference between the reported tax expense and tax expense based on the current tax rate comprises the following components: 18 19 Group Parent Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 20 Reported profit before tax 6,141,422 6,260,599 1,744,352 2,727,639 21 Tax at the current tax rate –1,351,113 –1,377,332 –383,757 –600,081 22 Tax effect of expenses that are not tax deductible/taxable 23 (permanent differences): Non-deductible expenses –87,332 –39,362 –87,332 –39,362 24 Non-taxable income1 80,926 360,710 80,926 360,710 25 Taxable standard interest calculated on the tax allocation reserve –3,765 –8,217 –3,765 –8,217 26 Other –30 18,263 — 16,737 27 TOTAL REPORTED TAX EXPENSE –1,361,314 –1,045,938 –393,928 –270,213 28 1) Non-taxable income includes the tax effect from disposal of trade-related shares totalling KSEK 10,535 (360,527). 29 Reported deferred tax receivables/liability: 30 Group Parent Company 31 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 32 Deferred tax assets attributable to temporary differences 33 Financial instruments 20,702 94,986 20,702 94,986 Cash flow hedge 9,490 5,949 9,490 5,949 34 Properties 22,664 — 22,664 — 35 Pension provisions 28,519 30,125 — — 36 Total, reported deferred tax receivables 81,375 131,060 52,856 100,935 37 38 Deferred tax liabilities attributable to temporary differences 39 Tax allocation reserve –590,677 –579,179 — — 40 Properties –8,252,048 –7,303,723 –2,127,043 –727,559 Financial instruments — –786 — –786 41 Other 20 49 — — 42 Total, reported deferred tax liability –8,842,705 –7,883,639 –2,127,043 –728,345 TOTAL, REPORTED DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY –8,761,330 –7,752,579 –2,074,187 –627,410 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 77 The following deferred tax assets/liabilities refer to items where a change has been reported in other comprehensive income: 1 Group Parent Company 2 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 3 Cash flow hedge 4 – currency derivatives 1,890 –4,426 1,890 –4,426 5 – electricity derivatives 1,652 –2,850 1,652 –2,850 6 – actuarial gains and losses –4,845 13,780 — — 7 TOTAL DEFERRED TAX REPORTED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME –1,303 6,504 3,542 –7,276 8 UNREPORTED DEFERRED TAX consolidated accounts do not include any material unreported tempo9 No deferred tax in respect of untaxed reserves has been reported in the rary differences between carrying amounts and tax values for assets Parent Company. The deferred tax liability related to untaxed reserves and liabilities. All tax deficit deductions within the Group can be uti10 totals KSEK 847,099 (812,437) and is included in these reserves. The lised for an unlimited period in the future. 11 12 14 Dividend 13 14 The dividend paid to the shareholder on 30 April 2015 totalled SEK As regards the dividend for the year, the Board proposes a dividend of 1,445,000,000 (1,374,000,000). The dividend per share was SEK 676.81 SEK 604.22 per share, for a total of SEK 1,290,000,000, to be paid to 15 (643.56). Moreover, an additional distribution of SEK 6,500,000,000 the shareholder as instructed by the owner. A decision regarding a divi16 (0), equivalent to SEK 3,044.50 per share, was approved at the Extraordend will be reached by the shareholder at the Annual General Meeting. 17 dinary General Meeting on 19 October 2015. In all, SEK 4,500,000,000 The dividend has not been recorded as a liability in the Annual Report. of the additional distribution has been disbursed. The remaining SEK 18 2,000,000,000 will be paid before the 2016 Annual General Meeting and 19 the amount is reported as a current liability in the financial statements. 20 21 15 Properties (Group) 22 The fair value of properties has changed during the year as follows: 23 24 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 VALUATION MODELS/METHODS Change in property holdings, in SEK 1,000 Group Group Akademiska Hus has an internal property valuation process that is 25 Opening fair value 61,436,648 57,556,835 highly developed and has been quality assured. Information regarding 26 + Investment in new construction valuation principles as well as levels of input data, assumptions and and redevelopment 2,496,968 2,853,856 prerequisites are produced by the Company’s valuation specialists. 27 + Acquisitions 1,800 99,500 These parameters are finally confirmed by the President. 28 Akademiska Hus valuation models comply with good market prac+ Capitalised interest expense 108,234 133,956 29 tice in the property industry and the cash flows and yield targets that – Sales –32,971 –2,701,926 are used are justified based on both property-specific conditions and 30 +/– Change in value, unrealised 2,564,203 3,494,427 industry-specific conditions. The properties have been valued individ31 Of which change in value due to a change in ually without any account being taken of portfolio effects. the cost of capital and yield require-ment 1,244,997 3,070,209 The fair value of the Group’s properties as of 31 December 2015 has 32 Of which change in value due to adjusted been set using an internal property valuation. The valuation has been 33 value index (valuation status, average conducted using different valuation methods as follows: remaining term, property type) 255,928 –171,858 34 SEK m Share, % 35 Of which capitalised interest expense –108,234 –133,956 Internal cash flow valuation 60,660 91 Of which other change in value 1,171,512 730,032 36 Expansion reserves 1,227 2 CLOSING FAIR VALUE 66,574,882 61,436,648 37 Other valuation (including properties under construction and development properties) 4,688 7 38 2015 2014 TOTAL 66,575 100 39 Changes in value, property holdings Positive 3,592,054 4,074,190 40 SEK 60,660 million (91 per cent) of the fair value has been set through Negative –1,027,851 –579,764 an internal cash flow valuation, where the cash flow figures used com41 Result from sales and disposals prise the revenue and costs for each property, i.e. the net operating 42 Positive 91,162 73,342 income. Rent payments have been calculated based on current leases. Negative — –38,800 If the rent level at the end of the lease is considered to be in line with the market, it is assumed that the lease can be extended subject to the TOTAL CHANGES IN VALUE, PROPERTIES 2,655,365 3,528,968 same terms and conditions. In other cases, rents are adjusted to the market level. Operating costs are assessed based on historical outcome and forecasts. Property administration costs are assessed based on the average cost level within Akademiska Hus and the maintenance costs are assessed based on actual costs and key figures for the industry. For an initial calculation period of 10 years, a current value is computed for the cash flow generated each year using a nominal cost of capital. In addition, the residual value from year 11 is calculated based on AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 78 Notes 1 the market’s actual yield targets. This residual value is in turn calcuAkademiska Hus operates in a specific segment of the property market, lated at the current value using nominal cost of capital. The property’s which means that our properties are more adapted to specialist uses 2 fair value comprises the sum of the current cash flows during the calcuand consequently they have a slightly more uncertain residual value 3 lation period and the current residual value. than for more general properties, such as office buildings and residential The starting point when choosing the cost of capital is the nominal buildings. This means that many of our properties are not available for 4 interest rate on the secondary market for government bonds with a term new tenants or other purposes without substantial redevelopment. 5 equivalent to the length of the calculation period. A risk premium is After an initial calculation period, assessment of the residual value added to cover the market risk and the property-related risk. needs to reflect the more property specific risks in more concrete 6 The yield targets are assessed, as far as possible, using the property terms. An assessment of the uncertainty regarding modernity, stand7 transactions that have been completed on the market and, as far as posard/condition, technical risk and redevelopment/adaptation require8 sible, using comparable properties. Each year, Akademiska Hus has the ments is made at the point at which residual value is calculated. These yield target, cost of capital and other valuation prerequisites verified by risks are quantified mainly in the form of charges to cash flow rather 9 two independent valuation institutes, NAI Svefa and Cushman & than the direct yield target. 10 Wakefield. The cost of capital for the cash flow varies for different properties Both the cost of capital for discounting the cash flow as well as the within the range 6.59–12.00 per cent depending on the lease term, 11 yield target have been differentiated for each property depending on town/city, location, and type of premises. The long-term yield target 12 the town, location, lease term and type of premises. The risks are thus varies between 4.50 per cent and 9.80 per cent depending on the town/ 13 analysed in several dimensions and are generally assessed to be higher city, location and type of premises. for properties with shorter leases, installation-intensive premises and The average yield target and cost of capital for each region are 14 properties in less attractive locations. shown in the table below. 15 Expansion reserves, SEK 1,227 million (2 per cent) have been valued using the location prices for construction rights with a deduction for 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 16 development costs, supplemented by developer calculations. In some Yield Cost of Yield Cost of 17 cases, the planning conditions for new construction are unclear and target, % capital, % target, % capital, % consequently the pure land values have been used to establish the fair 18 South 6.2 8.3 6.3 8.5 value. The expansion reserves include construction rights covering a 19 gross area of approximately 1.8 million square metres. West 5.8 7.9 6.1 8.2 20 SEK 4,688 million (7 per cent) comprises mainly properties with East 6.5 8.6 6.5 8.6 uncertain future cash flows. These have been valued individually using Uppsala 6.1 8.2 6.2 8.3 21 the valuation method that was most appropriate. Stockholm 5.3 7.4 5.6 7.7 22 The total fair value of properties includes new construction in progress amounting to SEK 3,484 million (5,407), which has also been valNorth 6.4 8.6 6.6 8.7 23 ued using the internal cash flow valuation with a deduction for remainGroup 5.8 7.9 6.0 8.1 24 ing investment. The properties are on level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Other assumptions 25 The following assumptions form the basis for the internal market valu26 Valuation conditions 2015 ation: 27 Yield requirements and cost of capital declined by between 0.05 and 0.35 percentage points during the year, due to general price-driving Valuation assumptions 28 factors in the property market for community properties. Overall, the Lease term => 10 years, > 6 years, =< 6 years 29 positive change in value attributable to changes in yield requirements and cost of capital in 2015 amounted to SEK 1,245 million (3,070). Well-­ Division into town, city, location 25 towns, cities, locations 30 located, efficient properties with a strong customer base and good rental Installation-intensive premises/ 31 potential are in greatest demand and are naturally less sensitive to non-installation-intensive Special adaptation/type of premises premises 32 external changes. Characteristic of Akademiska Hus are long leases with stable, credit­ Calculation period 10 years 33 worthy customers. The majority of tenants have a public principal and Inflation assumption, year 1 1.0 % 34 thus a very good credit rating, which means a low rent risk during the Inflation assumption, years 2–10 2.0 % term of the lease. Around 90 per cent of income derives from the domi35 Vacant space Actual and/or 5 % nant customer group, universities and colleges. All centres of education, 36 apart from Chalmers University of Technology, have the Swedish state Deduction for stamp duty 4.25 % as principal and thus have a high credit rating. The average remaining Property administration SEK 45/m² 37 lease term is 5.8 years (6.0). The valuation divided the leases into three Maintenance costs, non-installation-­ 38 categories based on average remaining lease term. For valuation properintensive premises SEK 100/m² 39 ties with a longer remaining lease term, the relative risk is lower as the Maintenance costs, installation-­ cash flow valuation is based predominantly on hedged flows. intensive premises SEK 140/m² 40 The city, town and location classifications have been based on the 41 general division of the property market. Larger and important cities Assumptions about inflation have been made based on the views of differand towns have been assigned a higher degree of attractiveness from, 42 ent forecasters, such as the National Institute of Economic Research, for example, a demographic, employment and economic point of view. the Swedish Central Bank and other banks. The long-term inflation This is also the case from the point of view of higher education and assumption of 2 per cent corresponds with the Riksbank’s long-term research, where Sweden’s three largest cities, Stockholm, Gothenburg inflation target. The rent trend during the term of the lease is estimated and Malmö, but also the classic university towns of Lund and Uppsala at maximum of inflation (CPI), with consideration taken to the index and to a certain extent Linköping and Umeå, are more attractive and share of the lease. After expiration of the contract period, adjust the are considered to be more stable and secure education and research rent when necessary to estimated market rent. Actual vacancy is applied locations in the long term. The division into different cities, towns and as it occurs and after the contract period a standard vacancy rate of 5 per locations reflects the demand on the market and the attractiveness of cent is applied. Standard formulas are applied for property administrathe properties. Inner-city locations in Stockholm and Gothenburg are tion costs and maintenance costs. Operating costs are assessed accordin greatest demand and most attractive whilst demand is lowest in ing to historic outcome and forecast. smaller, rural locations. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 79 Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis shows how the fair value is affected in conjunc16 Properties (Parent Company) 1 tion with changes in different variables. The impact on profit of a change 2 Carrying amount for properties amounts to KSEK 39,899,507 in value, however, would not affect the cash flow as it is unrealised. (32,605,258). The amount includes land, land systems, buildings, build3 ing equipment and land equipment. Fiscal residual value amounts to 4 Impact on fair KSEK 25,581,843 (22,829,896). Impact on fair value, percent5 Change value, SEK m age points The carrying amount of properties changed as follows during the year: 6 Rental revenue, +/– one percentage point 386 0.6 Vacant space, +/– one percentage point 398 0.6 7 Parent Company Operating costs, +/– one percentage point 81 0.1 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 8 of which media provision 41 0.1 Opening acquisition value 48,024,992 47,120,487 9 Maintenance costs, +/– SEK 10/m² 486 0.7 Investment in new construction and 10 Property administration, +/– SEK 10/m² 486 0.7 redevelopment 2,496,968 2,853,857 11 Cost of capital, + one percentage point –4,112 –6.2 Acquisitions 1,800 99,500 12 Cost of capital, – one percentage point 4,523 6.8 Sales and disposals –42,416 –2,048,852 CLOSING ACCUMULATED 13 Yield target, + one percentage point –5,084 –7.6 ACQUISITION VALUE 50,481,344 48,024,992 Yield target, – one percentage point 7,346 11.0 14 A change in the maintenance cost that affects the profit and return on equity 15 has been calculated based on actual maintenance costs. The impact on fair Opening impairments 1,250,000 — value has been calculated based on a standard maintenance cost and standard 16 Revaluations for the year 6,410,256 1,282,051 property administration cost in the valuation model. Depreciation for the year on revaluations –235,566 –32,051 17 Other CLOSING ACCUMULATED REVALUATIONS 7,424,690 1,250,000 18 There are no limits with regard to the right to sell the properties or use 19 the rental revenue. Opening depreciation –16,308,505 –15,754,922 20 All properties are leased under operational lease agreements and Reclassifications –5,855 –37,472 generate rental revenue. The rental revenue during the period 21 amounted to KSEK 5,505,189 (5,494,934) and the direct costs for the Sales and disposals 14,558 731,292 22 properties during the period totalled KSEK 1,997,676 (1,964,056). Depreciation for the year –1,359,934 –1,247,403 23 CLOSING ACCUMULATED External valuation DEPRECIATION ACCORDING TO PLAN –17,659,736 –16,308,505 24 To assure the internal valuation, selected properties are valued each year by external valuation companies. As of 30 September 2014, 74 25 valuation buildings/sellable units and 25 building rights at a fair value of Opening impairments –361,229 –630,598 26 SEK 18,069 million were valued externally, corresponding to approxiReclassifications 5,855 37,472 27 mately 28 per cent of the Akademiska Hus total fair value. The external Sales and disposals 4,605 121,793 valuations in 2015 were carried out by Cushman & Wakefield as a benchReversed impairments 29,144 135,603 28 mark for the internal cash flow valuations. Cushman & Wakefield’s valImpairments for the year –25,166 –25,499 29 uers are authorised by the Swedish Society of Real Estate Economics. The external valuations confirm the reliability of the internal valuation CLOSING ACCUMULATED IMPAIRMENTS –346,791 –361,229 30 model. 31 CARRYING AMOUNT 39,899,507 32,605,258 32 33 34 17 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 35 Group Parent Company 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 36 Opening acquisition 37 value 76,244 93,126 76,244 93,126 38 Purchases 6,867 2,784 6,867 2,784 39 Transferred from new construction in progress –6,663 –19,666 –6,663 –19,666 40 CLOSING 41 ACCUMULATED ACQUISITION VALUE 76,448 76,244 76,448 76,244 42 Opening depreciation –62,528 –74,971 –62,528 –74,971 Sales and disposals 6,459 19,612 6,459 19,612 Depreciation for the year –6,190 –7,169 –6,190 –7,169 CLOSING ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION –62,259 –62,528 –62,259 –62,528 CARRYING AMOUNT 14,189 13,716 14,189 13,716 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 80 Notes 1 18 Shares in Group companies 2 3 Parent Company 4 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 5 Opening acquisition value 700 650 Acquisition of subsidiaries — 300 6 Sale of subsidiaries –50 –250 7 CARRYING AMOUNT 650 700 8 9 Specification of the Parent Company’s shareholdings in Group companies: Parent Company 10 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 11 Registered Total number Share of equity Carrying Carrying 12 Subsidiaries Company reg. no. office of shares in %1 amount amount Akademiska Hus Utveckling och Support AB 556610-2975 Gothenburg 500 (500) 100 (100) 500 500 13 Kunskapsmiljön 6 AB 556966-0045 Gothenburg 0 (500) 0 (100) — 50 14 Kunskapsmiljön 7 AB 556966-0037 Gothenburg 500 (500) 100 (100) 50 50 15 Akademiska Hus Holding AB 556981-6803 Gothenburg 100 (100) 100 (100) 100 100 16 TOTAL 650 700 17 1) Corresponds to the number of votes. 18 19 19 Derivatives (Group) 20 Derivatives are used to handle interest risk exposure and to eliminate capital amounts and accrued interest. The Group’s risk management is 21 currency risks in conjunction with financing in a foreign currency and presented in Note 33 Fi-nancial risk management. 22 for electricity price risk management. The fair value of interest and Carrying amounts, derivatives, are broken down as follows: cross currency interest rate swap agreements includes the underlying 23 24 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 25 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 26 NON-CURRENT Independent derivatives – interest rate derivatives 461,669 585,273 289,393 722,217 27 Hedging instruments, fair value hedging 28 – interest rate derivatives — — 153,679 — 29 – cross currency interest rate swap agreements 1,196,258 — 1,031,134 — 30 Hedging instruments, cash flow hedging 31 – currency derivatives 37 208 3,491 — 32 – electricity derivatives — 16,045 — 13,339 33 TOTAL, NON-CURRENT 1,657,964 601,526 1,477,697 735,556 34 CURRENT Independent derivatives 35 – interest rate derivatives 12,166 65,652 30,687 84,787 36 – currency derivatives — — 502,708 — 37 Hedging instruments, fair value hedging 38 – cross currency interest rate swap agreements 226,566 — 19,844 — 39 Hedging instruments, cash flow hedging 40 – currency derivatives 11,886 119,709 253,548 14 – electricity derivatives — 31,667 — 24,121 41 TOTAL, CURRENT 250,618 217,028 806,787 108,922 42 TOTAL, DERIVATIVES 1,908,582 818,554 2,284,484 844,478 Fair value is equivalent to the carrying amount in the table above. Derivatives and swap agreements are on level 2 in the fair value hierarchy, see Note 32. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 81 The maturity structure of the Group’s derivatives is as follows, SEK m: 1 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 2 Independent Fair value Cash flow Independent Fair value Cash flow 3 derivatives1 hedging2 hedging3 derivatives1 hedging2 hedging3 4 Nominal Fair Nominal Fair Nominal Fair Nominal Fair Nominal Fair Nominal Fair amount value amount value amount value amount value amount value amount value 5 2016 3,342 –167 –1,275 227 –154 –33 –100 –37 –1,176 139 –77 –4 6 2017 100 –18 — — –74 –13 100 –29 — — –28 –1 7 2018 –3,600 –46 –2,822 640 –19 –3 150 –70 –2,611 510 — — 8 2019 1,000 –123 — — — — 1,000 –136 — — — — 9 2020 100 149 — — — — 1,385 107 — — — — 10 2021 2,326 –25 –1,700 279 — — 850 –34 –1,568 385 — — 2022 1,200 –38 — — — — 600 –46 — — — — 11 2023 and 12 later 700 –25 –2,545 –85 — — 820 –177 — — — — 13 TOTAL 5,168 –293 –8,342 1,061 –247 –49 4,805 –422 –5,355 1,034 –105 –5 14 1) Nominal amount, independent derivatives. A positive amount constitutes an extension of the portfolio’s fixed interest. 2) Nominal amount, fair value hedging. A negative amount constitutes a purchase of foreign currency. 15 3) Nominal amount, cash flow hedging. A negative amount constitutes a purchase of foreign currency and/or a purchase of electricity derivatives. 16 The table below shows the maturity structure for electricity and cur17 rency derivatives, SEK m, which constitute hedging instruments in 18 cash flow hedging. 19 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 20 Currency derivatives1 Electricity derivatives2 Currency derivatives1 Electricity derivatives2 21 Nominal Fair Nominal Fair Nominal Fair Nominal Fair amount value amount value amount value amount value 22 2016 –69 –1 –85 –32 –70 –3 –7 –1 23 2017 –24 — –50 –13 –25 –1 –3 — 24 2018 — — –19 –3 — — — — 25 TOTAL –93 –1 –154 –48 –95 –4 –10 –1 26 1) Nominal amount, currency derivatives. A negative amount constitutes a purchase of foreign currency. 27 2) Nominal amount, electricity derivatives. A negative amount constitutes a purchase of electricity derivatives. 28 The following table shows the maturity structure for forecast electricity 29 use together with electricity derivatives and currency derivatives entered into with the aim of hedging the electricity price. All outstanding cur30 rency hedgings are in EUR/SEK. 31 Hedging level, Hedging level, 32 Forecast use, MWh price, % currency, % 33 2016 440,000 82 75 34 2017 440,000 60 54 35 2018 440,000 38 33 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 82 Notes The provision for doubtful rent receivables and accounts receivable 1 20 Other non-current receivables changed as follows: 2 Group Parent Company 3 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 2014-12-31 Group Parent Company Interest-bearing 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 4 promissory note — 192,911 — 192,911 Opening balance –128 –239 –128 –239 5 Other non-interestProvisions for the year –1,845 –258 –1,845 –258 6 bearing receivables 343,273 278,247 343,273 278,247 Reversed provisions — 108 — 108 7 TOTAL 343,273 471,158 343,273 471,158 Established credit losses 82 261 82 261 8 Other non-current receivables are reported at amortised cost. Fair CLOSING BALANCE –1,891 –128 –1,891 –128 9 value is equivalent to the carrying amount. 10 Of the Group’s non-current receivables, KSEK 133 761 is expected to be realised within five years of the year-end and KSEK 209 512 later 11 than five years. 22 Other receivables 12 Group Parent Company The interest-bearing promissory note changed as follows: 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 13 14 Group Parent Company Interest-bearing promissory note 15 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 (reclassified from Opening balance 192,911 188,892 192,911 188,892 non-current 16 receivables) 192,911 — 192,911 — Provisions for the year — 4,019 — 4,019 17 VAT receivable 118,740 157,878 118,740 157,877 Reclassification to 18 current receivables –192,911 — –192,911 — Settlement, taxes and charges 461,235 281,341 461,235 281,341 19 CLOSING BALANCE 0 192,911 0 192,911 Other current 20 receivables 123,527 121,403 123,526 121,403 Other non-interest-bearing receivables changed as follows: TOTAL 896,413 560,622 896,412 560,621 21 22 Group Parent Company Other current receivables are reported at amortised cost. 23 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 Opening balance 278,247 197,635 278,247 197,635 24 25 Purchases for the year 263,955 137,385 263,955 137,385 23 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Allocation against 26 Group Parent Company profit or loss for the year –189,073 –45,542 –189,073 –45,542 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 27 Reclassification to Accrued rent 44,750 57,778 44,750 57,778 28 current receivables –9,856 –11,231 –9,856 –11,231 Prepaid rent — 272 — 272 29 CLOSING BALANCE 343,273 278,247 343,273 278,247 Accrued interest 30 income 2,470 2,240 2,470 2,240 31 Prepaid interest 21 Rent receivables and accounts receivable expense — 115 — 115 32 Prepaid operating Group Parent Company 33 costs 12,637 8,733 12,637 8,733 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 Other 26,831 21,163 26,831 21,163 34 Rent receivables and TOTAL 86,688 90,301 86,688 90,301 35 accounts receivable 273,298 230,389 273,298 230,389 Provision, doubtful 36 rent receivables and 37 accounts receivable –1,891 –128 –1,891 –128 24 Due date structure, receivables 38 TOTAL 271,407 230,261 271,407 230,261 Group Parent Company 39 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 Rent receivables and accounts receivable are reported at amortised 40 Receivables expected cost. The fair value of rent receivables and accounts receivable concurs to be cleared within one 41 with the carrying amount as of the year-end and there is no impairyear of the year-end 1,537,781 1,762,085 1,537,780 1,762,147 ment requirement. 42 Receivables expected Of the rent receivables and accounts receivable that had fallen due to be cleared within 1–5 as of 31 December 2015, KSEK 107,941 had fallen due by 1–5 days, KSEK years of the year-end 1,322,761 1,340,242 1,322,761 1,340,242 150 had fallen due by 5–30 days, KSEK 505 had fallen due by 30–60 Receivables expected days and KSEK 11,588 had fallen due by more than 60 days. Receivables to be cleared later than falling due do not include impaired receivables. five years after the year-end 678,476 608,613 678,476 608,613 TOTAL 3,539,018 3,710,940 3,539,017 3,711,002 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 83 25 Cash and cash equivalents/Cash 27 Loans 1 and bank balances The Group’s financing takes place mainly through the public financing 2 Current investments comprise temporary surplus liquidity, invested in programmes. Through their standardised terms and conditions, these 3 the short term, totalling KSEK 2,160,838 (2,559,438) and collateral permit rational, cost-effective financing. The Group has international 4 granted attributable to Credit Support Annex (CSA) agreements totalECP and EMTN programmes, as well as a domestic commercial paper 5 ling KSEK 343,151 (227,262). Blocked bank funds in respect of pledged programme. The MTN programme has not been updated since 2009. assets for stock market-cleared derivatives are included to the amount Bank financing is used to a limited extent. The average capital for bank 6 of KSEK 245,597 (122,527) in the reported amount for cash and bank financing during 2015 was SEK 113 million (218). 7 balances for the Group and the Parent Company. This is a buffer to Loans in the Group are categorised and reported at amortised cost. cover expected daily collateral requirements. The Group’s risk management is presented in Note 33 Financial risk 8 management. 9 Group Parent Company 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 FINANCING COST 10 Net interest income and expense amounted to SEK –182 million (–939) 11 Current investments 2,503,989 2,786,700 2,503,989 2,786,700 and the average net liability portfolio was SEK 21,628 million (19,074). 12 Cash and bank The financing cost amounted to 1.22 per cent (5.04), calculated as interbalances 1,800,596 1,771,383 1,800,447 1,771,182 est expense in relation to average interest-bearing net loan liability, 13 TOTAL 4,304,585 4,558,083 4,304,436 4,557,882 excluding cash and bank holdings. The changes in value in the financial 14 derivative instruments correspond to a reduction in interest expense Cash and cash equivalents are reported and valued according to the of 0.74 per cent (increase 2.61). 15 category ‘assets valued at fair value through profit or loss’. Fair value is 16 FINANCING COST, BREAKDOWN, % equivalent to the carrying amount of cash and bank holdings and cur17 rent investments. Cash and bank holdings are on level 1 and current 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 investments are on level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. 18 Financing costs for loans, incl. charges, % 1.38 2.01 2.24 2.75 2.78 19 Interest swaps, 20 26 Hedge reserve/Fair value reserve net interest, % 0.58 0.42 0.39 0.40 0.44 21 Group Parent Company Financing cost, % 1.96 2.43 2.63 3.15 3.22 22 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 Changes in value, Opening balance –18,858 –44,653 –18,858 –44,653 financial derivatives, % –0.74 2.61 –0.01 1.06 –0.23 23 Change in value, TOTAL FINANCING COST 1.22 5.04 2.62 4.21 2.99 24 derivatives (cash flow hedging) 25 EFFECT OF FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES ON PROFIT – currency derivatives –13,769 13,731 –13,769 13,731 26 Independent interest rate derivatives are reported at market value (fair – electricity derivavalue) and variations in market value are recognised in net interest 27 tives –7,448 55,826 –7,448 55,826 income and expense. Interest derivatives are mainly entered into with 28 Transferred to the aim of extending the fixed interest period in the liability portfolio, operating profit 5,118 –36,486 5,118 –36,486 which largely consists of financing at variable interest rates. Falling 29 Tax effect 3,542 –7,276 3,542 –7,276 interest rates entail a negative impact on profit from these interest rate 30 CLOSING BALANCE –31,415 –18,858 –31,415 –18,858 derivatives; the opposite is true when interest rates rise. The changes in value relate to the changed current value of future cash flows from 31 interest rate derivatives, at prevailing interest rates. Consequently 32 The tax effect, KSEK 3,542 (–7,276) refers to the change for the year. these do not have any immediate effect on cash flow, as long as they The closing deferred tax receivable/payable is reported in Note 13 remain unrealised. Certain interest rate derivatives are closed and 33 Taxes. settled on an ongoing basis (monthly or quarterly) and replaced with 34 new ones, which means that profits are continuously realised. Falling 35 interest rates, combined with interest rate derivatives for purposes of extension, mean that interest expense will be higher than if the exten36 sion had not been implemented. However, the lower interest rate can 37 be used when refinancing and with sales of fixed interest at a later date. As time passes, no surplus or deficit values of interest rate derivatives 38 will remain at maturity. 39 The currency and interest risks that arise in conjunction with long40 term financing, usually bonds in foreign currency, are hedged with currency-interest rate swaps. The changes in value for each instrument 41 can be attributed to changes in both exchange rates and interest rates. 42 Hedge accounting is applied for these forms of financing, where only the inefficiencies that arise due to different valuation practices are recognised in the income statement. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 84 Notes 1 Borrowing can be broken down as follows, SEK m: 2 Group Parent Company 3 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 4 Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value 5 NON-CURRENT LOANS 6 Category, other financial liabilities 7 Bonds & MTN 770 831 1,120 1,224 770 831 1,120 1,224 8 EMTN 10,046 9,941 5,761 6,717 10,046 9,941 5,761 6,717 9 Other loans 372 426 387 459 372 426 387 459 TOTAL 11,188 11,198 7,268 8,400 11,188 11,198 7,268 8,400 10 11 Category, financial liabilities at fair value 12 through profit or loss according to the fair value hedging method 13 EMTN 6,714 6,712 5,086 5,089 6,714 6,712 5,086 5,089 14 Other loans 720 719 678 678 720 719 678 678 15 TOTAL 7,434 7,431 5,764 5,767 7,434 7,431 5,764 5,767 16 17 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LOANS 18,622 18,629 13,032 14,167 18,622 18,629 13,032 14,167 18 CURRENT LOANS 19 Category, other financial liabilities 20 Commercial paper 2,001 2,003 — — 2,001 2,003 — — 21 ECP 5,528 5,534 5,099 5,089 5,528 5,534 5,099 5,089 22 Bonds & MTN 350 357 141 141 350 357 141 141 23 EMTN 605 621 3,567 3,604 605 621 3,567 3,604 24 Other loans 15 15 14 14 15 15 14 14 25 TOTAL 8,499 8,530 8,821 8,848 8,499 8,530 8,821 8,848 26 Category, financial liabilities at fair value 27 through profit or loss according to the fair 28 value hedging method Bonds & MTN 1,278 1,283 1,271 1,255 1,278 1,283 1,271 1,255 29 TOTAL 1,278 1,283 1,271 1,255 1,278 1,283 1,271 1,255 30 31 TOTAL CURRENT LOANS 9,777 9,813 10,092 10,103 9,777 9,813 10,092 10,103 32 33 TOTAL LOANS 28,399 28,442 23,124 24,270 28,399 28,442 23,124 24,270 34 The above table shows nominal amounts excluding accrued coupon interest. 35 36 Fixed interest Variable interest 37 Loans Derivatives Total Loans ECP Derivatives Total Total 38 2016 2,125 –785 1,340 200 7,542 668 8,410 9,750 2017 500 400 900 500 — –400 100 1,000 39 2018 3,422 –1,822 1,600 500 — 1,308 1,808 3,408 40 2019 1,120 1,000 2,120 1,000 — –1,000 0 2,120 41 2020 650 1,600 2,250 220 — –1,600 –1,380 870 42 2021 2,700 50 2,750 200 — –371 –171 2,579 2022 — 1,200 1,200 — — –1,200 –1,200 0 2023 and later 7,314 –1,845 5,469 124 — 1,891 2,016 7,484 TOTAL 17,831 –202 17,629 2,744 7,542 –704 9,582 27,211 The above table shows financing (nominal amount) together with outnor, the exchange rate effect is eliminated. A positive figure means that standing interest and currency derivatives. Loans and derivatives in the Group pays interest and a negative figure means that the Group foreign currency have been translated at the year-end exchange rate. receives interest. As all loans raised in a foreign currency are swapped to Swedish kroAKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 85 MATERIAL CONTR ACTUAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS Salary risk – The current value of the defined benefit commitment is 1 The general terms and conditions for the EMTN and MTN programmes calculated in the light of future salaries for members of the plan. Major include a clause which specifies that if the Swedish state ceases, directly salary increases compared with what was included in the actuarial cal2 or indirectly, to hold more than 50 per cent of the shares, equivalent to culations entail a risk that the Group’s liability could increase, as could 3 more than 50 per cent of the shareholding and more than 50 per cent of the Group’s pension expense. 4 the votes, the loans and any interest shall fall due for repayment immeIncome base amount – The current value of the defined benefit oblidiately. The contractual terms and conditions for the short-term financgations is calculated in the light of future increases in the income base 5 ing programmes do not include any equivalent undertaking. Ever since amount. A larger increase than assumed in the actuarial calculations 6 the programmes were established, the Group’s policy has been not to means a risk that the Group’s liability could increase, as could the accept any terms and conditions that require, for example, that a certain Group’s pension expense. 7 rating, equity ratio or interest coverage ratio be maintained. The actuarial computation of the pension commitments and pen8 sion costs is based on the following assumptions: 9 HEDGE ACCOUNTING When financing in a foreign currency, all future payment flows are Assumptions 2015 2014 10 hedged so that the exchange risk is eliminated. Through cross currency Discount rate, % 3.00 2.40 11 interest rate swap agreements, all interest payments, both fixed and Salary increase, % 1.50 2.80 variable, are hedged as well as future repayments. All the measures 12 Inflation, % 1.50 1.30 taken have the express purpose of hedging and eliminating an exchange 13 rate risk so that all financing is denominated in Swedish kronor. EffecIncome base amount, % 2.50 2.30 tive hedging means that changes in the value of the hedged position and Personnel turnover, % 2.00 2.00 14 the actual hedging transaction on balance counteract each other. Mortality DUS14 DUS06 15 16 Assumptions regarding life expectancy are based on public statistics 28 Provisions for pensions and experience of mortality calculations in Sweden and have been 17 adopted in consultation with actuarial experts. These assumptions 18 The Group’s pension commitments include both defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans according to collective agreements. result in the following average remaining life expectancy for a person 19 who retires at the age of 65: 20 DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLANS Estimated average remaining 21 The Group’s defined contribution pension plans, ITP 1 and Alternative life expectancy, years 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 ITP (a pension for high-income earners) cover all Group employees. 22 Retirement at the year-end The defined contribution pension plans mainly comprise a retirement 23 pension, sickness pension and family pension. The premiums are paid Men 20.4 20.9 continuously throughout the year to different insurance companies. Women 23.3 23.5 24 The premiums are based on salary. Retirement 20 years after the year-end 25 The total cost for the financial year for defined contribution pension Men 22.3 22.6 26 plans excluding payroll tax (Group and Parent Company) amounted to KSEK 21,695 (20,674). Women 24.6 24.5 27 28 DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS The following amounts regarding the defined benefit pension cost are All Group employees are covered by the Group’s defined benefit pension reported in the Income Statement: 29 plan, ITP 2. According to this plan, the employees are entitled to pension 30 benefits based on their pensionable income as well as the number of Amount reported in the Income Statement 2015 2014 years of service. The pension plan mainly comprises a retirement penBenefits earned during the year 22,821 19,756 31 sion, sickness pension and family pension. The pension commitments 32 Interest on pension provision 9,771 12,133 are secured through provisions in the FPG/PRI system as well as the ITP plan family pension, sickness pension and occupational group life PARTS OF THE DEFINED BENEFIT 33 PENSION COST REPORTED IN THE through insurance premiums. All pension commitments which the 34 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 32,592 31,889 Akademiska Hus Group took over from the National Board of Public 35 Building when the Company was formed on 1 October 1993 are defined benefit plans, secured through provisions in the Statement of Financial The defined benefit costs have been reported as a personnel cost and 36 Position, guaranteed by the National Debt Office and administered by interest cost respectively. 37 the National Government Employees’ Pension Board (SPV). All defined benefit pension commitments are credit-insured by PRI Pensionsgaranti. The following actuarial gains and losses have been reported under 38 The most recent actuarial calculation of the current value of the Total comprehensive income: 39 defined benefit commitment was carried out by an authorised actuary on 31 December 2015. When calculating the current value of the defined Total amount reported under other 40 comprehensive income 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 benefit commitment and associated costs for employment during the 41 current period and associated costs for employment during previous Revaluation of the net defined benefit liability 42 periods, the Projected Unit Credit Method was used. The ITP 2 plan exposes the Group to a number of actuarial risks, such Actuarial gains and losses that arise as an interest risk, risk regarding life expectancy and the increase in as a result of changes in demographic assumptions 4,304 — the income base amount. Interest risk – A reduction in the bond rate of interest will increase Actuarial gains and losses that arise the pension liability. Possible future falls in the interest rate on firstas a result of changes in financial assumptions 23,299 –71,558 class mortgage bonds in SEK could thus entail a risk that the Group’s pension expense and undertakings could increase. Actuarial gains and losses that arise as a result of changes in experience –5,578 8,921 Life expectancy risk – The current value of the defined benefit obligation is calculated with consideration given to the Group’s best assessTOTAL AMOUNT REPORTED UNDER ment regarding mortality for members of the plan, both during and after OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 22,025 –62,637 employment. There is a risk that life expectancy will increase for the members of the plan, which would in that case increase both the pension costs and the Group’s commitment. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 86 Notes 1 The change for the period in the defined benefit obligation can be seen Pension commitments and provisions for pension commitments for the in the following table: defined benefit plans in the Parent Company have changed as follows: 2 3 Change in the defined benefit Pension commitments 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 obligation for the period 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 Opening balance 270,208 262,147 4 Opening balance 407,140 327,909 Pension costs, defined benefit plans 5,267 5,050 5 Service costs during the period 22,821 19,756 Interest expense 10,027 15,438 6 Net interest cost 9,771 12,133 Payments –13,702 –12,427 7 Actuarial gains (+)/losses (–) CLOSING BALANCE 271,800 270,208 Changes in demographic assumptions –4,304 — 8 Changes in financial assumptions –23,299 71,558 The total pension cost in the Parent Company is broken down as follows: 9 Experience-based adjustments 5,578 –8,921 10 2015 2014 Pension payments –16,273 –15,295 11 Pension costs, defined benefit plans 5,267 5,050 CLOSING BALANCE 401,434 407,140 12 Interest part of the pension cost 10,027 15,438 13 The estimated term of the Group’s defined benefit pension commitPENSION COSTS, DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS 15,294 20,488 ment can be seen in the following table: 14 15 Estimated term for the pension Pension costs, defined commitment 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 contribution plans 21,695 20,674 16 Fall due for payment within Employer’s contribution and tax 17 one year of the year-end 13,682 13,101 on the yield, other pension costs 8,607 9,691 18 Fall due for payment 1–5 years TOTAL PENSION COSTS 45,596 50,853 after the year-end 56,401 54,534 19 Fall due for payment later than 20 five years after the year-end 331,351 339,505 ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS The actuarial calculation of pension commitments and pension costs in TOTAL 401,434 407,140 21 the Parent Company is based on the actuarial assumptions laid down in 22 the FPG/PRI system and by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Below is a sensitivity analysis of the defined benefit obligations reflectAuthority. 23 ing changes in the applied assumptions for the discount rate, inflation 24 and wage growth. The sensitivity analysis is based on the change in one assumption while all other assumptions held constant. Such a scenario 29 Other liabilities 25 is unlikely in practice, and changes in certain assumptions can be cor26 related. Group Parent Company 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 27 Sensitivity analysis, pension obligations 31-12-2015 Other interestbearing 28 Recorded pension obligation under the reported assumptions 401,434 liabilities 1,380,100 1,743,625 1,380,100 1,743,625 29 Discount rate increases by 0.5 percentage points 371,618 Debt to the owner, non-interest bearing 2 000 000 — 2 000 000 — 30 Discount rate decreases by 0.5 percentage points 435,246 Other non-interest31 Inflation increases by 0.5 percentage points 441,393 bearing liabilities 240,676 268,029 241,276 268,629 Wage growth increases by 0.5 percentage points 430,456 TOTAL, OTHER 32 LIABILITIES 3,620,776 2,011,654 3,621,376 2,012,254 33 FUTURE PAYMENTS 34 The Group is expected to pay KSEK 36,911 (32,592) in charges for the Other liabilities are reported and valued according to the Other financial 35 defined benefit plan during the forthcoming financial year. liabilities category. The fair value is equivalent to the carrying amount of other liabilities. The Group’s other liabilities are on level 2 in the fair 36 PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR OBLIGATIONS IN value hierarchy. 37 THE PARENT COMPANY The Parent Company has entered into a supplementary agreement, The reported pension liability in the Parent Company comprises: a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to the ISDA agreement, with the aim of 38 handling exposure to counter-party risks in derivatives. The agreement 39 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 means that the parties mutually undertake to furnish collateral in the 40 FPG/PRI pensions 205,799 196,679 form of cash and cash equivalents or securities with a good rating for Other pensions 66,001 73,529 undervalues in outstanding derivatives. The agreement in turn gives 41 the secured party right of disposal of collateral received. As of the yearTOTAL 271,800 270,208 42 end, the Group received collateral through the CSA agreements totalling KSEK 1,380,100 (1,743,625). Other pensions in the Parent Company mainly refer to the historical Of the Group’s other liabilities, KSEK 3,570,029 falls due for paypension liability that was taken over from the National Board of Public ment within one year of the year-end, KSEK 41,500 within one to five Building when the Akademiska Hus Group was founded in 1993. years of the year-end, and KSEK 9,247 later than five years after the year-end. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 87 30 Accrued expenses and prepaid income Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 1 ASSETS 2 Group Parent Company Investments 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 3 – current investment — 2,160,838 — 2,160,838 Prepaid rental revenue 1,335,956 1,387,209 1,335,956 1,387,209 4 Independent derivatives Accrued salary and 5 personnel costs 31,582 31,245 31,582 31,245 – interest rate derivatives — 473,835 — 473,835 Accrued operating and Hedging instruments, fair 6 maintenance costs 88,617 91,923 88,617 91,923 value hedging 7 Accrued investments 198,292 52,458 198,292 52,458 – cross currency interest 8 rate swap agreements — 1,422,825 — 1,422,825 Accrued interest 184,689 227,839 184,689 227,839 Hedging instruments, cash 9 Other interim flow hedging liabilities 19,524 13,952 19,524 13,952 10 – currency derivatives — 11,922 — 11,922 TOTAL 1,858,660 1,804,626 1,858,660 1,804,626 11 TOTAL ASSETS — 4,069,420 — 4,069,420 12 LIABILITIES 13 31 Due date structure, liabilities Independent derivatives 14 Group Parent Company – interest rate derivatives — 650,924 — 650,924 15 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 – currency derivatives — 119,917 — 119,917 16 Liabilities due for payment within one – electricity derivatives 47,712 — — 47,712 17 year of the year-end 15,724,434 14,348,082 15,727,186 14,350,888 TOTAL LIABILITIES 47,712 770,841 — 818,553 Liabilities due for 18 payment within 1–5 19 years of the year-end 8,447,157 7,618,570 8,447,157 7,618,570 Liabilities due for 33 Financial risk management (Group) 20 payment later than 21 five years after the year-end 19,989,824 14,321,217 13,173,047 7,059,116 Akademiska Hus carries on active debt management where the strat22 TOTAL 44,161,415 36,287,869 37,347,390 29,028,574 egy is to weigh up the financial risks against the desired low financing 23 cost over time. The two key policy documents adopted by the Board are: • Finance Policy: Describes the long-term strategic orientation, the 24 Group’s approach to financial risks and the mandate to handle these 25 32 Financial instruments valued at fair value risks, as well as the allocation of liability. 26 • Plan for handling financial risks (Risk Plan): Justifies annual manThe following table shows the financial assets and liabilities that are dates for financial risk management in the light of the risk scenario 27 valued at fair value. These are purchased to be held to maturity and are and existing exposure. Also includes analysis of developments in identified already at initial recognition. They are classified in a hier­ 28 financial markets, including both opportunities and challenges from archy, comprising three levels and based on the information used to the point of view of debt management. 29 set their fair value. Level 1 refers to when fair value is set based on listed prices on 30 The Parent Company’s Treasury Department handles the Group’s active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 refers to when 31 financial management. This arrangement fosters effective and co-ordifair value is set based on observable data other than listed prices on nated financial risk management that also allows utilisation of the 32 active markets. Level 3 refers to when the set fair value is essentially opportunities offered in the financial markets. based on data that is not observable, i.e. the Company’s own assump33 tions. INTEREST RISK 34 The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is set by using inforThe term ‘interest risk’ refers to the risk that the Group’s net interest 35 mation that is attributable to one or more of the above-mentioned levels. income and expense may vary due to a change in market interest rates. The classification is determined by the lowest level in the hierarchy for 36 Exposure to interest rate risk is high due to the high net liability portthe information that has a material impact on the value. folio, where one of the largest expenses is net interest income and 37 The Group mainly holds derivatives that are on level 2. The valuaexpense. A balance must be reached between saving and uncertainty tion of the instruments is done according to the zero coupon method, 38 on the one hand and higher costs (risk premium) and predictability on which means that all the future cash flows of the instrument are set at the other. The average fixed interest period is a measure of the sensitiv39 the current value. The zero coupon interest rates used to discount the ity in net interest income and expense in conjunction with a change in cash flows are calculated with the aid of STIBOR/LIBOR for short-term 40 the market interest rates; the longer the fixed interest period, the longer interest rates and swap notations for longer terms. The source of this it takes for an interest rate change to be reflected in current cash flow. 41 information is real-time data from Thomson/Reuters. Since it is not possible to achieve a desired fixed interest on individual 42 financing occasions, the Group uses interest derivatives as a means of adjusting and securing the desired fixed interest period. According to the Finance Policy, there should be a mandate to manage interest rate risk in the three main sub-portfolios as follows: Long-term bond portfolio – bonds with fixed interest and maturity terms in excess of 15 years. These bonds represent a significant interest risk exposure, which justifies a separate mandate. The portfolio is therefore permitted to amount to a maximum of 20 per cent (20) of the total portfolio. At the turn of the year, long-term bonds totalling SEK 3,619 million (3,155) were issued, equivalent to 13.3 per cent (14.8) of the total portfolio. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 Notes 1 Index-linked bond portfolio – bonds linked to the real interest rate, must The Group’s cash and bank balances at the end of 2015 totalled SEK not exceed 10 per cent (2) of the total portfolio. At the turn of the year, 4,305 million (4,558). At the year-end, bank facilities granted totalled 2 index-linked bonds totalling SEK 900 million were issued, equivalent SEK 4,000 million (3,100). 3 to 6.75 per cent (0) of the total portfolio. Basic portfolio – consists of the remaining portion of commercial FACILITIES AND RATING 4 paper, bonds and interest rate derivatives. The portfolio is managed Rating Utilised, 5 within an average fixed interest period mandate. The current mandate Standard & Framework nominal is a fixed interest period of 2 to 5 years (2–5 years). The fixed interest Poor’s 31-12-2015 31-12-2015 6 period at the year-end was 3.6 years (3.4), including interest derivatives. Bank SEK 4,000 m 0 7 DUE DATE STRUCTURE FOR FIXED INTEREST PERIODS AND LIABILITY Commercial paper A1+/K1 SEK 4,000 m SEK 2,000 m 8 MATURITY, SEK M ECP (Euro Commercial 9 Paper) A1+ EUR 1,000 m EUR 605 m Fixed interest, Maturity, 10 SEK m SEK m MTN (Medium Term Note)1 AA SEK 8,000 m SEK 1,120 m 11 2016 6,537 7,586 EMTN (Euro Medium Term Note) AA/A1+ EUR 3,000 m EUR 1886 m 12 2017 1,000 1,364 1) Not updated since 2009. 2018 3,408 1,600 13 2019 2,120 2,120 The table below shows the remaining contractual term for the Group’s 14 2020 870 2,250 financial liabilities. The liquidity flows are not discounted and foreign 15 flows have been translated at the rate on the closing date. For those 2021 2,579 2,750 16 instruments where the future variable rate of interest is unknown, the 2022 — 1,200 rate of interest has been calculated with the aid of the implicit forward 17 2023 and later 7,561 5,205 interest rates for the yield curve on the closing date. 18 TOTAL 24,075 24,075 Use is made primarily of rental revenue to meet the obligations linked to the Group’s financial liabilities presented in the table below. 19 The table above shows the nominal amounts. The nominal amounts The rental revenue falls due for payment quarterly and is subject to 20 have been recalculated at the year-end rate. As all loans raised in a forlong agreement terms. The credit risk associated with rental revenue is 21 eign currency are swapped to Swedish kronor, the exchange rate effect considered low. 22 is neutralised. A positive figure means that the Group pays interest and LIQUIDITY RISK, SEK M a negative figure means that the Group receives interest. 23 Current 24 CURRENCY EXPOSURE RISK Hedged Derivative DerivainvestA currency risk is the risk that exchange rate changes will have an Loans loans insurance tives ments Total 25 impact on the Income Statements and Consolidated Balance Sheets. 2016 –3,821 –6,345 –128 206 3,708 –6,380 26 The policy is that all currency exposure risk in conjunction with 2017 –1,243 –113 –104 63 — –1,397 financing in foreign currency should be eliminated as the operation is 27 2018 –1,340 –2,936 –62 546 — –3,792 denominated exclusively in Swedish kronor. All payment flows in for28 eign currency attributable to financing are exchange-hedged with the 2019 –1,950 –55 21 –438 — –2,422 29 aid of forward rate agreements and cross currency swap agreements. 2020 –1,082 –55 74 –60 — –1,123 2021 –1,381 –1,755 28 279 — –2,829 30 CURRENCY BREAKDOWN, LOANS AND DERIVATIVES, SEK M 2022 –168 –17 –19 –76 — –280 31 Original currency Loans Derivatives Total 2023 and 32 AUD 61 –61 0 later –6,705 –2,566 71 –783 — –9,983 33 CAD 36 –36 0 TOTAL –17,690 –13,844 –117 –263 3,708 –28,206 34 CHF 7,224 –7,224 0 GBP 1,994 –1,994 0 Positive value = payments received, negative value = payments made. 35 JPY 697 –697 0 36 CREDIT RISK AND COUNTER-PARTY RISK SEK 14,833 12,378 27,211 The risk of a loss if a counter-party does not meet its undertakings. The 37 USD 3,272 –3,272 0 Group is exposed when surplus liquidity is placed in financial assets 38 and in conjunction with changes in the value of derivatives. The Risk TOTAL 28,117 –906 27,211 39 Plan includes a limit system where permitted exposure depends on the counter-party’s credit rating or ownership and the term of the involve40 The table above shows the nominal amounts. The nominal amounts ment. The limits are related to the Group’s risk capacity in the form of have been recalculated at the year-end rate. 41 equity. In addition, investments should be characterised by good liquidity in the secondary market. 42 LIQUIDITY AND REFINANCING RISK The Group’s policy is that internationally standardised netting Refers to the risk that the Group will be exposed to higher than agreements, ISDA agreements, should always be signed with a counexpected expenses or that financing potential is limited when loans are ter-party before uncleared derivative transactions take place. As of 31 due to be refinanced. The aim is to limit the costs by seeking to strike a December 2015, the total counter-party exposure in derivatives (calcubalance between short-term, medium-term and long-term financing, lated as the net claim per counter-party) stood at SEK 1,008 million and endeavouring to achieve diversification between different financ(1,482). With the aim of reducing exposure to a counter-party risk, the ing arrangements and markets. The Group’s extremely high credit­ Group has entered into a number of supplementary agreements, Credit worthiness allows a diversified supply of credit through the public Support Annexes (CSA), to the ISDA agreements. The agreements mean financing programmes. that the parties mutually undertake to make collateral available in the According to the maturity mandate, a maximum of 50 per cent (50) form of cash and cash equivalents or bonds for the undervalues in outmay fall due for refinancing within a 12-month period. standing derivative contracts. At the year-end, the Group had received Unutilised credit facilities should be in place to guarantee good SEK 1,037 million (1,516) net. payment capacity. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 89 The table below shows financial assets and liabilities (derivatives) that are not offset in the balance sheet, but are covered by framework agreements 1 for netting or similar agreements: 2 Amounts that are not offset, but are covered by Amounts that are not offset, but are covered by 3 framework agreements for netting or similar agreements framework agreements for netting or similar agreements 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 4 Reported financial Reported financial 5 assets/liabilities Cash collateral assets/liabilities Cash collateral gross received Net amount gross received Net amount 6 ASSETS 7 Derivatives 1,908,582 –1,380,100 528,482 2,284,484 –1,743,625 540,859 8 TOTAL 1,908,582 –1,380,100 528,482 2,284,484 –1,743,625 540,859 9 10 LIABILITIES 11 Derivatives 818,553 –343,151 475,402 844,478 –227,262 617,216 TOTAL 818,553 –343,151 475,402 844,478 –227,262 617,216 12 13 The table below shows the Group’s exposure to counter-party risks instruments takes place through Nord Pool. To limit the counter-party 14 divided according to different rating categories: risk, all financial trading is cleared through third party against which Akademiska Hus pledges and receives security, depending on whether 15 COUNTER-PARTY RISK, EXCLUDING RENT RECEIVABLES, SEK M the derivative position has a positive or negative value. 16 17 Collateral CREDIT RISK ATTRIBUTABLE TO RENT RECEIVABLES Receiv­ received/ Net A large proportion of the Group’s receivables are rent receivables. The 18 able Liability granted exposure maximum credit risk exposure for rent receivables and accounts receiva19 INSTITUTIONS WITH A ble is equal to their carrying amounts. However, the assessed credit risk in LONG RATING 20 rent receivables is low in the light of the high credit rating of the tenants. AA–/Aa3 59 –53 25 –19 21 A+/A1 — –180 –196 16 RISK CONTROL 22 A/A2 1,041 –95 815 131 Ongoing work is being done to improve the level of expertise, routines and internal control. There is strict allocation of responsibility between 23 A–/A3 200 — — 200 the Treasury and Risk Control. The unit handles accounting and adminBBB+/Baa1 113 — 113 0 24 istration as well as compliance with the mandates. The task of developBBB–/Baa3 286 –20 280 –14 ing and refining analytical support and risk control is ongoing. 25 INSTITUTIONS WITH 26 ONLY A SHORT RATING SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, LIABILITY PORTFOLIO The interest-bearing liability portfolio is constantly exposed to inter27 Companies wholly owned by the Swedish state 1 301 — — 1,301 est rate changes on the market. The analysis of the liability portfolio 28 Companies wholly owned interest sensitivity is divided into two parts: 29 by the Swedish state 360 — — 360 • Changes in the value of interest derivatives (current values). • Cash flow effects (net interest income/expense) over a calendar year 30 TOTAL 3,360 –348 1,037 1,975 for items with a short fixed interest period, which are given a new 31 short-term rate of interest for the remainder of the year. Positive figure = Group receivable, negative figure = Group liability. 32 As the fixed interest period is diversified and in accordance with the 33 ELECTRICITY PRICE RISK current risk mandate, a minimum of two years on average, the variaThe risk approach and mandate for handling the electricity price risk is tions in the interest cost will fluctuate to a lesser extent than if the fixed 34 governed by the Guidelines for Purchasing Electricity. The term ‘elecinterest period had been very short, e.g. three months. 35 tricity price risk’ refers to the risk that the future price of electricity The Company has fixed interest periods both within and outside the will affect the Group’s operating costs negatively and with low predict36 Statement of Financial Position in the form of interest derivatives. The aim ability. With the aim of reducing exposure to changes in the electricity of these derivatives is to facilitate a change in the liability portfolio’s fixed 37 price, different financial price-hedging instruments are used (electricity interest period in addition to what is achieved directly in the financing. 38 derivatives). The Group stipulates a long-term price hedging strategy. The table shows the impact on profit of a rise in interest of one percentTrade in physical electric power (spot) and financial price-hedging age point. The calculations are based on an unchanged liability amount. 39 40 41 42 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 90 Notes 1 Net interest income/ Fixed Change in value expense with 100 interest 2 Nominal Maturity, interest, Interest risk, of +100 interest points, SEK m during amount, years, years, one interest Interest, points, SEK m as the remainder of the 3 SEK m average average point, SEK m % of the year-end1 calendar year1 4 Fixed interest positions with a fixed 5 interest period longer than one year within the Statement of Financial Position2 8,639 13.35 12.69 8.15 2.58 — — 6 Interest derivatives, fixed interest 8,050 0.00 4.53 3.64 1.84 361 — 7 Interest derivatives, variable interest –8,050 0.00 0.16 0.25 0.15 — 68 8 Variable interest within the Statement of Financial Position3 18,572 2.69 0.19 0.48 0.25 — –151 9 TOTAL 27,211 6.08 5.45 12.52 1.39 361 –83 10 1) Refers to +100 interest points in a parallel displacement of the yield curve. 11 2) F ixed interest positions with a fixed interest period in excess of one year within the Statement of Financial Position refer to issues in SEK that are not included in fair value hedges. 12 3) Variable interest within the Statement of Financial Position refers to the total effect of issues in a foreign currency which, via derivatives, have been swapped 13 to variable interest in SEK and which are reported as hedges and FRN issues. 14 15 34 Asset management (Group) 35 Pledged assets 16 Group Parent Company The Group strives to achieve good growth in profit, financial sustaina17 bility and financial capacity. The financial objectives are set to provide 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 18 a combination of a high return on equity, high growth capacity and Blocked bank funds 245,597 122,526 245,597 122,526 financial stability. Current investments 343,151 227,262 343,151 227,262 19 According to the owner’s financial targets for Akademiska Hus, the TOTAL 588,748 349,788 588,748 349,788 20 dividend should amount to between 40 and 60 per cent of the net profit after tax after reversal of changes in fair value and related deferred tax. 21 Unsettled results from transactions as well as standardised computed When deciding on a dividend, consideration should be given to the 22 Group’s capital structure and capital requirements (equity ratio 30 per safety margins using stock exchange-cleared derivatives have been cent to 40 per cent). secured through blocked bank funds. 23 The other financial targets are that the equity ratio should be Pledged assets increased by SEK 239 million. The increase can be 24 between 30 and 40 per cent and that the return on operating capital attributed to pledged assets for the Group’s liabilities resulting from an 25 should be at least 6.5 per cent. In order to adjust the capital structure to increase in the volume of CSA agreements as well as an increase in the owner’s objective an Extraordinary General Meeting in October blocked bank funds. 26 authorised disbursement of an additional distribution to the owner of The Group also received collateral of SEK 1,380 million, see Note 33. 27 SEK 6,500 million. At the end of 2015, the equity ratio was 40.7 per cent (48.0) for the 28 Group and 20.0 per cent (27.0) for the Parent Company. After the divi36 Contingent liabilities 29 dend proposed by the Board of Directors of SEK 1,290 million, the Group Parent Company 30 equity ratio will be 39.6 per cent for the Group and 17.8 per cent for the Parent Company. 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31 Financing operations are described in the Financing section in the Contingent liability, 32 Administration Report, Note 27 Loans and Note 33 Financial risk FPG/PRI 4,116 3,934 4,116 3,934 management. TOTAL 4,116 3,934 4,116 3,934 33 The Group’s capital structure comprises an interest-bearing net 34 loan liability and equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder (share capital, other contributed capital, retained earnings, 35 including profit for the year). 37 Interest received and paid 36 Group Parent Company 37 The Group’s capital is as follows: 2015 2014 2015 2014 38 Interest received 13,515 21,035 13,515 21,035 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 Interest paid –580,630 –589,329 –580,630 –589,329 39 Loans from financing programmes (Note 27) 28,398,853 23,124,518 TOTAL –567,115 –568,294 –567,115 –568,294 40 Collateral received for derivative 41 transactions entered into (Note 29) 1,380,100 1,743,625 42 Financial derivatives (Note 19) –1,090,028 –1,440,006 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 25) –4,304,585 –4,558,093 INTEREST-BEARING NET LOAN LIABILITY 24,384,340 18,870,044 EQUITY 30,271,259 33,431,528 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 91 38 Adjustments for items not included 41 Transactions with related parties 1 in the cash flow In conjunction with intra-Group purchases and sales, the same pricing 2 Group Parent Company principles are applied as would have been the case in transactions with 3 2015 2014 2015 2014 an external party. Intra-Group property purchases and sales take place 4 Depreciation, impairsubject to a fiscal residual value. Purchases and sales of other current 5 ments and reversed assets take place at the carrying amount. There were no transactions impairments 6,190 7,169 1,597,712 1,176,518 with the President, Board of Directors or senior executives, apart from 6 Change in value, salary and other remuneration, see Note 9. 7 properties –2,672,437 –3,628,384 — — Transactions with Group companies are shown in the table below. Capital gain (–)/loss (+) Revenues consist of the purchase price of properties sold intragroup 8 on sale of tangible, sale. 9 non-current assets –91,346 –34,543 –101,130 –1,541,025 Group Parent Company 10 Change in value, financial instruments 163,719 383,678 163,719 383,677 2015 2014 2015 2014 11 Cash flow hedge –16,100 33,070 –16,100 33,070 Income 12 Change in pension Companies within the 13 provisions and similar Akademiska Hus Group — — 16,648 934,913 commitments 16,319 16,594 1,592 8,061 14 TOTAL — — 16,648 934,913 TOTAL –2,593,655 –3,222,416 1,645,793 60,301 15 Liabilities 16 Companies within the 17 39 Purchase sum in conjunction with Akademiska Hus Group — — 2,153 2,205 investments, acquisitions and disposals TOTAL — — 2,153 2,205 18 19 For investments and acquisitions for the period, a total of KSEK 2,505,635 (3,006,443) has been paid, of which KSEK 2,505,635 was 20 paid in cash and cash equivalents. The Parent Company also invested 42 Events after the year-end 21 KSEK 0 (300) in shares in subsidiaries. For disposals for the period, a total of KSEK 124,343 (2,797,074) has been received, of which KSEK There were no events of a material nature after the end of the reporting 22 124,343 was received in cash and cash equivalents. period. 23 24 40 Change in interest-bearing net loan 25 liabilities 26 Group Parent Company 27 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 28 Opening amount 18,870,044 19,277,850 18,870,274 19,278,079 29 Increase (–)/Decrease 30 (+) in interest-bearing receivables 375,902 –661,043 375,902 –661,043 31 Increase (–)/Decrease 32 (+) in current investments 282,773 –386,585 282,710 –386,584 33 Increase (–)/Decrease 34 (+) in cash and cash equivalents –29,264 –1,482,347 –29,264 –1,482,347 35 Increase (+)/Decrease 36 (–) in interest-bearing liabilities 4,884,885 2,122,169 4,884,885 2,122,169 37 CHANGE IN INTEREST-­ 38 BEARING NET LOAN LIABILITIES 5,514,296 –407,806 5,514,233 –407,805 39 40 AMOUNT AT THE 41 YEAR-END 24,384,340 18,870,044 24,384,507 18,870,274 42 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 92 Signing of the Annual Report Signing of the Annual Report The Board of Directors and the President hereby certify that the Annual The Board of Directors and the President hereby certify that the ConsolReport has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act idated Accounts have been prepared in accordance with International and RFR 2 and provides a fair picture of the Company’s position and Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as en-dorsed by the EU, and proresults and that the Administration Report provides a fair overview of vide a fair picture of the Group’s position and results and that the Adminthe development of the Group’s operations, position and results and istration Report for the Group provides a fair overview of the development describes material risks and uncertainties facing the Company. of the Group’s operations, position and results and describes material risks and uncertainties facing the companies that form part of the Group. Gothenburg, 14 March 2016 Eva–Britt Gustafsson Britta Burreau Olof Ehrlén Chairman Board member Board member Thomas Jennlinger Anders Larsson Ingela Lindh Employee representative Employee representative Board member Leif Ljungqvist Pia Sandvik Board member Board member Gunnar Svedberg Ingemar Ziegler Board member Board member Kerstin Lindberg Göransson President Our Audit Report was submitted on March 14, 2016. KPMG AB Björn Flink Authorised Public Accountant AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Auditor’s report 93 Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Akademiska Hus AB (Publ), corp. id 556459-9156 This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated Akademiska Hus AB (Publ) for the year 2015, except for the corporate accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the comgovernance statement on pages 47–55. The annual accounts and conpany’s profit or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors solidated accounts of the company are included in the printed version and the Managing Director of Akademiska Hus AB (Publ) for the year of this document on pages 34–92. 2015. We have also conducted a statutory examination of the corporate governance statement. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriathe preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts in tions of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and the accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and of the consolidated Managing Director are responsible for administration under the Comaccounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standpanies Act, and that the corporate governance statement on pages ards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such 47–55 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. internal control as the Board of Directors and the Managing Director determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts Auditor’s responsibility and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance whether due to fraud or error. on the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in Auditor’s responsibility accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts As basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors proposed approand consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit priations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to the Companies Act. obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and As basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement. addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence we examined significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consolithe company in order to determine whether any member of the Board dated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgof Directors or the Managing Director is liable to the company. We also ment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of examined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Manthe annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud aging Director has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers interCompanies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. nal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained as above is sufof the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design ficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for Furthermore, we have read the corporate governance statement the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the compaand based on that reading and our knowledge of the company and the ny’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriategroup we believe that we have sufficient basis for our opinions. This ness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting means that our statutory examination of the corporate governance estimates made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director, statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conas well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts ducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and and consolidated accounts. generally accepted audit standards in Sweden. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. Opinions We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit be Opinions appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory adminisIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance tration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the with the Annual Accounts Act, and present fairly, in all material Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December A corporate governance statement has been prepared, and its statu2015 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then tory content is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated and consolidated accounts. accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2015 and of their financial performance Göteborg 14 March 2016 and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on pages 47–55. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and KPMG AB consolidated accounts. Björn Flink We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders Authorized Public Accountant adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 94 About the Sustainability Report / GRI data About the Sustainability Report Akademiska Hus’ Sustainability Report is an integral part of the annual report and follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, GRI G4, and the GRI’s Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement. The report is in accordance with the “Core” option, and has been reviewed by KPMG. Since 2013 Akademiska Hus has supported the UN Global Compact iniThe Sustainability Report includes the cross-reference table presented tiative and thus takes a stand and accepts responsibility for ten recogon pages 96–97 and the pages to which the table refers. The cross refernised principles relating to human rights, labour rights, the environence table presents a summary of the GRI indicators that are reported ment and anti-corruption issues. The principles are based on the UN and page references to the respective indicator and COP. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on FundaA summary of the trade organisations of which the Company is a mental Principles and Rights at Work, the OECD Guidelines for Multimember can be found at akademiskahus.se. national Enterprises, and the Rio Declaration. The Annual Report and the Sustainability Report also serve as Akademiska Hus’ Communication on Progress (COP) for reporting work to the Global Compact. The Sustainability Report of Akademiska Hus covers the financial Contact year and is published annually. The most recent report was published on 31 March 2015. Akademiska Hus presents its sustainability work based on the Company’s main processes, with the focus on those areas Mia Edofsson that are considered most important. No significant changes have taken Sustainability Manager place in the business during the accounting period. The data presented mia.edofsson@akademiskahus.se cover the financial year 2015, from 1 January to 31 December, and applies to Akademiska Hus as a Group. GRI-data The following information about the GRI indicators is not presented G4-20-21: IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES anywhere else in the Annual Report. WITHIN AND OUTSIDE THE ORGANISATION G4-10: TOTAL WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE, Material aspect GRI aspect Boundary EMPLOYMENT CONTR ACT, REGION AND GENDER Own operations and As of 31 December 2015 Akademiska Hus employs a total of 439 people, Efficient use of Energy supply chain and all of whom are permanently employed, with the exception of four peoresources Emissions customers. ple who are on trial contracts. 18 people have part-time jobs. A safe working Occupational Own operations and environment Health and safety supply chain Distribution of men and women, by region: Supplier Environmental Assessment Gender Good supplier Supplier Assessment management for Labor Practices Supply chain Men Women Total High transparency Akademiska Hus Head Office 44 49 93 and effective Akademiska Hus Southern Region 33 16 49 anti-corruption Own operations and programme Anti-corruption customers Akademiska Hus Western Region 51 15 66 Diversity and equal Akademiska Hus Eastern Region 27 3 30 Diversity opportunities Own operations Akademiska Hus Uppsala Region 50 12 62 Akademiska Hus Stockholm Region 77 25 102 In addition to these essential areas we see customer collaboration, Akademiska Hus Northern Region 33 4 37 campus development and student housing as important issues for our Total 315 124 439 business. 72% 28% 100% AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI data 95 G4-EC1: DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENER ATED G4-EN16: ENERGY INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND DISTRIBUTED (SCOPE 2) Economic stakeholder relations Total CO2 emissions in 2015 amounted to 32,909 tons.1 Direct economic value generated G4-EN19: REDUCTION IN EMISSIONS OF GREENHOUSE GASES Income 5,701 Total CO2 reduction in emissions in 2015 amounted to 2 227 tons.1 Economic value distributed 1) All CO2 data in this summary is based on information from suppliers who report Payments to suppliers –1,698 in accordance with current accounting standards. 2014 emission factors for heating were used since emission factors for 2015 were not available at the Employee wages and benefits –221 time this report was prepared. Fees and compensation to the Board and CEO –10 Social security costs –104 G4-CRE3: GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION LEVELS FROM Interest paid to lenders, net –290 PROPERTIES Greenhouse gas emissions levels from Akademiska Hus properties was Dividends to shareholders –7,945 8.1 kg of CO2/m2. Economic value retained –4,567 G4-LA6: WORK-RELATED INJURIES AND ILLNESSES Other key figures for the EC-1 indicator can be found in: Accident statistics are recorded in our internal “AkaÄrende” system, Income Statement page 58 which classifies them into the categories, own staff, construction operAllocation of unappropriated earnings page 57 ations and management. Staff note Note 9, pages 72–73 During the year, seven injuries to our own staff were reported to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, leading to a total of 300 hours of G4-EN3: ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANISATION absence. During the same period, 15 accidents involving our own staff were 2015 MWh reported to the “AkaÄrende” system. Total energy consumption of non-renewable energy 90,771 The most frequently occurring types of work-related injury are cuts, accidental falls (from low height), and injuries from falling Total energy consumption of renewable energy 712,723 objects. Total electricity 401,424 Total heating 313,043 G4-LA12: DIVERSITY WITHIN THE ORGANISATION Total cooling 75,120 As of 31 December 2015, Akademiska Hus employees included 72 per cent men and 28 per cent women. Total steam 13,907 Sold electricity 264,279 Age and gender: Sold heating 78,129 2015 Sold cooling 64,544 Number of Number of Composition of the company Number women men Sold steam 13,907 Board of Directors Own electricity generation from renewables (MWh) Under 30 years 0 0 0 Solar electricity 726 30–50 years 1 0 1 Degree day method has been used for correction of heat. Over 50 years 7 4 3 G4-EN6: REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION Executive Management Under 30 years 0 0 0 2015 MWh 30–50 years 7 3 4 Total reduction 43,079 Over 50 years 6 2 4 Reduction in electricity 2,272 Employees in managerial Reduction in heating 21,395 position1 Reduction in cooling 18,815 Under 30 years 0 0 0 Reduction in steam 597 30–50 years 38 12 26 Saving 19,393 Over 50 years 24 3 21 Other employees Invested (SEK) 125,992,000 Under 30 years 26 7 19 30–50 years 185 65 120 Over 50 years 153 32 121 1) Executive Management is reported separately The table shows the composition of the composition of the company by gender and age for different levels within the company. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 96 GRI and COP index GRI and COP index Global Page or Compact Indicator Description reference Comment principle STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the President 2–3 ORGANISATION PROFILE G4-3 Organisation name Front cover G4-4 Brands, products, and services 1, 17 G4-5 Location of head office Insert front page G4-6 Number of countries in which the organisation operates Insert front page G4-7 Ownership structure and legal form 34 G4-8 Markets in which the organisation operates 8 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation Insert front page, 58, 72, G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, 94 Akademiska Hus reports number of employees by 6 region and gender employment type, gender and region. The Company also has a large number of temporary employees from staffing companies, but they are not reported because no data is available. Akademiska Hus has no significant variations in the number of employees over the year. G4-11 Proportion of the workforce covered by collective bargaining All employees are signed to the collective Almega 3 agreements Fastigheter Salary Agreement G4-12 Description of the organisation’s supply chain 9–11, 15, 24 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period No significant changes during the financial year G4-14 Description of whether and how the organisation follows 9–11 Akademiska Hus works according to environmental the Precautionary Principle management system ISO 14001:2004. G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social 94 declarations, principles or other initiatives that the organisation supports or is affiliated with G4-16 Membership of organisations and/or national/international www.akademiskahus.se lobbying organisations (Sustainability/Sustainability partnerships) ESSENTIAL ASPECTS AND LIMITATIONS G4-17 Entities that are included in the organisation’s financial 80 statements G4-18 Description of the process for defining report content and 9–11 aspect boundaries G4-19 Material aspects identified 9–11 G4-20 Acpect boundaries within the organisation 94 G4-21 Acpect boundaries outside the organisation 94 G4-22 Changes to the information provided in previous reports No significant changes have been made to informaand the reasons for such changes tion submitted in the 2014 report. G4-23 Significant changes that have been made since the 94 previous reporting period COMMUNICATION AND STAKEHOLDERS G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 9–11 G4-25 Principle for identifying and selecting stakeholders 9–11 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 9–11 G4-27 Important areas and issues that have been raised in 9–11 communication with stakeholders INFORMATION ON ACCOUNTING AND CONTROL G4-28 Reporting period 94 G4-29 Publication date for latest report 94 G4-30 Reporting cycle 94 G4-31 Contact for questions regarding the report and its content 94 G4-32 GRI Content Index 94, 96–97, 99 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI and COP index 97 Global Page or Compact Indicator Description reference Comment principle G4-33 Statement of the organisation’s policy and procedures for 94, 99 external assurance of reporting G4-34 Statement of the organisation’s corporate governance 47–55 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 The organisation’s values, principles and ethical standards Insert 10 such as codes of conduct front page, 32–33, 39 ACCOUNTING DMA Economic Performance Insert front page, 6–7, 14, EC-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 57–58, 72–73 (Note 9), 95 DMA Indirect economic impacts 1, 6–7, 18–21 EC-7 Investments in infrastructure and services for public benefit 18–21, 23 ENVIRONMENT DMA Energy 14, 28–29 EN-3 Energy Consumption within the organisation 28–29, 95 Akademiska Hus reports on electricity, heating 7, 8 and cooling because these areas account for the dominant share of energy consumption. EN-6 Reduction of energy consumption 28–29, 95 Akademiska Hus reports on electricity, heating 8, 9 and cooling because these areas account for the dominant share of energy consumption. DMA Emissions 28–29 EN-16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) 95 7, 8 EN-19 Reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases 95 8, 9 CRE-3 Greenhouse gas emission levels from properties 95 DMA Supplier Environmental Assessment 24–25, 29 EN-32 Number of new suppliers that have undergone 24 During the year 250 suppliers were reviewed. These 8 environmental inspection suppliers included all framework agreement partners (95 suppliers) who were new for the year, which represents about 10 per cent of the total purchase volume. DMA Occupational Health and Safety 15, 32–33 LA-5 Representation on health and safety committees 33 LA-6 Work-related injuries and illnesses 33, 95 Akademiska Hus reports total figures for absence through sickness and injuries at work for the company as a whole. Work-related injuries and illnesses for contractors cannot be reported due to unavailability of data. DMA Diversity and equal opportunity 32–33 LA-12 Diversity within the organisation 95 6 DMA Monitoring of suppliers’ working conditions 24 LA-14 Number of new suppliers that have undergone 24 During the year 250 suppliers were reviewed. These inspection of working conditions suppliers included all framework agreement partners (95 suppliers) who were new for the year, which represents about 10 per cent of the total purchase volume. DMA Anti-corruption Insert front page, 54–55, 39–43 SO-5 Corruption incidents and action taken No reported cases of corruption 10 DMA Product and Service labelling 14 PR-5 Results from customer satisfaction surveys 14 CRE-8 Type and number of sustainability certificates, ratings 2, 25 and scores for new construction Human rights Consistently important issue throughout the value 1, 2 chain. Given high priority in efforts to establish accident-free workplaces. Child labour The Code of Conduct covers this principle, but this 5 area is not identified as one of the main risk areas for Akademiska Hus. Forced labour The Code of Conduct covers this principle, but this 4 area is not identified as one of the main risk areas for Akademiska Hus. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 98 Signatures of Board of Directors Signatures of Board of Directors Sustainability Report The Sustainability Report for 2015 has been approved for publication by the Board of Directors and the CEO of Akademiska Hus AB. Gothenburg, 14 March 2016 Eva–Britt Gustafsson Britta Burreau Olof Ehrlén Chairman Board member Board member Thomas Jennlinger Anders Larsson Ingela Lindh Employee representative Employee representative Board member Leif Ljungqvist Pia Sandvik Board member Board member Gunnar Svedberg Ingemar Ziegler Board member Board member Kerstin Lindberg Göransson President AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Auditor’s Report 99 Auditor’s Report Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Akademiska Hus AB (Publ.) procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in Sustainability Report nature from, and are less in scope than for, a reasonable assurance This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards. The firm applies To Akademiska Hus AB (Publ.) ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including docuINTRODUCTION mented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Akademiska Hus to requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory undertake a limited assurance engagement of Akademiska Hus (Publ.) requirements. Consequently, the procedures performed do not enable Sustainability Report for the year 2015. Akademiska Hus has defined us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant the scope of the Sustainability Report on page 94. matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of THE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY Directors and the Executive Management as described above. We conREPORT sider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are responsible Report. for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and applicable criteria, as explained on page 94 in the Sustainability Report, appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. that are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) that are applicable to the CONCLUSION Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation princiBased on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing ples that the Company has developed. This responsibility also includes has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Executive Management. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR Gothenburg, 14 March 2016 Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. KPMG AB We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, Björn Flink Torbjörn Westman and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 100 DEFINITIONS Definitions PROPERTY-RELATED KEY FIGURES DEFINITIONS Gross investments Net investments Operating costs Investments for the year in non-current assets. Closing balance minus the opening balance for Operating costs are costs incurred to keep a non-current assets plus depreciation and property, installation or similar facility funcYield impairments minus revaluations. tioning. Operating costs are divided into media Operating surplus in relation to the average fair provision, monitoring and service. value, excluding buildings under construction. Rental and vacancy levels Leased or vacant floor space in relation to the Additional distribution Net operating income ratio total floor space. Financial leasing or vacant Distribution decided by the Extraordinary Net operating income in relation to property space levels are rental revenue for space leased General Meeting. management income. and estimated rental revenue for vacant space in relation to the total rental revenue. Property administration Cost of management, day-to-day accounting administration, leasing, contact with tenants, FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES handling of registers, contracts and drawings, technical planning and follow-up and human Return on equity after standard tax Interest-bearing net loan liability resource administration. Earnings after financial items with a deduction Interest-bearing loans, financial derivatives and for full tax in relation to average equity. current interest-bearing investments. Pension Rental revenue provisions and similar items are not included. The basic rent, index-linked, and estimated rent Return on operating capital for vacant rentable floor space and suppleEarnings before financial items, excluding Interest coverage ratio ments, with a deduction for vacant space and changes in value in relation to average operatProfit before financial items, excluding changes rent reductions. ing capital. in the value of properties in relation to net financial income/expense, excluding changes in Floor space, m², GFS Return on total assets value, financial derivatives, including period Gross floor space of building. Comprises rentaEarnings before financial items plus financial allocation of realised profits from derivatives ble floor space as well as common areas and the income in relation to the average total assets. and including capitalised interest in projects. areas surrounding the building. Loan-to-value ratio Internal financing ratio Floor space, m² Interest-bearing net loan debt in relation to the The part of the tangible, non-current assets proRentable floor space in square metres. closing value of properties. cured during the year that could be financed using funds earned internally during the year. Interest-bearing liabilities Financing cost according to IFRS Interest-bearing loans, including pension proviNet financial income/expense in the form of the Equity ratio sions and similar items. financing cost for loans, net interest for finanReported equity (for Parent Company including cial derivatives and the change in fair value of equity share in untaxed reserves) in relation to Maintenance costs financial derivatives, in relation to average total assets carried forward. Costs for measures taken aimed at reinstating interest-bearing capital. the original standard and function of worn or Total yield damaged parts of a building. Costs for tenant Operating capital Direct yield from properties and their change in adaptations are also recognised here. Equity plus interest-bearing net loan liability. value, expressed in per cent. Period-allocated financing cost Net interest income and expense in the form of the financing cost for loans, net interest for financial derivatives and period allocation of realised profits on financial derivatives over the remaining term of the underlying instrument, in relation to average, interest-bearing capital. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADDRESSES HEAD OFFICE REGIONS Akademiska Hus Akademiska Hus Southern Region Akademiska Hus Eastern Region Akademiska Hus Uppsala Region Stampgatan 14 Ole Römers väg 2 Olaus Magnus väg 34 Artillerigatan 7 Box 483 SE-223 63 Lund SE-583 30 Linköping Box 185 SE-401 27 Göteborg Telephone: +46 46 31 13 00 Telephone: +46 13 36 45 00 SE-751 04 Uppsala Telephone: +46 31 63 24 00 Telephone: +46 18 68 32 00 www.akademiskahus.se info@akademiskahus.se Akademiska Hus Western Region Akademiska Hus Stockholm Region Akademiska Hus Northern Region Stampgatan 14 Berzelius väg 8, vån 3–5 Artedigränd 2 Box 476 Box 1394 Box 7985 Company registration number SE-401 27 Göteborg SE-171 27 Solna SE-907 19 Umeå 556459-9156 Telephone: +46 31 63 25 00 Telephone: +46 8 685 75 00 Telephone: +46 90 17 62 00 INFORMATION SCHEDULE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT: 28 April 2016 Annual General Meeting Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President 28 April 2016 Interim Report, January–March 2016 Telephone: +46 31 63 24 60 15 July 2016 Interim Report, April–June 2016 E-mail: Kerstin.LindbergGoransson@akademiskahus.se 27 October 2016 Interim Report, July–September 2016 February 2017 Year-End Report 2016 Anders Ruth, CFO March 2017 Annual Report 2016 Telephone: +46 31 63 24 20 E-mail: anders.ruth@akademiskahus.se www.akademiskahus.se Produced by Akademiska Hus in cooperation with Intellecta Corporate Photos: Jean-Baptiste Béranger (Cover), Anders Bryngel (pages 1, 24, 29, 33), Cina Stenson (page 3), Nordiska Miljömärkningen Svanen Joakim Lundgren (pages 4–5), Peter Jönsson (page 9, 49, 52–53), Per-Olof Skatt (page 9), Erik MårtensNORDIC ECOLABEL 3041 0250 • Färgkod PMS 354, Fyrfärgskod C-91%, M-0,0%, Y-8 • Standardfärger enligt SS 019100 – 019103 Blankt papper: 1080G10Y Matt papper: 354U-1070G son NCC AB (page 15), Ola Kjelbye (page 27). NCS: 0879-G07Y NCS: 1368-G04Y C IC E OL A • Miljömärket bör ej understiga 8 mm och ska minst ha D storleken att texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” och underliggan är tydligt läsbara. Diagrams: White arkitekter (fold-out), Tengbom (fold-out), Christenson & Co, BSK Arkitekter, R NO BE • När märket understiger 2 cm i diameter kan den förk utelämnas på produkten (Trycksak), om den finns m Text på märket: L Nivå Landskapsarkitekter (pages 6–7, 18), Christenson & Co Arkitekter (page 16), Högskolan i Gävle • Texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” följer märkets rundade form • Texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” med versaler och teckensnitt halvfet. Teckentäthet och teckengrad anpassas till m (pages 20–21), Berg Arkitektkontor, Arkitektfirmaet C.F. Møller (page 22), Ahrbom & Partner (page 25). • Texten under märket ”Trycksak” skrivs horisontellt un Teckensnitt helvetica, rak används med versal som b och anpassas i storlek till märket • För tryckning på Svanen på andra nordiska språk stu Print: Göteborgstryckeriet nordisk miljömärkning. www.akademiskahus.se | info@akademiskahus.se
