2016 Integrated Annual Report TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO Letter 1 Corporate Governance 40 Evolve the Portfolio 4 CR Materiality 43 2020 Strategy 12 About This Report 44 2016 Scorecard 22 GRI G4 Content Index 45 Recognitions 29 Stockholder Information 57 Financial Statements 32 Dear Fellow Stakeholders: Evolution is essential to remain relevant and thrive. We’ve come a long way since we started our business more than 100 years ago in Oakland, California, with a single product — Clorox bleach. ® Benno Dorer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer THE CLOROX COMPANY’S EVOLUTION IN HEALTH & WELLNESS Bleach earns exalted Commercial production status during World The company of a concentrated War II because it could introduces Tilex® industrial-strength bleach disinfect wounds, instant mildew stain with 21 percent sodium neutralize enemy gases remover nationally hypochlorite begins. and purify water. in the U.S. 1913 1914 1916 19221941 1969 1981 On May 3, five The company develops Liquid bleach is used businessmen invest a less-concentrated to scrub down the $100 each to found version of liquid bleach Apollo 11 astronauts America's first for home use, touted as after their lunar landing commercial liquid a bleacher, germicide, to help guard against bleach factory, the cleanser and disinfectant. “moon germs.” Electro-Alkaline Company. G4-1, G4-15, G4-DMA The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 1 Over the years we’ve evolved our geographical footprint beyond product portfolio since our baseline calendar year of 2011,3 and the U.S. and now have leading brands in many countries. We’ve we’re on track with our goal to make sustainability improvements evolved the diversity and capabilities of our people to better serve to 50 percent of our product portfolio by 2020. We also lowered our consumers around the world. And, we’ve evolved our global our greenhouse gas emissions by 17 percent , water usage by portfolio to include a variety of cleaning and healthcare products 14 percent , energy usage by 14 percent and waste-to-landfill as well as natural personal care, food, charcoal, water filtration, by 25 percent , cumulatively, since 2011. The U.S. Environmental cat litter, trash bags, food storage and more. Protection Agency named us a 2016 Safer Choice Partner of the Year, and Corporate Responsibility Magazine again included us In fiscal year 2016, evolution continued in our quest to deliver good among the top 100 companies on its Best Corporate Citizens list. growth: growth that’s profitable, sustainable and achieved responsibly. We’ve strengthened our commitment to corporate responsibility I’m especially proud of our achievements in the face of continuing to ensure we continue to achieve our results the right way. We’ve macroeconomic challenges in fiscal year 2016, including ongoing continued to enhance our demand-creation programs, with product foreign currency headwinds that challenged our international busiinnovation across many brands and digital marketing communications ness and overall company results. Even so, our strategic choices, to deliver even more targeted messages to consumers. And, with the including increased investments in our U.S. brands and select growth recent acquisition of the Renew Life® business, our portfolio now initiatives in International, drove strong results, with very good includes a leader in digestive health, putting us in an even better topand bottom-line growth as well as market share increases. position to fulfill our mission to make everyday life better, every day. WE EVOLVED OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY WE DELIVERED ANOTHER YEAR OF SALES AND PROFIT BY JOINING THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT. GROWTH IN FISCAL YEAR 2016. True to our commitment to good growth, we achieved our fiscal year Excellent execution of our 2020 Strategy drove strong results: 2016 results the right way — with corporate responsibility serving as • We grew sales 2 percent; excluding a 3-point impact the cornerstone of our business. In fiscal year 2016, we became a of unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates, we signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest grew sales 5 percent.1 organization that’s bringing companies, nongovernmental organiza• We drove productivity gains, delivering $109 million tions, governments and other stakeholders together to advance the in cost savings. most important global sustainability issues. As a signatory to the • We expanded our gross margin by 150 basis points UNGC, we affirm our commitment to its Ten Principles by driving to 45.1 percent. our corporate responsibility strategy, a comprehensive set of • We delivered 8 percent diluted earnings per share commitments across our company — from human rights, labor and growth, even while increasing our investments product safety to transparency, environmental sustainability and behind demand-creation programs. contributions to communities where we operate. We believe joining the UNGC is a meaningful next step in our CR journey, giving us We view our business holistically, and I’m equally proud of our results an opportunity to continue learning from and sharing ideas with beyond financial performance. We posted a recordable incident key sustainability influencers and other member companies. rate of 0.612 in the workplace, delivering another year of worldclass safety. Once again, we’ve been recognized for our strong WE’VE EVOLVED OUR PORTFOLIO EVEN diversity and inclusion programs, receiving another 100 percent FURTHER INTO HEALTH AND WELLNESS. score from the Human Rights Campaign for our LGBT workplace Over the years we’ve shaped our portfolio with brands that make a practices and being named one of the best places to work by meaningful difference in the health and wellness of our consumers. Diversity MBA magazine. We also continued to drive our eco A few noteworthy examples are Clorox® bleach, which kills germs strategy, making sustainability improvements to 31 percent of our that make people sick in homes, public places and healthcare settings; Seizing on the The company aids health and wellness The company in relief efforts after consumer megatrend, begins marketing Hurricane Katrina, a Clorox acquires Burt’s Brita® water South Asian tsunami Bees®, a leader in the filtration products and a typhoon in natural personal care in the U.S. Malaysia. category. 1986 1988 1996 2005-06 2006 2007 2008 The Ayudín® Poett® cleaning The Hidden Valley® The company bleach and products are the brand launches the launches the cleaning brand latest addition Love Your Veggies™ Green Works® becomes part to the portfolio campaign to help line of naturally of the product in Argentina. educate children derived cleaners portfolio in about nutrition. into the mainArgentina. stream cleaning aisle. 2 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-1, G4-15, G4-DMA Brita® water filters, which provide great-tasting water, a healthier EVOLUTION OF OUR BUSINESS, GUIDED BY OUR 2020 beverage option than sugary drinks; and the Burt’s Bees® brand, STRATEGY, WILL CONTINUE IN FISCAL YEAR 2017. which offers high-quality natural personal care products to nourish Evolution in fiscal year 2017 will continue with our focus on making the face and body. Health and wellness is not only our past and progress against our 2020 Strategy accelerators. We’ll continue to present, it’s our future. In fiscal year 2016, we acquired the Renew create meaningful value from 3D Innovation across our demandLife® line of probiotics, cleanses and digestive aids, giving us the creation model; through 3D Technology Transformation we’ll continue ability to make a difference in the digestive health of consumers to tap into the latest technology advancements to deliver the right around the world. Two-thirds of U.S. adults have experienced message to the right consumer at the right time, while generating a digestive issues in the past year, and that population is likely to strong return on our brand investments; through Portfolio Momentum, increase. We know consumers are interested in the $10 billion we’ll continue to direct more resources to the brands that we expect digestive health category, but they’re also confused by the many to deliver the most growth; and we’ll continue to step up our game different brands and products available, all with different claims. by living our Growth Culture and defining new opportunities to help That’s where a company of strong marketers, like Clorox, can help us deliver good growth. What won’t change is our commitment to consumers make more informed decisions. corporate responsibility. It’s the foundation of everything we do in our goal to continue delivering value to all our stakeholders. WE CONTINUED TO FOCUS ON THE WELL-BEING OF OUR EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITIES AROUND THE WORLD. Sincerely, A priority for the Clorox management team is to focus on high levels of employee engagement since we know there’s a strong correlation between engagement and long-term company performance. Our current engagement score of 87 percent,4 8 points higher than the fast-moving consumer goods industry norm and about 3 points Benno Dorer higher than the global high-performance norm, is something that Chairman and Chief Executive Officer makes me especially proud. Our values-based culture and people Aug. 16, 2016 programs, including diversity and inclusion, health and wellness, and development and recognition, play a strong part in engaging 1 The exclusion of foreign exchange impact (currency neutral) is a non-GAAP financial measure, which management believes provides useful information to investors about trends in the company's operations the heads and hearts of our people. and enables period-over-period comparisons. See the financial footnotes found on pages 24 and 25 for reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measures. 2 Based on corporate benchmarking by Clorox, we consider a recordable incident rate of 1.0 or less to be We also believe that vibrant and healthy communities play an world-class. Our fiscal year 2016 RIR of 0.61 means that for every 100 Clorox employees, we averaged important role in the health of our business. In fiscal year 2016, our less than one reportable incident during the past year. According to the latest available data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average RIR for goods-producing manufacturing companies is 3.8. total impact to support our communities came to approximately The criteria used to determine RIR follow the U.S. Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration guidelines and are applied globally. $17 million in cash grants, cause marketing contributions, product 3 For the calendar year ended Dec. 31, 2015. All sustainability metrics represent cumulative progress donations and employee volunteer hours. against CY 2011 baseline, with percentage based on net fiscal year customer sales. There are four types of sustainability improvement criteria that can be met either by fully meeting one or by partially meeting two or more: 1) a 5 percent or more reduction in product or packaging materials on a per-consumer-use WE CONTINUED OUR COMMITMENT basis; 2) an environmentally beneficial change to 10 percent or more of packaging or active ingredients on a per-consumer-use basis; 3) a 10 percent reduction in required usage of water or energy by consumer; or TO RETURN CASH TO STOCKHOLDERS. 4) an environmentally beneficial sourcing change to 20 percent or more of active ingredients or packaging on a per-consumer-use basis. When projects meet this criteria, they are reported to the Clorox Eco Team In fiscal year 2016, we returned $398 million in cash dividends to by each business unit. our stockholders. As we’ve done every year since 1977, we raised 4 The Willis Towers Watson global high-performance norm is based on responses from more than our annual cash dividend, announcing in the fourth quarter an 145,000 employees at 28 companies. Companies qualify for the norm by meeting two criteria: 1) superior financial performance, defined by a net profit margin and/or return on invested capital that increase of 4 percent. As of August 2016, Clorox’s dividend yield was exceeds industry averages; and 2) superior human resources practices, defined by employee opinion scores near the top among the most financially successful companies surveyed by Willis Towers Watson. 2.2 percent. Our total stockholder return of 36 percent for fiscal year 2016 ranked Clorox third in our peer group. Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 38-39 for the review report. Clorox acquires The company Clorox is first major Caltech Industries donates 36,000 consumer packaged and its Dispatch® bottles of Clorox® Clorox expands goods company to brand, becoming regular bleach to into the digestive voluntarily disclose a leading provider help with Ebola health category cleaning and disinof bleach-based prevention and with the acquisifecting ingredients disinfectants in control in Sierra tion of the Renew for U.S. and Canada. healthcare. Leone and Liberia. Life® brand. 2009 2009 2010 2012 2014 2014 2016 Clorox Commercial The company The company’s Solutions® germicidal initiates the Clorox® professional division bleach becomes first Safe Water Project begins marketing the product to get EPA to provide people in Clorox Healthcare® registration for killing a rural area of Peru Optimum-UV® C. difficile spores with access to safe system. on hard, nonporous drinking water. surfaces. Photo courtesy AmeriCares G4-1, G4-15, G4-DMA The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 3 EVOLVE THE PORTFOLIO A little more than 100 years ago, The Clorox Company was founded with liquid bleach as our flagship product used by industrial customers for stain removal, cleaning and disinfecting. Since then, Clorox® bleach has continued to play an important role in public health, killing germs that make people sick — from the 2 million healthcare-associated infections each year in the U.S. to the 3 million to 5 million annual cases of severe influenza around the world to the Ebola virus in Africa. Today, our global brand portfolio has expanded, and our commitment to health and wellness has grown along with it. We see the world through a health and wellness lens, whether it's our products themselves or the way we communicate about their benefits. They are vehicles to help consumers live healthier lifestyles, fulfilling our mission of making everyday life better, every day. Our health and wellness products address what we ingest (“in me”), encouraging healthier food and beverage consumption; what we put on our skin (“on me”), enhancing skin care through products with natural ingredients; and what we use in our environment (“around me”), with cleaning and disinfecting products for homes, businesses and healthcare settings. G4-SO1 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 5 IN ME WELL WITHIN While recommendations on what constitutes healthy eating shift, issues such as childhood obesity, cardiovascular disease and diabetes remain a growing challenge. The number of obese children in America has more than tripled in the last 40 years. In fact, more parents worry about childhood obesity than they do about smoking and drug abuse.1 The Clorox Company brands are committed to being part of the solution by nourishing a healthy lifestyle. Our Brita® brand is helping families tackle this problem by encouraging them to drink more water, more often, instead of sugary drinks. Together with the Partnership for a Healthier America and its “Drink Up” campaign, the brand has been working to increase water consumption for the past three years. When you consider that drinking just one regular soda per day adds up to more than 200,000 sugar cubes over an average lifetime, it’s clear that switching from soda to water can help children live healthier lives. The Hidden Valley® brand is addressing obesity and poor nutrition by encouraging children and adults alike to consume more vegetables. Only one in 10 kids eats enough fruits and vegetables, and 28 percent of all produce brought home goes to waste — statistics we’re committed to improving. By teaming up with the Partnership for a Healthier America and its Fruits ’n’ Veggies initiative as well as through the recent Taste Not Waste campaign, we’re promoting healthier eating habits by suggesting 6 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-SO1 ways picky eaters can make their vegetables more appealing with help from Hidden Valley® dressings and dry mixes. In regions where the issue is having safe water to drink — a problem affecting approximately 1 billion people worldwide — Clorox also acts to make a difference. Nearly 4 million of Peru’s 30 million residents don’t have access to potable water. Our Clorox® Safe Water Project, managed through a partnership with a local nongovernmental organization, allows more than 25,000 Peruvians to make their water safe by using just a few drops of bleach from local disinfecting stations. Our recent acquisition of the Renew Life® brand represents another step in our evolution as a health and wellness company. With more than two-thirds of Americans experiencing digestive health issues, we’re in a position to support those needs through a range of products that include probiotics, fiber, digestive aids, enzymes and internal cleanses. With a focus on science, using the highest levels of quality and purity supported by careful analysis and testing, the brand creates powerful and effective formulas to help promote optimal health through natural products that support digestive and overall wellness. 1 C.S. Mott Children's Hospital National Poll on Children's Health, 2013. G4-SO1 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 7 The Clorox Company 8 2016 Intergrated Annual Report ON ME WELL KEPT Skin is the human body’s largest organ, so it’s important to keep people as nourished on the outside as they are on the inside. Our Burt’s Bees® brand uses natural ingredients like beeswax, cocoa butter and aloe. We believe ingredients like these limit the amount of chemicals consumers absorb through their skin while also providing helpful benefits developed by nature. Nutrients in these products include antioxidants, essential fatty acids, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients, and they help keep the skin in balance so it can serve its intended functions and protect cell regeneration. From the original beeswax lip balm to the new BB Cream with nine clinically shown benefits and the newly launched line of all-natural, moisturizing lipsticks, the Burt’s Bees brand provides consumers with a growing number of options to keep their skin nourished by nature. G4-SO1 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 9 AROUND ME WELL ALL AROUND In addition to keeping people well within and well kept, we also want to help them live in healthier surroundings. Our interest in promoting public health dates back more than a century to our founding in 1913. In our early days as a company, Clorox® bleach was — and still is — used in places where killing germs is critical, such as schools, public buildings and hospitals. Before the widespread use of penicillin, the disinfecting properties of bleach helped treat wounded soldiers during World War II. And during the 1960s, when the first Apollo flights were heading into space, NASA used bleach to decontaminate the capsules returning from orbit. Since then, we’ve extended our reach around the globe — not only through our products, but also through ongoing infection prevention initiatives and disaster-relief efforts. The 2014 HAI Prevalence Study estimated that there were 722,000 healthcare-associated infections in U.S. acute care hospitals in 2011, and about 75,000 patients with HAIs died during their hospitalizations. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, research shows that rates of some HAIs could decrease by up to 70 percent through preventive measures. With only half of surfaces at many healthcare facilities properly disinfected,1 we see the central role we can play in these settings. The fast-acting, EPA-registered products that are part of Clorox Healthcare's portfolio are used by hospital personnel on surfaces and medical equipment to help reduce the spread of pathogens that cause HAIs like C. difficile and MRSA. Through innovation, we’ve expanded beyond surface disinfection to offer UV technology that complements manual surface disinfection to ensure thorough coverage, especially on areas that may be missed during manual cleaning. Today, we’re one of the leading providers of bleach disinfectant solutions to acute care facilities in the United States, with a presence in more than 80 percent of hospitals nationwide. G4-SO1 But infections aren’t limited to hospitals — in fact, most occur within the general community. So our professional products can also be found in long-term care facilities, gyms, hotels and other places that can be breeding grounds for germs. Our consumer products play a similar role in killing germs that make people sick. From eliminating the viruses that cause colds and flu to reducing allergens, our Clorox®-branded sprays, liquids and wipes — bleach and nonbleach products alike — make it easier for consumers to keep their homes healthy. The brand also offers tips and tools such as the recently launched Clorox® Cold & Flu Pulse, a social media conversation tracker that’s a predictor of flu outbreaks, to provide valuable information on prevention. Bleach is one of the most widely available, affordable disinfectants on earth, with the ability to control the spread of germs that can cause infections and other health threats. For this reason, it’s one ...rates of some HAIs could of the first lines of defense after a natural disaster. During the humanitarian crises that follow many earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, The Clorox Company acts swiftly with decrease by up donations of Clorox® bleach and other needed products, such as to 70 percent through Glad® trash bags. But natural disasters can also take the form of virus outbreaks, and the company has responded to these as well, making bleach donations to help battle Ebola in West Africa and the chikungunya, dengue and Zika outbreaks in the Americas, and preventive also supporting public education efforts on mosquito protection. measures. From our beginnings a century ago, we’ve evolved from disinfection to also focus on nutrition, access to safe water and personal care. With bleach as our foundation, our company and our products will continue to play a critical role in helping to make a difference in the health and wellness of consumers around the world. 1 Bhalla A, Pultz NJ, Gries DM, et al. “Acquisition of Nosocomial Pathogens on Hands After Contact With Environmental Surfaces Near Hospitalized Patients.” Infection Control Hospital Epidemiology. 2004 Feb;25(2):164–7. G4-SO1 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 11 2020 STRATEGY The Clorox Company remains focused on what we believe are the highest-value opportunities for driving long-term, profitable growth and generating strong total stockholder returns while maintaining our commitment to environmental, social and governance performance. The four strategy accelerators introduced last year continued to guide our investment decisions and helped propel sales and earnings growth in fiscal year 2016. STRATEGIES LONG-TERM ASPIRATIONS 1 Engage our people as business owners. GROW 2 Increase brand investment behind superior value and more targeted 3D innovation (at the moments of NET CUSTOMER SALES BY consumer choice: desire, decide and delight). +3-5% 3 PER YEAR Grow into profitable new categories and channels. 4 Fuel growth by reducing waste in our work, products and supply chain. EXPAND EBIT MARGIN +25-50 BASIS POINTS ACCELERATORS PER YEAR Growth Culture 3D Innovation DELIVER 3D Technology Transformation Portfolio Momentum FREE CASH FLOW AS % OF SALES 10-12% PER YEAR 12 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-DMA MISSION OBJECTIVE COMMITMENT We make everyday life Be the best at building Leverage environmental, better, every day. big-share brands in social and governance midsized categories. performance to help drive long-term, sustainable value creation. OPERATING CONTEXT FACTORS DRIVING OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS To achieve our business goals, we need to leverage the unique attributes of our company; optimize our relationships with important partners such as our employees, retail customers and communities; and manage external factors that can influence our success. EXTERNAL INFLUENCES Natural Resources Employees Global Economy Competition Suppliers and Other Business Consumers Partners Laws and Regulations OUR Raw Material Costs RELATIONSHIPS Investors Communities Retail Customers OUR VALUES OUR RESOURCES • Do the right thing • Talented and engaged employees • Stretch for results • Superior brand-building capabilities • Take personal ownership FOUNDATION • Strong product portfolio • Work together to win • Financial discipline • Strong cash ﬂow G4-DMA The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 13 Strategy 1 ENGAGE OUR PEOPLE Fostering a highly motivated workforce with a commitment to diversity and inclusion, safety and a work culture that supports good growth by encouraging employees to put the consumer first, be curious, embrace change, think boldly and act like an owner. • Results of our annual employee engagement survey showed that 87 percent of Clorox employees feel engaged or highly engaged, topping levels at consumer goods companies (79 percent) and global high-performing companies (84 percent).1 Scores also showed improvement compared to last year, with a 1 percent higher engagement score, broader survey participation (79 percent versus 76 percent) and improvements across all 19 previous survey categories. • As we have done for the past decade, Clorox received a perfect score of 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign’s 2015 Corporate Equality Index, a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to LGBT workplace equality. • For a second consecutive year, the company was named No. 3 on Diversity MBA magazine’s list of Best Places for Women and Diverse Managers to Work. Selections are based on scores for representation, board diversity, recruitment, workplace inclusion, retention, succession planning and accountability. Business • Noticeably improve speed and clarity of decision-making. • Embrace diversity and inclusion. PRIORITIES • Drive our growth culture. Corporate Responsibility • Maintain workplace safety. 14 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-LA6, G4-LA10, G4-SO1 Water quench and misting systems provide an additional layer of safety during the charcoal manufacturing process, contributing to the company's world-class workplace safety performance in fiscal year 2016. • The company marked the 10th anniversary of its • The company had a recordable incident rate, or founding employee resource groups, a key part of RIR, of 0.612 — a workplace safety performance efforts to drive diversity and foster an inclusive that exceeds that of other goods-producing environment that supports employees, represents manufacturing companies and is better than our consumers, attracts talent and supports a the 1.0 RIR considered world-class. growth culture. These groups have since grown to include more than 2,000 members and allies in 10 locations around the world. 1 The Willis Towers Watson global high-performance companies norm is based on responses from 145,000 employees at 28 companies. Companies qualify for the norm by meeting two criteria: 1) superior financial performance, defined by a net profit margin and/or return • We introduced the myLeadership model framed on invested capital that exceeds industry averages; and 2) superior human resources practices, defined by employee opinion scores near the top among the most financially successful companies surveyed by Willis Towers Watson. around four leadership dimensions — envision, 2 Based on corporate benchmarking by Clorox, we consider a recordable incident rate of execute, evolve and enable — to help every 1.0 or less to be world-class. Our fiscal year 2016 RIR of 0.61 means that for every 100 Clorox employees, we averaged less than one reportable incident during the past year. According to the latest available data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Clorox employee around the world become a average RIR for goods-producing manufacturing companies is 3.8. The criteria used to determine RIR follow the U.S. Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health better leader. Administration guidelines and are applied globally. G4-LA6, G4-LA10, G4-SO1 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 15 Strategy 2 INCREASE BRAND INVESTMENT Putting additional resources behind our brands, with a focus on targeted plans to drive demand for our products at the three moments of consumer choice, which we refer to as the 3Ds: desire (prepurchase), decide (point-ofpurchase) and delight (post-purchase). • Behind new products such as Hidden Valley® buffalo, cilantro lime, honey BBQ and sriracha ranch flavors; Fresh Step® with Febreze™ cat litter; Glad® DualDefense™ and Glad with Clorox® antimicrobial trash bags; Kingsford® professional briquets and briquets with hickory and applewood in small sizes; Clorox Healthcare® Optimum-UV Enlight™ system; and Clorox® Clothes laundry addidrinking water. As the brand ambassador, Curry tive (International), we delivered about 3 percent was featured in an advertising campaign that incremental sales growth from innovation. included television, print and digital and appeared • Burt's Bees® all-natural, moisturizing lipsticks at public events to spread the positive message were introduced with features unique to the about maintaining a healthy lifestyle. category, including lightweight, recyclable No. 5 • The Brita® Infinity pitcher, the company’s inaugural plastic packaging composed of 60 percent Internet of Things product that uses the Amazon post-consumer recycled materials, with no Dash Wi-Fi-connected platform to automatically outer packaging — adhering to the brand’s reorder filters when a replacement is needed, was sustainability commitment. conceived and launched within a 12-month period, • The Brita® brand announced a partnership with tapping the expertise of a cross-functional team professional basketball star Stephen Curry to tout from Research and Development, Information the benefits of Brita® filters and the importance of Technology, and Marketing. Business • Increase sales from brands that deliver superior consumer value. • Expand sense-and-respond digital marketing and e-commerce. • Implement new tools and sustain investment to increase growth from product and commercial innovation. PRIORITIES Corporate Responsibility • Drive sustainability improvements in product formulations and packaging and ensure key renewable materials are responsibly sourced. 16 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-EN27 • As part of the ongoing build-out of our sense-andthe launch. The differentiated benefit of eliminating respond marketing capabilities, we used a data rather than masking odor resonated with consumers management platform for 40 percent of our digital and helped drive growth in volume and sales as well media purchases, allowing for more refined consumer as a turnaround in market share in the fourth quarter. targeting, with initial results showing this driving • The first-ever Burt’s Bees® television advertising a mid-single-digit increase in the return on investcampaign for the core lip-care category, which ment of our advertising dollars. SRM pilot projects launched in the second quarter of fiscal year 2015, also yielded success, helping identify new target helped drive a 1-point increase in market share1 audiences and informing the development of more and 1.1 percent growth in household penetration2 effective advertising campaigns for our Brita ®, for lip balm in fiscal year 2016. Hidden Valley® and Clorox® brands. • Consistent with the brand’s goal to source ingredients • The Burt’s Bees® Natural Launchpad, which focuses responsibly, the Burt’s Bees® business converted to on health and well-being, was started to support the use of community-sourced beeswax for its core entrepreneurs and create a potential pipeline for lip balm products. innovation. From 175 applicants, 10 winners were chosen to be part of the startup accelerator and receive financial support, coaching, networking and association with the brand. • We continued to increase the percentage of our overall media spending on digital communications, growing to 41 percent this year, double our investment in this space compared to two years ago. • We updated our public commitment to improve responsible sourcing of palm oil-derived ingredients, ensuring it is done in a manner that does not contribute to deforestation, protects peatlands and respects human rights. We developed a time-bound action • By increasing our investment in the Clorox® plan to work with our supply chain and third-party disinfecting wipes business, the brand — already stakeholders to achieve those goals and will publicly No. 1 in its category — grew market share by report on our progress twice annually. nearly 5 percent3 and household penetration by • A number of businesses reduced materials used 3 points4 while also regaining distribution with in their products and packaging. Our Professional its largest customer in the club channel after a Products Division introduced a new 700-count two-year absence. wipe alternative that uses 24 percent less overall • Based on a study of online flu conversations packaging per wipe than the 500-count product it that showed a strong correlation between these replaced, and we reduced corrugated paperboard conversations and actual flu cases last year, the in cleaning product shipping cases by 2.6 million Clorox® brand launched the Clorox® Cold & Flu pounds, continuing to minimize the amount of Pulse, a cold and flu social media conversation material entering the waste stream. tracker that is a predictor of the flu. This platform, • In the highly competitive litter category, we which generated more than 33,000 followers, introduced Fresh Step® with Febreze™, committing allowed consumers to take preventive steps to 100 percent of the brand's media spend behind kill germs before viruses spread. 1 IRI Multi-outlet Sales (52 weeks ending June 19, 2016). 2 IRI Panel Data (52 weeks ending July 10, 2016). 3 IRI Multi-outlet Sales (52 weeks ending June 20, 2016). 4 IRI Panel Data (52 weeks ending May 2016). G4-EN27 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 17 Strategy 3 EXPAND OUR BRANDS Expanding the reach of our brands by building in adjacent categories and identifying additional sales channels, all while maintaining a focus on our core businesses. • We acquired Renew Life®, evolving our portfolio Zika prevention efforts, we donated a truckload, into the digestive health space, a $10 billion or approximately 1,000 cases, of Clorox® bleach category expected to grow 7 percent annually, through AmeriCares. including a $1.3 billion probiotic market expected • When the water supply in Flint, Michigan, to grow 15 percent annually.1 was contaminated with lead, we worked with • With investments in staff to handle key customer government officials to supply Brita® faucet relationships and product development, expansion systems, identifying ways to ramp up production of online content and advertising, and increased to meet the urgent public health needs of international capabilities, overall e-commerce the community. business grew double digits for the second • The company announced licensing partnerships straight year. that extended our brands into new categories • The company provided support to communities to and generated profitable revenue streams, help them in their recovery from natural disasters. including Purex® with Clorox2® laundry detergent, For those experiencing historic flooding in Georgia, Glad® disposable paper plates, Hidden Valley® Mississippi, Missouri, South Carolina and Texas, frozen french fries and frozen potato sides, we donated more than 10 truckloads of product, Liquid-Plumr® drain care tools, and Fresh Step® including nearly 16,000 cases of Clorox® liquid litter box accessories. bleach and 6,200 cases of Glad® trash bags, all • The Clorox® Safe Water Project, which was through the American Red Cross Annual Disaster launched in 2012, achieved its expansion goal Responder Program. To assist with earthquake of providing 25,000 people in a rural area of recovery efforts in Ecuador, we donated 3,800 Peru with access to safe drinking water through cases of Clorox® bleach to Cruz Roja and the the use of diluted bleach dispensers. country’s Ministry of Health; and to support Business • Invest disproportionately in businesses with stronger growth potential. • Expand into adjacencies through innovation, partnerships PRIORITIES and acquisitions. Corporate Responsibility • Support our global communities through our Be Healthy, Be Smart and Be Safe initiatives. 18 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-EN8, G4-SO1 • The Hidden Valley® brand expanded its portfolio to include buffalo, cilantro lime, honey BBQ and sriracha ranch flavors, driving volume and share growth. These and other “ranch with” flavors introduced in fiscal year 2015 also contributed to strong double-digit sales growth for the brand within the flavored ranch segment in fiscal year 2016. • To meet the needs of budget-conscious consumers, the company introduced “low out of pocket,” or LOOP, products — our popular branded products The Clorox® Safe Water Project provides 25,000 in smaller, more affordable sizes. New LOOP Peruvians with access to safe drinking water. products included Glad® sandwich, snack, storage and freezer bags; Glad® trash bags; Glad® cling • A multichannel communication strategy to support wrap; Pine-Sol® cleaners; Clorox® disinfecting our Clorox® Safe Water Project in Peru used digital wipes; and Clorox® regular bleach. media, new labels and point-of-sales activities to encourage the 26 million Peruvians with access to • We expanded into the lip color category with the safe water to become part of the solution for the launch of all-natural, moisturizing Burt's Bees® 4 million Peruvians without access to safe water lipsticks in 10 countries. Key U.S. food, drug and through a “trade-up” message. mass retail customers ordered the full or near-full lineup of products, and the top shade (Blush Basin) • Our brands supported various cause-related ranked No. 10 overall among 500 lipsticks, according marketing efforts, including the Hidden Valley® to IRI data.2 Taste Not Waste campaign to fight food waste, especially of imperfect vegetables, and the Burt’s Bees® Bring Back The Bees campaign, which raised awareness of disappearing bee populations while engaging consumers to reach the goal of planting 1 billion bee-nourishing wildflower seeds. • As part of its focus on developing solutions that will provide permanent, universal access to clean, healthy and safe drinking water, the Brita® brand partnered with XPRIZE, a nonprofit global leader that designs and implements innovative competition models to solve the world’s biggest challenges. The brand is sponsoring a team that will work on crowdsourcing solutions to enable universal access to safe drinking water as well as actionable water quantity and quality data. 1 SPINS with Vitamin Shoppe, IRI (52 weeks ending Nov. 29, 2015) and Whole Foods (52 weeks ending Nov. 1, 2015). 2 IRI Multi-outlet Sales (last 13 weeks ending July 10, 2016). G4-EN8, G4-SO1 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 19 Strategy 4 CUT WASTE TO FUEL GROWTH Identifying ways to reduce waste in every aspect of our business so the savings can be reinvested to drive growth. • Through a partnership with a leading solar power • The Glad® plant in Orangeville, Ontario, became the company, Clorox tapped into renewable energy with second Clorox plant to achieve zero waste-to-landfill solar panel installations beginning at a regional status — part of a public target set by the company to distribution center and planned for two plants. This reach 10 zero waste-to-landfill sites by 2020. This initiative will help reduce overall greenhouse gas status means the facility recycles or repurposes at emissions and reduce our facilities’ electricity costs least 90 percent of its waste and sends the remaining without any capital outlay. 10 percent or less to a waste-to-energy facility; has virtually no recyclables in any waste container; and has passed an audit by the company’s environmental and Clorox tapped the power of renewable energy with its first solar panel installation. sustainability team. • Our agile enterprise initiative drove growth through a 50 percent reduction in the time allotted for the innovation process, marketing strategy changes and packaging redesign improvements, while also helping us reallocate more than 130 people to growth initiatives for the next fiscal year. • As part of its Futuro Limpio (“Clean Future”) project, Clorox Argentina supported the development of a responsible waste management cooperative that also offered fixed incomes and sustainable jobs to unemployed residents in the company’s Aldo Bonzi plant community who had started collecting and recycling materials during the country’s 2001 economic crisis and Photo courtesy SolarCity went on to become experts on waste management and environmental issues. The program began to provide Business • Drive an agile enterprise, eliminating low-value activity and simplifying our work. • Reduce costs through product cost innovation, supply chain PRIORITIES network strategies and enterprise optimization programs. Corporate Responsibility • Reduce the environmental impact of our operations and improve the sustainability of our upstream supply chain. 20 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-DMA, G4-EN2, G4-EN19, G4-EN23, G4-EN27 The company is driving toward 10 zero waste-to-landfill sites by 2020, achieving its second in fiscal year 2016 at the Glad® plant in Orangeville, Ontario. training and education to promote recycling at company sites as well as within local communities that had lacked a collection infrastructure and already has yielded significant improvement in solid waste segregation, a notable reduction in volume of solid waste to landfill and an increase in solid waste migrated to recycling at our Argentina plants. • Enterprisewide initiatives, including lightweighting of charcoal briquets, renegotiated international ocean freight rates and a number of other administrative improvements, contributed to $109 million in cost savings. • Through a “Go Lean” strategy in International, which focuses on pricing maximization, cost savings, infrastructure right-sizing in our Australian and Latin American A pilot project to improve water quality is being expanded after preliminary results showed that the presence of a new floating operations, and optimization of demand creation, we wetlands island reduced the level of total suspended solids by half. continued to identify ways to generate less volatile, more profitable growth. the level of total suspended solids, resulting in cleaner • As part of an innovative effort to create a sustainable and healthier water discharge for aquatic life downstream. ecosystem for better water quality, the Kingsford® Following a 50 percent reduction in total suspended solids charcoal plant in Belle, Missouri, tested whether a floating during the pilot project, the facility is planning additional wetlands island could serve as a natural root filtration islands, and they have the potential of becoming an method in its recycling pond. Made of microbes and option for water treatment at other Kingsford sites. plants, the islands encourage microbial activity to reduce G4-DMA, G4-EN2, G4-EN19, G4-EN23, G4-EN27 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 21 2016 SCORECARD Our Global Footprint CANADA UNITED STATES DOMINICAN REPUBLIC MEXICO PUERTO RICO PANAMA COSTA RICA COLOMBIA ECUADOR Administrative/ Plant Sales Office PERU URUGUAY ARGENTINA Joint Research & CHILE Venture Development $ 5.8B 8,000 25+ 100+ NET SALES EMPLOYEES COUNTRY/ MARKETS AROUND TERRITORY THE WORLD OPERATIONS 22 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9, G4-10, G4-DMA, G4-EC1, G4-EN6, G4-EN8, G4-EN19, G4-EN23, G4-LA12, G4-SO1 UNITED KINGDOM SOUTH CHINA KOREA UNITED ARAB EMIRATES EGYPT SAUDI ARABIA HONG KONG PHILIPPINES KENYA MALAYSIA SOUTH AFRICA AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND SALES BY SEGMENT AND CATEGORY 33% 33% 17% 17% CLEANING HOUSEHOLD INTERNATIONAL LIFESTYLE HOME CARE 18% BAGS & WRAPS 15% LATIN AMERICA 9% DRESSINGS & SAUCES 9% Clorox® • Pine-Sol® • Tilex® • 409® Glad® Hidden Valley® • Soy Vay® Liquid-Plumr® • Green Works® CANADA 3% KC Masterpiece® $ 5.8B LAUNDRY 9% Clorox® • Clorox2® CHARCOAL 11% Kingsford® • Match Light® CAT LITTERS 6% AUSTRALIA/ NEW ZEALAND 2% OTHER INT'L 3% NATURAL PERSONAL CARE 4% Burt's Bees® PROFESSIONAL Fresh Step® • Scoop Away® WATER FILTRATION 4% PRODUCTS 6% Brita® Clorox Healthcare® • Clorox DIGESTIVE HEALTH <1%* Commercial Solutions® Renew Life® *Reflects results following May 2016 acquisition. Anticipate contribution of about 2 points in FY17. G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9, G4-10, G4-DMA, G4-EC1, G4-EN6, G4-EN8, G4-EN19, G4-EN23, G4-LA12, G4-SO1 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 23 Performance | Achieving financial success with transparency and strong governance. NET SALES ($ Millions) $5,761 $5,514 $5,655 2014 2015 2016 EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXES MARGIN1 (as a % of Net Sales) (non-GAAP) 18.0% 18.5% 17.8% 2014 2015 2016 See footnotes below for descriptions of these non-generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, 2. Reconciliation of Economic Profit (Unaudited) (i) measures, the reasons management believes they are useful to investors, and reconciliations to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Dollars in millions and all calculations based on rounded numbers FY16 FY15 FY14 1. E  BIT represents earnings from continuing operations before interest and taxes. EBIT margin is the Earnings from continuing operations before ratio of EBIT to net sales. income taxes $ 983 $ 921 $ 884 Noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring and Reconciliation of Earnings From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes to EBIT intangible asset impairment costs 9 1 3 Interest expense 88 100 103 Dollars in millions FY16 FY15 FY14 Earnings from continuing operations before Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring income taxes $ 983 $ 921 $ 884 and intangible asset impairment costs, and Interest income -5 -4 -3 interest expense $ 1,080 $ 1,022 $ 990 Interest expense 88 100 103 Income taxes on earnings from continuing EBIT (i) — non-GAAP $ 1,066 $ 1,017 $ 984 operations before income taxes, noncash EBIT margin (i) — non-GAAP 18.5% 18.0% 17.8% U.S. GAAP restructuring and intangible asset Net sales $ 5,761 $ 5,655 $ 5,514 impairment costs, and interest expense (ii) 368 350 342 Adjusted after-tax profit $ 712 $ 672 $ 648 (i) Economic profit (EP) is defined by the company as earnings from continuing operations before Average capital employed (iii) $ 2,472 $ 2,393 $ 2,494 income taxes, excluding noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring and intangible asset impairment costs, Capital charge (iv) $ 222 $ 214 $ 225 and interest expense; less an amount of tax based on the effective tax rate, and less a charge equal to average capital employed multiplied by a cost of capital rate. EP is a key financial metric Economic profit (i) (adjusted after-tax profit that the company’s management uses to evaluate business performance and allocate resources, less capital charge) $ 490 $ 458 $ 423 and is a component in determining employee incentive compensation. The company’s management believes EP provides additional perspective to investors about financial returns generated (ii) The tax rate applied is the effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations, which was by the business and represents profit generated over and above the cost of capital used by the 34.1%, 34.2% and 34.6% in fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. business to generate that profit. 24 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9, G4-10, G4-DMA, G4-EC1, G4-EN6, G4-EN8, G4-EN19, G4-EN23, G4-LA12, G4-SO1 DILUTED NET EARNINGS EARNINGS FROM PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS ECONOMIC PROFIT2 CONTINUING OPERATIONS ($ Millions) (non-GAAP) ($ Millions) $648 $490 $4.92 $579 $606 $458 $4.57 $423 $4.39 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 NET CASH PROVIDED BY CONTINUING OPERATIONS FREE CASH FLOW3 ($ Millions) (non-GAAP) ($ Millions) $858 $733 $786 $768 $649 $596 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 (iii) Total capital employed represents total assets less non-interest bearing liabilities. Adjusted 3. Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by continuing operations less capital expenditures capital employed represents total capital employed adjusted to add back current year after and was $596 million, $733 million and $649 million for fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. tax noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring and intangible asset impairment costs. Average capital For fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, net cash provided by continuing operations was $768 million, employed is the average of adjusted capital employed for the current year and total capital $858 million and $786 million respectively, and capital expenditures were $172 million, $125 million employed for the prior year, based on year-end balances. See below for details of the average and $137 million respectively. The company’s management uses free cash flow and free cash flow capital employed calculation: as a percent of sales to help assess the cash generation ability of the business and funds available for investing activities, such as acquisitions, investing in the business to drive growth, and financing FY16 FY15 FY14 activities, including debt payments, dividend payments and share repurchases. Free cash flow does not represent cash available only for discretionary expenditures, since the company has mandatory Total assets $ 4,518 $ 4,164 $ 4,258 debt service requirements and other contractual and nondiscretionary expenditures. In addition, free Less: cash flow may not be the same as similar measures provided by other companies due to potential Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 1,032 976 912 (v) differences in methods of calculation and items being excluded. Income taxes payable — 31 8 Other liabilities(v) 784 745 768 Note: Currency-neutral net sales growth represents U.S. GAAP net sales growth excluding the impact Deferred income taxes 82 95 103 of foreign currency exchange rates. The company’s management believes this measure provides useful Noninterest bearing liabilities 1,898 1,847 1,791 additional information to investors about trends in the company’s core business operations. The following Total capital employed 2,620 2,317 2,467 table presents the currency-neutral net sales growth reconciliation for fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014: After tax noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring and intangible asset impairment costs 6 1 2 Fiscal Year Sales Growth Reconciliation Adjusted capital employed $ 2,626 $ 2,318 $ 2,469 FY16 FY15 FY14 Average capital employed $ 2,472 $ 2,393 $ 2,494 Total sales growth — GAAP 1.9% 2.6% -0.3% Less: Foreign exchange -2.7% -2.1% -2.0% (iv) Capital charge represents average capital employed multiplied by a cost of capital rate, Currency-neutral sales growth, non-GAAP 4.6% 4.7% 1.7% which was 9 percent for all fiscal years presented. The calculation of capital charge includes the impact of rounding numbers. (v) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities were combined into one financial statement line as of June 30, 2016. The change has been retrospectively applied to all periods presented. Accounts payable and accrued liabilities and Other liabilities are adjusted to exclude interest-bearing liabilities. G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9, G4-10, G4-DMA, G4-EC1, G4-EN6, G4-EN8, G4-EN19, G4-EN23, G4-LA12, G4-SO1 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 25 People | Engaging our people as business owners and promoting diversity, opportunity and respectful treatment. 87% Employee Engagement (vs. 79% Benchmark)1 0.61 Recordable Incident Rate (vs. World-Class Level <1.0)2 DIVERSITY AS A BUSINESS STRENGTH (All data as of June 30, 2016) In Corporate Governance In the Workforce 25% Ethnic Minorities Among U.S. 50% Nonproduction Managers (vs. 22% U.S. Census Bureau)5 Minority Independent Board Members (vs. 13% Fortune 500 Average)3 31% Ethnic Minorities Among U.S. Nonproduction Employees 30% (vs. 28% U.S. Census Bureau)5 Female Independent Board Members 41% 49% (vs. 20% Fortune 500 Average)4 31% Global Female Nonproduction Managers Global Female Nonproduction Employees Female Executive Committee Members 1 T  he Willis Towers Watson global high-performance companies norm is based on responses from 145,000 employees at 28 companies. Companies qualify for the norm by meeting two criteria: 1) superior financial performance, defined by a net profit margin and/or return on invested capital that exceeds industry averages; and 2) superior human resources practices, defined by employee opinion scores near the top among the most financially successful companies surveyed by Willis Towers Watson. 2 Based on corporate benchmarking by Clorox, we consider a recordable incident rate of 1.0 or less to be world-class. Our fiscal year 2016 RIR of 0.61 means that for every 100 Clorox employees, we averaged less than one reportable incident during the past year. According to the latest available data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average RIR for goods-producing manufacturing companies is 3.8. The criteria used to determine RIR follow the U.S. Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration guidelines and are applied globally. 3 Alliance for Board Diversity, 2012. 4 2020 Gender Diversity Index. 5 Equal Employment Opportunity Tabulation 2006-10. 26 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9, G4-10, G4-DMA, G4-EC1, G4-EN6, G4-EN8, G4-EN19, G4-EN23, G4-LA12, G4-SO1 Products | Innovating products, responsibly. and making responsible 50% GOAL BY 2020 3% 31% Products With Sustainability Improvements6,7 Incremental Sales From Innovation Planet | Shrinking our environmental footprint while growing our business. Operational Footprint Reduction (CY 2015 vs CY 2011 per case of product sold) GOALS 17% 14% 20% Greenhouse Gas Emissions Energy Consumption BY 2020 14% 25% Water Consumption Solid Waste to Landfill Community | Safeguarding families with our Be Healthy, Be Smart and Be Safe initiatives. $4.6M $2.9M $16.9M The Clorox Company Foundation and Burt’s Bees® Greater Good Foundation Cash Grants Or 123,053 Employee Volunteer Hours in CY 20158 TOTAL IMPACT $1.3M $8.1M U.S. Cause-Marketing U.S. Corporate Contributions Product Donations 6 F  or the calendar year ended Dec. 31, 2015. All sustainability metrics represent cumulative progress against CY 2011 baseline, with percentage based on net fiscal year customer sales. There are four types of sustainability improvement criteria that can be met either by fully meeting one or by partially meeting two or more: 1) a 5 percent or more reduction in product or packaging materials on a per-consumer-use basis; 2) an environmentally beneficial change to 10 percent or more of packaging or active ingredients on a per-consumer-use basis; 3) a 10 percent reduction in required usage of water or energy by consumer; or 4) an environmentally beneficial sourcing change to 20 percent or more of active ingredients or packaging on a per-consumer-use basis. When projects meet these criteria, they are reported to the Clorox Eco Team by each business unit. 7 In CY 2015, the definition was modified to allow for combinations of product and packaging improvements within a single criterion or across all criteria in cases where there are multiple improvements but no single one meets the minimum threshold. In those cases, we add the percentages of each criterion improvement to ensure that together they reach 100 percent. While the adjusted criteria have been retroactively applied back to 2012, no such combinations have been counted toward cumulative progress reported through CY 2015. 8 Financial equivalent of 123,053 volunteer hours, calculated at $23.56 per hour, based on the 2015 U.S. value of volunteer time from IndependentSector.org. Less than 5 percent of these hours are by employees outside the U.S., but all are calculated using the U.S. average rate. Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 38-39 for the review report. G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9, G4-10, G4-DMA, G4-EC1, G4-EN6, G4-EN8, G4-EN19, G4-EN23, G4-LA12, G4-SO1 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 27 28 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report COMPANY RECOGNITIONS 2015 Manufacturing Safety Excellence Award, Rockwell Automation Global Citizen Award, United “Best-in-Class” Retirement Plan, Advertiser of the Year, Festival Nations Association of the East Bay The White House Iberoamericano de la Publicidad (Northern California) CFO of IT Award for Effective Use Top Bay Area Corporate of Data and Processes to Drive Philanthropists, San Francisco Business Outcomes, Technology Business Times Business Management Council 7th Among Personal and Homecare Companies and No. 33 in General “Best in Image,” Apertura Magazine Rankings of Preferred Companies, (Clorox Argentina) Mercado Magazine (Clorox Argentina) No. 3 on List of Best Places for Corporation of the Year, Atlanta Women and Diverse Managers to Greater Women’s Business Council Work, Diversity MBA Magazine G4-EN2 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 29 BRAND RECOGNITIONS Top 10 Most-Trusted Brands 2015 ISSA Innovation Award, Among Women, Nielsen Cleaning Agents Category 2016 Marketers That Matter Award, B2B Category — Large Companies 2016 American Package Epica Award for Design Award Outstanding Creative Gold PRO Award for Best Mobile Campaign Gold Trophy in Cross-Platform Category, Advertising Research Silver and Bronze Cannes Lion Foundation’s David Ogilvy Awards, Awards for Hispanic Radio “United We Grill” Campaign Gold Reggie Award, Hunky Plumr In-Store Program Using Augmented Reality Experience 30 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report The Sunday Times Style Magazine Beauty Award For Best Natural Brand (UK) 2016 American Package Design Awards Outstanding Classic Company, (BB Cream, Baby Bee, Lip Crayon Box, Delicious Living Magazine (U.S.) Lipstick, Tinted Lip Balm, Renewal Face Care Line, Holiday Packaging) (U.S.) 2016 SELF Approved Beauty Award for Smoothest Lip Color (U.S.) 2016 Cosmo Beauty Award for Allure 2016 Readers' Choice Award Healthiest Lip Color, Burt’s Bees® for Best Natural Lip Color, Tinted Fuchsia Flood Lipstick (U.S.) Lip Balm (U.S.) Best New Lip Product Award for Burt's Bees® Lip Crayon and Highly Commended Award for Almond and Milk Hand Cream, Best Classic Hands & Nails Category, Beauty Magazine (UK) Best New Make-up for Lips Award, Burt’s Bees® Lip Crayons, Cosmetic Executive Women (UK) 2016 Seventeen Beauty “Green” Haul-phabet Hall of Fame Award, BB Cream (U.S.) Best BB Cream in 2016, Marie Claire Beauty Awards (Thailand) Best Label Award 2015 — Best Natural Skincare, Marie Claire Magazine (Hong Kong) Marie Claire Smart Beauty Award — Editor’s Pick in 2015, Burt’s Bees® Lip Crayon (Korea) Marie Claire Smart Beauty Fair — Editor’s Pick in 2016, Burt’s Bees® Lipstick (Korea) 2016 Olive Young Health & Beauty Award — Lip Care No. 1, Burt’s Bees® Lip Balm (Korea) The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS Years ended June 30 Dollars in millions, except share and per share data 2016 2015 2014 Net sales $ 5,761 $ 5,655 $ 5,514 Cost of products sold 3,163 3,190 3,158 Gross profit 2,598 2,465 2,356 Selling and administrative expenses 806 798 751 Advertising costs 587 523 503 Research and development costs 141 136 125 Interest expense 88 100 103 Other (income) expense, net (7) (13) (10) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 983 921 884 Income taxes on continuing operations 335 315 305 Earnings from continuing operations 648 606 579 Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax — (26) (21) Net earnings $ 648 $ 580 $ 558 Net earnings (losses) per share Basic Continuing operations $ 5.01 $ 4.65 $ 4.47 Discontinued operations — (0.20) (0.16) Basic net earnings per share $ 5.01 $ 4.45 $ 4.31 Diluted Continuing operations $ 4.92 $ 4.57 $ 4.39 Discontinued operations — (0.20) (0.16) Diluted net earnings per share $ 4.92 $ 4.37 $ 4.23 Weighted average shares outstanding (in thousands) Basic 129,472 130,310 129,558 Diluted 131,717 132,776 131,742 32 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Years ended June 30 Dollars in millions 2016 2015 2014 Earnings from continuing operations $ 648 $ 606 $ 579 Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax — (26) (21) Net earnings 648 580 558 Other comprehensive (losses) income: Foreign currency adjustments, net of tax (53) (54) (37) Net unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives, net of tax 9 (14) (9) Pension and postretirement benefit adjustments, net of tax (24) (17) (4) Total other comprehensive (losses) income, net of tax (68) (85) (50) Comprehensive income $ 580 $ 495 $ 508 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 33 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS As of June 30 Dollars in millions, except share and per share data 2016 2015 ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 401 $ 382 Receivables, net 569 519 Inventories, net 443 385 Other current assets 72 143 Total current assets 1,485 1,429 Property, plant and equipment, net 906 918 Goodwill 1,197 1,067 Trademarks, net 657 535 Other intangible assets, net 78 50 Other assets 195 165 Total assets $ 4,518 $ 4,164 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities Notes and loans payable $ 523 $ 95 Current maturities of long-term debt — 300 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 1,035 979 Income taxes payable — 31 Total current liabilities 1,558 1,405 Long-term debt 1,797 1,796 Other liabilities 784 750 Deferred income taxes 82 95 Total liabilities $ 4,221 $ 4,046 Commitments and contingencies Stockholders’ equity Preferred stock: $1.00 par value; 5,000,000 shares authorized; none issued or outstanding — — Common stock: $1.00 par value; 750,000,000 shares authorized; 158,741,461 shares issued as of June 30, 2016 and 2015; and 129,355,263 and 128,614,310 shares outstanding as of June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively 159 159 Additional paid-in capital 868 775 Retained earnings 2,163 1,923 Treasury shares, at cost: 29,386,198 and 30,127,151 shares as of June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively (2,323) (2,237) Accumulated other comprehensive net (losses) income (570) (502) Stockholders’ equity 297 118 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 4,518 $ 4,164 34 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Accumulated Other Common Stock Additional Treasury Shares Comprehensive Shares Paid-in Retained Shares Net (Losses) Dollars in millions (000) Amount Capital Earnings (000) Amount Income Total Balance as of June 30, 2013 158,741 $159 $661 $1,561 (28,375) $(1,868) $(367) $ 146 Net earnings 558 558 Other comprehensive loss (50) (50) Accrued dividends (374) (374) Stock-based compensation 36 36 Other employee stock plan activities 12 (6) 1,476 92 98 Treasury stock purchased (3,046) (260) (260) Balance as of June 30, 2014 158,741 159 709 1,739 (29,945) (2,036) (417) 154 Net earnings 580 580 Other comprehensive loss (85) (85) Accrued dividends (391) (391) Stock-based compensation 32 32 Other employee stock plan activities 34 (5) (4,198) 233 262 Treasury stock purchased 4,016 (434) (434) Balance as of June 30, 2015 158,741 159 775 1,923 (30,127) (2,237) (502) 118 Net earnings 648 648 Other comprehensive loss (68) (68) Accrued dividends (406) (406) Stock-based compensation 45 45 Other employee stock plan activities 48 (2) 2,892 168 214 Treasury stock purchased (2,151) (254) (254) Balance as of June 30, 2016 158,741 $159 $868 $2,163 (29,386) $(2,323) $(570) $ 297 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 35 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years ended June 30 Dollars in millions 2016 2015 2014 Operating activities: Net earnings $ 648 $ 580 $ 558 Deduct: Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax — (26) (21) Earnings from continuing operations 648 606 579 Adjustments to reconcile earnings from continuing operations to net cash provided by continuing operations: Depreciation and amortization 165 169 177 Stock-based compensation 45 32 36 Deferred income taxes 5 (16) (21) Settlement of interest rate forward contracts — (25) — Other 1 (17) 6 Changes in: Receivables, net (52) 6 20 Inventories, net (45) (25) 1 Other current assets 6 6 5 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 57 93 (12) Income taxes payable (62) 29 (5) Net cash provided by continuing operations 768 858 786 Net cash provided by (used for) discontinued operations 10 16 (19) Net cash provided by operations 778 874 767 Investing activities: Capital expenditures (172) (125) (137) Business acquired, net of cash acquired (290) — — Other 32 19 — Net cash used for investing activities from continuing operations (430) (106) (137) Net cash used for investing activities by discontinued operations — — (1) Net cash used for investing activities (430) (106) (138) Financing activities: Notes and loans payable, net 426 (48) (60) Long-term debt borrowings, net of issuance costs — 495 — Long-term debt repayments (300) (575) — Treasury stock purchased (254) (434) (260) Cash dividends paid (398) (385) (368) Issuance of common stock for employee stock plans and other 210 251 96 Net cash used for financing activities (316) (696) (592) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (13) (19) (7) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 19 53 30 Cash and cash equivalents: Beginning of year 382 329 299 End of year $ 401 $ 382 $ 329 Supplemental cash flow information: Interest paid $ 79 $ 104 $ 76 Income taxes paid, net of refunds 323 236 312 Noncash financing activities: Cash dividends declared and accrued, but not paid 104 99 95 36 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF THE CLOROX COMPANY We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Clorox Company as of June 30, 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2016. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule in Exhibit 99.2. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of The Clorox Company at June 30, 2016 and 2015, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2016, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), The Clorox Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated August 16, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. San Francisco, CA August 16, 2016 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 37 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON REVIEW OF NONFINANCIAL INFORMATION TO THE MANAGEMENT OF THE CLOROX COMPANY We have reviewed selected performance indicators (the “Subject Matter”) included in the accompanying Schedule of Selected Performance Indicators (the “Schedule”) and as identified by the “ ” symbol presented in The Clorox Company’s (“Clorox” or “the Company”) Annual Report and Executive Summary (the “Reports”) for the year ended June 30, 2016 or as otherwise noted, in accordance with the relevant criteria also presented in the Schedule. We did not review all information included in the Reports. We did not review the narrative sections of the Reports, except where they incorporated the Subject Matter. Clorox’s management is responsible for the Subject Matter included in the Schedule and as also presented in the Reports, based on the relevant criteria included in the Schedule (the “Criteria”). Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Subject Matter based on our review. Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform our review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to the Subject Matter in order for it to be in accordance with the Criteria. A review consists principally of applying analytical procedures, making inquiries of persons responsible for the subject matter, obtaining an understanding of the data management systems and processes used to generate, aggregate and report the Subject Matter and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Subject Matter is in accordance with the Criteria, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion. As described in Note 1, non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the Subject Matter for the year ended June 30, 2016 or otherwise noted, in order for it to be in accordance with the relevant Criteria set forth in the table on the next page. September 23, 2016 38 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-33 Schedule of Selected Performance Indicators — The Clorox Company Indicator Name Scope Unit Report Value Criteria Scope 1, 2, and 3 Global Percentage reduction of tCO2e -17% The World Resources Institute (“WRI”) / World Business Council for Greenhouse Gas per stat case sold over baseline Sustainable Development’s (“WBCSD”) Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) Protocol (GHG) Emissionsi year (2011) Corporate Standard Energy consumption, Global Percentage reduction of MWh -14% Refer to criteria for Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions above Scope 1 & 2i per stat case sold over baseline year (2011) Water consumptionii Global Percentage reduction of gallons of -14% Management’s criteria as follows: Water consumption includes water at all water consumed per stat case sold global manufacturing sites, offices and research development centers used over baseline year (2011) in 1) products sold to customers 2) the manufacturing process 3) irrigation and 4) water consumed by employees during office hours for personal needs (i.e. restrooms, break rooms) Sustainability Global Percentage of product portfolio 31% Management’s criteria as follows: There are four types of sustainability improvementsiii to improvement criteria that can be met either by fully meeting one or by partially product portfolio meeting two or more: 1) a 5 percent or more reduction in product or packaging since January 2012 materials on a per-consumer-use basis; 2) an environmentally beneficial change to 10 percent or more of packaging or active ingredients on a per-consumeruse basis; 3) a 10 percent reduction in required usage of water or energy by consumer; or 4) an environmentally beneficial sourcing change to 20 percent or more of active ingredients or packaging on a per-consumer-use basisiv Workforce See Percentage minority non-production 31% demographics/ right employees in U.S. diversity metricsv for OSHA Regulation 1920.2(d) defines “Employee” as an individual who is Percentage minority non-production 25% employed in a business of his employer which affects commerce. The Equal metric managers in U.S. Employment Opportunity Commission defines “Minority” as any race that is scope not white (Asian; Black; Latino; Native American; Native Hawaiian; or Two Percentage female non-production 49% or More). employees globally Percentage female non-production 41% Management’s criteria as follows: “Manager” is defined as an “employee” managers globally at Grade 27 or above for U.S. employees and Grade 26 or above for international employees with regards to Clorox’s Human Resources (HR) Percentage female independent 30% compensation structure. “Production Employee” is defined as an employee Board of Directors at Grade 19 or below with regards to Clorox’s HR compensation structure Percentage minority independent 50% (international and U.S.). “Non-Production Employee” is defined as an Board of Directors employee at Grade 20 or above with regards to Clorox’s HR compensation structure (international and U.S.). Percentage female Executive 31% Committee members U.S. product U.S. Fair Market Valuevi of products $8,100,000 Management’s criteria as follows: U.S. product donations refer to those donations Only donated in U.S. dollars donations used to aid in disaster relief or to support schools, food banks, and other non-profit 501c-3 organizations. Fair Market Value is derived from current year average truckload price of the product donated. Truckload prices are based on volume ordered and shipped. Total recordable Global Recordable incident rate (RIR)vii 0.61 Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) Regulation (Standards incident rate — 29 CFR) Part 1904 “Recording and Reporting Occupational Injuries and Illness” Employee Global Percentage of employee 87% Management’s criteria as follows: Engagement is defined as the intensity of engagement score engagementviii employees’ connection to Clorox, marked by committed effort to achieve work goals (‘being engaged’) in environments that support productivity (‘being enabled’) and maintain personal well-being (‘feeling energized’) Note 1: Non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. i For the calendar year ended December 31, 2015. Where actual data is not available, Clorox uses an estimation methodology based on historic energy use and stat case figures to determine emissions. Leased Clorox facilities and facilities with less than 15 employees are not included in GHG or energy consumption. a) Scope 1 emissions include direct energy used by Clorox in its operations, categorized by stationary combustion, mobile combustion, refrigerant use, direct VOC loss and wood pyrolysis (the last two sources relate mainly to Clorox’s Kingsford business unit, and wood pyrolysis is considered to be a carbon neutral process; therefore emissions from wood pyrolysis are not included in total tCO2e). b) Scope 2 includes indirect emissions resulting from Clorox’s purchased electricity use and is calculated using the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 2012 eGRID emission factors for U.S. locations and the Energy Information Administration (EIA) Foreign Electricity Emission Factors published in 2007 for international locations. c) Scope 3 includes finished goods transportation in the U.S. only and employee business travel (global). Employee business travel includes emissions from commercial air flights and rental car use by Clorox’s employees. ii For the calendar year ended December 31, 2015. Water sources include city/municipal, well, lake, river and storm water. Facilities with less than 15 employees are not included in water consumption. Leased Clorox facilities are not included in water consumption, unless Clorox maintains full operational control. iii For the calendar year ended December 31, 2015. All sustainability metrics represent cumulative progress against CY 2011 baseline, with percentage based on net fiscal year customer sales. When projects meet the criteria, they are reported to the Clorox Eco Team by each business unit. iv In CY 2015, the definition was modified to allow for combinations of product and packaging improvements within a single criterion or across all criteria in cases where there are multiple improvements but no single one meets the minimum thresholds. In those cases, Clorox adds the percentages of each criterion improvement to ensure that together they reach 100 percent. While the adjusted criteria has been retroactively applied back to 2012, no such combinations have been counted toward cumulative progress reported through CY 2015. v For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016. vi For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016. U.S. product donations include donations made by any U.S. business unit. vii Recordable incident rate was determined at July 24 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016. viii Clorox adopts Willis Towers Watson’s definition of employee engagement in terms of ‘sustainable’ engagement. Employee engagement is measured by a survey administered March 14, 2016 through April 1, 2016 of 5,969 Clorox employees. G4-33 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  ORPORATE GOVERNANCE C INDEPENDENT BOARD MEMBERS Guided by a core value of doing the right thing, Clorox maintains rigorous corporate governance practices and internal controls, with oversight by the company’s board of directors as well as the chairman and chief executive officer, chief financial officer, general 30% WOMEN counsel, and other members of the Clorox Executive Committee. 50% The Clorox Code of Conduct documents the ethical and legal standards of behavior and business practices that are required of all our directors, executives and employees around the world. All MINORITIES board members and employees must complete training and/or certify compliance with the code. CLOROX EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 31% All business partners must certify their compliance with Clorox’s Business Partner Code of Conduct, which specifically addresses practices of direct suppliers of goods, service providers, consultants, distributors, licensees, joint ventures, contractors and temporary WOMEN workers in the areas of human rights and labor, health and safety, All data as of June 30, 2016. the environment, and business conduct and ethics. 40 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-39, G4-SO4 CLOROX EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The company’s senior management team continued to provide leadership to drive the company’s 2020 Strategy focused on accelerating good growth. Chairman and CEO Benno Dorer completed his second year at the helm of the company, and the Clorox Executive Committee added a new chief people officer and head of corporate business development due to retirements. Following the close of the fiscal year, the CEC expanded by two to include 15 members. Pictured from left to right: Manjit Singh Jon Balousek Michael Costello Senior Vice President ­­and Senior Vice President and Senior Vice President — Chief Information Officer General Manager — Specialty Division International Division William S. Bailey Denise A. Garner Matt Laszlo Senior Vice President — Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Corporate Business Development and Chief Innovation Officer and Chief Customer Officer Laura Stein Benno Dorer James Foster Executive Vice President — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President — General Counsel and Product Supply, Corporate Affairs Nick Vlahos Enterprise Performance and IT Executive Vice President and Eric Reynolds Chief Operating Officer — Household, Linda Rendle Senior Vice President Lifestyle and Core Global Functions Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer and General Manager — Steve Robb Cleaning Division Dawn Willoughby Executive Vice President Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer — Cleaning, International Kirsten Marriner and Corporate Strategy Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-39 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 41 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Good governance begins with individuals who are committed responsibilities of each board committee. Additionally, codes of to representing the interests of stockholders in an ethical and conduct detail ethical and legal standards for directors, executives responsible manner. Behind that effort are policies and proceand employees as well as expectations on human rights, health dures that establish rigorous operational standards. Clorox's and safety, and the environment for business partners. corporate governance guidelines provide the framework that helps the board of directors carry out its responsibilities, while For further details, visit TheCloroxCompany.com committee charters establish the authorities, duties and > Who We Are > Corporate Governance. Benno Dorer1 Amy Banse2 Richard H. Carmona, Chairman and Executive Vice President, M.D., M.P.H., F.A.C.S. Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director and Head Vice Chairman, The Clorox Company of Funds, Comcast Ventures, Canyon Ranch; former Comcast Corporation U.S. Surgeon General Spencer C. Fleischer George Harad3,4 Managing Partner, Retired Executive AN EXPERIENCED, INDEPENDENT Friedman Fleischer Chairman of the Board, VOICE AS LEAD DIRECTOR & Lowe LLC OfficeMax Inc. Pamela Thomas-Graham was named the new independent lead director of The Clorox Company board of directors effective Aug. 15, 2016. Esther Lee David Mackay 5 The first black woman to be elected partner Executive Vice President — Retired President and at international consulting firm McKinsey & Global Chief Marketing Chief Executive Officer, Company, Thomas-Graham has held many Officer, MetLife Inc. Kellogg Company leadership positions, including CEO of CNBC as well as chief marketing and talent officer and head of Private Banking and Wealth Management – New Markets for Credit Suisse. Originally from Detroit, the Harvard-educated Robert W. Matschullat Jeffrey Noddle businesswoman brings significant expertise in Retired Vice Chairman Retired Executive strategy and branding. She has been on the and Chief Financial Officer, Chairman, SuperValu Inc. Clorox board of directors since September 2005. “” The Seagram Company Ltd. My goal is to lead our independent Rogelio Rebolledo4 Pamela Thomas-Graham6 Former President and Lead Director of the Board; directors in a way that serves the Chief Executive Officer, Frito-Lay International Former Chair, New Markets, Credit Suisse Group AG interests of our stockholders, advancing best practices in corporate governance and corporate responsibility. Carolyn M. Ticknor Christopher J. Williams Retired President, Chairman and Chief Executive — Pamela Thomas-Graham, Imaging & Printing Systems, Officer, The Williams Capital Lead Director of the Board Hewlett-Packard Company Group L.P. and Williams Capital Management LLC 1 Mr. Dorer added the title of chairman of the board of directors effective Aug. 15, 2016. 2 Ms. Banse joined the board of directors effective Sept. 15, 2016. 3 Mr. Harad served as independent chairman of the board until Aug. 15, 2016. 4 Mr. Harad and Mr. Rebolledo will retire from the board of directors as of the company’s annual meeting of stockholders on Nov. 16, 2016. 5 Mr. Mackay joined the board of directors effective Aug. 15, 2016. 6 Ms. Thomas-Graham was appointed lead director of the board effective Aug. 15, 2016. 42 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MATERIALITY OVERVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES AND MATRIX Some companies use the term “materiality” in referencing important corporate responsibility or sustainability priorities. In the U.S., the term “materiality” often relates to key information that can impact financial statements. To avoid confusion, The Clorox Company refers to its most important corporate responsibility issues in this report as “corporate responsibility priorities.” Recently, Clorox worked with a third party on assessing its corporate responsibility priorities — capturing key inputs from the company’s 2020 Strategy, which includes corporate responsibility commitments, as well as feedback from employees and numerous external stakeholders. Starting with a broad set of about 200 relevant corporate responsibility topics from resources including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the GRI G4 Content Index, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and Clorox-specific strategy documents, the team conducted working sessions as well as employee and external stakeholder interviews during an eight-month period to streamline the 200 topics even further. Eventually, the company narrowed the topics to a list of 17 key corporate responsibility priorities with alignment from stakeholders, both internal and external. Corporate Responsibility Priorities* HIGHER Transparency Governance and Product Impacts Accountability Product Innovation IMPORTANCE TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Packaging Risk and Resilience Stakeholder Engagement Supplier Water Operations Operational Environmental Impact Material Sourcing Responsible Marketing Employee Well-Being and Consumer and Development Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Climate Change Product Beneﬁts Philanthropy/Cause Programs HIGH HIGH IMPORTANCE TO BUSINESS HIGHER *Demonstrates relative importance of topics with respect to each other and not a reﬂection of overall importance of topics. G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-26, G4-27 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 43 ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES The Clorox Company’s integrated annual report presents the company’s financial and corporate responsibility performance for fiscal year 2016 as well as our goals for 2020. It highlights fiscal year financial performance in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the U.S., which include principles for determining materiality related to financial reporting. Also presented in this report is information about performance related to the company’s corporate responsibility priorities, a term we use instead of materiality to avoid confusion with key financial information. These priorities were developed through work with a third party to determine how much a topic influences our overall business success (i.e., the degree to which it is aligned with our corporate strategy and purpose; the potential impact on our operations, consumers and business partners; as well as potential economic, social and environmental impacts) and the importance of the topic to key internal and external stakeholders. Key corporate responsibility priorities may include, but are not limited to, topics that could have a significant financial impact on the organization. REVIEW OF NONFINANCIAL INFORMATION We believe voluntary assurance strengthens our reporting process and enhances the credibility of our nonfinancial information. We engage a third party to review the following nonfinancial key performance indicators: U.S. greenhouse gas emissions, U.S. energy consumption, global water consumption, product sustainability improvements, workforce demographics, recordable incident rate, employee engagement and U.S. product donations. Items undergoing assurance are indicated with a throughout the report. We will continue to look for opportunities to provide external review of metrics that provide further insight as to how we create value for all our stakeholders. USING THE GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE FRAMEWORK This year’s report has been developed according to the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 guidelines, in accordance “core” option, which provide a recommended framework and key performance indicators for sustainability reporting. More information on the G4 guidelines is available at globalreporting.org. The full list of GRI disclosures we address can be found on pages 45-56 of this report and on our corporate website, TheCloroxCompany.com. Incorporated into the GRI G4 Content Index is the Communication on Progress, an annual report describing the company’s actions in implementing the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. REPORTING PERIOD AND BOUNDARY Most data in this report cover wholly and majority-owned operations for July 1, 2015, through June 30, 2016. In some instances, we have included data for a multiyear period to show year-over-year comparisons. Environmental sustainability information presented in this report is for the period of Jan. 1, 2015, through Dec. 31, 2015, and is global unless otherwise stated. 44 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report G4-18, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-32, G4-33 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION/RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO Letter, pages 1-3 CEO Letter reinforces Clorox's CEO statement on sustainability commitment to the UN Global Compact Ten Principles ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 The Clorox Company Name of organization G4-4 2016 Scorecard, pages 22-27, Form 10-K, Primary brands, products and services Item: Overview of Business pages 1-2 G4-5 2016 Scorecard, pages 22-27 Location of organization's headquarters G4-6 2016 Scorecard, pages 22-27 Number of countries where the organization operates, and countries with major operations or relevant to sustainability issues. G4-7 Form 10-K Cover Nature of ownership and legal form G4-8 2016 Scorecard, pages 22-27 Markets served G4-9 2016 Scorecard, pages 22-27 Scale of reporting organization G4-10 2016 Scorecard, pages 22-27, Who We Employees by employment contract and Are: Diversity & Inclusion gender G4-11 U.S.: 2%, International: 21%, Principle 3 Percentage of employees covered by collective Total Company: 8% bargaining agreements G4-12 Clorox's supply chain reflects the company UNGC Ten Principles Description of supply chain as a formulator (not a chemical company) with a broad portfolio of products. Raw material inputs are quite varied. The Clorox Company Business Partner Code of Conduct includes our expectations of suppliers on business ethics, human rights, labor and environmental compliance and sustainability. G4-13 There are no significant changes to size, Significant changes to size, structure, structure and ownership during the or ownership reporting period. G4-14 Brands: What We’re Made Of Principle 7 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed G4-15 CDP, UNGC — See CEO Letter, pages 1-3, UNGC Ten Principles Externally developed economic, environmental IIRC, AIM Progress. and social charters, principles, or initiatives the organization subscribes or endorses. G4-16 Stakeholder Engagement UNGC Principles 7-9 Association memberships (See Responsible Sourcing Information) The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 45 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION/RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Form 10-K, Part I, pages 1-3 Entities included in consolidated financial statements and if any are not in report G4-18 About this Report, page 44 Process to define report content and aspect boundaries. How implemented Defining Report Content principles G4-19 Materiality Overview, page 43 UNGC Ten Principles Material aspects G4-20 Materiality Overview, page 43 Material aspects within the organization G4-21 Materiality Overview, page 43 Material aspects outside the organization G4-22 No restatements occurred Effect of restatements G4-23 About this Report, page 44 Significant changes from previous reporting period STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Materiality Overview, page 43, Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Engagement G4-25 Stakeholder Engagement How stakeholders are identified and selected G4-26 Materiality Overview, page 43, Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Stakeholder Engagement including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4-27 Materiality Overview, page 43, Key concerns raised through stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement engagement, and how the organization responded REPORT PROFILE G4-28 About this Report, page 44 Reporting period G4-29 About this Report, page 44 Date of most recent report G4-30 About this Report, page 44 Reporting cycle G4-31 corporate.communications@clorox.com Contact for sustainability report G4-32 About this Report, page 44 GRI Content Index G4-33 About this Report, page 44, Report of Assurance Independent Registered Accounting Firm, pages 38-39 46 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION/RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION GOVERNANCE G4-34 Corporate Governance, pages 40-42 UNGC Ten Principles Governance structure G4-35 Corporate Governance, pages 40-42, Principles 7-9 Process for delegating authority Corporate Responsibility: Eco Governance G4-36 Corporate Governance, pages 40-42 Whether organization appointed executive level position(s) with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Stakeholder Engagement Consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on sustainability issues G4-38 Who We Are: Corporate Governance Details on composition of highest governance body and its committees G4-39 Corporate Governance, pages 40-42 Whether Chair of highest governance body is also an executive officer G4-40 The Clorox Nominating and Governance Nomination and selection processes for Committee Charter highest governance body and its committees G4-41 Governance Guidelines Principle 10 Process for highest governance body to avoid and manage conflicts of interest G4-42 Governance Guidelines UNGC Ten Principles Highest governance body's role in setting purpose, values and strategy G4-43 Governance Guidelines UNGC Ten Principles Process for enhancing highest governance body's competencies on economic, environmental, and social issues G4-44 Governance Guidelines UNGC Ten Principles Process for evaluating highest governance body's performance on economic, environmental, social topics G4-45 Governance Guidelines UNGC Ten Principles Highest governance body's role in risk management G4-46 Governance Guidelines UNGC Ten Principles Highest governance body's role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities G4-47 The Clorox board of directors meets UNGC Ten Principles Frequency of the highest governance body's at least quarterly to review key issues/ review of economic, environmental and social opportunities impacting the company. impacts, risks and opportunities G4-48 Our CEO, CFO and General Counsel apHighest committee or position that formally prove our integrated report. reviews and approves the organization's sustainability report G4-49 Governance Guidelines Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 47 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION/RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION G4-50 Clorox board of directors regularly reviews Nature and total number of critical concerns and addresses a variety of key issues/ that were communicated to the highest opportunities through quarterly updates, governance body and the mechanism(s) used strategy meetings and separate committee to address and resolve them meetings. The company does not disclose the total number of concerns. G4-51 2016 Clorox Proxy — See executive Remuneration policies for the highest govercompensation, pages 28-29 nance body and senior executives G4-52 2016 Clorox Proxy — See executive Process for determining remuneration compensation, pages 26-39 G4-53 2016 Clorox Proxy — See executive How stakeholders’ views are sought and takcompensation, pages 26, 27, 37, 38 en into account regarding remuneration G4-54 2016 Clorox Proxy — See executive Ratio of annual total compensation for the compensation, pages 40-48 organization's highest paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees G4-55 2016 Clorox Proxy — See executive Ratio of percentage increase in annual compensation, pages 40-48 total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Clorox Code of Conduct Principle 10 Organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 Clorox Code of Conduct Principle 10 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and organizational integrity G4-58 Mission and Values, Mission and Values Internal and external mechanisms for reportClorox Code of Conduct ing concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity 48 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA AND UNGC INDICATORS LOCATION/RESPONSE OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA CEO Letter, pages 1-3, 2020 Strategy, pages 12-13, 2016 Clorox Proxy, Appendix A G4-EC1 2016 Scorecard, pages 22-27 Direct economic value generated and distributed G4-EC2 Corporate Responsibility: Principles 7-9 Financial implications and other Commitments and Progress risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Who We Are: Working at Clorox Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA 2020 Strategy, pages 12-13, Principles 7-9 Strategy #4, pages 20-21 G4-EN2 Strategy #4, pages 20-21, Currently Unavailable: Principles 7-9 Percentage of materials used that Recognitions, page 29, Corporate Clorox uses a wide variety of are recycled input materials Responsibility: Products & natural and recycled products Packaging from honey, aloe and cocoa in Burt’s Bees to recycled material in our traditional bleach bottles. However, given the broad nature of our product portfolio and because we do not currently have the infrastructure in place to do so, Clorox does not track direct recycled input into our materials. We are exploring ways to do so for future reports. Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Corporate Responsibility: Principles 7-9 Operations, G4-EN6 2016 Scorecard, pages 22-27, Reduction of energy consumption Corporate Responsibility: Energy, Corporate Responsibility: Footprint Reduction Summary The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 49 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX DMA AND UNGC INDICATORS LOCATION/RESPONSE OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA Corporate Responsibility: Principles 7-9 Operations G4-EN8 Strategy #3, pages 18-19, 2016 Principles 7-9 Total water withdrawal by source Scorecard, pages 22-27, Corporate Responsibility: Water, Corporate Responsibility: Footprint Reduction Summary. More detailed information about our water use, risk and management is available in our public CDP water report: CDP. Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Corporate Responsibility: Principles 7-9 Commitments and Progress, Corporate Responsibility: Emissions G4-EN19 Strategy #4, page 20, 2016 Principles 7-9 Reduction of greenhouse gas Scorecard, pages 22-27, Corporate (GHG) emissions Responsibility: GHG Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Corporate Responsibility: Waste Principles 7-9 G4-EN23 Strategy #4, pages 20-21, 2016 Principles 7-9 Total weight of waste by type and Scorecard, pages 22-27, Corporate disposal method Responsibility: Waste Energy Deep On-Site Materials Reuse Recycle Compost Recovery Incineration Well Landfill Storage Other Facility Tons Tons Tons Tons Tons Tons Tons Tons Tons 17,765 23,963 467 410 25 — 7,703 — — The waste disposal method has been determined based on information provided by the waste disposal contractor. Each site reports its annual reuse, recycling, and disposal tonnages using information obtained from its recycling or waste disposal contractor to our corporate office, where it is reviewed and compiled. Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Corporate Responsibility: Products Principles 7-9 & Packaging G4-EN27 Strategy #2, pages 16-17, Strategy Principles 7-9 Extent of impact mitigation of #4, pages 20-21, Corporate environmental impacts of products Responsibility: Products & and services Packaging 50 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX DMA AND UNGC INDICATORS LOCATION/RESPONSE OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Form 10-K, Risk Factors, page 14 G4-EN29 Form 10-K, Risk Factors, page 14 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Corporate Responsibility: Supplier Principles 7-9 Scorecard G4-EN33 The company assesses the Principles 7-9 Significant actual and potential sustainability performance of negative environmental impacts in its top 100 suppliers, which the supply chain represents 70 percent of total and actions taken suppliers. 100 percent of new suppliers must adhere to the company's business partner code of conduct, which addresses sustainability expectations. Corporate Responsibility: Supplier Scorecard CATEGORY: SOCIAL Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Material Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Who We Are: Our People G4-LA2 Who We Are: Working at Clorox. Benefits provided to full-time Our corporate website provides employees that are not provided to an overview of our benefits temporary or part-time employees, for U.S. employees, which are by significant locations of also available to part-time U.S. operation employees who work more than 20 hours. Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA CEO Letter, pages 1-3, 2016 Scorecard, pages 22-27, Who We Are: Workplace Safety The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 51 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX DMA AND UNGC INDICATORS LOCATION/RESPONSE OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION G4-LA6 Strategy #1, pages 14-15, Who We Type of injury and rates of injury, Are: Workplace Safety, Workplace occupational diseases, lost days, Safety Blog and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, We track the RIR & LTIR* (lost time by region and by gender incident rate) for Clorox employees plus supervised workers. LTIR is reported out internally on a monthly basis. We follow OSHA 1904 Rules for defining injuries as “reportable” and labor hours to track. The rate calculation is that used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) and OSHA for comparison across industries. Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA Clorox Code of Conduct, Clorox Code of Conduct PDF G4-LA10 The company's MyLearning Programs for skills management Program offers extensive internal and lifelong learning that support and external courses to support the continued employability of professional development, employees and assist them in capabilityand leadershipmanaging career endings building needs as well as required compliance-related classes. Strategy #1, pages 14-15 Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Who We Are: Diversity & Inclusion Principle 6 G4-LA12 2016 Scorecard, pages 22-27 Principle 6 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA 2020 Strategy, pages 12-13, Principles 1-6 Clorox Business Partner Code of Conduct PDF 52 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX DMA AND UNGC INDICATORS LOCATION/RESPONSE OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION G4-LA14 100 percent of all suppliers must Currently Unavailable: Principles 1-6 Percentage of new suppliers that adhere to our business partner We do not track percentage of were screened using labor code of conduct, which addresses new suppliers screened using practices criteria labor practices, Clorox Business labor practices criteria. With Partner Code of Conduct PDF, limited exceptions, such as for California Transparency in Supply vendors paid by credit card Chains Act Disclosure Statement because of the limited nature of the business relationship, our new suppliers are informed of and expected to adhere to our Human Rights and Labor commitments through contract language requiring adherence to our BP Code of Conduct. In the absence of a contract, there are other mechanisms to ensure compliance with labor practices criteria for significant purchases. Sub-Category: Human Rights Material Aspect: Non-Discrimination G4-DMA Who We Are: Diversity & Inclusion Principle 6 G4-HR3 We have a compliance hotline Confidentiality Constraints Principle 6 Total number of incidents of which allows employees and third and Legal Prohibitions: discrimination and corrective parties to report all manner of We do not disclose details actions taken incidents of concern. of reported incidents as this presents both confidentiality constraints and legal prohibitions. For more information about our hotline visit: Clorox Code of Conduct PDF, page 5. Material Aspect: Child Labor G4-DMA Clorox Supplier Center Principles 1-5 G4-HR5 Suppliers must comply with Principles 1-5 Operations and suppliers identified Clorox’s policy on employment as having significant risk for of young persons where the incidents of child labor, and minimum age of employment measures taken to contribute to shall not be less than the greater the effective abolition of child labor of: (a) the age of completion of compulsory schooling or (b) 15 years of age (or 14, where the local law of the country permits). Additionally, workers under the age of 18 should not perform any hazardous work. The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 53 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX DMA AND UNGC INDICATORS LOCATION/RESPONSE OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION Material Aspect: Forced Or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA Clorox Supplier Center Principles 1-5 G4-HR6 Clorox Business Partner Code of Operations and suppliers Conduct PDF, California identified as having significant risk Transparency in Supply Chains Act for incidents of forced or compulsory Disclosure Statement, Corporate labor, and measures to contribute to Responsibility: Supply Chain the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Suppliers are engaged through our Business Partner Code of Conduct and must not use forced, bonded, or indentured labor or prison labor. Clorox has started a review of its supply base to have the majority of suppliers again either selfcertify to the Clorox Business Partner Code of Conduct, or it will evaluate the supplier’s own code of conduct and public commitments to ensure alignment with the commitments of the Clorox code, including elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. The company’s Global Strategic Sourcing organization has prioritized an objective of implementing a full supplier risk assessment and mitigation tool during fiscal year 2017. This would be expected to consider manufacturing type of operation and countries/geographies of operation when considering and scoring supplier risk level. Material Aspect: Assessment G4-DMA Clorox Code of Conduct Principles 1-6 G4-HR9 None of our operations have been Total number and percentage of subject to human rights reviews/ operations that have been subject assessments. to human rights reviews or impact assessments Sub-Category: Society Material Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA 2016 Scorecard, pages 22-27, Corporate Responsibility: Social Impact G4-SO1 Evolve the Portfolio, pages Percentage of operations with 4-11, Strategy #1, pages 14implemented local community 15, Strategy #3, pages 18-19, engagement, impact assessments, 2016 Scorecard, pages 22-27, and development programs Corporate Responsibility: The Clorox Company Foundation 54 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX DMA AND UNGC INDICATORS LOCATION/RESPONSE OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION Material Aspect: Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Clorox Code of Conduct PDF G4-SO4 100 percent of our executive team Currently Unavailable: Principle 10 Communication and training and employees globally undergo We do not have information on anti-corruption policies training on our Code of Conduct, available on the total number or and procedures which addresses anticorruption. percentage of business partners 100 percent of our executive team globally that review the code. and nonproduction employees globally undergo specific training on anticorruption and must certify their completion of training. We expect our business partners globally to adhere to our Business Partner Code of Conduct, which is publicly available on our website. Corporate Governance, Page 40, Clorox Code of Conduct PDF and Clorox Business Partner Code of Conduct PDF. Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Form 10-K, pages 8, 12, 14, 19 G4-SO8 Form 10-K, pages 8, 12, 14, 19 Principle 10 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Brands: What We’re Made Of G4-PR1 The company assesses Principles 7-9 Percentage of significant product 100 percent of its products and service categories for which for human and environmental health and safety impacts are health and safety. Brands: assessed for improvement What We’re Made Of Material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA All company products have the required labeling for safety and usage. The company also voluntarily discloses the product ingredients used in its cleaning and disinfecting products in the U.S. and Canada. Ingredients Inside The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report 55 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX DMA AND UNGC INDICATORS LOCATION/RESPONSE OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION G4-PR3 100 percent of company products Type of product and service are subject to safety, caution and information required by the usage labeling. Ingredients Inside, organization's procedures for Clorox Product Safety Steps product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Material Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-DMA Brands: Products & Packaging G4-PR6 The company does not sell Sale of banned or disputed products that are banned in products certain markets. Clorox regularly responds to questions about its products — either via email, in-person meetings or by phone. G4-PR7 We did not have any incidents of Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations or non-compliance with regulations voluntary codes with respect to and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Material Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA Privacy Policy G4-PR8 The company has not identified Total number of substantiated any complaints related to this complaints regarding breaches of matter. customer privacy and losses of customer data Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Brands: What We’re Made Of Principles 7-9 G4-PR9 We stand by Dispatch® hospital Monetary value of significant cleaner disinfectant with bleach’s fines for non-compliance with effectiveness against diseaselaws and regulations concerning causing pathogens when used as the provision and use of products directed. While we strongly and services disagree with EPA’s findings related to the effectiveness claim against the Mycobacterium bovis pathogen (tuberculosis bacteria), we decided to settle the matter versus spending additional resources on disputing this issue. 56 The Clorox Company 2016 Integrated Annual Report STOCKHOLDER INFORMATION STOCK LISTING AND NUMBER OF RECORD HOLDERS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Clorox Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Except for historical information, matters discussed in the annual report Exchange, identified by the symbol CLX. As of July 29, 2016, the are forward-looking statements and are based on management’s number of record holders of Clorox’s common stock was 10,995. estimates, assumptions and projections. Actual results could vary materially. Please review the “Risk Factors” and “Management’s TRANSFER AGENT, REGISTRAR AND DIVIDEND Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of DISBURSING AGENT Operations” sections in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K Inquiries relating to stockholder records, change of ownership, change for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, and subsequent SEC filings, of address and the dividend reinvestment/direct stock purchase plan for factors that could affect the company’s performance and cause should be sent to: results to differ materially from management’s expectations. The information in this report reflected management’s estimates, assumpComputershare tions and projections as of Aug. 16, 2016. Clorox has not made updates P.O. Box 30170 since then and makes no representation, express or implied, that the College Station, TX 77842-3170 information is still current or complete. The company is under no Overnight correspondence should be sent to: obligation to update any part of this document. Computershare 211 Quality Circle, Suite 210 COMPARATIVE STOCK PERFORMANCE College Station, TX 77845 The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return of the Common Stock for the last five fiscal years with the cumulative total 877-373-6374 or 781-575-2726 return of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index and a composite index TDD 800-952-9245 or 312-588-4110 for hearing impaired composed of the Standard & Poor’s Household Products Index and computershare.com/investor the Standard & Poor’s Housewares & Specialties Index (referred to below as the Peer Group) for a five-year period ending June 30, 2016. STOCKHOLDER INFORMATION SERVICE The composite index is weighted based on market capitalization as of Stockholders can call Clorox Stockholder Direct at 888-CLX-NYSE the end of each quarter during each of the last five years. The graph (259-6973) toll-free 24 hours a day to hear news and messages about lines merely connect the prices on the dates indicated and do not Clorox, request company materials or get a 20-minute-delayed stock quote. reflect fluctuations between those dates. The latest company news is also available at TheCloroxCompany.com. DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT/ DIRECT STOCK PURCHASE PLAN COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among The Clorox Company, the S&P 500 Index and a Peer Group Clorox has authorized Computershare to offer a dividend reinvestment/ direct stock purchase plan. Registered stockholders can purchase Clorox: $239.35 additional shares. Nonstockholders may join the plan with an initial $250 S&P 500: $177.02 investment, lump sum or bank debit. Most fees are paid by Clorox. Peer Group: $179.45 $200 For more information or plan materials, call 888-CLX-NYSE (259-6973) or contact Computershare (see above). $150 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON INTERNAL $100 CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Clorox management, under the supervision and with the participation $ 50 of the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, has assessed the 0 effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 as of June 30, 2016, and concluded that it is effective. For more information, see Item 9.A. of the company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal *$100 invested on 6/30/11 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending June 30. year ended June 30, 2016. Copyright© 2016 S&P, a division of McGraw Hill Financial. All rights reserved. 2016 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Full financial statements are provided in the company’s 2016 proxy statement. Detailed financial information is available without charge through the following sources: • The company’s proxy statement is available at TheCloroxCompany.com. • The company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, is available at TheCloroxCompany.com and through the SEC’s EDGAR database. Printed copies are available by calling 888-CLX-NYSE (259-6973). The Clorox Company 1221 Broadway Oakland, CA 94612 thecloroxcompany.com Read the 2016 Integrated Annual Report and take our survey: annualreport.thecloroxcompany.com
