Part of Tomorrow Annual Report 2016 2016 performance highlights Our business performance • Joint venture with Aramex • Qantas airfreight network • Majority investment in Mailplus $36 million Profit after tax Our innovation and expertise Our customers and communities Australia Post Accelerator: $20 million investment Community Service Obligation Government innovation Exceeded our 94% on time partnership: digitising target in delivering letters, WA Police National with a result of 96.2% Police Check process Community Investment $7.05 million Our people Our customer network Gender pay gap 1.4% Safety 3.8 million MyPost registrations 6.6 LTIFR 11 new superstores 249 million annual customer visits Our environment Reduced carbon emissions by 17% since the year 2000 We’re on track to achieve our target of 25% by 2020 Our purpose and values Australia Post’s purpose is: Helping our people, Being safe everywhere: There’s nothing more important customers and communities deliver a better future. than our safety, health and wellbeing. Everyone, everywhere, everyday. Respecting everyone: We care about people and Our strategy is informed by, and focused on, services value diversity. that meet customers’ contemporary needs. We love Delighting our customers: A great customer experience delivering eCommerce through our people by creates a better future. embracing our shared values: Helping each other: We’re at our best when we work Improving everyday: A better tomorrow starts with together. the changes we make today. Annual Report 2016 1 Your Australia Post Australia Post has a rich history dating back operating a monopoly – the domestic letters business – to competing in the global parcels and trusted to 1809 when a former convict, Isaac Nichols, eCommerce solutions markets. was appointed to the role of Postmaster for Headquartered in Melbourne, Australian Postal New South Wales – using his own home to Corporation largely operates in Australia, with offices sort mail that was collected from sailing across the country. The Australia Post Group is one of ships arriving in Sydney Harbour. The first the most trusted brands in Australia, employing more than 36,000 people across our integrated delivery, Post Office, opened by Nichols soon after, logistics, retail and eCommerce network. was in George Street, Sydney. A self-funded government business enterprise, In 2008, after 200 years of growth, Australian letter Australia Post has the Australian Government as its volumes reached an all-time peak. In the eight years sole shareholder. The corporation does not receive any since, addressed letter volumes have declined by taxpayer funding and pays dividends to the Australian 43 per cent per letterbox. Government – more than $1.7 billion over the past decade. This shows how rapidly our traditional core business As required under the Australian Postal Corporation Act has shifted due to the emergence of digital 1989, we continue to balance our commercial objectives communication and transactions. with delivering our community service obligations. Any profit we earn is either used to pay a dividend to our The internet, while devastating for our letters service, shareholder or is reinvested in our assets and services has created new opportunities for eCommerce, which so that we are equipped to meet the changing needs requires parcel delivery and secure online transaction of our customers and the community. capability. As a result, we have moved from • The red highlights on this map denote the location of our 11.5 million delivery points. 2 Annual Report 2016 About this report This is the sixth year that we have incorporated sustainability reporting in our annual report. Prepared in accordance with legislative requirements, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines, Integrated Reporting <IR> and the principles set out in the United Nations Global Compact, our annual report includes our financial, social and environmental activities each year. Integrated reporting is aimed at facilitating integrated The International Integrated Reporting <IR> Council thinking into mainstream business practices. It is more Framework provides guiding principles that align with forward-looking than traditional annual reporting, the GRI, the well-established global best practice while not as specifically detailed as comprehensive sustainability framework. The content of this report has sustainability reports. In actively considering the been guided by the annual report Steering Committee. relationships between our enterprise and how we create The approach was endorsed by the Executive General value in our areas of impact – organised as ‘capitals’ Manager, Group Services, with final approval of the – we can move towards publicly reporting the way we annual report by the Board. integrate our thinking and decision-making. This year our annual report is framed around the six integrated reporting capitals to align with the <IR> Framework: Our six integrated reporting capitals Our business Our customers Our customer Our innovation Our people Our environment performance Our communities network Our expertise Human Capital Natural Capital Financial Capital Social Capital Physical Capital Intellectual Capital Determining what matters most – the materiality process This report provides information for our four primary annual materiality assessment. This process is explained stakeholders: on page 49. • our shareholder (the Australian Government) The material sustainability issues nominated by our internal and external stakeholders are: • our people • our customers Top 10 material issues 2016 • the broader community. 1. Customer experience 6. eCommerce expertise The information in this report applies to Australia Post 2. Community relations 7. Support for the vulnerable within the reporting period, unless otherwise stated. 3. Innovate/co-create 8. Digital access Australia Post did not issue restatements of information provided in previous reports and there are no significant 4. Operating 9. Greenhouse gas changes in the boundary or scope of this report in 2015/16. profitability emissions To determine the content and ensure we are reporting on 5. Transparency and 10. Fair labour practices what matters most to our stakeholders, we conduct an disclosure Annual Report 2016 3 Contents Your Australia Post 1 About this report 2 Our strategy and focus 4 Chairman and Managing Director & Group CEO’s messages 6–7 Our business performance 10 Our customers Our communities 16 Our customer network 26 Our innovation Our expertise 32 Our people 36 Our environment 44 Assurance statement 51 Corporate governance statement  52 Financial and statutory reports  64 Community service obligations  109 4 Annual Report 2016 Our strategy and focus As the world changes through the growth of digital technology, the way we live, learn and work has transformed. In looking to the long-term sustainability of our business, our future clearly depends on reshaping our business and continuing to create leading customer solutions. Satisfying our customers and anticipating what people For our business, digital disruption means: need and expect from Australia Post will ensure that our • a decline in letter volumes but, at the same time, an business continues to grow and remain relevant and increase in online shopping that is powering the growth “Part of Tomorrow”. of parcel deliveries Our purpose is to help our people, customers and • the opportunity to build eCommerce partnerships to communities to deliver a better future. We know we help our customers buy and sell online, both in Australia achieve this most effectively when we have happy and and internationally engaged people working to design and deliver innovative solutions. • maintaining our track record as a trusted service provider and responding to customer needs for identity, We’ve worked hard to reform our letters services and to verification, banking, passport and payment services. keep pace with everyone’s increasingly digital lives and the outlook is for an increase in social, mobile and online transformation. Our future, alongside our customers, is a story of growth and opportunity. Annual Report 2016 5 How we create value • Our customer network: A modern Increasingly, our value is founded on and competitive network delivers creating eCommerce solutions that Australia Post’s operations and our quality service to our customers meet the varying needs of customers. Part of Tomorrow strategy, in particular, • Our environment: Reducing the But we recognise the importance create value for our customers and environmental footprint of our of measuring and monitoring our diverse stakeholders by drawing on operations impacts in more than financial terms all the six capitals outlined on page 2 and of our role in creating social and and discussed throughout this report. • Our people: Working with over 50,000 environmental value. That’s why, in Ultimately, being proudly Australian employees, licensees and contractors 2016, we refreshed our approach owned, we contribute to Australia’s nationally, empowering a skilled, to Corporate Responsibility and economic growth and reinvest into the diverse and engaged workforce. launched our new strategy, “Everyone, community to advance our enterprise Everywhere, Everyday”. Our approach purpose: Helping our people, customers, is inspired by the notion of Creating and communities deliver a better future. Being true to purpose Shared Value. At a top-line, we create value through: Our Part of Tomorrow strategy outlines how we advance our purpose, act and “Everyone, Everywhere, Everyday” is • Our business performance: grow to deliver eCommerce experiences all about being true to our enterprise Contributing to Australia’s economic that customers value, differentiate purpose, and bringing it to life. It is growth and prosperity ourselves from competitors, and make Australia Post’s roadmap to increase customers our greatest advocates. social and economic inclusion and • Our customers, Our communities: We know that global megatrends are wellbeing by connecting all Australians Being a trusted and reliable partner impacting our operating environment: physically and digitally, to minimise our for our stakeholders globalisation, digitisation, changing environmental impact throughout our • Our innovation: An agile and competitive customer behaviours, changing value chain and to transform our own organisation that meets the needs expectations of the community and organisation so we meet the changing and expectations of customers employees, and the effects of climate expectations of our customers and change to list a few. communities and help them prosper in a digital world. l ly nd digita Australia Post yo neysical ly a Corporate ev er ph GE ns AN DE LIV ER Responsibility CH SU Au E S Strategy CHA IV st People MP LY ra AB Championing diversity, living our ION purpose and shared values and IN i ng li a considering the social and environmental TA Mi PO impacts in all we do. ec t n im SI Co nn T is in g our environmentale v e r y w h e re Delivering a Community better future. Environment Delivering more Everyone, Understanding and inclusive and Everywhere, valuing the use of prosperous natural resources im Everyday communities by and enabling low creating sustainable carbon and waste economic, solutions. environmental and social value. SO pa LU ILD ct TIO BU NS CA Customers AB AT P E Tr a Remaining accessible, relevant IL RE n sf IT Y and placing our customers at the C or CO centre of everything we do. m in g ou rb usin orld e s s fo every r t h e d i g i ta l w day 6 Annual Report 2016 Chairman’s message We implemented important reforms to the letters service in 2015/16, while continuing the transformation of Australia Post into a customer-led eCommerce company. Reforming the letters service Delivering eCommerce With the Australian community continuing to shift to using We continued to adapt our networks, develop new capabilities digital channels for communicating and transacting, the and offer new services to support the growth of online amount of addressed letters posted this year was down shopping and eCommerce. 9.7 per cent on the previous year. In June, we announced a strategic alliance with the This means that the volume of letters sent in Australia, global express delivery and logistics company, Aramex. annually, is now 43 per cent below our all-time “peak-mail” We expect that this alliance will develop into a global year, back in 2007/08. business partnership that enables us to offer seamless cross-border logistics and delivery support for Australian Given this rapid rate of digital disruption, one of our primary businesses and consumers. responsibilities involves managing the decline of letters carefully, while maintaining reliable, community-wide access to our services. To this end, we reached a landmark moment Thank you with the introduction of letter service reforms at the mid-point Finally, I’d like to acknowledge the tremendous contribution of this financial year. made by my fellow directors, our CEO Ahmed Fahour, the management team, our employees, licensees and contractors. I would like to acknowledge the Federal Government for It’s a pleasure to lead this motivated, nationwide team, supporting the regulatory changes that were required to because they are so committed to delighting our customers – implement these vital reforms. everyone, everywhere and everyday. The importance of those reforms to the long-term sustainability of our services cannot be under-estimated. In the short-term, letters reform was an important factor in John Stanhope AM our return to profitability this financial year. But, the reforms Chairman also give us the ability to maintain our nationwide services; the freedom to implement ongoing operational change; and the resources required to invest in our future as an eCommerce delivery company. Creating a customer-led culture As a service-based company that earns all of its profit from operating in fully competitive markets, our entire business is mobilising to put customers at the centre of everything we do. This was a particularly prominent theme in the second half of this year, as we established the role of a Chief Customer Officer with the responsibility of advocating for the customer, creating customer-led services and instilling a more customercentric culture at Australia Post. As we seek to cement our position as Australia’s leading provider of eCommerce deliveries and services, our strategic initiatives are now all focused on supporting the specific needs of our customer segments. That involves creating safe and easy online shopping experiences for consumers; helping small business to go online and grow; powering eCommerce for all businesses; and helping corporations and government to digitise to improve their customer service. John Stanhope AM – Chairman, and Ahmed Fahour – Managing Director & Group CEO. Annual Report 2016 7 Managing Director & Group CEO’s message This was an important turn-around year at Australia Post, as we reformed the letters service, continued to build our eCommerce offering for our customers – and returned to profit. Our 2015/16 performance With these reforms in place, it means by next year we will have boosted total annual payments to licensed Post Office This time last year, it was my grim duty to report that operators by $125 million in the space of four years. Australia Post had recorded its first full-year loss in more than 30 years. Therefore, I am delighted to report that the Australia Post Group returned to the black in 2015/16 – Enabling eCommerce for our customers earning a modest profit before tax of $41 million. and the community Total Group-wide revenue for the year was $6.56 billion For a number of years now, Australia Post has been (up 3.0 per cent on last year). The improvement in our transforming into a parcel delivery and trusted service financial position in 2015/16 was achieved on the back of provider that enables all Australians to participate in two key factors: (1) the reform of the letters service and eCommerce. (2) growth in our business-to-consumer parcel deliveries. That transition continued this year, as we expanded the Our commitment to maintaining accessible and capacity of our major parcel facilities and developed new reliable services, nationwide, is evident in that we again solutions that make it easier for businesses to lodge with us – met, or exceeded, all of the performance standards and for consumers to control final delivery. related to our community service obligations. Most We also established a new business unit this year, called significantly, we maintained 4,392 Post Offices across Trusted eCommerce Solutions, which is partnering with Australia (against a target of 4,000 access points) and government agencies and corporations to co-create solutions we delivered 96.2 per cent of letters on time or early for the secure, omni-channel delivery of services. (well ahead of our 94 per cent target). There are now 4.1 million Australians registered on the MyPost Another pleasing aspect of this year’s performance was that platform. We added important new functionality to MyPost we reduced our lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) to 6.6, this year, including the ability for parcel recipients to direct which equals our previous record low for the incidence of us to “safe drop” their deliveries. injuries in our workplaces. The reduction in injuries (our LTIFR is down 43 per cent over the past four years), is the result of our sustained focus on safety culture at all levels of the business. Thank you The operational, cultural and service changes that we implemented this year will prove to be vital in setting up Letters reform package this great brand to be part of tomorrow. The ongoing and accelerating decline in the community’s use of letters meant that we had to reform the service to ensure Those changes have involved a genuine commitment it remained sustainable – and to prevent it from undermining from everyone in our business – from my fellow directors the financial viability of the whole Group. and the senior executive team, through to our operational and customer-facing staff. I’d like to thank you all, We responded to this significant challenge by consulting and commend you on an incredible team effort. widely with our many stakeholders and, then, we implemented a carefully crafted package of reforms on 4 January 2016. The reforms include the introduction of a two-speed Ahmed Fahour letters service for consumers and an increase to the basic Managing Director postage rate. But the broader reform package also involves & Group CEO discounted 60-cent stamps for the 5.7 million Australians with a concession card; commitments to maintain 4,000-plus Post Offices and five-day-a-week delivery; as well as job transition opportunities for our people, with no forced redundancies for anyone affected by the operational changes associated with letters service reforms. 8 Annual Report 2016 Our Board and leadership team Our Board From left: Bruce McIver, Dominique Fisher, The Hon. Michael Ronaldson, Brendan Fleiter, Jan West AM, Ahmed Fahour, John Stanhope AM, Holly Kramer, Michael Byrne. John Stanhope AM Mr Fleiter is a former CEO of Crazy John’s Group and is a qualified lawyer with extensive retail and telecommunications BCom (Economics and Accounting), business experience. Mr Fleiter is currently the chairman FCPA, FCA, FAICD, FAIM, FAHRI of Kennards Hire and Walnut Melbourne, deputy chair of Chairman (non-executive) Methodist Ladies’ College and chair of its Foundation and is a John Stanhope was appointed chairman of Australia Post director of Volleyball Victoria, Our Neighbourhood, Australian in November 2012 (current term expires in November 2019), Food Allergy Foundation, Godfreys Group and Interactive. and has extensive experience in finance, treasury, risk management and assurance, investor relations and corporate security and investigations. Mr Stanhope is currently Dominique Fisher chairman of the Melbourne International Jazz Festival and BA (Hons), MAICD the Bionics Institute, a director of AGL Energy Limited and Our Director (non-executive) Neighbourhood and Chancellor of Deakin University. He was Dominique Fisher was appointed to the Australia Post board previously chief financial officer and group managing director, in November 2014 (current term expires in November 2017), finance of Telstra and an executive director of Telstra. and has extensive business experience in the corporate area, including the commercialisation of new technologies. Ahmed Fahour Ms Fisher is principal of EC Strategies, executive chairman of CareerLounge Pty Ltd and a non-executive director of BEcon (Hons), MBA, FAICD LaunchVic. She has previously served as a director of Pacific Managing Director & Group CEO Brands, Insurance Australia Group, NRMA, Opera House Trust Ahmed Fahour was appointed managing director and group and Prostate Cancer Foundation, as well as chairman of Sky chief executive officer of Australia Post in February 2010. He Technologies and Circadian Technologies. has held a number of senior executive positions within the finance and banking industries in Australia and overseas and was previously CEO of Citigroup (Australia and New Zealand) Michael Byrne and National Australia Bank (Australia) and is the former MSc, MAICD chairman of Rip Curl Group. Mr Fahour is currently chairman Director (non-executive) of LaunchVic, Pro-Pac Packaging and Our Neighbourhood. Michael Byrne was appointed to the Australia Post board in October 2015 (current term expires in October 2018). Mr Byrne Brendan Fleiter has extensive chief executive experience both in Australia and internationally, including in the areas of logistics and supply LLB, B Juris MAICD chains. He is the former CEO of Coates Hire, Linfox Australia Deputy Chairman (non-executive) and its Asian Subsidiaries and Westgate Holdings. Mr Byrne Brendan Fleiter has been a member of the Australia Post is also a foundation and current member of the Institute board since October 2011, and was appointed deputy for Supply Chain and Logistics, Industry Advisory Board of chairman in May 2013 (current term expires May 2017). Victoria University, and was previously a director of BevChain, Westgate Holdings and OzHarvest. Annual Report 2016 9 Holly Kramer Jan West AM BA, MBA | Director (non-executive) BCom, FCA, GAICD | Director (non-executive) Holly Kramer was appointed to the Australia Post board Jan West was appointed to the Australia Post board in in October 2015 (current term expires in October 2018). May 2016 (current term expires in May 2019) and has a very Ms Kramer has more than 20 years’ experience in general strong background in finance and audit across Australian management, marketing and sales for customer-focused and international listed and private companies, government organisations. Most recently she was CEO of apparel agencies and community organisations. Mrs West is retailer Best & Less. Holly has also held senior executive currently a director of Australian Red Cross, Dairy Australia, and marketing roles with Pacific Brands, Telstra, eCorp and Neurosciences Victoria and Melbourne Forum. She has been the Ford Motor Company. Ms Kramer is currently a director president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, a member of Woolworths, AMP Limited, Nine Entertainment, Southern of the Financial Reporting Council and a non-executive director Phones, and the Alannah & Madeline Foundation. of a number of commercial and not-for-profit entities, as well as being an audit partner of Deloitte. Bruce McIver FAICD | Director (non-executive) Bruce McIver was appointed to the Australia Post board in Retirements December 2015 (current term expires in December 2018). Susan Bitter Mr McIver has strong business experience with expertise in BEc (Hons), Dip App Fin&Inv, FICA, MAICD transport and logistics in Australia and across the Asia Pacific Director (non-executive) region. He was most recently the president of the Liberal Susan Bitter was appointed to the Australia Post board in National Party of Queensland and was also a foundation August 2012 and retired in August 2015. director of the Australian Trucking Association and chairman Peter Carne of the Board of Asia Pacific Shipping Enterprises. BA, LLB, FAICD, FAIM Director (non-executive) The Hon. Michael Ronaldson Peter Carne was appointed to the Australia Post board in December 2009 and retired in December 2015. LLB | Director (non-executive) Michael Ronaldson was appointed to the Australia Post board Michael D’Ascenzo AO in May 2016 (current term expires in May 2019) and is a former BEc, LLB, CA, FAICD, Hon. Life Member of CPA, Hon. FATMA Director (non-executive) member of the Australian Parliament, representing the Liberal Party. Mr Ronaldson was a Senator for the state of Victoria Michael D’Ascenzo was appointed to the Australia Post board from July 2005 to February 2016, and previously served in the in May 2013 and retired in May 2016. House of Representatives as the member for Ballarat from Talal Yassine OAM 1990 to 2001. He served as the Minister for Veterans’ Affairs, BA, LLB, LLM, MBA, Hon. Professorial Fellow (ANU), the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for the Centenary of Adjunct Professor (UWS) ANZAC, and the Special Minister of State. He was previously a Director (non-executive) director of Snowy Hydro Ltd and Berklee Pty Ltd, and was the Talal Yassine was appointed to the Australia Post board in CEO/Founder of Madison Public Affairs. August 2012 and retired in August 2015. Our Executive Committee Bob Black Peter Bass Ahmed Fahour Paul Burke Chris Blake Executive General Executive General Managing Director Group Executive, Executive General Manager, Parcel Manager, Letters & Group CEO Government Affairs & Manager, Group Services & eCommerce Services and Mail Network Corporate Secretariat Janelle Hopkins Andrew Walduck Christine Corbett Laz Cotsios Executive General Greg Sutherland Executive General Chief Customer Group Executive Manager, Finance Chief Innovation Manager, Trusted Officer Business Services & Group CFO Officer eCommerce Solutions 10 Annual Report 2016 Our business performance As a government business eCommerce growth by creating crossThe solid performance of both our border networks and markets, we also parcels services and trusted eCommerce enterprise, we are a selfcontinue to prioritise support for our solutions businesses is evidence of the funded commercial community. opportunity to create new revenue streams for our business. We already company that is focused provided passport applications, on delivering services to A changing business identity checks, banking, information landscape management and payment services communities all over through our network. Working with our Addressed letter volumes have declined Australia. With the global by 43 per cent per letter box since corporate and government customers 2008. During this period, letters have we are increasingly co-designing shift to digitisation, it has gone from being a lead indicator of solutions around their policy and been clear for a number of Australia’s economic growth, to being business outcomes, drawing from our years that we needed to a lead indicator of digital disruption. demonstrated capabilities. The Western As a result, Australia Post has been Australia Police electronic National plan a very different future delivering a shrinking volume of letters Police Check, which won a government for Australia Post, to ensure to an ever-expanding network of innovation award in 2015/16, is an addresses. example of the strength of our new value the survival of our iconic proposition (see page 34 for details). This was an unsustainable situation, as institution. evidenced by the $1.3 billion of losses that we have incurred in our letters Cumulative volume loss in We needed to carefully manage the addressed letters, per letterbox community’s declining use of the letters business over the past eight years. service while simultaneously building % 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 During 2015/16, a number of reforms 0 new services for the digital economy, were required to address declining letter –10 leveraging our trusted brand and volumes and to ensure we are part of nationwide community networks. –20 tomorrow’s world. Our financial position (21)% is stronger as a result of these reforms. –30 The value we create incorporates how (27)% (31)% we manage the impact of change on –40 (36)% –50 (43)% many individuals’ lives right across Australia. As we continue to power Revenue Proﬁt/(loss) before tax Proﬁt/(loss) after tax $m $m $m 7,500 400 366.7 400 300 300 281.2 6,500 6,383.3 6,373.8 6,562.2 210.7 5,893.2 200 200 177.4 5,500 116.2 103.0 5,126.2 100 100 41.0 36.4 4,500 – – 3,500 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (100) (100) 2,500 (200) (200) (221.7) 1,500 (300) (300) (400) (352.1) 500 (400) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Annual Report 2016 11 Financial performance Addressing our risks We recorded a profit before tax of $41.0 million in 2015/16, Australia Post has a Group Risk Management Framework following a loss the previous year. Our return to profit was (GRMF) in place that describes the core components that largely driven by the reform of our letters services, which support the business to effectively manage risk. The GRMF reduced the magnitude of the loss that we incurred in the has been developed in consideration of the size, scale and delivery of traditional mail services. scope of the Australia Post Group and includes the The main drivers of the profit result were the continued establishment of core risk categories that are currently solid performance of our parcels business, investment considered material to the Group. These core risk categories in online partnerships and further development of our are: Strategic; Governance; Financial; Market; Third Party; portfolio of Australia Post trusted eCommerce solutions. Environmental; Corporate Social Responsibility; Regulatory and Operational (including. cyber and industrial relations). Our total cash investment across strategic projects and asset replacement and acquisitions was $298.1 million. A key component of the GRMF includes the Board Risk Looking to our future, as we adopt a portfolio approach Appetite Statement that is aligned to the core risk to investments centred around capability, we will tailor categories and describes the principles relating to the level our investments to future capacity. of risk that Australia Post is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate in pursuit of our objectives. Five-year trends 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Mail volumes (m) 4,843.0 4,580.2 4570.2 4,314.2 4,023.5 Revenue ($m) 5,126.2 5,893.2 6,383.3 6,373.8 6,562.2 Profit/(loss) before Tax ($m)2 366.7 210.7 103.0 (352.1) 41.0 Profit/(loss) after Tax ($m)2 281.2 177.4 116.2 (221.7) 36.4 Profit/(loss) from reserved services2 ($m) (114.4) (198.0) (242.6) (284.3) (14.3) Profit/(loss) from regulated mail services2 ($m) (186.9) (280.3) (303.7) (407.1) (114.4) Return on equity (%)1, 2 16.8 10.5 6.7 (14.9) 2.3 Return on average operating assets (%)2 11.5 6.2 3.4 (8.2) 1.8 Debt to debt plus equity 29.1 27.3 28.8 27.2 27.8 Dividends declared ($m) 213.7 192.7 78.8 – 20.0 Interest cover (times)2 10.8 7.7 3.6 (10.2) 2.2 Capital expenditure ($m) 227.0 386.8 523.1 342.0 298.1 1 Return on equity is calculated as Profit/(loss) after tax as a percentage of equity. Equity has been adjusted to remove the impact of the Group’s net superannuation liability/asset. 2 Changes to AASB 119 Employee Benefits took effect on 1 July 2013. 2013 has been restated for like-for-like comparison. Years prior to 2013 have not been adjusted to reflect the changes as a result of this change in accounting standard. Dividends declared Capital expenditure (cash) Shareholder return on equity $m $m % 250 600 20 16.8% 213.7 523.1 15 192.7 500 10.5% 200 10 386.8 6.7% 400 150 342.0 5 2.3% 298.1 300 0 227.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 100 78.8 –5 200 –10 50 100 20.0 –15 (14.9)% – 0.0 –20 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12 Annual Report 2016 A partnership to build future success In May 2016, we partnered with Qantas to provide an exclusive domestic air-freighter network for Australia Post and StarTrack customers. The partnership further strengthened our position as Australia’s leading parcels and logistics provider and reinforced our mail delivery network. It builds on the strong relationship that has existed between the national carrier and the nation’s postal service since 1922, when Qantas first started flying airmail. The new network, servicing nine destinations across the east and west coast of Australia, consists of six dedicated freighter aircraft featuring StarTrack branding, as well as continued priority access to cargo space in the Qantas Group’s passenger fleet. Our partnership with Qantas creates a greater opportunity for Australia Post to be first to deliver for our customers, combining our unrivalled delivery network and existing freight network with a dedicated and flexible air network. It means we now have a dedicated air-freighter network that enables us to support local manufacturers, wholesalers, retailers and eCommerce companies as they grow their business – both in Australia and overseas. Annual Report 2016 13 Trusted eCommerce solutions Australia Post’s trusted reputation and nationwide Post Office network have always underpinned our track record as a provider of face-to-face identity and verification services. In October 2015, we established a new business unit, Trusted eCommerce Solutions, which focuses on connecting citizens to business and government by powering digitisation and co-designing omni-channel solutions that are accessible to Australians across all abilities, ages, socio-economic groups and regions. Members of the team with Managing Director & Group CEO Ahmed Fahour During its first nine months, this business unit established its priorities and continued and EGM Parcels & eCommerce the momentum with our capabilities in banking, bill payments and payment Services Bob Black and a new StarTrack freighter aircraft. processing, through successful products such as Bank@Post – now used by Australia’s four major institutions. A key focus for this area of our business is co-designing solutions with government. We partner with a range of government departments and agencies to support their policy outcomes in a way that makes it easier for citizens to access government services and opens up new opportunities for small and medium businesses to innovate and compete. Government services We have strengthened our focus on helping government departments and agencies deliver sustainable change across the core of their operations – providing the platforms, digital solutions and real-world help that organisations need to drive transformation. To meet growing consumer demand for choice and convenience in accessing services, we have made substantial investments in growing our digital identity, payment, information management and back-office processing capability: • enabling improved, inclusive access to government services via multiple channels • making it easier for governments to connect with citizens with greater time and cost efficiency • helping to digitise government services and deliver end-to-end solutions at scale through integrated physical and digital service models. 14 Annual Report 2016 Parcels The online retail market continued to drive revenue in our parcels business. Operating in a fiercely competitive market, our products and services performed well, using innovation and our unrivalled physical network to advantage. During the year, we increased the number of small parcels delivered by our posties and trialled new ideas including expanded delivery hours. This follows a $2 billion investment over the past four years, which included expanding our Melbourne and Sydney parcel facilities (see page 27 for details). Mail services We were pleased to once again exceed the on-time delivery standard set out under our Community Service Obligations, by delivering 96.2 per cent of letters on time or early (against the 94 per cent standard). In January 2016, we made some key reforms to our business to reduce losses and better manage the costs associated with declining letter volumes. This included introducing the choice of Regular or Priority delivery for consumers. By introducing this two-speed delivery service, we effectively aligned our consumer letters service with the options introduced for business customers in June 2014. We also increased the Basic Postage Rate (BPR) from 70 cents to $1, which applied to the Regular service, to better reflect the actual cost of sending a letter. We’ve worked hard to maintain our service standards and performance and we continue to provide mail delivery five days a week across our network. The reforms to the letters service were carefully crafted to minimise the impact on our community. As such, we maintained the price of the concession stamp at 60 cents and the seasonal greeting card price was frozen at 65 cents. Taken together, concession and seasonal greeting mail comprise around one-third of all the letters posted by consumers in Australia. Total addressed letter volumes declined by 9.7 per cent compared to the previous year. The overall result reflects the continued trend towards alternative digital technology. While the letters business again returned a negative result, the reform changes including the BPR increase helped reduce the loss and improve the sustainability of our letters service. Annual Report 2016 15 Our collaborative future We continued building our eCommerce partnerships this In June 2016, we took this another step further by year to help our customers buy and sell online and position announcing a strategic eCommerce alliance with leading them to meet prospective overseas customer demand global provider of comprehensive logistics and transport – both in Australia and internationally. We believe one solutions Aramex. The proposed joint venture will build of our biggest growth opportunities involves supporting on the service capability of StarTrack International, the growth of cross-border eCommerce by improving the with Aramex investing in StarTrack International and integration between our domestic networks and services – contributing marketing and sales capability. and those of our global logistics partners. Under the terms of the agreement, Australia Post To prepare for the unfolding future, we joined Asian will provide last mile delivery in Australia for volumes eCommerce giants JD.com and Alibaba on some of their generated by the joint venture, while we have extended most popular online shopping platforms, including 1688. the capabilities of StarTrack Courier by acquiring MailCall com and Tmall.com. Our presence on these Chinese Couriers from Aramex. This alliance helps us to compete marketplaces is giving Australian businesses direct access domestically, while also positioning our business to capture to the booming Chinese consumer market. more offshore parcel volumes to meet our customers’ growth projections. Through our joint venture with China Post (Sai Cheng Logistics International), we also offer logistics support to Australian companies doing business in China with end-toend supply chain solutions. Our future outlook Through our positive financial performance we want to grow our business to create great experiences for our customers. We work in a highly competitive industry so we are focusing on operational excellence to improve our cost to serve. With a continued focus on cost control, we embrace this competitive market, with an emphasis on efficiency and providing great value for customers. 16 Annual Report 2016 Our customers Our communities At the core of our customer’s expectations is that we will We are also looking to make a step change in the parcel provide choice and convenience. The value we create for delivery experience, to put the choice and control in customers’ our customers, who are now globally connected, is in being hands to increase first-time delivery. With our personalised consistent and reliable as we meet that expectation. MyPost experience if you’re not going to be home you can elect to have your parcel “safe dropped” by instructing us where to leave it, redirect it to another address or take We live in an age where the power has firmly shifted from advantage of a free 24/7 parcel locker. organisations to consumers. Our newly established Chief We recognise these as bold ambitions and big aspirations, Customer Office has a clear mandate for creating the but we believe we have a unique opportunity to redefine experiences that customers love and advocating for our the customer experience. customers across the enterprise. As an organisation we want to be known for: • creating seamless customer experiences The new structure is all about putting the customer at the centre of everything we do. Empowering our people to solve • listening to customers and taking action customer problems will drive innovation and simplicity in the • knowing our customers way we interact with customers. We have sharpened our • empowering our people. focus on listening to customers and taking action, knowing our customers and understanding their needs. As the advocate for the customer, our people are empowered to make demonstrable improvements in the customer experience. This includes removing the “pain points” for customers and bringing consistency to what our customers experience at our post offices, contact centre and our digital channels. Digital visits Receiving letters 182m annually 17m monthly Visiting retail App downloads 249m 1.9m annually annually Annual Report 2016 17 Measuring customer advocacy We are committed to listening to our customers, to While reform to our letters service has had an impact, our understanding their concerns or problems and developing research shows that the more people use our services, the solutions that address their needs and the future outlook. more likely they are to advocate on our behalf. Promoters of Australia Post are important to us because they have One of the ways we track our customers’ experience is by the power to influence the purchase decisions of the people measuring customer advocacy. The Net Promoter Score around them. We are determined to adapt our business (NPS) provides data about what we are doing well and and lead the way with transforming services and products where we need to improve. Our NPS has dipped very slightly, for the future. from our 2014/15 result of +15. However, our 2015/16 result of +14.1 has seen minimal impact given the major reform to our letters service1. 1 The methodology for NPS is currently under review. This data has been calibrated in line with our past reporting practices. 18 Annual Report 2016 Helping consumers The digital economy continues to disrupt our competitive landscape and, in response, we are transforming to deliver compelling, multichannel customer experiences. MyPost plays a significant role by providing a personalised way of delivering contemporary services to consumer and small business customers. We currently offer a range of MyPost services to simplify delivery processes and connections to service providers such as banks, utilities and telecommunication companies. In 2015/16, 1.9 million consumers registered a free MyPost account, an increase of 190.0 per cent. MyPost Deliveries provides a personalised way for customers to access and manage parcel delivery services. Through their MyPost account, customers have the choice, convenience and control to get their parcels at the time and place that suits them – at home, on the go or at the Post Office. Delivery choices include Parcel Lockers, Parcel Collect, Safe Drop and redirect. With tracking and notifications through MyPost, customers can find out where their parcel is and know the moment their parcel has arrived. Customers can also search, lease and pay for a new post office box online. MyPost Digital Mailbox helps customers manage and make selected bill payments all in one place. It provides free, secure storage for documents, such as birth certificates and travel documents, from any internet-connected device. Customers can receive digital receipts for purchases made at the Post Office, as well as WA Police checks and Fit2Work police certificates. Mail2Day notifications let customers with PO Boxes know when they have mail in their PO Box. Every Australian adult has access to a free MyPost Digital Mailbox. Federal concession card holders can tell us who they are through MyPost Concession, which means they get concession rates for Mail Hold and Mail Redirection services. We also give these customers a free booklet of five concession stamps and access to up to 50 concession stamps per year. Annual Report 2016 19 Connecting with customers We received 182 million digital visits during 2015/16, 25 per cent higher than the previous year. Of these 164 million were to auspost.com.au. More and more people are using our website to do everyday jobs such as track a parcel, look up a postcode, or get more information about our range of products and services. In fact, the number of self-service actions on the site has grown by 16 per cent in the last year, so we are working hard to ensure we keep changing to meet customers’ evolving needs. Fifty-two per cent of customers visit our website via mobile devices and our website is undergoing a transformation to provide customers with a more seamless and personalised experience. One example is PO Boxes online, where customers can check availability at their preferred Post Office and complete the application and renewal process online. International products makes sending overseas easy When our Customer Contact Centre launched Tomorrow’s world is a global community and marketplace. We 24/7 online support for small business customers deliver to more than 190 countries and lodgement via 15,357 registered with My Post Business, our employees street posting boxes and 4,392 Post Offices nationwide. were delighted to get involved, with many opting to In response to customer feedback, in 2015/16 we made adjust their shifts to work through the night. it simpler to send items overseas. We relaunched a comprehensive range of international delivery options, which gives customers a clear choice of International Courier, Small Business customers can now get in touch with International Express, International Standard, Registered Post us via Facebook, Twitter or by live chat. They can also and International Economy Sea and Air services. These options use the click-to-call function, where they can choose to are all available in business hubs, Post Offices and online, have one of our team call them back during extended via Click and Send. telephone support hours. This year we also continued to extend our Customer Relationship Management capability used in our customer contact centre into delivery centres, Post Offices and other support areas, enabling a 55 per cent improvement in customer query resolution. In line with the increase in self-service via our website, over a third of our Travel products customer enquiries are now via our online channels (web and social). People are travelling overseas in increasing numbers, so we provide a one-stop shop for travel services. Travellers can now organise currency, travel insurance, TravelSIM, passports and passport photos at our Post Offices, where we help people get organised in a simple and secure way. The Load&Go Travel Card continued to prove popular, offering a convenient, flexible way of accessing money while travelling, with the extra security of not being linked to a bank account. 20 Annual Report 2016 Creating a small business community The Australia Post Small Business Hive, launched as a pilot in Geelong in early 2016, is designed to support and enable growth of small and start-up businesses. The Small Business Hive is a membership based, coworking space offering small businesses a range of services including: • high-quality, shared workspaces with security, privacy, high-speed internet access and quality business equipment Winners Beserk with Chief Customer Officer, Christine Corbett. • a program of events and education to provide knowledge, assets and advice Australia’s favourite online retailers • a connected community culture to foster collaboration between businesses and the broader community With eCommerce continuing to grow in Australia and globally, StarTrack’s exclusive naming partnership with The Small Business Hive has been purposefully the Online Retail Industry Awards (ORIAs) provides a designed to foster a collaborative business culture that platform to continue positioning ourselves as one of inspires innovation and entrepreneurial activity among Australia’s leading eCommerce companies. the small businesses of Geelong. This is positioning the growing regional city well for a dynamic future. This was the second – and biggest-ever – year of the StarTrack ORIAs People’s Choice Award with around 100,000 loyal online shoppers voting for 750 of their favourite online retailers, ranging from familiar household names to Aussie start-ups. This is the only category that gives online shoppers the power to vote and decide the winner. Ten diverse finalists were shortlisted with Catch of the Day announced as the overall People’s Choice Award winner. This year’s awards also saw the introduction of a brand new category to recognise and celebrate Investing in small business – smaller online retailers, with alternative clothing store Mailplus majority investment Beserk taking out the People’s Choice Award for Small Business. As part of our commitment to Australian small businesses and building partnerships with them from the beginning of their journey, in April 2016 we made a majority investment in Mailplus, a national franchised Helping small business network for collecting, delivering and lodging mail In October 2015, we launched our We Love Delivering for and parcels on behalf of small businesses. With this Small Business campaign signalling our commitment to investment in Mailplus, we will be able to provide a help Australian small businesses go online, grow their range of new services to make it simpler for small business and export. businesses to complete their everyday important In May 2016, we launched our new tailored small business jobs, including collecting their mail from their PO Box. experience, accessed via free in-store or online registration Mailplus employs approximately 20 staff in with MyPost Business. management and administrative support functions, These enhanced services include specialised 24/7* online and operates 123 territories supported by 178 vehicles. support with live chat and extended hours phone support, It has a national footprint (with the exception of the exclusive offers, monthly discounts and invitations to courses Northern Territory) and has over 6,000 small business and events, a free parcel scanning app to make order tracking customers. easier, and new tools to let customers easily pay for and print Mailplus remains a stand-alone business, helping their own shipping labels online. Australia Post to provide small businesses with the We’re also supporting small business through thought services they need – when they need them. leadership articles from our Australia Post leaders, small business event sponsorships, a new Australia Post for Business Facebook page, and the Small Business Conversation. *excluding public holidays Annual Report 2016 21 Helping business and governments Catch of the Day We have a range of eCommerce solutions that respond to With an impressive track record of growth, deals the changing needs of our corporate and government website Catch of the Day has established itself as a top customers. online destination for thousands of deals on the latest streetwear, fashion, homewares, toys, groceries and more. Catch of the Day first set up their online shop in 2006 with five employees and a 200m2 warehouse, and Digitise existing services has since grown to become one of the largest parcel We have a suite of digital identity, payment processing and distributors in the country. It now boasting a robotic information management services to help accelerate the automated picking system at its 25,000m2 inventory digitisation of existing services and back-office processes. warehouse in Melbourne’s south-east. Multi-channel service delivery New innovations like these have allowed the group to work smarter and deliver customer orders in record Australia Post is uniquely positioned to facilitate secure time, especially over important busy seasons like transactions and has exclusive access to services with our Christmas and Easter. Together with its sister brands unrivalled network of Post Offices. This includes substantial (Scoopon, Mumgo and Grocery Run) Catch of the coverage in rural locations, as well as our digital channels and Day’s parent company, Catch Group, fills more than capabilities. We enable governments to design and adopt new 8,000 orders every day. The group first partnered with service delivery models by sourcing and consolidating core Australia Post’s parcels business in 2006, and has been services and integrating new technologies. using us for their deliveries, every step of their journey, ever since. Today, Catch of the Day offers its customers Citizen engagement and eMarketplaces a range of delivery options, including express post, Our eMarketplaces platform uses a flexible approach where delivery to parcel locker, parcel collect & PO Box, and we co-design a people-centred and cost-efficient experience easy returns backed by seven-day customer service. for streamlining the application, identity verification and online payment processes, while securely delivering goods Adam Rudy, General Manager of Customer Experience electronically and physically. at Catch of the Day said, “Catch of the Day and Australia Post have been around from the early stages of online shopping in Australia and, as our businesses Solutions design and managed services have gone from strength to strength, we’ve helped We help all levels of government deliver sustainable ways to each other grow. Customer satisfaction is paramount migrate customers to digital channels, while improving citizen to us, and Australia Post shares the same philosophy.” access to everyday, important services. From establishing new online marketplaces to managing online registries, we offer a range of consulting, online hosting and support and maintenance services. Identity services We reduce the friction and inefficiency often associated with individuals proving their identity across several hundred million transactions performed every year. Services include document witnessing, physical and electronic identity verification, biometric capture (fingerprints, voice and photographic data), identity authentication, working with children checks, passport services, police certificates (WA), and land title transfers. Payment services Our payment processing, disbursement and banking solutions help organisations provide payment experiences consumers can use and trust in their everyday transactions – be it online, via mobile devices or through our nationwide retail network. Information management services We offer efficiencies and cost savings, a reduction in paper-based processes and improved risk management and compliance through secure, searchable, online archive capability. 22 Annual Report 2016 Engaging our stakeholders Continuing the conversation online Our main stakeholder groups include our shareholder (the Australian Government), our people, our customers Through the National Conversation platform and the broader community. We also have important auspost.com.au/conversation, we enabled the entire links with regulatory bodies, suppliers, industry community to participate in a conversation about organisations, peak bodies and environmental groups. our future. We depend on the support of all of these groups Australians used this platform to find information, and actively engage with them in ways that suit the including videos and fact sheets, about Australia relationship. Every year we conduct surveys, interviews Post and the proposed changes, to participate in and focus groups to understand the needs of our a discussion forum, ask questions, or take part in stakeholders and the way our business affects them. quick polls. We discuss our postal and logistics services with consumers, small business and corporations. As at 30 June 2016 more than 170,000 people had We also conduct staff attitude surveys and focus visited the National Conversation to find information groups to understand what our employees think or participate in a conversation. about our business. The data and research we collect enable us to draw better insights and improve our stakeholders’ experience. Thirty-five per cent of visitors undertook some form of activity to become informed about the proposed changes. Engaging the community in the need In October 2015, we launched the Small Business Conversation website to gain insights into how we for letters reform can better support small business. By engaging small In 2015/16, it was particularly important that we worked businesses in conversations about the things that closely with the community in discussing the declining use of matter to them and understanding the challenges and letters and the best way to adapt our business to continue concerns they face in the community, we will be better providing relevant services to the community. We engaged able to provide products, services and connections for our people, customers, the community, the government them and their customers. Still in its infancy, the Small and media on the issues surrounding the sustainability of Business Conversation site has had more than 10,000 our letters business. The two key reform changes were the visits since its launch. BPR increase to $1 and the introduction of the two-speed consumer letters service. Having received federal government support for reform in March 2015, the community engagement activity between July 2015 and January 2016 was focused on helping the community understand what the proposed changes meant for them. We also asked the community to share their views on the proposed reform and reinforced our commitment to continue providing relevant services to the community. To continue the face-to-face engagement with local communities, Listening Posts continued to roll out throughout the second half of 2015 to explain proposed changes and hear feedback about our services in local areas. These events were often hosted by local members of parliament, who were keen to hear their constituents’ firsthand experiences with Australia Post and to gain a deeper understanding of community views about the service. Since May 2014, 206 Listening Posts have been held in 204 towns across 131 federal electorates. Feedback consistently showed that this grassroots approach addressed community concern and built understanding and support for the changes. Events were facilitated by our area and regional managers, strengthening the relationship between our local managers and local communities. Annual Report 2016 23 Our Stakeholder Council Go Digi It is estimated that 16 per cent of The Australia Post Stakeholder Council provides advice Australians, around four million and guidance on a range of issues throughout the year. people, are not online. This The council also reviews and guides our approach to best means they aren’t able to take practice integrated annual corporate responsibility advantage of the education, health and social benefits of (CR) reporting. being connected. Research also suggests that the greatest The Stakeholder Council comprises Stakeholder Council barriers to people getting online nine members representing a range of views, chaired by an Australia Statement are skills and confidence. Post Board member. In 2015/16, the For the past few years, the As part of our strategy to council met three times. With roles Stakeholder Council has had the increase participation in a digital and experience in small and medium opportunity to review Australia world, Australia Post partnered business, community services, Post’s approach to best practice with Infoxchange to create Go industrial relations, marketing and annual reporting and provide Digi, a four-year digital literacy corporate responsibility, our council their views in relation to corporate program that aims to support members are: responsibility. In reviewing this Australians to improve their year’s integrated annual report, Sommers Botha – Former General digital skills and confidence. we believe that Australia Post Manager, Retail Scholastic Australia has continued to demonstrate The Go Digi website houses a Rhonda Cumberland – Former CEO, its commitment to corporate number of resources, including Good Shepherd responsibility, including social easy-to-read learning guides on and environmental sustainability. a range of digital topics, and tips Graz van Egmond – Executive Efforts to evolve the coverage of and tricks on how to be a great Director, Banksia Environment the corporation’s material issues Go Digi Mentor by sharing your Foundation and further integrate its social and skills with a colleague, family George Etrelezis – Small Business environmental performance within member or friend. The site also Consultant the 2016 report reflects a strategic enables users with a search tool approach to a whole-of-business to find face-to-face learning Dennis Jenner – Former Director, Post focus on delivering improved social sessions run by “network Office Agents Association Limited and environmental outcomes for the partners” such as neighbourhood Felicity Pantelidis – Chief Operating Australian community. The Council houses, community centres and Officer, Slater & Gordon Lawyers believes that this report again libraries. provides a transparent and clearly Geoff Rohrsheim – Founder/Executive Go Digi is also a great additional integrated representation of the Director, The Silver Lining Group resource for Australia Post material in relation to Australia Post’s employees who are looking to Cameron Thiele – Formerly of the performance. improve their online potential. Communications, Electrical and Australia Post Stakeholder Council Plumbing Union August 2016 Phil De Young – Consultant & Former Principal, Carey Baptist Grammar School Industry consultation A critical aspect of the reform of our letters service was ensuring that we engaged extensively with our customers about the proposed changes. We achieved this through face-to-face briefings and formal communications. We were able to have more discussions about how the industry might be impacted by reform at an industry consultative forum. The forum included representatives from unions, licensees, major mail users, industry associations and other important stakeholders, and aimed to help the mail services sector achieve long-term sustainability. Through this forum, we were able to design a package that helped to alleviate the impacts of reform. The package included increasing the discount on promotional post until mid-2017 and continuing to minimise cost increases for the not-for-profit sector. 24 Annual Report 2016 Community programs and partnerships One Netball Program We partnered with Netball Australia to create the Australia Post One Netball Program, which includes a range of initiatives at national and local levels to raise awareness, understanding and participation around diversity and inclusion. The One Netball Community Awards celebrate individuals, clubs and associations who go above and beyond to welcome everyone in netball. In July 2015, the Paraburdoo Netball Association was one of seven national winners for its work in increasing netball participation in their remote community in the Pilbara. AFL Multicultural Round visit to Perth Parcel Centre, WA. AFL Multicultural Round visit to Alexandria Delivery Facility, NSW. AFL Good Spender Our partnership with the AFL is focused on celebrating The Good Spender online marketplace is the result of a unique diversity and multiculturalism in the community, using the partnership with Social Traders, reflecting the social enterprise AFL Multicultural Round, Community Camps and player movement that is gaining momentum. We have grown the Ambassador Program to reach our audience. In these Good Spender social enterprise platform through a focused activities we celebrate diversity and connection to community consumer marketing campaign and dedicated resourcing to through football. Using media and partner channels, we tell welcome and support small social enterprises. the story of football bringing communities together from grass roots local games to elite AFL competitions. AFL Multicultural Round visit to Alexandria Delivery Facility, NSW. Santa Mail Innovation Index Santa Mail is an ongoing The Innovation Index report was launched in 2015 as a annual initiative that diagnostic assessment tool to measure the depth and breadth engages the community of innovation capabilities across the not-for-profit sector. during the festive period by Australia Post and Westpac partnered with GiveEasy to help encouraging school children fund the research and production of the report and delivered to write a letter to Santa. a series of Australia-wide events. Annual Report 2016 25 Our Neighbourhood Our Neighbourhood Trust Lifestyle Solutions Work Assist Our Neighbourhood Trust is a public charitable trust fund Our partnership with Lifestyle Solutions (a not-for-profit established by Australia Post in 2013. The Trust distributes disability services provider) to develop the Work Assist funds raised as part of the Our Neighbourhood Community program has provided more than 25 opportunities for people Grants program. The Trust has helped fund 383 community living with a disability to gain skills, knowledge and hands-on projects since 2013. work placement through the Australia Post Group business. The partnership also provides community mail programs in Our Neighbourhood Grants Programs Alice Springs, Northern Territory and Mayfield, New South Our major focus is to promote healthier, more vibrant Wales, which provide additional work experience opportunities and inclusive communities by building capability within for people living with a disability. communities and leaving a positive legacy around Australia. In 2015/16, we successfully awarded 86 grants to projects that During the year, Bindi Enterprises, a local Lifestyle Solutions build skills and capability of individuals, community groups, organisation and Australia Post contractor, extended its small businesses and the wider community. Focus areas for service to two new locations, Larapinta Valley and Hidden funding included employment pathways, community inclusion Valley. Residents of that area no longer have to collect their and disaster readiness. To view details of all our grant mail from the Tangentyere Council offices. The supported recipients visit ourneighbourhood.com.au/grant-winners staff of “Bindi Mail” are also involved in other employment opportunities, such as at the Mwerre Anthurre Artists Studio, refurbishing Qantas headsets and screen printing. Doing it Differently Day Doing it Differently Day is an annual fundraising day of action where employees can pledge to do something different to raise funds for the Our Neighbourhood Trust. Just under $50,000 has been raised so far through Doing it Differently and this will be distributed via the Our Neighbourhood Community Grants program, to groups and organisations around Australia in need of assistance. Our future outlook We love delivering an exceptional customer experience, which means continuing to understand our customers’ needs and the expectations around access, convenience and choice. Our future will focus on delivering seamless experiences across all our customer channels and delighting our customers with our unrivalled range of parcel delivery options. Measuring our impact This year, we invested more than Total value of contributions $7.05 million in the community. This figure (excl. Management costs) comprised cash, time, in-kind donations, Arts & culture 1.0% and management and operational costs Economic development 6.0% to support our community programs. Education & young people 16.3% Emergency relief 0.6% Australia Post is a member of the London Benchmarking Environment 3.6% Group (LBG) and sits on the group’s Steering Committee. We measure our community investment using the LBG’s Health 4.5% internationally recognised approach and the data we Social welfare 58.9% report is verified by LBG each year. Other 9.2% A copy of LBG’s verification statement can be found at auspost.com.au/annualreport2016 26 Annual Report 2016 Our customer network Every day we reach more Australians than any other company – through our 11.5 million delivery points. Our combination of Australia Post and However, it is our physical network of 15,357 street posting boxes and 4,392 Post Offices that most Australians StarTrack creates a competitive advantage traditionally associate with our services. We are committed no one can match. Our unrivalled network to meeting our Community Service Obligations (CSOs) when providing our mail services, which includes providing a letter is fundamental to the value we create for service that is reasonably accessible to all Australians the Australian Government, businesses wherever they reside. and communities. We connect everyone, everywhere, everyday – including Our corporate, licensed Post Offices (LPOs) and Community connecting people from Australia’s most remote communities Postal Agencies (CPAs) are critical to our ability to maintain and country towns to anywhere on the globe. our strong rural and regional network. We deliver to 190 countries and our network incorporates our gateways into Asia through online marketplaces As our customers increasingly move to accessing services and JD.com and Tmall Global, as well as access to retailers information via social, mobile and online platforms, we are who only ship within the USA, via Shopmate. This year we providing the appropriate access to our network, across all expanded our partnership with Qantas, which means we platforms – physical and digital. can offer businesses, manufacturers, wholesalers, retailers and eCommerce companies access to the best air freight network in the country (see page 12 for details). Annual Report 2016 27 Investing in a sustainable network During the year we officially opened 11 new Australia • An additional $51.4 million in payments over four years Post superstores and two more open-format stores in to support the LPO and Community Postal Agency (CPA) Greensborough and Forest Hill, Victoria, bringing our network, particularly in regional and remote Australia. total number of superstores to 65. We currently have 16 superstores in regional locations, with the aim to • New digital payments for LPOs, where the nominated increase this to 50 by 2020. licensee receives a payment for selected online transactions whenever a MyPost Deliveries customer selects an outlet as their “home” LPO. To help our employees and licensees provide premium We also rolled out a flexible point-of-sale system to 380 service, we rolled out a new operating system to more rural and remote LPOs to enable them to provide electronic than 8,300 counter terminals. This served to streamline services. customer transactions for more than 3,600 Post Offices, including LPOs. One of the problems faced by rural and remote businesses with low population density is the challenge in meeting minimum order requirements for retail merchandise. In In 2015/16, 28 franchised Post Offices transitioned to LPOs 2015/16, we continued our LPO Buying Program that allows and we continued to actively support the LPO community LPOs to buy merchandise from corporate Post Offices at by offering a range of payment increases including: discounted rates. Improving the delivery experience We completed the second phase of facility upgrades This year, we started trialling a number of initiatives that at the Melbourne and Sydney parcel facilities in 2015 – are aimed at improving first-time delivery rates. These pilots enabling these facilities to handle more than 1.3 million include delivering in the hours before and after work, as parcels per day and importantly, providing a safer well as a trial of second-attempt delivery. We also trialled workplace for our people. personal parcel boxes at residential homes in Port Melbourne during May. We’re also working closely with a range of body corporates to encourage them to install communal parcel lockers in apartment complexes. We’re already seeing some good results with these trials, with the first-time delivery rate Using our unrivalled network increasing across the board. We’ll continue to invest in trials to deliver customer solutions that have the most significant impact on successful delivery. With our 24/7 parcel lockers now installed at around 250 Collectively, Australia Post and StarTrack have one locations, we delivered more than 1.4 million parcels to a of the most robust and flexible logistics and delivery collection point in 2015/16. As we strive to continue improving networks in Australia. This provides us with extensive our delivery service for the customer, we introduced the opportunities to leverage our network and reach popular “Safe Drop” option on MyPost, where customers can to provide businesses with scaleable, timely and register their preference for us to leave a parcel in a safe customer-focused solutions. place when they’re not at home. Late last year we ran a local trial with Booktopia, an online book retailer in Sydney, to provide their customers with a same-day delivery service. Customer orders placed online before 11am were picked at the Booktopia warehouse and collected daily by our StarTrack fleet. These were then transported to our delivery facility in St Leonards where posties completed the final step of delivering the item to the customers’ door. The trial demonstrated the power of our network and our ability to design tailored freight and delivery services to meet the specific needs of customers. 28 Annual Report 2016 Making cyber safety a critical priority During 2015/16, we held frequent and regular education and awareness campaigns to ensure that cyber security around our network remains top of mind for our people and our customers. During the year we provided tips on virus protection, information security, privacy, data safety and guarding against cyber threats. As part of planning for the new year, in January 2016 we advised people to take stock of online accounts, connections, passwords and devices to reduce the potential for fraud and security weaknesses. It is vital that confidential customer information does not end up in the wrong hands and we’re committed to protecting customer security and helping people stay safe online. We provide small businesses with updates on email scams, detailed information about online security and fraud and offer a free identity theft support service, iDcare. Available on 1300 432 273, iDcare is a partner of Australia Post and provides support for a range of identity theft issues. New in-store options – from pop-ups Investing in advanced mail processing to point-of-sale machines A component of the reform of our letters service involved investing in advance automated processing technology. We strongly believe in testing ideas in our ready-made While letter volumes continue to decline, we still process marketplaces and, in 2015/16, we conducted in-store trials around 3 billion letters a year. This investment was another across a broad spectrum of customer-centric concepts. key step to building a sustainable letters business. Preparations for the installation of the first of the machines In the lead-up to Christmas, six stores across Victoria and New commenced at our four major mail processing facilities South Wales ran pop-up stores promoting five of our leading in Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney. This included online retail partners. Post-trial surveys showed an increase in establishing local working groups at each site to help design brand awareness in all the retailers involved, opening up more and plan for local implementation. shopping options for customers and greater opportunities In June we completed assembling the Flat Sorting machine for our partners. As part of the Mother’s Day online shopping and the Culler Facer Canceller Preparation machine in Sydney campaign, we also trialled Bellabox pop-up shops in and Melbourne, respectively. These machines will come online Melbourne and Brisbane. in September and October following a rigorous testing period. To reduce queue times and optimise the customer Machines at our Brisbane and Perth facilities will come online experience, we tested a mobile point-of-sale process where in 2017. a staff member used a handheld device to process simple transactions and payments as people waited. This was taken The new machines are designed to exacting safety and a step further at the Merimbula Post Office, which conducted ergonomic specifications, are more efficient and can process a trial in partnership with the Department of Human Services significantly more letters per hour than our current machines. (DHS), where customers were given access to a face-to-face information service and DHS self-help facilities. To support our new mail processing machinery, in June we commenced introducing 800,000 new large letter trays to the network. Following a rigorous tender process, Australia Post enlisted one of Melbourne’s oldest family-owned manufacturers, Sneddon & Kingston Plastics (SKP), to design and make the recyclable plastic trays. Australia Post is proud to have supported a local small business. “In an environment where companies are turning to foreign suppliers for goods, it’s great to have the support from one of Australia’s most trusted and recognised brands,” says Blair Sinsheimer, General Manager, SKP. Annual Report 2016 29 30 Annual Report 2016 Building capacity in our delivery network We’re always on the lookout to do things differently to provide better services for our customers and provide a sustainable future for our business. Our goal is to create a delivery network that’s designed around the customer, so that our posties deliver on a vehicle that suits the terrain and can safely and securely carry a range of customer product, whether that’s letters or bulkier packages. This year we trialled a trike at a number of our delivery facilities. The trike has a larger carrying capacity than our motorbikes and electric bikes, and features a large lockable compartment to secure letters and parcels on the rear and a carrier on the front. We’re also looking abroad to see what other postal agencies, such as New Zealand Post, are using to give us ideas for what might be suitable for ustralia’s large and diverse geography. We plan to trial a number of vehicles next financial year. Annual Report 2016 31 The modern postie We currently have more than 7,000 posties who deliver mail Stamps update all across Australia. As letter volumes continue to decline, we need to look for innovative ways to ensure the role of the postie is sustainable. In September 2015, our Philatelic team launched a new collectables website providing a central resource and social platform for global collecting enthusiasts. Over the past few years we’ve implemented a number of auspostcollectables.com.au initiatives – for example, in 2013 we starting streaming small parcels (weighing under 2 kilograms) through the Our diverse 2015/16 stamp issue program included postie network for delivery to the customer. themes that continue to celebrate important cultural milestones and events. Included was A Century of Service: Animals in War, Centenary of WWI: 1916. This enabled our parcel delivery people to focus on the delivery Preparations were underway for the late 2016 release of larger items. Earlier this year, in regional areas we added of the Rio Olympic Games Gold Medallists stamps and to the postie’s panniers StarTrack Premium small parcels. Seabirds of Norfolk Island, the first issue as postal Our posties now deliver a significant proportion of our total authority for the external territory. parcel volumes. In some regional areas, we’ve transferred street posting box clearances to posties, who complete this work when returning from their delivery rounds and their pannier bags are empty. We’re continuing to explore other new opportunities to leverage our trusted brand and the community presence of our posties, who deliver to almost every address in Australia. In May 2016, we completed a small trial, reading water meters at 5,500 residential and commercial addresses across a small number of suburbs in Sydney. The trial helped to measure the operational and commercial feasibility of offering this type of service on behalf of utility companies. Our future outlook With our post offices central to connecting communities across the nation, we will continue to redefine the role and service offering to meet the contemporary needs of all Australians. Our aspiration is to help create new digital futures by connecting people, businesses, government and organisations to each other and the world. 32 Annual Report 2016 Our innovation Our expertise Innovation creates new value for our Hack Dayz, where employees come together to identify customer problems and work intensively on building or customers and communities, ensuring “hacking” a working prototype or solution, are now common a sustainable enterprise for our people events inside Australia Post. Recently an “intrapreneurship” program where employees initiate new business ideas to and shareholder. test and develop with customers has also been introduced. While changing technology and a globalising world is providing many challenges to our letters business, it is also providing significant new opportunities to use the assets of Australia Post to solve the new and emerging problems of customers Innovation arenas reflect new customer and communities around Australia. challenges and opportunities The focus of our innovation efforts involve making eCommerce, egovernment and the broader digitisation of trusted services The Australia Post Accelerator has four strategic areas more accessible. Pursuing these opportunities will enable all of focus: Australians to start and grow businesses, participate in global marketplaces and access government services. The home of the future – reimagining home logistics and services as There are three major developments supporting innovation Home Logisticshome and Smart eCommerce things Internet ofTrusted Services at Australia Post: of the Future of the Future & eService of the Future technology evolves Acceleration • supporting all our people in listening to customers and solving customer problems Logistics of the future – examining • co-creating new products and services with leading the ongoing change and disruption customers in our solution centres in eCommerce and Home Logistics logistics in Trusted toeCommerce an eCommerce Services world of the Future of the Future & eService of the Future trusted services Acceleration • launching the Australia Post Accelerator which partners or invests in new businesses created internally or via our Trusted services of the future – solving investment fund the digitisation challenge of identity Home of the Future Logistics of the Future eCommerce & eService and Trusted service Services of the Future when trust is paramount Innovating with our people Acceleration The basis of innovation continues to be our people. Their passion for customers and communities has been the core eCommerce and eService acceleration – of the development of Australia Post for over 200 years. enabling everyone, everywhere, Today we are equipping them withHome enhanced tools Logisticsand eCommerce Trusted Services everyday to have access to and capture of the Future of the Future & eService of the Future data to understand the customer requirements and improve Acceleration the opportunity from eCommerce the customer experience. The roll-out of our customer and eGovernment feedback management system and NPS tools is providing new opportunities for all our people to listen and solve customer problems. Employee immersion events known Based on solving key customer challenges, these arenas as The Grapevine give people across our business the guide investment and acceleration support provided to opportunity to engage in the future of Australia Post and Australian start-ups by the Australia Post Accelerator. their role in making changes that benefit customers and our business. Annual Report 2016 33 Innovating with our customers We are also investing to support a more innovative Australia. Our Go & Grow Online events continue to be popular, Our product, sales and marketing teams are aligned to particularly in regional Australia. In a forum designed to foster customers and today work collaboratively to solve our conversation about online opportunities, we bring in experts customers’ most important problems. Design thinking and to discuss topics such as search engine optimisation and agile delivery teams are now a core part of the capability of best practice eCommerce, so entrepreneurs can start online these teams. This year we worked with customers on many businesses, and established small businesses can grow and important future developments that included: export. In 2015/16, we held 38 Go & Grow Online sessions • same day delivery options for leading online retailers with expert presenters, most of which were hosted by local members of parliament. • new delivery solutions for regional customers through drone trials Other events involved our eCommerce partners Google, • new co-working workspaces called the Small Business Hive, Facebook and LinkedIn, to help business gain insights from designed to support the business service and space needs industry leaders about online trends and growth opportunities. of entrepreneurs and start-ups in local communities In 2015/16, we created an integrated campaign to promote • continued development of eCommerce application the opportunity all Australians have in eCommerce. We Love programming interfaces (APIs) and self-scanning applications Delivering was used to demonstrate the idea that now every for small to medium businesses Australian, everywhere, can start a business and their first • new digital “one stop” change of address applications for customer can be anywhere in the world. corporate and governments. StarTrack business breakfasts building innovation Our popular StarTrack Business Breakfast series continued during the year, with two well-attended expert panel discussions at the Grand Hyatt in Melbourne and Sydney’s Ivy Sunroom. A combined total of more than 180 online retailers from various stages of the business lifecycle took part, including eCommerce partners Temando, PayPal and Shippit. Guest panels, comprising leading Australian businesswomen in the eCommerce sector, helped our business customers innovate and improve their online customer experience. Panellists shared insights on what it takes to succeed in an increasingly competitive and rapidly evolving digital world, drawing on their own experiences using social media, delivering seamless customer experiences and creating brand loyalty to drive customer growth and retention. 34 Annual Report 2016 Working with WA Police In 2015/16, together with Western Australia (WA) Police, • online forms we won a government innovation award for our digital • electronic identity verification identity solution for National Police Certificates. Many government agencies are digitising their services and our • QR codes unique position is the ability to provide an omni-channel • online payment processing service offering, where customers can elect to use the Post • secure online delivery and storage in MyPost Office or an online option, to help the agency improve its Digital Mailbox. customer service. A process that previously took a number of days can now Our partnership with the WA Police involved digitising their be completed in one hour. As a provider of eGovernment National Police Check process. Performing in-person Police services, we are using innovation, our network and our Checks is something we have done at our Post Offices trusted eCommerce solutions to provide innovative and since 2007. During 2015/16, we created a streamlined relevant options for customers. digital process that links to CrimTrak and includes: In 2016, we also launched on Alibaba’s business-to-business From the seemingly simple notion of enabling customers to marketplace, called 1688.com. There are now five Margaret search and lease Post Office boxes via the internet using PO River (Western Australia) wineries on our 1688 storefront and Box Online, to the digital native-style Snap It App launched recent orders included a shipping container of wine to China. in July that allows employees to log customer queries, safety Demand for quality Australian products in unlocking a world of and damage issues immediately, we have made customers opportunity for local businesses wanting to grow into China. the focus of our eCommerce discoveries and services. Further opportunities are available through our agreement with JD.com, China’s second largest online retailer. This Australia Post Accelerator includes a flagship online store showcasing Australian In late 2015, we announced the launch of the Australia Post products, which exposes Australian businesses to more Accelerator that would invest in new business creation and than 500 million customers on the JD Worldwide website. external start-ups. The Australia Post Accelerator is now engaging with the Australian startup ecosystem, creating Our strategy is to empower consumers, business and opportunities for entrepreneurs to work with us and solve government to connect, create and thrive in the digitised a new set of challenges and capitalise on emerging future. This means growing our role in government service opportunities that the eCommerce and eGovernment delivery, creating products that connect our communities world is creating. to everyday services, like bill payments, and expanding our capability in identity, payment and information management The accelerator offers support by providing eCommerce tools services. Our range of services keeps growing and all four for entrepreneurs and broad sponsorship for entrepreneur major Australian banks now use Bank@Post. programs, with a special focus on rural and regional outreach and female entrepreneurship. It also invests in outstanding We are also providing identity services on behalf of the Australian entrepreneurs through the $20 million Australia Victorian Land Titles Office, working with the Northern Territory Post Investment Fund. Department of Transport to digitise vehicle licensing and the Queensland Government to process fishing licenses. Operating separately from our core business activities, the In South Australia we are investigating a return to work accelerator leverages Australia Post’s assets and networks, solution that involves scanning compensation claims at enabling it to operate with the agility of a start-up while Post Offices. Through our Decipha business we also offer still providing emerging small business and entrepreneurial digitised donations for charity groups, to encourage greater partners with the advantages of corporate backing. contribution through convenient channels. Partnerships driving innovation Many of our partnerships involve integrating online tools and software to help our business customers sell, track and send their online orders in a more streamlined, secure and simple way. For example, our customers use online platforms like Temando and NetSuite to a ccess a range of business services to manage orders, print labels and so on. By integrating with an eCommerce platform that partners with Australia Post, businesses of all sizes can access our shipping and tracking services. Similarly, by leveraging our partnerships with international online marketplaces, Tmall Global, eBay, Amazon, Good Spender and Farmhouse Direct, we enable businesses to find and connect with new customers and create revenue. Annual Report 2016 35 Sponsorships of Melbourne Helping Tall Poppies to keep growing Accelerator Program – supporting entrepreneurs To assist female entrepreneurs, we launched Tall Poppies, to support women with confidence building and networks, which are two significant obstacles for Last October Australia Post announced a three-year women building businesses. This community outreach sponsorship of the University of Melbourne’s Melbourne program provides an online conversation platform Accelerator Program (MAP). This sponsorship reflected where women can connect and share ideas with other Australia Post’s ongoing commitment to support female entrepreneurs. young entrepreneurs in Australia. It also aligned more broadly with Australia Post’s community outreach An example of the power of this initiative was the programs supporting small business in rural and group of local women who made newspaper headlines regional communities like the 2016 Go Online and for putting Wagga Wagga on the map as a “hub of Grow Online event series. innovation”. Though country cities are not generally associated with habouring business pioneers, two of This year the MAP sponsorship provided two additional Wagga’s female entrepreneurs proved big ideas can be places for aspiring eCommerce start-ups within the born from small cities. Founder of coffee-ordering app MAP16 Start-up Accelerator intake. It also awarded 365 cups, Simone Eyles and start-up business owner a new Wade Institute Master of Entrepreneurship and Wade Institute’s first Australia Post scholarship scholarship to Sarah Agboola, a young entrepreneur winner Sarah Agboola, were featured in national media from regional Wagga Wagga, and drove support for a after attending our Tall Poppies Summit. range of new community outreach activities including the development of a new one-day Start-up Intensive Tall Poppies events are aimed to encourage and workshop for rural and regional entrepreneurs. inspire female entrepreneurs to start and grow their own businesses. The Melbourne Summit in April Some of the Australia Post Accelerator team and 2016 saw more than 80 female entrepreneurs and Australia Post’s first internal start-up teams are cobusiness leaders take part in panel conversations located at MAP’s working space in Carlton, Victoria. and discussions aimed at women in business. Andrew Walduck, EGM Trusted eCommerce Solutions, with guests at MAP launch. Simone Eyles, Belinda Allitt, Sarah Agboola. Our future outlook We are working with our customer partners to create innovative solutions including our international alliances and joint ventures, new partnerships, omni-channel services and capabilities. We are investing in the future by evolving our products, services and capabilities to create new opportunities for growth, participation and inclusion in a digital economy. We will work with corporates and governments to support their digitisation strategies and use our extensive reach to ensure all Australians continue to have access to essential services. 36 Annual Report 2016 Our people There is no question that it’s our people who make Australia Post what it is. When we have happy employees, it translates directly to a better experience for our customers and the community. We create value by working with more than 50,000 people nationally, empowering a skilled, diverse and engaged workforce. It is clear that employee satisfaction and engagement must remain a key priority for our business. So, in our desire to help everyone be part of tomorrow, we always strive to create a safe, secure and inclusive workplace. Our people represent During the year we introduced a number of programs for our employees, including: • new Shared Values (see 2016 performance highlights) which are promoted throughout the year; and living them is part of our performance gateway 140 different nationalities • a new online jobs, careers and development portal called Post People 1st • our first gender action plan to publicly address the gender diversity issues • a new Domestic Violence Leave policy and speak more than • programs to support our people as we implement the 64 different languages operational changes that flow from the reform of our letters service. Total workforce By region By type By gender Turnover rate (%) 9.4% 7.6% 6.5% 6.6% 6.4% NSW/ACT 34.4% Full-time 74.4% Female 38.7% Vic/Tas 34.1% Part-time 24.2% Male 61.3% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Qld 15.9% Casual 1.4% Data based on average headcount for permanent, WA 9.4% full-time and part-time employees only (Excludes SA/NT 6.2% StarTrack, redundancies and fixed term contracts.) Annual Report 2016 37 Safety – a core value Safety, as the first consideration in every decision we make, is core to a successful workplace. We reward safety initiatives and run a range of programs to raise awareness about people’s role in influencing the safety culture and reducing exposure and risks. In acknowledging the imperative for a leader-driven safety culture, safety is a key performance indicator on the Executive Scorecard. In 2015/16, programs ranged from enterprise-wide programs such as annual Safety Time, Safety Leadership and Health and Wellbeing, to grassroots initiatives such as videos explaining hazards on postie routes and facility safety teams to drive positive safety outcomes at a local level. The enterprise-wide focus on safety shows that everyone has a role to play in safety leadership and it starts with a mindful approach to safety. We need to be fully conscious about the way we work and look for ways to manage exposures and prevent incidents from occurring. In 2015/16, we equalled our all-time record low LTIFR of 6.6. In 2015/16, we continued to invest in Safety Leadership programs across the business, with over 1,000 leaders trained in Safety Leadership over the past 12 months. We also had The incidence of lost-time injuries in our workplaces is 118 of our most senior leaders across the enterprise (including 43 per cent less than four years ago. This is a considerable StarTrack) involved in safety investigations to gain a deeper, achievement and testament to the success of a wide-ranging practical insight into risk management and safety processes. and long-term focus on the safety culture within our business. Regrettably, there were two public fatalities While our results once again show an encouraging trend, connected with Australia Post this year. A they still require significant improvement and indicate that customer suffered a medical emergency while we are only part-way through our vision of creating a truly in a Post Office and an elderly pedestrian was safe working environment for our people. injured in a vehicle collision and subsequently passed away. Community safety remains a key priority for us, as demonstrated through our ongoing public safety campaigns. Safety performance 2015 2016 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) where next shift could not be worked 7 6.6 due to injury/occupational disease (i.e lost time, per million hours worked) Injury rate (IR) Incidents involving an injury per 200,000 hours worked 3 2.9 Occupational disease rate (ODR) Incidents involving occupational disease 1.3 0.8 per 200,000 hours worked Fatalities (number) 1 0 Fatality rate (per million km) 0.0047 0 All occupational injury frequency rate (AOIFR) Incidents involving an 21.5 18.5 injury* or disease* per million hours worked Work-related injury or fatality claims that have been lodged and accepted. Licensees and contractors are not included. *Injury or disease based on approved claims. 38 Annual Report 2016 Safe Rider program a positive experience Following a successful trial at our Nepean Delivery Facility motorbike and onto a walk round to get more exercise at in New South Wales, a number of staff weighing over 100kg work. Getting a new dog was another factor, encouraging were assisted to get back into the safe rider weight zone Phil to walk more after work. and, ultimately, a healthy weight range. Motivated by wanting to be around for his young family, Phil Howarth was one of many great examples of using Phil looks back now and wonders why he didn’t do it five willpower and determination to make positive changes. years ago. While it wasn’t easy to make the changes, Phil Phil worked hard to build healthier habits and improve said it was actually simpler than he thought it would be. his wellbeing, having started the Safe Rider program “It’s a choice you have to make every day to be healthier, weighing over the 100kg threshold. After making some and I have seen the results. I have so much more energy, simple changes to his diet and lifestyle, Phil managed to I wake up feeling fresh and go to bed proud of the choices lose more than 20kg and felt more energetic and confident I have made. as a result. Phil knew his biggest weakness was sugar, Since losing the weight, I actually feel freer and less so he faced his habit straight on – going from 400g of constricted, which has made it a lot more comfortable chocolate and up to 3L of soft drink every day, to cutting it riding my motorbike. I have come to understand why out altogether. That alone made a big difference, although there would be weight limits – I feel the difference!” Phil said it wasn’t easy. He volunteered to come off the A seamless connection through OurPost.com.au Many of our employees are out in the community, so they don’t have a work computer. But regardless, our people tell us that they want to be able to access need-to-know information, updates and services – in real time. So, this year we launched OurPost, a dedicated Engaging our workforce website for everyone who works for and supports Our annual Say2Action survey measures employee the Australia Post Group. It gives them easy access sentiment across a number of aspects of our business to work-related services and keeps them up to date and there was a high response rate in 2015/16, with with the latest business news. 78 per cent of total staff completing the survey. Our overall company-wide net engagement score was 57 per cent, up by 1 per cent from the most recent full survey we conducted in 2014, but down 3 per cent from last year’s pulse-check survey. The feedback from the survey indicated that employees are happy with the focus on safety, supporting workplace change, living our Shared Values, and communicating our strategy. The survey results also indicated we could improve our customer focus, supporting career opportunities and making sure our senior leaders are more widely available. The feedback also indicated that a continued focus on supporting our community is important to our people. Engaging our people is important and our new Applaud awards recognise employees living the shared values. Annual Report 2016 39 Keeping our posties safe While we have a range of internal training education and management programs to help manage exposures, there are some issues that require the community’s help. The Bubble Wrap Postie campaign was launched in October 2015 to raise community awareness about the danger of reversing cars. The campaign reached 1.5 million people on social media and called for the public to reverse with care and to toot their horns to warn anyone on the footpath. More information on our public safety campaigns can be found at auspost.com/safety. 40 Annual Report 2016 Embracing diversity and inclusion The transformation of Australia Post into an innovative, customer-centric, leading eCommerce business is about building talent and creating a strong culture that represents our community and customers. A diverse workforce is not only the right thing to do from a corporate citizenship perspective, we also believe it translates to better business performance. Our diversity and inclusion program (detailed in our separate Diversity and Inclusion Report, available online at auspost.com.au), celebrated many successes in 2015/16. The activities included a range of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) initiatives including participation in MidSumma and our PostPride membership group, ongoing implementation of our Accessibility Action Plan and Reconciliation Action Plan and a strong presence during Reconciliation Week. Our diversity profile 2013 2014 2015 2016 Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander people 1.6% 1.5% 1.9% 2.1% Women 39.1% 38.9% 38.7% 38.7% Culturally & Linguistically Diverse 23.1% 23.0% 25.5% 25.3% People with Disability 7.1% 7.1% 6.3% 6.0% Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex people not recorded not recorded 0.9% 0.9% Female Executives (Band 4 and above) 34.1% 33.3% 35.4% Australia Post only National Reconciliation Week Each year, National Reconciliation Week invites us to recognise two important dates in Australia’s Reconciliation journey: the 1967 referendum and High Court of Australia’s landmark Mabo decision. It’s a time to reflect on our national identity, the progress we have made and to celebrate acts of reconciliation between Indigenous and non-Indigenous people. We hosted a number of special activities across the country including events at major sites in all capital cities during National Reconciliation Week 2016. As a mark of respect to the Indigenous communities we serve, we unveiled 31 newly branded trucks and vehicles across Australia. The design on these vehicles represents the connection Australia Post has with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. Annual Report 2016 41 Our Managing Director & Group CEO, is a Male Champion ProjectMe of Change and leads a determined effort to provide equal Since 2010, Australia Post has made significant progress in the employment opportunities. We launched our Gender Action percentage of women in leadership roles, mainly due to seniorPlan in October 2015, which provides a roadmap of initiatives level sponsorship and support and investment in a range of to fast-track the development of the many talented women female talent development programs. In 2015, we partnered in our business. with Inkling Women to develop ProjectMe, which is positioned During the past five years, almost 2,000 women have at award-level female employees. It aims to empower female participated in one of our tailored development programs, participants to take responsibility for their career and life such as ProjectMe (formerly MyMentor), designed to harness development by building their skills, confidence and resilience. the talent of our award-level females, the TenProgram, Xplore ProjectMe aims to leave participants inspired, energised and and Horizon, to build a pipeline of future female leaders. These connected so they are ready to take charge of their career programs aim to lift the proportion of women in every area of and life outside of work. managerial responsibility across our business. The Recruit Smarter program is a new Victorian Government program aimed at improving fairness in the hiring process for all job seekers. We are participating in this program, which aims to eliminate unconscious bias during the recruitment 1.4% process and help to remove barriers to achieving greater gender Gender pay gap equity, progressing the agenda for women at senior levels. Closing the gender pay gap in our workplace There has been significant media coverage highlighting the gender pay gap in Australia. Following our research of this issue across the Australia Post Group, it was pleasing to note that our gender pay gap is 1.4 per cent. Achieving Gender Equality in the workplace is something our Managing Director & Group CEO is passionate about, particularly in his role as a Male Champion of Change. Our vision is for a gender pay gap of zero and the current result highlights the significant progress we have been making towards gender equality in our business. Gender Pay Gap is the difference between women’s and men’s average full time equivalent annualised base salary (before tax, excluding overtime, irregular bonuses, salary sacrifice) for all active employees excluding casuals (part time, full time, trainees, including managerial employees and CEO) expressed as a percentage of men’s annualised base salary. Celebrating the launch of the Gender Action Plan (L-R): Lauren Jauncey (Head of Diversity & Inclusion), Prue Lester, Kate Palmer (CEO Netball Australia), Sarah Hamilton (CEO Bellabox), Christine Corbett (Chief Customer Officer) and Kate Jenkins (Federal Sex Discrimination Commissioner). 42 Annual Report 2016 Supporting and developing our people Post People 1st is in its third year, delivering a range of government to ensure job reductions in our postal business employment and development opportunities for our workforce. are managed with compassion and care. Supporting our In prioritising and supporting the future of our people through employees through workplace changes associated with the retraining or redeployment, the Post People 1st program puts reform of our letters service is critical to our business as it our existing employees first for jobs at Australia Post, first for directly affects morale and culture, which in turn impacts skill development and first for a career. the customer experience. We made a commitment that there would be no forced A new Post People 1st careers portal was launched in redundancy of any employees directly impacted by letters September 2015, to improve the employee job application reform who are actively seeking jobs in other parts of the experience and the accessibility and visibility of all internal job business. The majority of Australia Post employees are opportunities for our people. This careers portal also provides covered by collective agreements, except for those employed career coaching support and access to continued learning, on individual contracts or individual statutory agreements. with these services being actively promoted throughout We engage in regular discussion with unions, employees and the year. Members of our retail team modelling new uniforms. Health and wellbeing We’re continuing to adapt our mail operations to align with changing customer behaviour and declining mail volumes. We conducted a wide variety of health and wellbeing programs during the year, to address the needs of Following the introduction of the two-speed consumer service our diverse workforce. in January, we’ve been closely monitoring Priority and Regular volumes. We’ve seen a shift in product migration for total addressed letter product, with Regular mail accounting for We announced new initiatives ranging from a new more than 80 per cent of letter volumes. Domestic Violence Leave policy, which supports This means we have more mail available to be processed people through additional paid leave during times of during the day, and we need to adjust our staffing levels personal hardship, to our partnership with BUPA, in response. where we offer personalised health reports. This year more than 850 mail processing employees have Mental health was a key focus area for a number of voluntarily moved from night shift to day shift. We recognise programs including specific mental health training for that this change can be difficult for our people. We’re human resources and operations managers, as well as continuing to support employees with a range of programs involvement in the Black Dog Ride and the City2City and seminars, such as Create Your Future, Finance, fun run. We also supported employees who elected to Superannuation, and Staying Healthy Night to Day, move to different shifts at our mail processing facilities, which provides employees adjusting to working a day with a “Staying Healthy Night to Day Shift” seminar. shift with practical tips about lifestyle adjustments. The seminar explained some of the changes people can expect when they change shifts, including practical tips for adjusting sleep patterns and making lifestyle changes. Annual Report 2016 43 Our partner workforce Our suppliers We extend our influence, where we can, beyond our employees We also recognise the importance of our suppliers and to our partner workforce including delivery contractors and consider the social, ethical and environmental dimensions licensees. of our supply chain. Nearly 50 per cent of our customer-facing workforce are our For example, we actively seek to engage Indigenous partners, as a result, they play a significant role in delivering businesses and social enterprises in our supply chain and our customer centricity strategy and are often the face of work with Supply Nation, the leading directory of Indigenous the Australia Post brand. Our partner workforce plays an businesses, and our national community partner, Social Trader. important role in helping us to meet our community service All of our suppliers are bound by our Supplier Code of Conduct, obligations, particularly in rural and regional Australia. which requires a demonstrated commitment to human rights Our delivery contractors are a vital part of our network directly and fair employment practices in accordance with existing responsible for millions of customer interactions each week. international standards, such as the United Nations Universal They give us flexibility to deliver the significant increases in Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour parcel volumes during the peak periods such as pre-Christmas. organisation Declaration on Fundamental Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. We expect our partner workforce and suppliers to operate to recognised standards and appropriate codes of practice. The Supplier Code of Conduct outlines further ethical, social They are also bound by our Supplier Code of Conduct (see and environmental standards of conduct expected in the Sustainability Supplement for details). following categories: In 2015/16, we welcomed the release of a report into • Corporate Governance & Ethical Business Practices management of compliance matters related to parcel delivery • Management Practices Which Respect the Rights of contract arrangements. The review, chaired independently by Employees and Local Community former Victorian Police Commissioner Ken Lay with support from law firm Allens Linklaters, made recommendations to • Impact on Environment strengthen Australia Post’s contractor engagement processes. • Risk Management We are committed to providing a fair and safe work Through our Supplier Code of Conduct, our suppliers are environment to all those providing services on our behalf and required to meet our environmental obligations and, where have also seen the opportunity to deliver activities in a way practicable, our preference is to procure products and that can drive focus on customer experience. Following services that: the review, we have started a range of initiatives focused on: • source materials from sustainable or renewable sources • customer experience • have the appropriate certification • safety • source material made from recycled content • communications and engagement • are able to be reused or recycled at the end of their life • governance and compliance. • are appropriately labelled • help minimise our energy and fuel use and carbon emissions • help minimise our water use or disposed waste. Customer experience – discussing delivery in Derrimut The Derrimut Parcel Delivery Centre in Victoria experimented with a new way of working with customer feedback in 2016 that proved so successful it was rolled out to many of our facilities in other states. In reviewing the daily comments from customers, the team used the information to recognise delivery van drivers during the daily “thank you” sessions as well as the monthly recognition awards. The customer Our future outlook comments were also discussed during team meetings on a weekly basis. In response to technology and the shifting demands This meant the contract drivers could see how parcel of our customers and community, our business has receivers view their customer service. The vast majority experienced significant disruption over the past five years of the comments are positive, but where issues are and will continue to evolve from a traditional letters business raised, it allows the team to develop solutions directly to competing in global parcels and trusted eCommerce and immediately. solutions. As a result of the pilot, driver advocacy and job Our people – our employees and our partner workforce satisfaction increased 39 per cent at Derrimut from – are key to keeping up with changing demands and August to November 2015 and there has been a continuing to delight our customers. We are committed sustained increase in customer NPS. to providing our people with the skills, information and experience necessary to deliver for our customers and The pilot has now been extended to 13 Delivery Centres. communities now and in the future. 44 Annual Report 2016 Our environment Our commitment to responsible environmental practices is as much National Packaging Covenant about our iconic status as a leading and our role in recycling Australian organisation, as it is about As an active and committed member of the National the direct impacts our business has on Packaging Covenant since 2005, we focus our efforts the environment. We understand that on the design, composition and recycling of our packaging. We continue to work with our suppliers to we need to manage our impacts on the look for ways to enhance the reuse and recyclability of environment but doing so helps reduce our packaging, as well as increase the recycled content of our packaging materials. our costs, manage risks and improve customer value. We view the issue of We introduced a new recycling program in 2016, encouraging our customers to recycle their plastic environmental responsibility as intrinsic mailing satchels. The Australia Post Mailing Satchel to being part of tomorrow. Brigade is a new national program with our partner TerraCycle. Customers across Australia can also now To support our focus on this area, we introduced the new post their used plastic mailing satchels for free to enterprise-wide Corporate Responsibility Strategy in May TerraCycle, to have them turned into materials that 2016. Our opportunity to create value lies both in our ability help build recycled products and industrial items. to reduce the environmental footprint of our operations and to Through our partnership with TerraCycle, we are now use our network assets to create a more circular economy. closing the waste loop on our own mailing satchels. We are proud of our long-term retail recycling partnership with Planet Ark’s printer cartridge recycling Australia Post is committed to managing our environmental program Cartridges 4 Planet Ark. MobileMuster is impact in a way that reduces our carbon emissions and our another long-term partner, where customers can impact on climate change. In this context, we prioritise our recycle all brands and types of mobile phones, as response to climate change and work hard to ensure that well as batteries, chargers and accessories. Since our performance is based on reality. 2008, through our network of Post Offices, more than 245,000 MobileMuster satchels have been returned by our customers. This amounts to 62.6 tonnes of mobile We’re committed to understanding the impacts our business phone handsets, batteries and chargers diverted operations have on the environment and finding ways to from landfill. improve. This means minimising costs, better managing our resources and identifying avenues to create value for our customers, our workforce and for the environment. Environmental considerations are embedded throughout our regular business activities, with sustainability requirements integrated into our business cases, as well as being a key criteria in our procurement procedures. Annual Report 2016 45 Our climate change position We acknowledge that climate change is one of the biggest Large Business Sustainability threats facing the world’s future, with global emissions of Leadership Award carbon dioxide (CO2 ) having increased by almost 50 per cent since 1990. The impacts of climate change will be felt by people all over the world, with some of the poorest nations In November 2015, we were delighted to receive the being impacted the most. highly prestigious Banksia Environmental Foundation’s Large Business Sustainability Leadership Award in recognition of our efforts to integrate comprehensive Action is needed by business, governments and civil and high-impact environmental initiatives across society to combat these impacts and move towards a more our business. Our success was a result of our sustainable future. As part of our commitment to managing comprehensive and impactful programs across our environmental impact, Australia Post is a member of the our business. UN Global Compact (UNGC) – the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. The 10 principles of the UNGC provide both a practical framework for action and a platform for demonstrating corporate commitment Our carbon reduction target and leadership. To demonstrate our environmental commitment we have an Environmental Sustainability Strategy, which mandates a target to reduce our carbon emissions by 25 per cent by 2020 In a worldwide call for action, in 2015 the United Nations from a baseline year in 2000. To achieve this target we will: launched its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – • continue to drive energy-efficiency opportunities negotiated in part by our shareholder, the Australian Government. The SDGs provide a new roadmap for achieving • look to expand our existing solar power program and explore global sustainability and development to 2030, seeking to energy storage mobilise global efforts around a common set of goals and • review future fleet decisions to ensure compatibility with targets. One of the SDGs is to address climate change. lower carbon fuel options The Australian Government is signatory to the Paris • model the carbon and energy costs of our business cases Agreement, negotiated at the 2015 United Nations Climate to incentivise lower carbon decisions Change Conference, which saw an agreement reached to • investigate alternative electricity-purchasing models hold the increase in the global average temperature to well including aggregated renewable energy purchasing. below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and endeavour to limit them to 1.5°C. Our achievements include: Our approach is underpinned by a robust environmental management system. This is aligned with the ISO 14001 • reducing emissions by 17 per cent compared to 2000 levels, environmental standard that actively monitors and keeping us on track to meet our target of 25 per cent by 2020 manages environmental impacts. • in the last financial year we have achieved a 3 per cent reduction for our combined scope 1&2 emissions • introducing new motorbikes, vans and sedans that have enhanced fuel efficiency, including 100 hybrid vehicles Scope 2016 2015 and motorbikes that are 60 per cent more fuel efficient Scope 1 119,345 115,620 • launching the use of Australia’s first 100 per cent electric commercial van Scope 2 169,447 181,920 • having completed the installation of 23 commercial solar Scope 3 592,888 642,795 installations – 619 KW and projected carbon savings per annum of 835 tonnes Total Emissions 881,680 940,334 • implementing energy-efficiency upgrades at eight sites to achieve energy and carbon savings of greater than Australia Post has seen a 6 per cent reduction in total 40 per cent. emissions primarily associated with a reduction in electricity, road and air transport as product is moved onto the rail network wherever possible. 46 Annual Report 2016 Waste management and the circular economy With our unparalleled network of touch points into Australian big brands including Colgate, Garnier, Maybelline, L’Oreal, businesses and communities, we are perfectly positioned to Nespresso, L’Occitane and Nature’s Own. With initiatives make it easier for Australians to collect and return items that where people can redirect recyclable waste through the would otherwise go to landfill. As such we set ourselves a postal and parcels network, we are directing products target to responsibly divert 100,000 tonnes of material from including toothbrushes, cosmetic items and coffee pods for landfill, by 2020. repurposing. These waste products are melted down and the recycled plastic made into plastic lumber, shipping We continue to transform operational circularity solutions, pallets and railway sleepers. such as the recycling of truck curtains and tyres into customer circularity solutions, responding to market trends but also We also continue our long-term partnerships with Planet through leveraging our own capabilities. In 2015/16, we Ark and MobileMuster, enabling the return of 179,326 printer joined forces with TerraCycle to recycle products from some cartridges and 103,962 mobile phones and accessories. Reused and Recycled – 2015/2016 Reuse and Recycling Target Total Recycled Tonnes Annual Diversion Anticipated Trajectory 100,000 Other Minor or Ad Hoc 403 Customer – Reused 1,486 Customer – Recycled 2,553 Operational – Pallets 3,840 Secure Paper Waste 774 Operational – Tyres 679 Plastic Waste 281 Paper Waste 504 Information Technology Waste 35 Co-mingled Recycled Waste 120 12,540 Cardboard Waste 1,857 In 2016, Australia Post recycled and reused 12,531 tonnes during the first year of our target from a combination of customer and operational programs. Australia Post has set a target for 2017 to increase the level of recycling by an additional 1500 tonnes, focusing on textiles and internal reuse programs. The chart shows the levels of recycling and reuse required to meet our 2020 performance target. Focusing on our areas of greatest impact Transport Buildings and facilities Transport is a focus area for environmental improvement and Energy use in our buildings and facilities accounts for around we continue to look for ways to become more efficient and adopt two-thirds of our carbon emissions. Our employees and alternative fuels across our transport fleet. We are starting to contractors are always looking for innovative ways to improve see great results through a number of new initiatives including energy efficiency across our network of Post Offices, mail our purchase of fuel-efficient vehicles, using an extendable facilities and administrative offices. We conduct a dedicated conveyor to “loose load” parcels directly into transport containers energy-efficiency audit program and use a research and on selected routes, improving container storage capacity. development fund to trial and evaluate ideas. We are also partnering with Renault Australia, to assess As well as identifying and implementing more efficient lighting Australia’s first fully electrically powered commercial systems as part of our repair and replacement program, van – the Renault Kangoo Maxi ZE. We expect to halve we monitor, measure and influence the impact of our IT energy costs, along with the 100 per cent reduction in infrastructure, including data centres. One of the most effective carbon emissions. ways we manage our energy efficiency is by integrating sustainable design principles into our Building Design Standards, to guide our property development and construction activities. Annual Report 2016 47 Supporting small businesses Collaborating to purchase Our partnership with the Banksia Sustainability Awards has continued for many years and we continued to sponsor renewable energy the Small to Medium Business Sustainability Leadership Award category. This category rewards work done to Australia Post is part of a group of organisations develop and implement industry-leading environmental looking to drive investment in renewable energy and sustainability measures. through the Melbourne renewable energy project, using a group purchasing model to buy at large scale. Led by the City of Melbourne, the project includes In 2015, South Australian small business Kalleske Wines Australia Post, NAB, the University of Melbourne, RMIT, won this award for excellence in sustainability initiatives. NEXTDC, Zoos Victoria, the City of Port Phillip, Moreland Kalleske Wines uses ecologically and socially friendly City Council, the City of Yarra, Citywide, Melbourne farming methods, while its use of solar technologies makes Convention and Exhibition Centre and Bank Australia. it a leading net exporter of electricity in Australia. Having identified how much renewable energy we are all willing to purchase, we are challenging the market to supply at a cost-effective price. If the market responds effectively, we will see a new renewable energy plant constructed within the next two years to supply the group’s energy demands. The group is aiming to purchase more than 110 gigawatt hours of energy, which is enough to power more than 28,000 Melbourne households for a year. The Northgate (QLD) Green Team, led by Michelle Livaditis, is Participation in this innovative energy procurement keen to recycle more. project is just one of the many ways we are looking to reach our emissions reduction target. Carbon reduction target (Scope 1 and 2 emissions) 17% 400,000 reduction from year 2000 levels 360,599 348,436 345,548 350,000 331,522 321,858 307,153 297,539 300,000 288,792 261,327 250,000 200,000 1999–00 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2020 (Target) Australia Post has achieved a seventeen per cent reduction compared to the 2000 baseline and is on track to achieving the 25% reduction target by 2020. Our future outlook We will continue to drive energy efficiency and carbon reduction improvements across our 1,100 properties. We will make it easier for our customers to engage with the circular economy through our unmatched assets. 48 Annual Report 2016 GRI and UNGC Index G4 General standard disclosures Section GRI Disclosure/ Page Report section/Direct answer UNGC alignment Strategy and analysis G4–1 6–7 Chairman’s message; Managing Director & Group CEO’s message G4–2 6–7, 11, Chairman’s message; Managing Director & 53–63 Group CEO’s message; Addressing our risks; Corporate Governance Statement Organisational Profile G4–3 1 Your Australia Post G4–4 1 Your Australia Post G4–5 1 Your Australia Post G4–6 1, 26 Your Australia Post; Our customer network G4–7 1 Your Australia Post G4–8 4 Our strategy and focus G4–9 10–11, 36 Our business performance; Our people G4–10 36 Our people G4–11/UNGC 1, 3 All permanent staff of Australia Post are covered by our Enterprise Bargaining Agreement except for those employed on individual contracts or individual statutory agreements. G4–12 43 Our suppliers G4–13 1, 6–7 Your Australia Post; Chairman’s message; Managing Director & Group CEO’s message G4–14/UNGC 7 53–63 Corporate Governance Statement G4–15/UNGC 1–10 About this report; UN Sustainable Development Goals; 2, 50, 128 G4–16 Commitment to external initiatives Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4–17 101 E1 Our subsidiaries G4–18 2, 49 About this report; Materiality Review G4–19 2 About this report G4–20 The information in this report applies to the Australia Post Group G4–21 within the reporting period, unless otherwise stated. G4–22 2 About this report G4–23 2 About this report G4–23 No significant changes in 2015/16 Stakeholder Engagement G4–24 22–23 Our customers, Our communities G4–25 16–25 Our customers, Our communities G4–26 16–25 Our customers, Our communities G4–27 16–25 Our customers, Our communities Report Profile G4–28 2 About this report G4–29 The previous report was tabled in Parliament in October 2015. G4–30 2 About this report G4–31 64 Any queries about this report, please contact annual.report@auspost.com.au G4–32 This report presents information about the Australia Post Group in accordance to the GRI G4 framework, using the ‘Core’ option. G4–33 51 Assurance statement Governance G4–34/UNGC 1–10 56–57 Corporate Governance Statement Ethics and Integrity G4–57/UNGC 1–10 58 Corporate Governance Statement Disclosure on Management Approach DMA 2 About this report G4 Specific standard disclosures Aspect GRI disclosure/ Page Report section Coverage UNGC alignment Economic G4–EC1 10–11 Our business performance Full G4–EC4 1 Your Australia Post Full Environment G4–EN3/UNGC 8 126 Financial and Statutory Reports: Full Environmental Performance Summary G4–EN4 126 Financial and Statutory Reports: Full Environmental Performance Summary G4–EN6/UNGC 7–9 45 Our climate change position Partial G4–EN15/UNGC 8 45 Our carbon reduction target Full G4–EN16/UNGC 8 45 Our carbon reduction target Full G4–EN17/UNGC 8 45 Our carbon reduction target Full G4–EN23/UNGC 8 46 Our environment Full G4–EN27/UNGC 7–9 46 Our environment Partial G4–EN28 46 Our environment Partial Social: Labour practices and decent work G4–LA1/UNGC 6 36 Our people Partial G4–LA6/UNGC 1, 2 37 Our people Partial G4–LA10 42 Our people Partial G4–LA12/UNGC 1, 6 55 Corporate Governance Statement Partial Social: Society G4–SO1/UNGC 1–2 22–25 Our customers, Our communities Full Social: Product responsibility G4–PR5 17 Our customers, Our communities Partial Corporate Governance statement and financial and statutory reports are available online at auspost.com.au/annualreport2016 Annual Report 2016 49 Materiality review In April and May 2016, we conducted a materiality review with internal and external stakeholders to learn from their views and perceptions of Australia Post’s activities, performance and key issues to inform our annual report content and guide our strategic decisions. The materiality review was conducted through one-on-one interviews with key external stakeholders and an online survey to a cross-section of internal stakeholders. We identified a number of issues that are aligned to the IIRC Integrated Reporting framework’s “Six Capitals”. • Financial Capital: Governance and finance • Manufactured Capital: Our customer network • Intellectual Capital: Our innovation and expertise • Human Capital: Our people • Social Capital: Our relations with stakeholders • Natural Capital: Our environment The review of the feedback from our stakeholders and the business across these issues help us identify our key impacts and explain how Australia Post creates value over time. The table below summarises the top 10 issues for Australia Post, external stakeholders and overall. Australia Post External stakeholders Overall Employee safety Innovate/co-create Customer experience Customer data security Customer experience Community relations Diversity and inclusion Community relations Innovate/co-create Fair labour practices Operating profitably Operating profitably Workforce engagement Transparency and disclosure Transparency and disclosure Employer of choice eCommerce expertise eCommerce expertise Community relations Post Office network Support for the vulnerable New products, services and/or business models Greenhouse gas emissions Digital access Workforce digital capability Digital access Greenhouse gas emissions Viable parcel business Support for the vulnerable Fair treatment of suppliers Our customer network Business performance Our innovation Our customers Our people Or environment Our expertise Our communities Our responsibilities 50 Annual Report 2016 UN Sustainable Development Goals The 17 goals are interconnected but some of the SDGs Australia Post welcomed the United Nations more closely align with Australia Post’s role and operations. General Assembly’s 2015 adoption of the We have prioritised six SDGs in terms of the current and Sustainable Development Goals, recognising potential impact that our business operations have on that they provide a common set of goals them. We will reassess these priorities on an ongoing basis: to put the world on a sustainable path to Goal 5 Gender Equality – Achieve gender equality and 2030 and address its massive economic, empower all women and girls. social and environmental challenges. Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth – Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, Australia Post is poised to play a domestic leadership role in full and productive employment and decent work for all. advancing the SDGs, negotiated in part by our shareholder, the Australian Government. Achievement of the goals is in Goal 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure – Build direct alignment with our enterprise purpose: To deliver a resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable better future for our people, customers and communities. industrialisation and foster innovation. Everyone, Everywhere, Everyday. Goal 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities – Make As one of Australia’s largest companies – in terms of cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient employment and presence on roads and in communities and sustainable. nationwide – we’re well placed to raise their profile locally. In the coming years, we will help advance the SDGs through Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production – the investments we make, the solutions we develop, and the Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. business practices we adopt. Goal 13 Climate Action – Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Annual Report 2016 51 Assurance statement 52 Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Statement 2016 Annual Report 2016 53 This statement has been approved by the Board and is current as at 25 August 2016. Australia Post’s approach to corporate governance Australia Post maintains a comprehensive system of corporate governance practices designed to provide appropriate levels of disclosure and accountability. These practices derive principally from the provisions of the Australian Postal Corporation (APC) Act 1989, the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability (PGPA) Act 2013, and the Commonwealth Government Business Enterprise (GBE) Governance and Oversight Guidelines (2015). Our governance framework is also guided by the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s “Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations – 3rd Edition”. PRINCIPLE 1: • meeting its accountability to Government by: submitting Lay solid foundations for management corporate plans, evaluating and recommending dividend proposals, reporting on business and operational and oversight performance, preparing an annual report, by notifying (based on ASX Principle 1) significant business proposals by ensuring compliance with notified Government policies and ensuring proper accounting Recommendation 1.1: Corporations should establish the and enterprise risk management and oversight. functions reserved to the Board and those delegated to the Executive Team. The Board has established three Committees: • Nomination and Remuneration Committee (see Principle 2 Role of the Australia Post Board (“the Board”) and Principle 8); The Board is responsible for the governance of Australia Post. The role of the Board is to decide the objectives, strategies • Audit and Risk Committee (see Principle 4); and and policies to be followed by Australia Post and ensure • People, Safety and Culture Committee (see Principle 8). that Australia Post performs its functions in a manner that is proper, efficient and, as far as practicable, consistent with Timetables for Board and Committee meetings are agreed sound commercial practice. The Board derives its authority annually in advance. from section 23 of the APC Act. Delegation to the Managing Director & Group CEO In discharging those broadly defined roles, the Board’s primary and the Executive Team tasks include, amongst others: Sections 18 & 19 of the APC Act specify a wide number of postal, postal-related and other powers of Australia Post. • reviewing and approving Australia Post’s corporate plan; These powers reside in the Managing Director and may be • selecting, appointing and monitoring of the performance delegated by him to other employees of Australia Post under of the Managing Director & Group CEO and if appropriate, Section 93. terminating the appointment of the Managing Director & Group CEO; Under Section 94 of the APC Act, the Board may delegate virtually all or any of its powers to a Director of the • approving and monitoring key corporate policies, including corporation. policies in relation to financial matters and risk management; The Board has delegated to the Managing Director & Group • monitoring financial outcomes and the integrity of reporting, CEO responsibility for implementing Australia Post’s strategic and in particular, approving annual budgets and longer-term priorities and for managing Australia Post’s day-to-day strategic and business plans; operations. Specific limits on the authority delegated to the • approving decisions affecting Australia Post’s capital, Managing Director & Group CEO are set out in the Delegated including approval of major new business initiatives and Authorities approved by the Board. declaring dividends; 54 Annual Report 2016 The Executive Team comprises the CEO and senior managers Recommendation 1.4: The corporate secretary should be (Executives) who are accountable to the CEO. Specific limits on accountable directly to the Chair of the Board for matters the authority delegated to the Executive Team are set out in relevant to the Board. the Delegated Authorities approved by the Managing Director Australia Post’s Corporate Secretary fulfils other management & Group CEO. responsibilities in addition to corporate secretarial duties. Recommendation 1.2: Corporations should carry out The formal reporting line of the Corporate Secretary is to the appropriate checks of Board candidates and provide Executive General Manager, Group Services. For any matter information to shareholders that is material to their candidacy. relevant to the corporate secretarial duties or conduct of the Board, the Corporate Secretary has an indirect reporting line, Non-executive directors are appointed by the Governorand is accountable, to the Chair of the Board. General on the nomination of the portfolio Minister for a period of up to five years. Reappointment is permissible. In practice, Recommendation 1.5: Corporations should have a policy terms of appointment are generally three years. concerning diversity and disclose that policy, together with measurable objectives for achieving gender diversity and its The Minister must consult with the Chairman before progress towards achieving those objectives. nominating a person for appointment as a director. To nominate a person for appointment as a director, the Minister Australia Post is committed to achieving a respectful and must have regard to the need to ensure that the directors inclusive workplace that values diversity. Our Diversity and collectively possess an appropriate balance of skills and Inclusion Strategy aims to promote improved diversity experiences aligned to the corporation’s strategic priorities. outcomes to foster a workplace culture that ensures equal employment opportunities (EEO) for all. Managing diversity The Managing Director & Group CEO is appointed by the in Australia Post is a corporate objective and responsibility is Board. vested in the Board, our Executive Committee, managers and Recommendation 1.3: Corporations should have a written employees. agreement with each director and Executive setting out the Diversity in the workplace encompasses understanding, terms of their appointment. acceptance and respect for individual difference including New directors consent to act as a director and receive a ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability, family formal letter of appointment from Shareholder Ministers which status, religious beliefs, perspective, experience or other sets out duties and responsibilities, rights, and remuneration ideologies. entitlements. We recognise that maximising our people’s skills and The Managing Director & Group CEO and each Executive commitment better positions Australia Post to meet our are employed under individual contracts of employment business purpose and future challenges. Developing which sets out the terms on which they are employed and managing an increasingly diverse workforce means including details of their duties and responsibilities, rights recognising, respecting and leveraging individual and remuneration entitlements. The contract of employment differences and contributions in the workplace. It requires sets out the circumstances in which the Executive may be the implementation of practices that maximise respect for terminated by either Australia Post or the Executive, including all individuals and which recognise the value that diversity details of notice periods and amounts payable to the brings to Australia Post. Executive as a consequence of the termination by Australia While we define diversity in the broadest-possible sense, we Post of the Executive’s employment. formally measure and track our progress against five key Continuation of employment is subject to ongoing areas: gender, Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander people, performance reviews by the Board and the Managing Director people from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds, & Group CEO. Where the Board terminates the Managing people with disability and Lesbian, Gay, Bi-sexual, Trans Director & Group CEO or endorses the termination of other and Intersex (LGBTI). This year we launched our first Gender senior executives’ employment for reasons other than Action Plan, which outlines our commitment to improving performance or misconduct, the individuals are entitled, gender equality, both within Australia Post and throughout in the case of the Managing Director & Group CEO, to: the communities we serve. • 12 months’ notice in writing or payment of 12 months’ Salary Performance against each of our five focus areas is disclosed and Allowances in lieu of notice or a combination of both in Australia Post’s Diversity and Inclusion annual report, notice in writing and payment in lieu of notice; which is prepared in compliance with the Equal Employment Opportunity (Commonwealth Authorities) Act 1987 and and, for other senior executives, to: presented to the Minister for Communications. The report • 90 days payment in lieu of notice and a termination payment is published on our website at auspost.com.au. Performance calculated based on length of service and capped at 12 for 2015/16 was: months fixed annual remuneration including the payment in lieu of notice. Annual Report 2016 55 Authority for disclosure Australia Post Australia Post Group* 2015 2016 2016 Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Representation 1.9% 2.1% 1.8% Culturally & Linguistically Diverse 25.5% 25.3% 22.5% People with Disability 6.3% 6.0% 5.3% LGBTI 0.8% 0.9% 0.9% Female representation 38.7% 38.7% 36.4% Female Executive Committee members 37.5% N/A 33.3% Female Bands 1-4 33.3% 35.4% N/A Women in Management 35.5% 36.1% N/A Female Postal Manager 50.9% 51.0% N/A Female Facility Manager 30.8% 27.9% N/A Female Delivery Manager 15.9% 14.4% N/A * Australia Post has commenced the process of collecting diversity information from our subsidiary companies; however, a large proportion of these employees are yet to complete a diversity profile. Encouraging these employees to share their diversity profile will be a focus for FY17 and as such we expect our Australia Post Group diversity statistics to increase. Recommendation 1.6: Corporations should disclose the process for evaluating the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors. Evaluation of Board and individual directors The Board regularly reviews its own performance and the performance of individual directors. The most recent review, which was conducted during the year, was facilitated by an independent consultant with expertise in conducting Board reviews. The results of the review were discussed at a subsequent Board meeting. The Chairman met separately with each director to provide feedback from the review in relation to the director’s contribution to the Board. The Board agreed to accept the Board evaluation report and implement ongoing improvements, as part of its ongoing development and learning. An independent review of the performance of the Board is conducted every two years. Evaluation of Board Committees Audit and Risk Committee Review process The Committee undertakes an annual self-assessment of its performance against the requirements of the Charter. The Committee provides an annual report to the Board on the operation and performance of the Committee. The Committee was satisfied that it had been effective in performing its responsibilities under its Charter. People, Safety and Culture Committee Review process The Committee undertakes an annual self-assessment of its performance against the requirements of the Charter. The Committee was satisfied that it had been effective in performing its responsibilities under its Charter. Nomination & Remuneration Committee Review process The Committee regularly informs the Board about Committee activities and makes recommendations to the Board on matters relevant to the Committee’s purpose. The Committee was satisfied that it had been effective in performing its responsibilities under its Charter. 56 Annual Report 2016 Recommendation 1.7: Corporations should disclose the Managing Director & Group CEO’s Key Performance process for evaluating the performance of the Executive Team. Indicators (KPIs) encourage behaviour consistent with the organisation’s Shared Values and support Australia Post’s Executive team performance evaluations have been long-term financial soundness, growth and success within an conducted for the year ended 30 June 2016. appropriate risk management framework; Performance evaluations are based on an assessment of • establishing and maintaining appropriate succession performance against key business objectives set annually. arrangements for the Managing Director & Group CEO; The measures include safety, financial, strategy & execution, • considering the Managing Director & Group CEO’s customer satisfaction, employee engagement and other recommendations around recruitment, performance, individual metrics that support the key business objectives. remuneration (both short and long-term incentives) and succession arrangements for executive general managers PRINCIPLE 2: and the Management Committee; and Structure the Board to add value • reviewing policies to ensure alignment with the duties set out (based on ASX Principle 2) in the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013. The APC Act provides that the Board of Australia Post The Committee met five times during the year. comprises up to nine directors, including the chairperson, the deputy chairperson, the managing director and not more than Details of directors’ attendances are set out on page 63 of the six other directors. annual report. The directors of Australia Post at any time during the financial Recommendation 2.2: The Board should establish and year are listed with a brief description of their qualifications, disclose a Board skills matrix on the mix of skills and diversity appointment date and experience on pages 8 and 9 of the for Board membership. annual report. Australia Post seeks to maintain a Board of Directors with The Board met eight times during the financial year. Directors’ a broad range of financial and other skills, experience and attendances are set out on page 63 of the annual report. knowledge relevant to overseeing the business of a global eCommerce organisation. Recommendation 2.1: The Board should establish an appropriately structured nomination committee. During the year, the external Board Performance Review identified that, collectively, new appointees should have strong The Board has established a Nomination and Remuneration skillsets and: Committee. The Committee currently comprises all nonexecutive directors. • should be strategic thinkers capable of insightful constructive questioning and critical judgement; The Committee has a formal Charter that is required to be reviewed at least annually. The Charter was most recently • should have considerable non-executive director experience; reviewed in August 2015. A copy of the Charter is available on • should address the skills of eCommerce and digital business Australia Post’s website. models, internationalisation and customer centricity; and The Committee is responsible for: • recommendations to government by the Chair should strongly focus on proven individuals with a combination of • providing Shareholder Ministers with a recommendation on skills mapped to the Part of Tomorrow strategy. Board composition and membership; Diversity of the Board, including through gender, age, ethnicity • developing an annual Board Plan; or geography, is a consideration for new appointees. • undertaking a Board effectiveness review approximately every two years; Recommendation 2.3: The corporation should disclose whether its directors are independent. • informing Shareholder Ministers prior to a vacancy on the Board or in the role of the Managing Director & Group CEO; Australia Post considers a director to be independent if • ensuring that Australia Post’s performance, remuneration, the director is free of any interest, position, association or and succession practices for the Managing Director & Group relationship that might influence, or reasonably be perceived CEO are coherent, fair and reasonable and are consistent to influence, his or her capacity to bring an independent with applicable provisions regarding remuneration and judgement to bear on issues before the Board and to act in disclosure; the best interests of the entity and its shareholders generally. • reviewing and making recommendations to the Board In determining whether a director is independent, the Board regarding remuneration levels for the Managing Director & has considered whether the director: Group CEO; • is, or has been, employed in an executive capacity by • reviewing and making recommendations to the Board Australia Post or any of its subsidiaries and there has not regarding corporate goals, objectives and short and longbeen a period of at least three years between ceasing such term incentive programs relevant for the Managing Director employment and serving on the Board; & Group CEO; • is, or has within the last three years, been a partner, director • assessing the performance of the Managing Director & Group or senior employee of a provider of material professional CEO in light of objectives determined; services to the entity or any of its child entities; • ensuring that the recommendations in relation to the • is, or has been within the last three years, in a material Annual Report 2016 57 business relationship (for example, as a supplier or customer) The Chairman presides over Australia Post’s Board meetings. with Australia Post or any of its subsidiaries, or an officer The Chairman is responsible for: of, or otherwise associated with, someone with such a relationship; • leading the Board in reviewing and discussing Board matters; • has a material contractual relationship with Australia Post or • managing the efficient organisation and conduct of the its subsidiaries other than as a director; Board’s function; • has close family ties with any person who falls within any of • briefing all directors in relation to issues arising at Board the categories described above; or meetings; • has been a director of Australia Post for such a period that • facilitating effective contribution by all directors and his or her independence may have been compromised. monitoring Board performance; • overseeing that the membership of the Board is skilled and The Board has determined that each non-executive director appropriate for Australia Post’s needs and reporting this to is, and was throughout the entirety of the financial year, Shareholder Ministers; independent. • promoting constructive relations between Board members During the financial year, there were four instances where and between the Board and management; an individual director found it necessary to be excused from • reviewing corporate governance matters with the Corporate consideration by the Board of a specific matter because of a Secretary and reporting on those matters to the Board; and potential conflict of interest. • overseeing the implementation of policies and systems for No director has received or become entitled to receive a Board performance review and renewal. benefit because of a contract between any company in the Australia Post Group and the director, or a firm of which the Recommendation 2.6: Establish a program for inducting new director is a substantial member, or an entity in of which the directors and provide appropriate professional development director has a substantial financial interest, other than: opportunities for directors. • in the case of non-executive directors, remuneration as Under the APC Act, the Chairman is appointed by the disclosed in the annual report; Governor-General on the nomination of the portfolio Minister. • in the case of the Group CEO, a contract of employment and Directors receive a formal letter of appointment from entitlements under Australia Post’s Long-Term Incentive Plan. Shareholder Ministers. An induction pack is provided to directors by Australia Post and contains sufficient information Directors have unfettered access to Australia Post records and to allow the new director to gain an understanding of: information reasonably necessary to fulfil their responsibilities. Directors also have access to the Corporate Secretary on any • the Ministerial powers granted to the portfolio Minister; matter relevant to their role as director. In addition, the Board has access through the Corporate Secretary to other relevant • the rights, duties and responsibilities of directors; senior executives to seek additional information concerning • the role of Board Committees; Australia Post’s business. • the roles and responsibilities of the Executive Team; and Provided they have prior agreement from the Chairman, • Australia Post’s financial, strategic, and operational risk directors have the right to seek independent professional management position. advice at Australia Post’s expense to help them carry out their responsibilities. New directors undertake an induction program which comprises: It is usual for the non-executive directors to confer, without management being present, at the start of each scheduled • an electronic information pack which includes a copy of Board meeting. Australia Post’s Governance Framework; Commonwealth Government Business Enterprise Governance and Oversight Recommendation 2.4: The majority of the Board should Guidelines; Australia Postal Corporation Act 1989; Public, comprise of independent directors. Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013; the most recent Corporate Plan; the most recent annual report; As at 30 June 2016, the Board comprised eight non-executive our organisational chart; Insurance and Indemnity details directors and one executive director. The executive director pertaining to Australia Post’s Directors and Officers Insurance is Australia Post’s Group CEO, Ahmed Fahour. The Board has policy and tier 1 policies; determined that each non-executive director is, and was • a program of meetings with Australia Post’s Chairman, throughout the entirety of the financial year, independent. Managing Director & Group CEO, members of the Executive Recommendation 2.5: The Chair should be an independent Committee and the Corporate Secretary; and director. • visits to Australia Post’s main operational sites. Under the APC Act, the Chairman is appointed by the Governor-General on the nomination of the portfolio Minister. The Board is satisfied that Australia Post’s Chairman, John Stanhope, is, and was throughout the entirety of the financial year, independent. 58 Annual Report 2016 PRINCIPLE 3: The Committee currently comprises five members – Brendan Act ethically and responsibly Fleiter (Chair), Michael Byrne, Holly Kramer, Bruce McIver and Jan West. Other non-executive directors may attend meetings. (based on ASX Principle 3) Details of the qualifications and experience of all Committee Recommendation 3.1: Corporations should establish a Code of members are disclosed on pages 8 and 9 of the annual report. Conduct. The Managing Director & Group CEO, Group Chief Financial Australia Post has a Code of Conduct referred to as “Our Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Group Financial Controller, Ethics” that applies to Australia Post and its directors, Internal Auditor, external auditor and other management employees and contractors (all of whom are referred to as representatives may attend meetings at the discretion of the “The Australia Post Group” in Our Ethics). Committee. The Committee meets privately with the external auditor on general matters concerning external audit and Our Ethics sets out a number of overarching principles of other related matters, including the half-year and full-year ethical standards which are set out under the following financial reports. The Committee also meets privately with the headings: internal auditor, Group Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer. • Health, safety and work environment; • Compliance with laws and regulations; The Corporate Secretary is the secretary to the Committee. Copies of the minutes of a meeting of the Committee are • Conflicts of interest; distributed to the Board for discussion at the next Committee • Environmental sustainability; meeting. The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board on the Committee’s conclusions and recommendations. • Use of corporate property; • Corporate records; and The Committee met four times during the year. Details of directors’ attendances are set out on page 63 of the annual • Privacy and confidentiality. report. Our Ethics is underpinned by Australia Post’s shared values: Being Safe Everywhere, Helping Each Other, Respecting Charter of the Audit and Risk Committee Everyone, Improving Everyday and Delighting our Customers. The Committee operates under a formal Charter published on Australia Post’s website. The Charter is required to be Our Ethics provides a mechanism to enable members of the reviewed by the Committee annually. The Charter was most Australia Post Group to report actual or suspected breaches, recently reviewed and updated in August 2015 and is available including an independently operated Whistleblower Hotline on Australia Post’s website. service to allow for anonymous reporting. The Whisteblower Hotline also services the requirements of the Public Interest The Charter sets out the roles and responsibilities, Disclosure Act 2013. composition, structure and membership requirements of the Committee. Australia Post’s Our Ethics is available on Australia Post’s website. The Committee’s primary responsibilities include oversight and review of: PRINCIPLE 4: • financial reporting; Safeguard integrity in corporate reporting • performance reporting; (based on ASX Principle 4) • system of risk oversight and management; Recommendation 4.1: The Board should establish an • system of internal control; and appropriately structured audit committee. • auditor independence and performance. The Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee. Its Monitoring performance of the external auditor primary function is to assist the Board through its oversight Under section 43 of the PGPA Act, the Auditor-General is and review of financial reporting, performance reporting, responsible for auditing the financial reports of Australia Post system of risk oversight and management, system of internal and its subsidiaries. The Auditor-General is also responsible control and auditor independence and performance. for auditing compliance with the performance standards Structure of the Audit and Risk Committee prescribed for Australia Post under section 28C of the APC Act. Ernst & Young (E&Y) has been retained by the Australian Under its Charter, the Audit and Risk Committee must have National Audit Office to assist in both of these assignments. a minimum of three members, all of whom must be nonexecutive directors and the majority of whom are independent. The Board has in place a comprehensive set of audit However, the Chair of the Board is not to be a member of the independence principles in relation to the external auditors. Committee in accordance with the PGPA Act. The Charter also Among other things, these principles exclude the engagement requires all members to be financially literate, with at least of the external auditors for the provision of certain nonone possessing accounting or related financial qualifications statutory audit-related services, such as internal auditing, and experience. taxation planning, treasury policy and operations, and business and strategic planning. In addition, the senior audit partner on the corporation’s account must be rotated at least every five years. However, under circumstances where the involvement of key personnel in the audit of the corporation does not constitute a familiarity threat, the Australian Annual Report 2016 59 National Audit Office (ANAO) may extend the rotation of the The About us link on Australia Post’s website provides helpful senior audit partner to a maximum of seven years. information to the shareholder. It allows the shareholder to view all media releases since at least September 2012; various The Audit and Risk Committee together with ANAO, monitor speeches provided by the Managing Director & Group CEO, a the ongoing non-statutory audit-related services provided by copy of the most recent annual report and annual reports for E&Y. at least the eight previous financial years. Recommendation 4.2: CEO and CFO certification of financial Australia Post also publishes an annual Diversity and Inclusion statements. annual report setting out the details of its achievements against a range of diversity programs focused on building our Prior to the adoption of the financial reports, the Board female talent pipeline, improving employment opportunities received and considered a written statement from the for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians, Managing Director & Group CEO and Group Chief Financial celebrating our cultural diversity, and building awareness Officer to the effect that: about people with disability. Australia Post’s most recent • the financial records of the corporation and the consolidated Diversity and Inclusion annual report can be found on its entity have been properly maintained; website. • the statements comply with accounting standards and any The shareholder can find information about Australia Post’s other requirements prescribed by the Public Governance, corporate governance on its website at http://auspost.com.au/ Performance and Accountability Act 2013 and the Public about-us/corporate-governance.html. This includes Australia Governance, Performance and Accountability (Financial Post’s Board Committee Charters. Reporting) Rule 2015 and present fairly the entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows; and The following documents are published on the Australia Post website under About us: • integrity to the financial statements is founded on a sound system of risk management and internal control which is • Corporate Governance Statement; operating effectively. • Audit and Risk Committee Charter; Recommendation 4.3: External auditor availability at AGM. • People, Safety and Culture Committee Charter; There is no requirement for Australia Post to hold an AGM. • Nomination and Remuneration Committee Charter; • Customer Service Charter; Under section 43 of the PGPA Act, the Auditor-General is responsible for auditing the financial reports of Australia Post • Community Participation Commitment; and its subsidiaries. The Auditor-General makes themselves • Corporate Responsibility Policy; available at the request of the shareholder. • Environmental Policy; PRINCIPLE 5: • Our Ethics. Make timely and balanced disclosure Recommendation 6.2: The corporation should design and (based on ASX Principle 5) implement a shareholder relations program to facilitate twoway communication with its shareholder. Recommendation 5.1: Corporations should establish disclosure policies and ensure compliance with those policies. Although Australia Post has not established a formal shareholder communications policy, it does take appropriate Australia Post’s disclosure obligations are prescribed from measures to keep its shareholder informed about its activities the provisions of the APC Act, the PGPA Act, and the GBE and to listen to issues or concerns raised by its shareholder. Guidelines (2015). Recommendation 6.3: The corporation should disclose Australia Post is accountable to its Shareholder Ministers for the policies and processes it has in place to facilitate and its performance. Disclosure of performance, expenditure and encourage participation at meetings of shareholders. any significant issues is made to our Shareholder Ministers in a timely and balanced manner. This is executed through Although Australia Post has not established a formal quarterly progress reports, the annual report and regular shareholder participation policy, it does follow the obligations website updates. This is in addition to responding to requests as set out in the PGPA Act and GBE Guidelines with regards to from Shareholder Departments on a regular basis. shareholder meetings. Engagement with shareholders occurs during fortnightly PRINCIPLE 6: teleconferences, quarterly face-to-face meetings, meetings Respect the rights of shareholders upon request and responses to any enquiries made from time (based on ASX Principle 6) to time. Recommendation 6.4: The corporation should provide Recommendation 6.1: The corporation should provide the option to send and receive communications from the information about itself and its governance to its shareholder corporation in electronic form. on its website. Australia Post communicates with its shareholder via a Australia Post’s website at www.auspost.com.au provides number of different communications channels, which include detailed information about its business and operations. Details digital and physical methods. of Australia Post’s Board members and Executive Team are included on the website. 60 Annual Report 2016 PRINCIPLE 7: & Framework are enterprise-wide documents and have Recognise and manage risk been developed utilising the principles as detailed in the International Standards for Risk Management (ISO (based on ASX Principle 7) 31000:2009) & Compliance Management Systems (ISO 19600:2014 ); and the ASX Corporate Governance Principles Recommendation 7.1: Corporations should establish an (Principle 7 – Recognise and manage risk). appropriately structured risk management committee for the oversight of material business risks. Australia Post has a number of other policies that directly or indirectly serve to reduce and/or manage risk. These include, The Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee. but are not limited to: Its responsibilities include oversight of the effectiveness of Australia Post’s system of risk management and internal • Our Ethics control. • Group Policy & Supporting Documents Lifecycle Governance The Committee receives regular presentations on Australia Policy Post’s material business risks and the controls in place to • Group Work, Health & Safety Policy mitigate the consequences of those risks. Australia Post’s • Group Information Security Policy main risks are reviewed at each meeting of the Committee and annually by the Board. The Committee also receives • Group Treasury Policy regular presentations from management throughout the year • Group Fraud & Corruption Policy on specific risk topics. The Committee has responsibility for approving the internal audit plan. • Group Risk Management Policy • Group Delegations Policy Details of the structure and Charter of the Audit and Risk Committee are set out in Recommendation 4.1. • Group Privacy Policy • Group Corporate Responsibility Policy Recommendation 7.2: The Board or a Committee of the Board should review the company’s risk framework at least annually • Group Chain of Responsibility Policy to satisfy itself that it continues to be sound. • Group Customer Data & Use Policy • Group Business Continuity Management Risk Management Policies Australia Post has a Group Risk Management Policy and • Group Incident Management Policy supporting Group Risk Management Framework, which collectively describes the principles, strategies, processes and core components that are in place for supporting the organisation in effectively managing risk. The Policy Roles and responsibilities The Group Risk Management Policy, and the other policies listed above, describe the roles and responsibilities for managing risk. This includes appropriate details of responsibilities allocated to the Board or to the Audit and Risk Committee (Committee), Executives, the business units, Enterprise Risk & Compliance and Australia Post’s internal audit function. Board The Board is responsible for ensuring that established processes, practices and adequate resources are in place to effectively manage all risks associated with Australia Post’s operations. The Board oversees a comprehensive risk management program covering all potentially significant business risks, strategic objectives and risk appetite considerations. The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in carrying out these responsibilities. The Board annually reviews and approves the Board Risk Appetite Statement. The Board also conducts an annual review of the corporation’s risk policy and supporting framework to maintain its effectiveness and adequacy. Committee Details of the operation of the Committee are included in the commentary on Principle 4. The Committee oversees the detailed analysis of the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control. At each of its meetings the Committee receives a report providing an update on matters affecting Australia Post’s main risk exposures and progress toward mitigating the consequences of those risks. The Committee also receives regular presentations from management throughout the year on specific risk topics. Annually, the Committee reviews the Board Risk Appetite Statement (that provides overarching principles of the level of risk that Australia Post is willing to accept in the pursuit of its objectives) before it is presented to the Board for approval. Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises senior Executive Management and assists the Committee and Board with the review, oversight and clearance of all committee papers. Annual Report 2016 61 Enterprise Portfolio Forum The Enterprise Portfolio Forum comprises senior Executive Management and is established among other activities to assist management in discharging their responsibilities, particularly in relation to risk management and internal control. Business Units In addition to the forums noted that currently meet on a regular basis, risk governance mechanisms are in place at a business unit level, to fully embed and support the effective and efficient management of risk. Australia Post’s business units are responsible for maintaining a risk profile detailing their material business risks, associated controls and mitigation strategies. Business management is responsible for the preparation, presentation and integrity of information and all matters about which the Enterprise Portfolio Forum should be informed. Management is also responsible for implementing and maintaining appropriate risk management principles and policies, internal controls and processes designed to identify and address unacceptable risk as determined by the Enterprise Portfolio Forum. The Chief Risk Officer as part of the Risk Assurance model has dedicated resources embedded in the business to support the transition and operationalisation of the Risk Management Frameworks. Enterprise Risk & Compliance Enterprise Risk & Compliance supports the Chief Risk Officer in the development, implementation and maintenance of the Risk Management Frameworks and is accountable for setting the minimum risk and compliance standards and the reporting and oversight of the details of material business risks and risk controls to the appropriate committees and forums. Internal Audit Internal Audit provides independent assurance to the Board of our internal processes and controls, that is, the effectiveness and efficiency of the risk, control and governance processes. External Review Independent external reviews of risk management are undertaken every four years to ensure better practice is maintained. The most recent such review was undertaken by PwC and presented to the Audit and Risk Committee in February 2014. Recommendation 7.3: Corporations should disclose the Corporate responsibility structure and role of its internal audit function. In 2016, Australia Post revised its approach to corporate Australia Post’s internal audit function provides assurance to responsibility. Our new corporate responsibility plan will help the Audit and Risk Committee on the effectiveness of Australia us stay connected to our purpose of helping our people, Post’s risk management framework and on the adequacy and customers and community deliver a better future. effectiveness of the system of internal controls. We are committed to contributing to Australia’s sustainable Internal Audit is an independent, objective assurance and development while improving the quality of life of our consulting function designed to add value and improve workforce as well as of the Australian community. Our the organisation’s operations including the internal control Corporate Responsibility plan is to transform our business environment. It assists the organisation to accomplish its for the digital world and to connect Australians physically objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined, third line of and digitally, while minimising our environmental impact. defence to the evaluation of internal processes and controls, Specifically, this includes: and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the risk, • helping our stakeholders transition to a future in eCommerce: control and governance processes. This means maintaining trusted and valued relationships The Audit and Risk Committee participates in the with our stakeholders through change; appointment, dismissal or replacement of the General • increasing participation in a digital world: This will involve Manager Internal Audit. Selection, promotion, performance providing Australians with access to everyday services assessment and professional development of Internal Audit delivered both physically and digitally, while simultaneously staff are the responsibilities of the General Manager Internal building the knowledge, skills and confidence of Australians Audit in consultation with the Chief Risk Officer. to proposer in a digital world; and Recommendation 7.4: Corporations should disclose their • becoming a leading sustainable organisation: We will economic, environmental and social sustainability risks and manage the economic, social and environmental impacts how those risks are managed. of our business operations, and work alongside our stakeholders to create greater, and new forms, of business, social and environmental value. 62 Annual Report 2016 We will advance this agenda through a broad range of Australia Post actively manages risk and compliance of programs related to four key areas: our people, customers, its value chain, striving for transparency and measurable the community and the environment. This will involve performance. continually identifying, actively addressing and monitoring Our commitment to environment sustainability, requires all any sustainability risks that may relate to these areas. suppliers to comply with all applicable environmental laws and We will continue to maintain conservative posture for any regulations, conduct their business in a manner that protects Governance, Safety and Corporate Responsibility risks. the environment and have an environmental management The Corporate Responsibility Policy that underpins this program that takes responsibility for goods and services approach, updated in 2015, provides for clear accountability in throughout their lifecycle to minimise the impact of activities meeting the program’s goals and objectives. The policy’s key on the environment. objectives are to: Details of Australia Post’s corporate responsibility strategy • be a purpose and values-led organisation that is open can be found on page 5 of the annual report. and accountable to the Australian community and our shareholder; PRINCIPLE 8: • give meaningful consideration to societal and environmental Remunerate fairly and responsibly impacts of our organisation and how we can create “shared (based on ASX Principle 8) value”; • build strong and enduring relationships with our people, Recommendation 8.1: The Board should establish an customers, community and shareholder; and appropriately structured remuneration committee. • drive inclusion, prosperity and self-reliance of Australian The Board has established a Nomination and Remuneration communities. Committee. Its responsibilities include reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding remuneration levels Our corporate responsibility performance is reported for the Managing Director & Group CEO and considering the periodically to management as well as the Board and Managing Director & Group CEO’s recommendations around the Australia Post Stakeholder Council. Reporting on recruitment, performance, remuneration (both short and longsustainability/non-financial data occurs annually through the term incentives) and succession arrangements for Executive annual report, which is being expanded this year to reflect the General Managers and the Management Committee. two leading sustainability frameworks: the Global Reporting Initiative and Integrated Reporting, as outlined by the Details of the structure and Charter of the Nomination and International Integrated Reporting Council. Remuneration Committee are set out in Recommendation 2.1. Corporate responsibility is embedded and integrated across In addition, the Board has established a People, Safety and the corporation through key business focus groups. Our Culture Committee. The Committee has adopted a formal workforce needs and subsequent programs are governed Charter that is required to be reviewed annually. The most by the Human Resources Committee. The Australia Post recent review was in December 2015. A copy of the Charter is Stakeholder Council, which provides an external perspective available on Australia Post’s website. to the Corporate Responsibility program, comprises The Committee considers and makes recommendations to the representatives ranging from small, medium and large Board, as appropriate, about: business, direct marketing, corporate responsibility and senior Australia Post executives. • workplace safety, health and wellbeing; • culture and enterprise engagement; Responsible and sustainable sourcing Australia Post conducts its business with integrity and • organisational structure; ensures compliance with all relevant laws, regulations, policies • recruitment, selection and retention; and procedures. Our Ethics clearly defines the standards of behaviour expected from our employees and business • workplace and industrial relations, including the partners to operate ethically and with integrity when renegotiation of the Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (EBA) purchasing goods and services, and working with suppliers. and/or terms and conditions of employment; and • learning and development. Australia Post’s Supplier Code of Conduct specifies that social and environmental outcomes are considered when The Committee met four times during the year. choosing suppliers. Under the code, suppliers are expected to demonstrate a commitment and compliance to human rights, Details of directors’ attendances are set out on page 63 of the fair employment practices and environmental responsibility annual report. in accordance with existing international standards, such as the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Rights at Work, and the United Nation’s Convention on the Rights of the Child and Industry norms. Annual Report 2016 63 Recommendation 8.2: The corporation should distinguish Advice is sought annually from independent specialised between non-executive directors’ remuneration and that of remuneration consultants on the: executive directors and Executives. • structure of remuneration packages applying in the external Remuneration for Australia Post’s non-executive directors is market; and determined by the Commonwealth Remuneration Tribunal. As • quantum of increases that have occurred in comparable at 1 January 2016 this was: Australian corporations over the previous 12 months. Chairman $182,520 On the basis of this advice, the Managing Director & Group CEO ensures that payments to senior executives are in line Deputy chairman $101,860 with market practice, and that they are competitively placed Directors $92,290 to attract and retain the necessary talent for the work required by these roles. Audit and Risk Committee $21,120 Incentive rewards payable to the Managing Director & Group chairman CEO and other senior executives for meeting or exceeding Audit and Risk Committee $10,560 specific key annual business objectives are linked to the member annual business planning process at a corporate and individual level. Measures and targeted achievement levels People, Safety and Culture $18,000 are monitored and reviewed annually to reflect changes in Committee chairman** the business priorities for the forthcoming year. The measures People, Safety and Culture $9,000 include safety, financial, strategy and execution, customer Committee member** satisfaction, employee engagement and other individual metrics that support the key business objectives. ** Effective 3 May 2016 Before a reward is payable, a threshold must be reached, according to predefined measures. In the case of the The Board is responsible for setting the remuneration Managing Director & Group CEO and some senior executives, arrangements for the Managing Director & Group CEO. part of their incentive payment is deferred and expensed over Remuneration arrangements for other senior executives the deferral period. are reviewed and determined by the Nomination and Remuneration details for the Managing Director & Group CEO Remuneration Committee based on recommendations by the and other senior executives are provided in Note C2 to the Managing Director & Group CEO. financial reports (see page 91). Recommendation 8.3: The corporation should establish a policy on whether participants in equity-based remuneration schemes are able to enter into transactions which limit the economic risk of participating in those schemes. There are no employees in equity-based remuneration schemes. Directors’ attendance at meetings – 2015/16 Board Audit & Risk People, Safety Nomination & Committee & Culture Remuneration Committee Committee (a) (b) (a) (b) (a) (b) (a) (b) John Stanhope AM 8 8 – – – – 5 5 Ahmed Fahour 8 8 – – 4 4 – – Brendan Fleiter 8 8 4 4 4 4 5 5 Susan Bitter 1 1 – – – – 1 1 Michael Byrne 5 5 2 2 – – 2 2 Peter Carne 4 4 2 2 – – 3 3 Michael D’Ascenzo AO 7 7 2 2 1 1 3 3 Dominique Fisher 8 8 – – 4 4 4 4 Holly Kramer 5 4 2 1 – – 2 2 Bruce McIver 4 4 1 1 – – 1 1 Michael Ronaldson 1 1 – – – – – – Jan West AM 1 1 – – – – – – Talal Yassine OAM 1 1 – – – – 1 1 (a) Number of meetings held while a director/committee member (b) Number of meetings attended Note: One Board meeting was held at Australia Post operating sites. Financial and st a t u t o r y re p o r t s Annual Report 2016 65 Contents Page Financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 70 Consolidated balance sheet 71 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 72 Consolidated statement of cash flows 73 Notes to the financial About the financial statements 74-108 statements Our business Our asset Our people Our funding Other performance platform structure and information management of our financial risks A1 Segment B1 Receivables C1 Employee D1 Capital E1 Our information provisions management subsidiaries A2 R  evenue and B2 Property, C2 Senior D2 Managing our E2 Leases other income plant and executive financial risks equipment and director remuneration and retirement benefits A3 Expenses B3 Intangible C3 PostD3 Using E3 Australian assets employment derivatives to Postal benefits hedge risks Corporation A4 Taxation B4 Impairment of D4 Fair value E4 Auditors' non-financial measurement remuneration assets A5 Cash flows B5 Investment E5 Contingencies property A6 Dividends B6 Payables E6 Other accounting policies B7 Other provisions Other important Community service obligations 109 information Auditor-General's report – performance standards 110 Domestic letter service monitor 112 Survey certification 114 Reserved/non-reserved services 116 Statutory reporting requirements index 117 Signed reports Statement by directors, Managing Director & Group CEO and EGM Finance 66 & Group CFO Financial statements audit report 68 66 Annual Report 2016 Statement by directors, Managing Director & Group CEO and EGM Finance & Group CFO 2015–16 Financial Statements In our opinion: (a) the accompanying financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016: (i) present fairly the entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows; (ii) comply with the accounting standards and any other requirements prescribed by the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 and the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability (Financial Reporting) Rule 2015; and (iii) have been prepared based on properly maintained financial records. (b) at the date of this report, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Group will be able to pay its debts as and when they fall due. This statement is made in accordance with a resolution of the directors. J Stanhope AM A Fahour J Hopkins Chairman Managing Director & Group CEO EGM Finance & Group CFO Melbourne Melbourne Melbourne 25 August 2016 25 August 2016 25 August 2016 2015–16 Financial Statements Certification by Directors Prior to the adoption of the 2015/16 financial statements, the Board received and considered a written statement from the Managing Director & Group CEO and EGM Finance & Group CFO that in their opinion: • the financial records of the corporation and the consolidated entity have been properly maintained; • the statements comply with the accounting standards and any other requirements prescribed by the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 and the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability (Financial Reporting) Rule 2015 and present fairly the entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows; and • integrity of the financial statements is founded on a sound system of risk management and internal control which is operating effectively. J Stanhope AM Chairman Melbourne 25 August 2016 Annual Report 2016 67 Annual performance statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Each year, Australia Post provides a rolling four-year Specific targets for 2015/16 and performance against these corporate plan. The 2015/16 plan and associated Statement targets were as follows: of Corporate Intent were submitted to Shareholder Ministers in July 2015, detailing Australia Post’s strategic direction under Performance Indicator Target Performance the Part of Tomorrow strategy. On-time letter delivery 94% 96.2% Our primary objective is to provide high-quality, efficient services to the community. As much as possible, we will grow Profit before tax $11.2 $41.0 dividends and enhance shareholder value. million million In 2015/16, we announced our Part of Tomorrow strategy Shareholder return on equity 0.5% 2.3% to accelerate our growth agenda – Delivering eCommerce: Ordinary dividend declared for $5.8 $20.0 Everyone, everywhere, everyday. We refreshed our statement 2015/16 million million of purpose: Helping our people, customers and community build a better future; and introduced the following values shared by all our people: Analysis • Being safe everywhere; In 2015, we gained permissions to implement the letter • Respecting everyone; reforms that have delivered an ongoing viable service for all • Helping each other; Australians, a substantial increase in payments to licensees, and have underpinned our forecast return to profit this year. • Improving everyday; and In the past 12 months, the first year of our Part of Tomorrow • Delighting our customers. strategy, we have oriented our business around the customer, The strategy will be realised through a program of strategic focused on the reality that what is best for the customer is initiatives to win in our current business, create leading best for the business. We have realigned around customer customer solutions, and reshape our portfolio. segments, growth opportunities, digitisation and the customer experience. It is critical that we have done this to mitigate 1. Winning in our current businesses: the inherent risks in realising our strategy; in particular, the To win in our current businesses we will deliver on our customer sensitivity around letter volume declines. promises and deliver strong financial performance. Statement 2. Creating leading customer solutions: The directors, as the accountable authority of Australia Post, present the 30 June 2016 performance statements of the To create leading customer solutions tailored to the needs Australian Postal Corporation and its controlled entities, as of consumers, small businesses and our enterprise and required under paragraph 39(1)(1) of the Public Governance, government customers, we will continue to become truly Performance and Accountability Act 2013 and other applicable customer-centric. legislation. 3. Reshaping the business: In the opinion of the directors, these annual performance To reshape and grow our commercial portfolio we will build, statements are based on properly maintained records, partner or acquire new products and capabilities, both to accurately reflect the performance of the entity, and comply support our existing businesses, and to grow. with subsection 39(2) of the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013. Results Key financial and non-financial performance measures set This statement is made in accordance with a resolution of out in the plan were: the directors. • profit before tax of $11.2 million in the first year of the plan; and • dividends paid of $2.9 million in the first year of the plan. J Stanhope AM Chairman Melbourne 25 August 2016 68 Annual Report 2016 Financial statements audit report Financial statements audit report 69 70 Annual Report 2016 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June 2016 Consolidated ($m) Note 2016 2015 Revenue Goods and services A2 6,451.6 6,252.5 Interest A2 6.1 5.3 A2 6,457.7 6,257.8 Other income Rents A2 41.8 42.5 Other income and gains A2 62.7 73.5 A2 104.5 116.0 Total income A1, A2 6,562.2 6,373.8 Expenses (excluding finance costs) Employees A3 2,908.7 2,784.2 Suppliers A3 3,116.3 3,104.9 Depreciation and amortisation A3 330.3 340.1 Other expenses A3 131.1 465.7 Total expenses (excluding finance costs) A3 6,486.4 6,694.9 Profit/(loss) before income tax, finance costs and share of net profits of joint venture 75.8 (321.1) Finance costs A3 (34.5) (31.3) Share of net profits of joint venture (0.3) 0.3 Profit/(loss) before income tax 41.0 (352.1) Income tax (expense)/benefit A4 (4.6) 130.4 Net profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of Australian Postal Corporation 36.4 (221.7) Net Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent 36.5 (221.7) Non-controlling interest (0.1) – Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit plans C3 (172.8) 531.1 Other items 5.2 – Income tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss A4 50.2 (159.3) Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax (117.4) 371.8 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Other items 9.4 (0.5) Income tax on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss (3.1) – Total items that may be reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax 6.3 (0.5) Other comprehensive income for the year (111.1) 371.3 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders of Australian Postal Corporation (74.7) 149.6 Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent (74.6) 149.6 Non-controlling interest (0.1) – This statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Annual Report 2016 71 Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2016 Consolidated ($m) Note 2016 2015 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents A5 547.6 415.3 Trade and other receivables B1 544.3 483.4 Accrued revenues 154.0 158.4 Prepayments 116.5 97.6 Inventories 50.2 48.2 Other current assets 16.4 2.5 Total current assets 1,429.0 1,205.4 Non-current assets Finance lease receivable E2 96.7 96.8 Net superannuation asset C3 403.6 612.9 Property, plant and equipment B2 1,525.8 1,595.3 Intangible assets B3 950.2 938.9 Investment property B5 213.2 200.0 Deferred tax assets A4 387.1 413.5 Other non-current assets 37.6 31.6 Total non-current assets 3,614.2 3,889.0 Total assets 5,043.2 5,094.4 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables B6 1,023.8 947.4 Employee provisions C1 745.0 653.0 Interest-bearing liabilities D2 285.3 Other provisions B7 35.2 58.9 Other current liabilities 43.4 18.4 Total current liabilities 2,132.7 1,677.7 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities D2 423.2 713.7 Employee provisions C1 292.8 353.2 Other provisions B7 52.8 54.0 Net superannuation liability C3 Deferred tax liabilities A4 249.6 320.7 Other non-current liabilities 53.2 61.6 Total non-current liabilities 1,071.6 1,503.2 Total liabilities 3,204.3 3,180.9 Net assets 1,838.9 1,913.5 Equity Contributed equity 400.0 400.0 Reserves 17.1 7.2 Retained profits 1,421.8 1,506.3 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,838.9 1,913.5 This statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 72 Annual Report 2016 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2016 NonContributed Retained controlling Total Consolidated ($m) equity Reserves profits interests1 equity Balance at 30 June 2014 400.0 7.7 1,356.2 – 1,763.9 Comprehensive income Loss for the year – – (221.7) – (221.7) Other comprehensive income – (1.1) 531.1 – 530.0 Tax on other comprehensive income – 0.6 (159.3) – (158.7) Total comprehensive income for the year – (0.5) 150.1 – 149.6 Transactions with owners Distribution to owners (refer to note A6) – – – – – Balance at 30 June 2015 400.0 7.2 1,506.3 – 1,913.5 Comprehensive income Profit/(Loss) for the year – – 36.5 (0.1) 36.4 Other comprehensive income – 14.6 (172.8) – (158.2) Tax on other comprehensive income – (4.7) 51.8 – 47.1 Total comprehensive income for the year – 9.9 (84.5) (0.1) (74.7) Transactions with owners Non-controlling interest on acquisition of subsidiary – – – 5.3 5.3 Put option to acquire non-controlling interest – – – (5.2) (5.2) Distribution to owners (refer to note A6) – – – – – Balance at 30 June 2016 400.0 17.1 1,421.8 – 1,838.9 1 Relates to non-controlling interest in DFE Pty Limited for which the Group holds 75% of equity interest. DFE Pty Limited holds 100% of equity interest in Mail Plus Pty Ltd and MP Rights Pty Ltd. Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Reserves include Asset revaluation, Foreign currency translation and Hedging reserves. This statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Annual Report 2016 73 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2016 Consolidated ($m) Note 2016 2015 Operating activities Cash received Goods and services 7,058.5 6,911.4 Interest 6.0 5.3 Income tax refund 22.4 – Total cash received 7,086.9 6,916.7 Cash used Employees 2,838.8 2,927.6 Suppliers 3,545.3 3,411.2 Financing costs 32.9 36.5 Income tax 3.9 14.7 Goods and services tax paid 258.8 247.8 Total cash used 6,679.7 6,637.8 Net cash from operating activities A5 407.2 278.9 Investing activities Cash received Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 50.8 66.6 Sundry items – 1.1 Total cash received 50.8 67.7 Cash used Purchase of investment in controlled entities 15.7 7.9 Purchase of investment property 1.0 0.5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 238.5 238.2 Purchase of intangibles 58.6 103.3 Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 11.9 – Total cash used 325.7 349.9 Net cash used by investing activities (274.9) (282.2) Financing activities Net cash used by financing activities – – Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 132.3 (3.3) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 415.3 418.6 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 547.6 415.3 This statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 74 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 About the financial statements Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 About the financial statements This section outlines the basis on which the Group's financial statements have been prepared, including discussion on any new accounting standards or government rules that directly impact financial report disclosure requirements. In this section, we also outline significant events and transactions that have occurred during the year affecting the Group's financial position and performance. The Australian Postal Corporation (the corporation) is Key judgements and estimates incorporated under the provisions of the Australian Postal In the process of applying the Group's accounting policies, Corporation Act 1989 as amended, and is an Australian management has made a number of judgements and applied Government owned for-profit entity. The nature of the estimates and assumptions to future events. Judgements operations and principal activities of Australia Post and and estimates which are material to the financial report are its subsidiaries (referred to as the Group ) are described found in the following notes: in note A1 Segment information. A2 International mail revenue page 78 Australia Post headquarters: 111 Bourke Street B4 Impairment page 86 Melbourne VIC 3000 B5 Investment property page 87 Australia B6 Unearned postage revenue page 88 B7 Other provisions page 89 The consolidated general purpose financial report of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2016 was authorised C1 Employee provisions page 90 for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors C3 Post-employment benefits page 92 on 25 August 2016. The consolidated financial report is a general-purpose Basis of consolidation financial report which: The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial • is required by clause 1 (a) of Paragraph 42 of the Public statements of the Group. A list of controlled entities Governance Performance and Accountability Act 2013 (subsidiaries) at year end is contained in note E1. (PGPA Act); A subsidiary is an entity that the Group controls. Control is • has been prepared in accordance with the requirements deemed when the Group is exposed to variable returns from of the PGPA Act, Australian Accounting Standards and its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect Interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting those returns through its power to direct the activities of the Standards Board (AASB) that apply for the reporting entity. period and International Financial Reporting Standards Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting is obtained through to the date on which control ceases. Standards Board (IASB); The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the • has been prepared on an accrual basis and in accordance acquisition method of accounting. with the historical cost convention, except for investment The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared property and derivative financial instruments, which for the same reporting period as the parent company, using have been measured at fair value. The carrying values consistent accounting policies. Adjustments are made to of recognised assets and liabilities that are designated align any inconsistent accounting policies that may exist. as hedged items in fair value hedge relationships, and are otherwise carried at cost, are adjusted to record In preparing the consolidated financial statements, all changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that intercompany balances and transactions, income and are being hedged; expenses and profit and losses resulting from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full. • is presented in Australian dollars with all values rounded to the nearest million dollars ($' 000,000) unless otherwise stated; Foreign currency translation • presents reclassified comparative information where required The functional currency of the corporation and its Australian for consistency with the current year's presentation; subsidiaries is Australian dollars. • adopts all new and amended Accounting Standards and The Group has one overseas subsidiary, as discussed in note Interpretations issued by the AASB that are relevant to the E1. On consolidation, that entity's: operations of the Group and effective for reporting periods • assets and liabilities are translated into Australian dollars beginning on or after 1 July 2015. Refer to note E6 for at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date; and further details; and • the statement of comprehensive income is translated at • does not early adopt any Accounting Standards and exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Interpretations that have been issued or amended but The exchange rate differences arising are recognised in other are not yet effective. Refer to note E6 for further details. comprehensive income. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 75 About the financial statements Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the • Our people: To support the execution of our enterprise Group at their respective functional currency spot rates at the strategy we must embed culture and align and engage date the transaction first qualifies for recognition. Monetary our workforce. This requires us to invest in our people so assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are that we may achieve an inclusive and capable workforce. retranslated at the functional currency spot rate of exchange This investment includes remuneration activities outlined at the reporting date. in this section of the financial report. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical • Our funding structure and management of our risks: The cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange Group is exposed to a number of financial risks. Our funding rate as at the date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary structure and managing our financial risks section sets out items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are the strategies and practices the Group utilises to minimise translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair the exposure to these risks in order to execute our enterprise value is determined. The gain or loss arising on retranslation of strategy in a safe way, as well as outlining the current Group non-monetary items is treated in line with the recognition funding structure. of gain or loss on change in the fair value of the item. • Other information: This section includes mandatory disclosures required by Australian Accounting Standards Other accounting policies and the Commonwealth Government's Public Governance, Significant other accounting policies that summarise the Performance and Accountability (Financial Reporting) measurement basis used and are relevant to an Rule 2015, all of which Australia Post must comply with. understanding of the financial statements are provided throughout the notes to the financial statements. Events after balance date As announced on 2 June 2016, Australia Post and global The notes to the financial statements provider of comprehensive logistics and transport solutions Aramex agreed to form a strategic eCommerce alliance. The notes to the financial statements include information The alliance with Aramex complements Australia Post's which is required to understand the financial statements and existing range of global partnerships and will allow Australian is material and relevant to the operations, financial position businesses and consumers to take advantage of growth in and performance of the Group. Information is considered cross-border eCommerce. material and relevant if, for example: Under the terms of the agreement, Australia Post and • the amount in question is significant because of its size Aramex have negotiated the following arrangements or nature; since 30 June 2016: • it is important for understanding the results of the Group; • the formation of an Asian-based joint venture by Australia • it helps explain the impact of significant changes in the Post and Aramex that will acquire the STI Co (Aust) Pty Ltd Group, for example, acquisitions and restructuring activities; business from Australia Post; and • it relates to an aspect of the Group's operations that is • the acquisition of 100 per cent of MailCall Couriers from important to its future performance. Aramex by a wholly owned subsidiary of Australia Post The notes have been grouped into sections to help readers in order to extend the capability of the StarTrack Courier understand how the Australia Post strategy, as outlined in business. pages 4 to 5 of the annual report, is reflected in the financial Financial completion of these arrangements is expected performance and position of the Group. These sections within the first half of the 2017 financial year. comprise: In addition, Australia Post has acquired a minority share • Our financial performance: Our enterprise strategy focuses holding in Aramex of approximately 5 per cent of its share on reforming our letters service, and extending and building capital. on our parcel and other commercial service offerings. Our financial performance section provides the key financial performance measures of these business areas, as well as Group-level financial metrics incorporating revenue, taxation, cashflow and dividends. • Our asset platform: Delivery of our enterprise strategy requires optimising the use of our balance sheet including streamlining and integrating certain operations. Our asset platform section outlines the key operating assets owned and liabilities incurred by the Group. 76 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our business performance This section analyses the financial performance of the Group and the Postal Services and Parcel Services and segments for the year ended 30 June 2016. The focus is on business area performance, Group revenue streams, expenses, taxation, cash flows and dividend performance. Certain operational expenses are disclosed in the notes with the associated operating asset or liability in the Our asset platform and Our people sections. A1 SEGMENT INFORMATION The results of the Group's operating segments for the year ended 30 June are as follows: Postal Parcels Unallocated & 2016 ($m) Services Services Eliminations Total Revenue Segment revenue 3,539.5 2,961.3 55.3 6,556.1 Interest revenue 6.1 Consolidated revenue 6,562.2 Result Earnings before net interest and income tax expense (138.2) 314.4 (106.8) 69.4 Net interest (28.4) Profit/(loss) before tax 41.0 Income tax (expense)/benefit (4.6) Net profit/(loss) for the year 36.4 Assets Segment assets 1,641.1 1,806.6 1,189.7 4,637.4 Superannuation asset – – 403.6 403.6 Investment in joint venture – – 2.2 2.2 Total assets 1,641.1 1,806.6 1,595.5 5,043.2 Liabilities Segment liabilities 1,441.2 678.0 1,085.1 3,204.3 Total liabilities 1,441.2 678.0 1,085.1 3,204.3 Other segment information Capital expenditure 178.2 123.3 – 301.5 Impairment losses – – 82.7 82.7 Depreciation and amortisation expense 194.4 122.9 13.0 330.3 Postal Parcels Unallocated & 2015 ($m) Services Services Eliminations Total Revenue Segment revenue 3,326.0 2,968.2 74.3 6,368.5 Interest revenue 5.3 Consolidated revenue 6,373.8 Result Earnings before net interest and income tax expense (207.5) 290.5 (409.1) (326.1) Net interest (26.0) Profit/(loss) before tax (352.1) Income tax (expense)/benefit 130.4 Net profit/(loss) for the year (221.7) Assets Segment assets 1,577.2 1,675.0 1,226.7 4,478.9 Superannuation asset – – 612.9 612.9 Investment in joint venture – – 2.6 2.6 Total assets 1,577.2 1,675.0 1,842.2 5,094.4 Liabilities Segment liabilities 1,416.2 655.9 1,108.8 3,180.9 Total liabilities 1,416.2 655.9 1,108.8 3,180.9 Other segment information Capital expenditure 172.1 186.2 – 358.3 Impairment losses – – 214.1 214.1 Depreciation and amortisation expense 176.2 116.0 47.9 340.1 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 77 Our business performance A1 SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED) Operating segments The Group's operating segments are organised and managed Parcel Services based on the manner in which the product is sold and the The processing and distribution of parcel and express nature of the services provided. The executive management products along with freight forwarding operations. committee (the chief operating decision makers) monitors the results of the business units separately for the purpose Unallocated and eliminations of making decisions about resource allocation and If items of revenue and expense are not allocated to the performance assessment. core operating segments then any associated assets and liabilities are also not allocated to segments. This is to avoid Segment revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are those asymmetrical allocations within segments which management that are directly attributable to a segment and the relevant believe would be inconsistent. The following are not allocated portion that can be allocated to the segment on a reasonable to operating segments as they are not considered part of the basis. Segment assets include all assets used by a segment core operations of any segment: and consist primarily of operating cash, receivables, • activities incidental to the Group's core product and service inventories, property, plant and equipment, computer software offerings, principally those which generate rental income and goodwill, net of related provisions. Segment liabilities and other miscellaneous amounts; consist primarily of trade and other creditors, employee entitlements and advance receipts. • non-trading items including net gains arising on disposal of fixed assets, amounts arising on remeasurement of During the current financial year, the following changes have the Group's investment property portfolio, restructuring been made to the primary segments. These changes reflect costs, impairment of assets as result of change in group the way the business unit results are analysed internally: strategies and divested operations; 1 The previous Retail & Agency Services and Mail Services • expenses representing costs that are attributable to segments have been combined into Postal Services unallocated revenues; reflecting the nature of the overall Postal business which • assets including assets under construction, investment includes Letters, Retail and Trusted eCommerce Solutions. property, cash investments, held to maturity investments, 2 Certain products have been realigned to different segments superannuation assets, investment in joint ventures consistent with internal business unit reporting. and deferred tax; and 3 In the prior year, internal transfer pricing was applied • liabilities including interest-bearing liabilities and between the Retail & Agency Services, Mail and Parcel deferred tax. Services segments. The removal of this disclosure is in line with current internal reporting. At balance date, the Group has $214.9 million (2015: $309.9 million) of assets under construction unallocated to the core 4 In the prior year, restructuring costs were allocated to operating segments that will ultimately benefit from this individual business units, whereas in the current year these investment. restructuring costs are included within unallocated to ensure a like-for-like comparison between the primary segments. Geographical segments The Group primarily operates in Australia with no significant Comparatives have been restated to reflect these changes. portion of assets or operations located outside of Australia. The following represents the primary segments the Group operates in: Postal Services 1 The collection, processing and distribution of mail items. 2 Providing services across identity, digital, receiver and agency service offerings, as well as the sale of financial and retail merchandise products. 78 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our business performance A2 REVENUE AND OTHER INCOME Revenue and other income for the year Recognition and measurement The components of revenue and other income for the year Rendering of services ended 30 June are as follows: Revenue is recognised when the Group has the right to be Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 compensated for services performed and the stage of Rendering of services to: completion can be reliably measured. It is recorded at the – Related entities1 180.2 178.0 amount likely to be received for the provision of that service, – External entities2 5,992.0 5,790.6 usually set out on the invoice or contractually defined terms, excluding GST. Revenue is recognised on a commission basis 6,172.2 5,968.6 where the Group acts as an agent rather than a principal in Sale of goods to external entities2 279.4 283.9 the transaction. 6,451.6 6,252.5 Interest income from: Sale of goods – Cash and cash equivalents 4.7 5.3 Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the – Loans and receivables 1.4 – significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to 6.1 5.3 the buyer and the costs incurred or to be incurred can be Total revenue 6,457.7 6,257.8 measured reliably. Risks and rewards of ownership are considered passed to the buyer at the time of delivery of Rents from operating leases 32.9 32.2 the goods to the customer. Income from investment property 8.9 10.3 Allowance is made for the assessed amount of revenue from 41.8 42.5 postage sales as at balance date in respect of which service Net gain on disposal of land and has not yet been provided. Refer to note B6 for further buildings 20.5 43.3 discussion on the Group's policy for unearned postage Net foreign exchange gains – 2.2 revenues. Change in fair value of investment property 32.2 7.4 Interest revenue Other income 10.0 20.6 Interest income is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues 62.7 73.5 using the effective interest method and if not received at Total other income 104.5 116.0 balance date, is reflected in the balance sheet as a receivable. Total income 6,562.2 6,373.8 Rental income 1 Related entities – related to the Commonwealth Government Income received from leasing Group-owned investment 2 External entities – not related to the Commonwealth Government property to external parties under an operating lease arrangement is recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent rental income is recognised as income in the periods in which it is earned. Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income. Key estimates: International mail revenue The Group recognises an accrual for the amount of revenue earned from delivery of international mail where statements have not been received. At 30 June 2016, included within accrued revenue, international mail related accrual was $132.6 million (2015: $121.4 million). Revenue is determined based on a number of factors including the volume of articles delivered, the international postal organisation for which we are delivering mail and with reference to the International Postal Union guidelines. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 79 Our business performance A3 EXPENSES Expenses for the year Recognition and measurement The components of expenses for the year ended 30 June Employee benefits expense are as follows: Refer to notes C1 and C3 for employee benefits Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 accounting policies. Salaries and wages 2,291.2 2,264.8 Operating lease rentals Leave and other entitlements 265.3 226.9 Operating lease payments are recognised as an operating Superannuation expense 252.0 182.6 expense in the statement of comprehensive income on Other employee expenses 100.2 109.8 a straight-line basis over the lease term. Operating lease Employee benefits expense 2,908.7 2,784.2 incentives are recognised as a liability when received Purchase of services from external and subsequently reduced by allocating lease payments entities 2,682.0 2,664.5 between rental expenditure and reduction of the liability. Purchase of goods from external entities 232.9 230.0 Refer to note E2 for further discussion on specific operating Operating lease rentals 197.0 206.5 leases entered into by the Group. Investment property expenditure 4.4 3.9 Depreciation and amortisation Supplier-related expenses 3,116.3 3,104.9 Refer to notes B2 and B3 for depreciation and amortisation Depreciation 195.3 197.7 policy discussions respectively. Amortisation 135.0 142.4 Depreciation and amortisation 330.3 340.1 Impairment Write-down and impairment of assets: Impairment expenses are recognised when the carrying Receivables 1.9 12.9 amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its Inventory 9.6 7.4 recoverable value. Refer to note B4 for further discussion Property, plant & equipment 16.9 37.9 specifically around impairment of non-financial assets. Computer software 7.0 81.8 Restructuring costs Goodwill & other intangibles 47.3 60.8 Refer to note B7 for provision-related accounting policies. Other – 13.3 82.7 214.1 Financing costs Restructuring costs 10.8 200.1 Finance costs are recognised as an expense as they are Net foreign exchange loss 2.6 – incurred, except for certain interest charges attributable Sundry expenses 35.0 51.5 to major projects, for which interest is capitalised into Other expenses 131.1 465.7 the cost of the asset. Interest expense is calculated using Total expenses 6,486.4 6,694.8 the effective interest method. Provisions, such as long service leave, are discounted to The components of finance costs for the year ended 30 June their present value. The impact of unwinding of discounted are as follows: provisions and any changes in discount rate adjustments are also recognised in finance costs. Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 Bonds 31.7 36.6 Interest rate swaps 0.1 (4.4) Other 2.7 (0.9) Total finance costs 34.5 31.3 80 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our business performance A4 TAXATION Taxation performance for the year Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised on all deductible and taxable temporary differences respectively, The major components of tax expense are: except: Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 1. to the extent it is not probable that taxable profits will be Statement of comprehensive income available against which the deductible temporary difference – current income tax charge 41.2 57.0 can be utilised; or –a djustments for current income tax 2. where the temporary difference arises from the initial of previous years (34.5) (43.7) recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a –d eferred income tax relating to transaction that is not a business combination and that, origination and reversal of temporary at the time of the transaction, affects neither the differences (33.3) (162.4) accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; or –a djustments for deferred income 3. where the temporary difference is associated with tax of previous years 31.2 18.7 investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, Income tax expense/(benefit) to the extent that: reported in the statement of comprehensive income 4.6 (130.4) a) the timing of the reversal of the taxable temporary Other comprehensive income difference can be controlled and it is probable that Net remeasurements on defined the taxable temporary difference will not reverse in Benefit plans (51.8) 159.3 the foreseeable future; or Sundry items 4.7 (0.6) b) it is not probable that the deductible temporary Income tax expense/(benefit) difference will reverse in the foreseeable future or reported in other comprehensive that taxable profit will not be available to utilise income (47.1) 158.7 the deductible temporary difference. Tax reconciliation: Deferred tax assets are recognised on the carry-forward of Profit/(loss) before income tax 41.0 (352.1) unused tax credits and any unused tax losses only to the At the Group's statutory income tax rate extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available of 30% (2015: 30%) 12.3 (105.6) against which the carry-forward of unused tax credits and Adjustments relating to prior years (3.3) (25.0) unused tax losses can be utilised. Non assessable gain on pre-CGT assets (3.6) (3.5) Sundry items (0.8) 3.8 Deferred tax asset balances are reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable Income tax expense/(benefit) on profit/(loss) before tax 4.6 (130.4) that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each Recognition and measurement reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has Current income tax become probable that future taxable profit will allow the Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured deferred tax asset to be recovered. at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax taxation authorities, using tax rates and laws that are rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is enacted or substantively enacted at reporting date. realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the other comprehensive income is also recorded in other reporting date. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities comprehensive income. are offset only if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the Deferred tax assets and liabilities deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the same taxable Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences entity and the same taxation authority. at the reporting date between the tax bases of assets Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the and liabilities and their carrying amounts determined underlying transaction either in the statement of under applicable Australian Accounting Standards. comprehensive income or in other comprehensive income. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 81 Our business performance A4 TAXATION (CONTINUED) Deferred income tax in the balance sheet relates Tax consolidation to the following: Australian Postal Corporation (the head entity) and its 100 per cent owned Australian resident subsidiaries (members) formed 2016 2015 an income tax consolidated group effective 1 July 2004. DFE Superannuation asset (121.1) (183.9) Pty Limited (the head entity) and its 100 per cent owned Accrued income and other (70.7) (62.4) Australian resident subsidiaries (members) formed an income Research and development (28.2) (36.7) tax consolidated group effective 31 March 2016. Intangibles (22.8) (24.2) Accelerated depreciation (5.0) (9.6) The head entity and members of each tax consolidated group Other (1.8) (3.9) have entered into a tax-sharing agreement which limits each Deferred tax liabilities (249.6) (320.7) member's income tax liability to its contribution amount should the head entity default on its tax payment obligations. Provisions 328.1 362.5 No amounts have been recognised in the financial statements Accrued and other payables 28.5 22.8 in respect of this agreement on the basis that the possibility of Make good 12.7 12.0 default is remote. Capital losses 5.9 1.1 The head entity and members of each tax consolidated group Other 11.9 15.1 have also entered into a tax funding agreement which Deferred tax assets 387.1 413.5 provides for the allocation of current taxes between the head Net deferred tax assets 137.5 92.8 entity and members of the tax consolidated group in accordance with their contribution to the actual tax payable Deferred income tax in the statement of comprehensive by the head entity for the period. Deferred taxes are income relates to the following: recognised by each entity in accordance with the principles of AASB 112 Income Taxes and UIG 1052 Tax Consolidation Superannuation asset (10.9) 10.2 Accounting. Research and development (8.4) (26.8) Intangibles (6.1) (22.8) Accrued and other payable (5.7) (9.6) Capital losses (4.7) 8.7 Accelerated depreciation (4.6) (13.6) Make good (0.8) 4.2 Provisions 34.3 (83.8) Accrued income and other 8.3 (8.4) Other (3.5) (1.8) Deferred income tax expense (2.1) (143.7) 82 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our business performance A5 CASH FLOWS A6 DIVIDENDS Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 The breakdown of dividends paid during the year ended Cash on hand 547.6 415.3 30 June is as follows: Total cash and cash equivalents 547.6 415.3 Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 Final ordinary dividend The reconciliation of net profit after tax to net cash (from prior year results) – – provided by operating activities for the periods ending Interim ordinary dividend – – 30 June is as follows: Total dividends paid – – Dividend not recognised as a liability 20.0 – Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 Net profit/(loss) for the year 36.4 (221.7) Depreciation and amortisation 330.3 340.1 Net revaluation (gain)/loss on investment property (32.2) (7.4) Write-down of property, plant and equipment 16.9 37.9 Write-down of intangibles (including goodwill) 54.4 142.6 Write-down of receivables and inventory 11.5 20.3 Net gain from sales of property, plant and equipment (25.4) (47.0) Sundry items 0.8 (1.2) 356.3 485.3 Changes in assets and liabilities adjusted for the acquisition and disposal of businesses (Increase)/decrease in assets: Receivables (51.9) 16.3 Other current assets (42.2) (15.8) Deferred income tax asset 26.4 (80.3) Superannuation asset 36.4 (33.9) Increase/(decrease) in liabilities: Creditors, other payables and accruals 10.7 55.8 Employee entitlements 38.8 137.9 Income tax payable 20.2 (0.8) Deferred income tax liability (23.9) (63.9) 14.5 15.3 Net cash from operating activities 407.2 278.9 Recognition and measurement Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, on-hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. Cash flows are included in the cash flow statement on a gross basis and the GST component of cash flows arising from investing and financing activities, which is recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority, is classified as part of operating cash flows. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 83 Our asset platform This section analyses the primary elements of our asset platform used to generate the Group's financial performance and operating liabilities incurred as a result. B1 RECEIVABLES The composition of trade and other receivables at 30 June is: Recognition and measurement Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 Receivables for the sale of goods or performance of services Trade receivables 538.7 486.6 (trade receivables) are recognised initially at the price on Allowance for doubtful debts (12.3) (11.8) the invoice issued to the customer and subsequently at 526.4 474.8 the amount considered receivable from the customer Other receivables 17.9 8.6 (amortised cost using the effective interest rate method) Total current trade and less any accumulated impairment. other receivables 544.3 483.4 These receivables are interest-free and for Australian customers, they normally have settlement terms of between 10 and 30 days, and for international customers, they are Total current trade and other receivables are aged as settled in accordance with Universal Postal Union (UPU) follows ($m): arrangements that may be longer than 30 days. Analysis of ageing and recoverability 5.7 At 30 June 2016, no material receivables are individually 1.2 determined to be impaired, with the total receivables 35.9 determined to be impaired being $12.3 million 18.1 (2015: $11.8 million). Overall, there have been no material movements in the allowance for doubtful debts during 49.1 the year. Refer to note D1 for further discussion on how the Group 40.1 7.0 manages its credit risk and note A3 for the total write-down of receivables. 2.8 396.2 495.7 2015 2016 Not Past due Past due 30–60 days Past due more than 90 days Past due less than 30 days Past due 61–90 days 84 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our asset platform B2 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT The reconciliation of the opening and closing balances of property, plant and equipment at 30 June is as follows: Total land & Plant & Consolidated ($m) Land Buildings buildings equipment Total Gross book value 223.9 1,328.0 1,551.9 1,883.5 3,435.4 Accumulated depreciation – (672.6) (672.6) (1,155.6) (1,828.2) Net book value at 30 June 2014 223.9 655.4 879.3 727.9 1,607.2 Additions – 46.1 46.1 203.3 249.4 Depreciation – (59.9) (59.9) (137.8) (197.7) Disposals (3.8) (21.8) (25.6) (0.1) (25.7) Sundry items1 (2.1) (3.9) (6.0) (31.9) (37.9) Gross book value 218.0 1,323.1 1,541.1 1,858.2 3,399.3 Accumulated depreciation – (707.2) (707.2) (1,096.8) (1,804.0) Net book value at 30 June 2015 218.0 615.9 833.9 761.4 1,595.3 Additions 8.9 55.1 64.0 206.0 270.0 Depreciation – (62.5) (62.5) (132.8) (195.3) Disposals (2.0) (3.8) (5.8) (6.1) (11.9) Sundry items1 3.8 (3.7) 0.1 (132.4) (132.3) Gross book value 228.7 1,325.1 1,553.8 1,401.9 2,955.7 Accumulated depreciation – (724.1) (724.1) (705.8) (1,429.9) Net book value at 30 June 2016 228.7 601.0 829.7 696.1 1,525.8 1 Sundry items include revaluation increments of $5.2 million (2015: $2.1 million decrement), $0.1 million of additions from acquisition of subsidiary (2015: nil), offset by $114.9 million of transfers to Intangible Assets (2015: nil), $5.8 million of transfers to investment properties (2015: nil) and impairment losses of $16.9 million (2015: $35.8 million). Recognition and measurement Derecognition Property, plant and equipment assets are measured at the An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant cost of the asset, less depreciation and impairment. The cost part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or of the asset also includes the cost of replacing parts that are when no further future economic benefits are expected from eligible for capitalisation, and the cost of major inspections. its use or disposal. Where the replacement of part of an asset is considered Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset significant, the Group recognises these as separate assets (calculated as the difference between the net disposal with specific useful lives. All other repairs and maintenance proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the statement of comprehensive income in the year the as incurred. The expected cost for decommissioning an asset asset is derecognised. after its use is included in the cost of the respective asset at its present value, if the recognition criteria for a provision Commitments are met. Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting Depreciation period but not yet incurred is as follows: Property, plant and equipment assets, excluding land and any Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 assets under construction, are depreciated to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives using the Property, plant and equipment 111.1 147.5 straight-line method of depreciation. Useful lives and methods are reviewed annually and necessary adjustments are recognised in the current, or current and future reporting periods, as appropriate. A summary of the useful lives of property, plant and equipment assets is as follows: Asset Useful Life Buildings General Post Offices: 70 years Other facilities: 40–50 years Plant and equipment Motor vehicles: 3–10 years Specialised plant and equipment: 10–20 years Leasehold improvements: lower of lease term and 10 years Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 85 Our asset platform B3 INTANGIBLE ASSETS The reconciliation of the opening and closing balances of intangible assets at 30 June are as follows: Brand Computer names & Customer Other Total Consolidated ($m) software Goodwill trademarks relationships intangibles intangibles Gross book value 1,306.0 520.7 63.4 134.0 – 2,024.1 Accumulated amortisation (876.1) – (0.7) (34.6) – (911.4) Net book value at 30 June 2014 429.9 520.7 62.7 99.4 – 1,112.7 Additions by purchase 103.8 – – – – 103.8 Amortisation expense (122.1) – (0.5) (19.8) – (142.4) Sundry items1 (78.7) (9.0) 0.6 (48.1) – (135.2) Gross book value 812.9 511.7 64.0 136.0 – 1,524.6 Accumulated amortisation (480.0) – (1.2) (104.5) – (585.7) Net book value at 30 June 2015 332.9 511.7 62.8 31.5 – 938.9 Additions by purchase 60.3 – – – – 60.3 Amortisation expense (126.1) – (0.9) (7.0) (1.0) (135.0) Sundry items1 108.3 (12.8) 3.4 (24.2) 11.3 86.0 Gross book value 963.0 498.9 66.4 2.2 11.3 1,541.8 Accumulated amortisation (587.6) – (1.1) (1.9) (1.0) (591.6) Net book value at 30 June 2016 375.4 498.9 65.3 0.3 10.3 950.2 1 Sundry items includes $114.9 million of transfers from Property, plant and equipment (2015: nil), $25.4 million of additions from acquisition of subsidiary (2015: $7.4 million), offset by impairment losses of $54.3 million (2015: $142.6 million). Recognition and measurement Amortisation Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their Goodwill useful life. Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis Goodwill is initially measured at the excess of the aggregate over the anticipated useful lives. The amortisation period consideration transferred and the amount recognised for and the amortisation method for each intangible asset with non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets a finite useful life are reviewed annually. acquired and liabilities assumed. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated A summary of useful lives of intangible assets is as follows: impairment losses. Asset Useful life Brand names, trademarks, computer software, customer Computer software Finite between 4 and 8 years relationships and other intangibles Brand names, trademarks, computer software, customer Brand names P|StarTrack brand names: indefinite & trademarks Others: finite not exceeding relationships and other intangibles that are either acquired separately or in a business combination are initially measured 10 years at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business Customer Finite up to 7 years combination is their fair value as at the date of acquisition. relationships After initial recognition, intangible assets are measured at Other intangibles Finite up to 3 years cost less amortisation and any impairment losses. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are tested for impairment P|StarTrack brand names are considered to have indefinite whenever there is an indication of impairment while intangible useful lives as they are not considered to have foreseeable assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment in the brand maturity dates; accordingly they are not amortised same way as Goodwill, as discussed in note B4 Impairment and are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. of non-financial assets. These brand names are allocated to the P|StarTrack cashDerecognition generating unit (CGU) and subject to annual impairment Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible testing. asset are measured as the difference between the net An assessment of indefinite useful life is performed annually disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset to determine whether the indefinite useful life continues to and are recognised in the statement of comprehensive be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite income when the asset is derecognised. to finite is made on a prospective basis. Commitments Goodwill and brand names with indefinite useful lives acquired Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting through business combinations have been allocated to period but not yet incurred is as follows: individual CGUs as follows: Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 Intangible assets 1.8 1.6 Goodwill P|StarTrack 488.1 488.1 Goodwill Other CGUs 10.8 23.6 Brand names P|StarTrack 61.3 61.3 560.2 573.0 86 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our asset platform B4 IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS Assessing for impairment A post-tax discount rate applicable to the specific CGU or asset has been applied. Discount rates used are based on the The Group tests property, plant and equipment, intangibles weighted average cost of capital determined by prevailing or and goodwill for impairment: benchmarked market inputs, risk adjusted where necessary. • at least annually for indefinite life intangibles and goodwill; Other assumptions are determined with reference to external and sources of information and use consistent, conservative • where there is an indication that the asset may be impaired estimates for variables such as terminal revenue growth rates. (which is assessed at least each reporting date); or Increases in discount rates or changes in other key • where there is an indication that previously recognised assumptions, such as operating conditions or financial impairment (on an asset other than goodwill) may have performance, may cause the recoverable amounts to fall changed. below carrying values. If the asset does not generate independent cash inflows and its value in use cannot be estimated to be close to its fair Recognised impairment value, the asset is tested for impairment as part of the CGU The Group has tested the following non-financial assets for to which it belongs. Assets are impaired if their carrying value impairment: exceeds their recoverable amount. The recoverable amount • goodwill and indefinite life intangibles allocated to CGUs, of an asset or CGU is determined as the higher of its fair in accordance with annual impairment testing (refer to value less cost of disposal or value in use. For the purpose note B3); and of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business • customer relationship intangible assets for which impairment combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each indicators have been identified. of the Group’s CGUs that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the Group are assigned to those units or groups of units. Key assumptions and impairment testing results Impairment calculations The value-in-use calculations used to determine the The recoverable amount of each CGU is determined using a recoverable amount of all CGUs includes management value-in-use calculation based on a discounted cash-flow estimates to determine income, expenses, capital model. Cash-flow forecasts are extracted from four-year expenditure and cash flows for each CGU. The revenue corporate plans approved by senior management and the growth rate applied to the one-year period outside the Board. The corporate plans are developed annually with a corporate plan is 3.0 per cent (2015: 3.0 per cent). After four-year outlook and, for the purpose of value-in-use this period a 2.0 per cent–3.0 per cent (2015: 2.0 per calculations, are adjusted on the understanding that actual cent–3.0 per cent) revenue growth rate is applied. A outcomes may differ from the assumptions used. The post-tax discount rate applicable to each CGU has also forecasts are extrapolated for a further one year and a been applied. These rates are between 7.5 per cent terminal value applied based on group estimates, taking into and 9.3 per cent (2015: 7.5 per cent –9.8 per cent). consideration historical performance and that do not exceed the consensus forecasts of the long-term average growth rate Management believes that any reasonably possible for the industry of each CGU or asset. change in the key assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of any CGUs containing goodwill and brand names to exceed their recoverable amount. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 87 Our asset platform B5 INVESTMENT PROPERTY Investment property as at 30 June is as follows: Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 Key estimates: Investment property 213.2 200.0 Valuation At each period end, the Group reassesses the fair value Investment property is held by the Group for leasing to third of its investment property portfolio. This assessment is parties for rental return as well as capital appreciation. Direct conducted by Savills Pty Ltd (Savills), an accredited, operating expenses of the investment properties are disclosed external and independent valuer. Savills is an industry in note A3. Approximately 70 per cent of the Group's specialist in valuing these types of investment investment properties generate rental return with the properties in accordance with Australian Valuation remainder being held for development and capital Standards. The fair value for each property has been appreciation. Rental income is disclosed in note A2. determined by reference to the highest and best use of the properties, taking into account the specific Recognition and measurement characteristics and location of the asset. The best Investment property is measured initially at cost, including evidence of fair value is current prices in an active transaction costs. The cost of the asset also includes the cost market for similar properties. Where such information is of replacing parts that are eligible for capitalisation, but not available information is considered from a variety excludes the costs of day-to-day servicing. of sources including: Subsequent to initial recognition, investment property is • current prices in an active market for properties of measured at fair value, with gains or losses arising from different nature or recent prices of similar properties changes in the fair value recognised in the statement of in less active markets, adjusted to reflect those comprehensive income. differences; Derecognition • discounted cash-flow projections based on reliable estimates of future cash flows; or When investment properties are disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is • capitalised income projections based on a property’s expected, they are derecognised with the difference between estimated net market income, and a capitalisation the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the rate derived from an analysis of market evidence. investment property recorded in the statement of At 30 June 2016, investment properties comprise only comprehensive income. level 2 properties. Refer to note D4 for fair value Transfers categories. In addition, the Group has no restrictions on the use of its investment property portfolio but is Transfers are made to investment property when there is a subject to an annual maintenance requirement on a change in use, evidenced by the ending of owner-occupation number of properties subject to heritage requirements. or commencement of an operating lease to a third party. Where an owner-occupied property becomes an investment Classification property, the Group accounts for such property in accordance The classification of property as investment property with the policy stated under property, plant and equipment up requires management judgement, with the to the date of change in use. Where an investment property is determination subject to change over time depending reclassified to owner-occupied property, the deemed cost of on how the property is being used by the Group. The the property for subsequent accounting is its fair value at the Group has determined that these properties classified date of change in use. as investment property are held for the primary purposes of generating rental income or for capital appreciation. Where a property is also used for internal use, it is classified as an investment property where an insignificant portion of total floor space is occupied. 88 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our asset platform B6 PAYABLES The components of payables at 30 June are as follows: Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 Key estimate: Trade creditors 468.7 445.8 Unearned postage revenue Agency creditors1 112.8 104.0 With respect to revenue generated from postage Salaries and wages 52.5 56.9 sales, an allowance is made at balance date where Unearned postage revenue 61.9 57.9 the service has not yet been provided. An actuarial valuation is undertaken every three years Other advance receipts 158.0 146.4 incorporating updates to key input assumptions Borrowing costs 4.5 4.5 including changes to product mix and patterns of Other payables 165.4 131.9 purchase and use. The actuarial valuation also makes Total current trade and other payables 1,023.8 947.4 certain assumptions including applying an average 1 Non-interest bearing and normally settled on next business day terms initial credit balance before each postage meter reset, constant postage meter usage between resets and Recognition and measurement that the timing of resets follows a reasonably random Trade and other payables are carried at the amount owing process for business customers. The provision is to counterparties for goods and services provided, which is reassessed every six months and where necessary, usually the invoice amount, and remain unpaid. Trade an update to the actuarial factors is made where creditors includes both domestic and international nona significant change in assumption is observed. interest bearing creditors. Domestic creditors are normally settled on 30-day terms, while international creditors are settled in accordance with Universal Postal Union (UPU) arrangements, which may be longer than 30 days. Salaries and wages are accrued for in accordance with note C1. Unearned postage income arises where payment has been received from an external party, but the associated service has yet to be performed. Other advance receipts is comprised predominantly of deferred revenue from post office boxes and bags which are rented out to the public, and advanced contributions to marketing and promotional activities. Other payables includes amounts accrued for capital expenditure, GST obligations and other accrual of the Group. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 89 Our asset platform B7 OTHER PROVISIONS The Group's other provisions at 30 June are as follows: Property Surplus make good lease space Other Consolidated ($m) provision provision provision1 Total Balance at 30 June 2014 54.1 36.7 39.5 130.3 – current provision 0.3 20.3 39.5 60.1 – non–current provision 53.8 16.4 – 70.2 Reassessments and additions 3.7 (4.2) 25.9 25.4 Unused amount reversed (2.3) (1.3) (3.2) (6.8) Payments made (1.4) (0.4) (27.8) (29.6) Unwinding and discount rate adjustment (2.2) (4.2) – (6.4) Balance at 30 June 2015 51.9 26.6 34.4 112.9 – current provision 12.4 12.1 34.4 58.9 – non–current provision 39.5 14.5 – 54.0 Reassessments and additions 3.2 (5.4) 12.5 10.3 Unused amount reversed (1.9) (3.2) (11.1) (16.2) Payments made (1.3) (0.7) (17.5) (19.5) Unwinding and discount rate adjustment 0.9 0.5 (0.9) 0.5 Balance at 30 June 2016 52.8 17.8 17.4 88.0 – current provision 8.8 9.0 17.4 35.2 – non–current provision 44.0 8.8 – 52.8 1 Includes legal provisions (2016: $4.2 million; 2015: $24.7 million), onerous agreement provisions (2016: $nil; 2015: $7.0 million) and other provisions (2016: $13.3 million; 2015: $2.7 million). Recognition and measurement Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present Key estimates: Other provisions obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event. It Surplus lease space provisions is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic Surplus lease space provisions represent the estimated benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable lease cost of property leases surplus to the Group's estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. requirements or where sub-let agreements are on Provisions are measured as the present value of terms substantially below market rates. The estimated management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to cost is based on the contractually required lease settle the present obligation at the reporting date. The payments over the remaining term of each lease discount rate used to determine the present value reflects agreement, less any amounts received through current market assessments of the time value of money and sub-lease agreements where applicable. the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, Property make good provisions the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a financing cost. Property make good provisions represent the estimated cost to make good operating leases entered into by the Group. The estimated cost is based on management's best estimate of the cost to restore a square metre of floor space and is dependent on the nature of the building being leased. The provision recognised is periodically reviewed and updated based on the facts and circumstances available at the time. Changes to the estimated future costs are recognised by adjusting both the expense or asset (if applicable) and provision. The expected timing of the make good cost is based on the expiry of each underlying individual lease agreement. 90 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our people This section describes a range of employment and post-employment benefits provided to our people. C1 EMPLOYEE PROVISIONS The components of employee provisions at 30 June are as Long service leave follows: The liability for long service leave is recognised and measured as the present value of expected future payments to be made Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 in respect of services provided by employees up to the Current provisions reporting date using the projected unit credit method. Employee provisions: Annual leave 181.2 178.9 Consideration is given to key assumptions as below. Expected Long service leave 373.5 349.2 future payments are discounted using market yields at the Separations and redundancy1 100.6 42.1 reporting date on corporate bonds with terms to maturity and Other employee 59.2 53.6 currencies that match, as closely as possible, the estimated 714.5 623.8 future cash outflows. Employee-related provisions: Workers' compensation 30.5 29.2 Balance at 30 June 745.0 653.0 Key estimates: The long service leave provision at balance date Non-current provisions required management judgement and independent Employee provisions: actuarial assessment of key assumptions including, Long service leave 64.2 61.6 but not limited to: Separations and redundancy1 99.6 175.1 Other employee 9.4 4.9 • future salaries and wages increases; 173.2 241.6 • future on-cost rates; and Employee-related provisions: • period of service and experience of Workers' compensation 119.6 111.6 employee departures. Balance at 30 June 292.8 353.2 1 The provision recognised comprises the expected severance payments, employee entitlements (including notice period), outplacement costs and payroll tax based on the location of the employee, staff level affected Workers' compensation by the restructuring and their anticipated years of service. In estimating the expected severance payments, historical severance payments have The Group self-insures the majority of its liability for also been considered. workers’ compensation as a licence holder under the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 (SRC Act). Recognition and measurement A provision is recognised in the financial statements based Employee benefits are expensed as the related service is on claims reported, and an estimate of claims incurred but provided. A liability is recognised for the amount expected not reported. The provision is measured using an independent to be paid if the Group has a present legal or constructive actuarial assessment at each balance date, with the estimate obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service of present value taking into account key assumptions as provided by the employee, and the obligation can be below, as well as pay increases, attrition rates, interest rates estimated reliably. and the time over which settlement is made. Annual leave The liability for workers’ compensation at balance date The liability for annual leave where the Group does not includes $21.7 million of claims made in the 2015/16 financial have an unconditional right to defer settlement for at least year (2014/15: $22.1 million). 12 months after the reporting date is recognised in current provisions. Liabilities for benefits which are expected to be settled beyond 12 months are discounted to present value Key estimates: using market yields on corporate bonds with terms to maturity The self-insured risk liability required management that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash judgement and independent actuarial assessment outflows, and recognised in current provisions. of key assumptions including, but not limited to: Separation and redundancy • future inflation; Separation and redundancy provisions are recognised when • investment return; the recognition criteria for provisions is fulfilled, and steps • average claim size; have been taken to implement a detailed plan and discussions with affected personnel have created a valid expectation that • claim development; and the restructuring is being carried out or the implementation • claim administration expenses. has been initiated already. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 91 Our people C2 SENIOR EXECUTIVE AND DIRECTOR REMUNERATION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS This note has been prepared in accordance with the Total number of senior executives requirements of the Public Governance, Performance and and directors Accountability (Financial Reporting) Rule 2015 and AASB 124 The total number of senior executives and directors who held Related Party Disclosures. office at any time during the year is disclosed below: For the purposes of this note, the Group has defined senior Senior executives executives as those employees who report directly to the and directors Managing Director & Group CEO. These employees are the Corporation and only employees considered to have the capacity and consolidated (number) 2016 2015 2014 responsibility for decision making that can have a significant Senior executives 8 9 9 and direct impact on the strategic direction and financial Directors 12 8 8 performance of the Group. Executive directors are classified 20 17 17 as senior executives and are disclosed in this note. Related-party transactions Senior executive and director remuneration Transactions entered into directly by directors or directorby category related entities with the Australian Postal Corporation have Remuneration received directly or indirectly by senior been either domestic or trivial in nature. executives and directors under an accrual basis for the year ended 30 June is as follows: A number of directors of the Australian Postal Corporation are also directors of or have interests in other entities which Senior executives have transacted with the Australian Postal Corporation Group. and directors These transactions have occurred on terms and conditions Corporation and no more favourable than those which it is reasonable to consolidated ($) 2016 2015 2014 expect the Group would have adopted if dealing with any Short-term employee third party on normal commercial terms. benefits 1, 2 12,730,978 8,393,297 13,079,359 Post-employment benefits 1,536,193 811,174 1,263,414 Other long-term benefits3 4,067,430 4,573,592 1,834,930 Termination/retirement benefits 368,052 – – Total senior executive and director remuneration 18,702,653 13,778,063 16,177,703 1 Short-term employee benefits comprise wages, salaries, paid annual leave, bonuses (if payable within 12 months of the end of the period) and non-monetary benefits. 2 The 2016 total includes the full cost of short-term incentives which have been reinstated in the current year. In 2015, these incentives were forfeited either partly or in full by senior executives in order to support the reform agenda. 3 The 2015 and 2016 totals include the cost of a long-term incentive program implemented for a number of senior executives which requires performance against Board-approved hurdles over a number of years. 92 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 C3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS All employees are entitled either to benefits from the Group's Recognition and measurement defined benefit plan Australia Post Superannuation Scheme The present value of the defined benefit obligation is (APSS the Fund) on retirement, disability or death or can determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows direct the Group to make contributions to a defined using market yields of corporate bonds that are denominated contribution plan of their choice. in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms approximating to the terms of the related obligation. Defined benefit post-employee benefits Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation Amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive resulting from plan amendments or curtailments are recognised income and in the balance sheet in the statement of comprehensive income as past service The amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive costs at the earlier of the date on which the amendment or income for the year ended 30 June is as follows: curtailment occurs or when associated restructuring costs are Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 recognised. The past service cost for the prior period comprises a reduction in the defined benefit obligation due to changes to Current service cost 194.9 190.6 the APSS as announced in the 2014 financial year, and this was Past service cost – (90.7) partly offset by a curtailment loss resulting from the Group’s Interest cost on benefit obligation 143.6 121.2 planned restructuring activities. Remeasurement gains and Interest income on plan assets (164.0) (125.4) losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in Plan expenses 12.0 12.6 actuarial assumptions are recognised in the period in which Contributions tax reserve – 16.9 they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. They are Defined benefit superannuation expense 186.5 125.2 included in retained earnings in the statement of changes in equity and in the balance sheet. The reconciliation of the changes in the present value of the amounts recognised in the balance sheet at 30 June is as follows: Superannuation plan The corporation is an employer sponsor of the APSS. In Changes in the present value of defined obligation addition, certain employees of StarTrack Express Pty Ltd, Opening defined benefit obligation Post Super Pty Ltd and Decipha Pty Ltd are members at 1 July 3,310.7 3,685.9 of the fund. The APSS provides employer-financed defined Interest cost 143.6 121.2 benefits to all employees who are members and memberCurrent service cost 194.9 190.6 financed accumulation benefits to those who elect. Benefits paid and payable (254.1) (344.4) Member-financed accumulation balances at 30 June 2016 Past service cost – (90.7) totalling $3,524.3 million (30 June 2015: $3,483.0 million) Actuarial gain/(loss) due to changes have been excluded from the disclosures. On 30 June 2012 in financial assumptions 163.7 (225.9) the fund closed to new members. Actuarial gain/(loss) due to changes in demographic assumptions – (6.9) Other remeasurements (52.0) (19.1) Closing defined benefit obligation at 30 June1 3,506.8 3,310.7 Changes in the fair value of the plan assets Opening fair value of plan assets at 1 July 3,923.6 3,726.5 Return on plan assets (40.4) 291.5 Interest income on plan assets 164.0 125.4 Contributions by employer 150.0 159.1 Benefits paid and payable (254.1) (344.4) Plan expenses (12.0) (12.6) Contributions tax reserve (20.7) (21.9) Fair value of plan assets at 30 June1 3,910.4 3,923.6 Amount recognised in other comprehensive income Remeasurements on liability 111.7 (251.9) Return on plan assets excluding interest income 40.4 (291.5) Contributions tax 20.7 12.3 Total amount to be recognised in other comprehensive income 172.8 (531.1) 1 Excluded from the obligation and plan assets above is $3,524.3 million (2015: $3,483.0 million) relating to member-financed accumulated benefits. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 93 Our people Regulatory framework and governance Categories of plan assets ($m)1 The APSS is governed by the rules as set out in the APSS The fair value of total plan assets is as follows: Trust Deed. The current Trust Deed (including amendments Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 contained in the Deed of Modifications 1 to 14) was consolidated in September 2014. APSS is a “regulated fund” Active Market under the provisions of the Superannuation Industry Cash 64.4 53.3 (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS). The Scheme is treated as Australian public equities 275.0 218.5 a complying defined benefit superannuation fund for International public equities 834.9 622.0 taxation purposes. Emerging markets public equities 279.2 268.4 Australian public debt 532.8 561.9 The APSS is operated by the APSS Trustee. By law, the APSS International public debt 200.1 185.0 Trustee is required to act in good faith and in the best interests Inactive Market of members, and operate in accordance with the APSS Trust Equities and debt 1,401.3 1,501.5 Deed. The board of the Trustee is comprised of three member Real estate 322.7 513.0 representative directors, three employer-appointed directors, 3,910.4 3,923.6 and an independent director. 1 There are no in-house assets included in the fair value of the APSS assets; Funding arrangement and requirements however, there may be an immaterial amount of indirect investments in shopping centres where the corporation has leased certain areas for Australia The APSS is funded by the corporation and its associated Post shops. employers, with the funding requirements being based on the recommendations of the APSS actuary. The current Related-party transactions funding recommendations are based on a methodology The Group performs administrative services on behalf of its that calculates a long-term normal cost to provide the Superannuation Fund APSS. These services are provided APSS benefits, plus additional contributions being required on normal commercial terms. Payment received by Australia in the event that the assets are not sufficient to meet Post for these services for the year ended 30 June 2016 is members' vested benefits. $12.0 million (2015: $12.6 million). The Group is expected to make employer contributions (excluding salary sacrifice contributions in respect of Members Savings) of $145 million for the year ended 30 June 2017. As under the current arrangements, the corporation can cease making contributions at any time to the APSS, the corporation has no legal requirement to contribute to the APSS. As such, the corporation does not currently have any minimum funding requirements in respect of the APSS. Amount recognised in the balance sheet The amount recognised in the balance sheet as at 30 June is as follows: Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Present value of benefit obligation (wholly funded) (3,506.8) (3,310.7) (3,685.9) (3,433.3) (3,393.2) Fair value of plan assets 3,910.4 3,923.6 3,726.5 3,431.9 3,194.4 Contributions tax reserve – – 7.2 (0.2) (35.1) Net superannuation asset/(liability)1 403.6 612.9 47.8 (1.6) (233.9) 1 The corporation's entitlement to any surplus in the Fund is limited by the terms of the relevant Trust Deed and applicable superannuation laws. On termination, any money and other assets remaining in the Fund after the payment of benefits and expenses of the Fund would ultimately be realised and the proceeds distributed to the employers (including the corporation) in such shares as determined by the corporation. Outside termination, there is scope for the corporation to request a return of surplus, which may be no more than the amount (as determined by the Fund's actuary) by which the total Fund value exceeds the total accrued benefit value. In addition, the corporation benefits from the surplus through reduction in future superannuation expense and contributions. 94 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our people C3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED) Management of the plan risks The funding of the plan is dependent upon future experience. Material adverse risks in respect of funding include market risk, salary inflation risk, liquidity risk, and the risk of higher than expected death and disability benefits. Key assumptions and sensitivities The significant actuarial assumptions used in determining superannuation obligations for the Group's plan are shown below (expressed as weighted averages), as well as the sensitivity for each significant assumption: Sensitivity ($m) Actuarial assumption (%) Rate increase of 1% Rate decrease of 1% Consolidated 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Discount rate 3.2 4.3 (253.5) (235.9) 292.5 271.7 Future inflationary salary increases (for year to 30 June 2015) n/a 2.0 – – – – Future inflationary salary increases (the period thereafter) 2.5 2.5 239.8 224.9 (208.9) (195.8) The determination of the defined benefit obligation requires a number of other assumptions to be made regarding the future including the demographic profile of membership and level of benefits to be provided by the Fund. Maturity profile Superannuation Act 1976 The duration of the liabilities is approximately 8.5 years Some of the corporation's current and past employees are (2015: 9 years), calculated using expected benefit payments also entitled to benefits under the Superannuation Act 1976, on an accrual basis. but the Group has no contribution obligation in respect of these benefits. The superannuation asset or liability relating Defined contribution post-employment benefits to the Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme (CSS) under Australia Post pays the Superannuation Guarantee the Superannuation Act 1976 is recognised in the financial contribution to the nominated superannuation funds of statements of the Commonwealth and is settled by the employees who are not members of the Fund, or those who Commonwealth in due course. The Commonwealth takes have voluntarily elected not to be members of the Fund. full responsibility for the CSS liabilities for any Australia Post Defined contribution post-employment benefits are expensed employees (past and present) remaining in the CSS. by the Group as service is rendered by the Group’s employees. Disclosures regarding the CSS Scheme are located in the The defined contributions superannuation expense recognised Department of Finance Annual Financial Report. in respect of post-employee benefits is as follows: Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 Defined contribution superannuation expense 65.2 57.4 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 95 Our funding structure and management of our financial risks As a result of its operations, the Group is exposed to multiple forms of risk. This note sets out the nature of the financial risks and their quantification and management. This section also sets out the strategies and practices the Group utilises to minimise the exposure to these risks in order to execute our enterprise strategy as well as outlining the current Group funding structure. D1 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Group's objectives when managing capital are to The capital structure of the Group (which has not changed safeguard the ability to continue as a going concern while from the prior year) consists of debt, which comprises bonds maximising the return to the Commonwealth Government. payable and syndicated revolving committed facilities, a bank The Group recognises the impact on shareholder returns overdraft facility, cash and cash equivalents and equity of the level of equity capital employed and seeks to maintain attributable to equity holders of the corporation, comprising a prudent balance between the advantages and flexibility contributed equity, reserves and retained profits. The capital afforded by a strong capital position and the higher returns structure is reviewed annually as part of the Corporate Plan, on equity possible with some leverage. A further consideration which includes analysis of the return on equity, return on when managing capital is maintenance of an investment average operating assets and debt to debt plus equity ratios grade rating. The Group holds a AA– rating (2015: AA–) from implicit in the Corporate Plan. the independent ratings agency Standard & Poor's. D2 MANAGING OUR FINANCIAL RISKS Financial risk management objectives Accordingly, credit risk on derivative financial instruments is limited and managed using the principle of the APRA Current The Board reviews and agrees on policies for managing the Exposure Method as described in its guidance note AGN 112.2, Group's financial risks. The main risks arising from the Group's taking into account both current credit exposure and potential financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate future credit exposure. risk and foreign currency risk. Exposure to commodity risk in relation to the bulk purchase of fuel and third-party contract Liquidity risk management pricing mechanisms, managed through the use of hedging Liquidity Risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to derivatives, is considered insignificant. meet its obligations, such as the provisions and payables outlined in notes B7 and B6 respectively, when they fall Credit risk due. The Group's liquidity risk management seeks to ensure The Group makes sales on credit terms and therefore it is that there are sufficient funds available to meet financial exposed to the risk that a customer may not repay their entire commitments in a timely manner and plan for unforeseen obligations in full as required. In addition to the above, the events which may cause pressure on liquidity. The Group Group provides financial guarantees to third parties, which measures and manages liquidity risk by forecasting liquidity commit the Group to make payments on behalf of these and funding requirements for the next three years as a parties upon their failure to perform under the terms of the minimum, which is reviewed annually by the Board as part relevant contract. At 30 June, the maximum credit risk in of the Treasury Strategy Paper. The treasury group also respect to guarantees was $232.4 million (2015: $226.2 million) prepares and reviews a rolling daily cash forecast for the which relates to bank guarantees over projected workers' quarter to manage short-term liquidity requirements. compensation claims liabilities provided by the Group. Financing facilities Credit risk management: trade and other receivables The Group had the following financing facilities available It is the Group's policy that all customers who wish to trade throughout the financial year: on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures, • a three-year revolving committed facility of $200 million including an assessment of their independent credit rating, expiring 25 June 2018 and a five-year revolving credit facility financial position, past experience and industry reputation. of $200 million expiring 25 June 2020, both of which are In addition, individual receivable balances are monitored on available for draw down for a minimum of 30 days. an ongoing basis with the result that the exposure to bad debts is not significant. • a bank overdraft facility of $15 million available for drawdown and repayable on demand, as required. Credit risk management: financial instruments Counterparty limits are reviewed regularly by the treasury group with recommended limits endorsed by the Board. Investment of surplus funds is made only with approved high investment grade counterparties as rated by Standard & Poor's. Surplus funds invested with bank counterparties are all rated Aor better (2015: A– or better). 96 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our funding structure and management of our financial risks D2 MANAGING OUR FINANCIAL RISKS (CONTINUED) Maturity of financial liabilities The tables below detail the Group's remaining contractual the maximum amount of the guarantee and undrawn loan maturity for its material non-derivative financial liabilities, commitment is allocated to the earliest period in which the as well as cash outflows arising from derivative financial guarantee or loan commitment can be called. instruments. The table also includes cash outflows arising from derivative The table presents undiscounted cash flows based on the financial instruments, based on the undiscounted net cash earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay outflows on derivative instruments that settle on a net basis comparing against the carrying amount of the relevant and the undiscounted gross cash outflows on those derivatives financial liabilities. The tables include both interest and that require gross settlement. The amount disclosed has principal cash flows. Where interest flows are floating rate, been determined by reference to the projected cash the undiscounted amount is derived from the interest rate outflows illustrated by the yield or forward curves existing curves at the end of the reporting period. For financial at reporting date. guarantee contracts and undrawn loan commitments, Contractual maturity (nominal cash flows) Carrying Total amount Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Over 5 nominal (assets)/ Consolidated ($m) 1 year years years years cash flows liabilities As at 30 June 2016 Trade and other payables 665.9 – – – 665.9 665.9 Bonds payable 317.5 22.1 310.1 199.1 848.8 708.5 Interest rate swaps (8.2) – – – (8.2) (6.1) Hedge foreign exchange contracts (net settled) (5.6) (0.5) – – (6.1) (6.1) Financial guarantee contracts1 – – – – – – 969.6 21.6 310.1 199.1 1,500.4 1,362.2 As at 30 June 2015 Trade and other payables 610.6 – – – 610.6 610.6 Bonds payable 37.5 317.5 66.4 464.9 886.3 713.7 Interest rate swaps (4.3) (6.3) – – (10.6) (11.2) Hedge foreign exchange contracts (net settled) 0.2 (0.6) – – (0.4) (0.4) Financial guarantee contracts1 0.5 – – – 0.5 – 644.5 310.6 66.4 464.9 1,486.4 1,312.7 1 This represents the maximum amount that could be called on by the counterparty. This contract has been fully settled during the year (2015: $0.5 million). Interest rate risk management Exposure The Group's objective in managing interest rate risk is to The Group’s primary exposure to interest rate risks of minimise interest rate exposure by matching asset and interest-bearing financial assets and financial liabilities is liability positions to achieve a natural hedge, while ensuring set out below. Interest on financial instruments classified that an appropriate level of flexibility exists to accommodate as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. potential changes in funding requirements. Interest rate Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is risk is measured by regularly reviewing the net exposure from fixed until maturity of the instrument. interest-bearing assets and liabilities. The risk is managed by the use of interest rate swap contracts wherein the Group Carrying amount agrees to exchange the difference between the fixed and Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 floating rate interest amounts calculated on agreed notional Financial assets principal amounts. Cash and cash equivalents (floating rate) 389.6 249.6 Financial liabilities Bonds payable (fixed rate) 708.5 713.7 Interest rate swaps (fixed rate) (285.3) (290.8) Interest rate swaps (floating rate) 279.2 279.6 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 97 Our funding structure and management of our financial risks Interest rate risk sensitivity (SDR) and settled in Euros (EUR) and United States Dollars An interest rate sensitivity analysis of the Group at the (USD). The SDR is a basket currency composed of fixed reporting date has been performed, using a 30 basis point quantities of the four major traded currencies (USD, Japanese (2015: 40) change to quantify the possible risk based on Yen, EUR and Pound Sterling). The composition of the basket Australian Government Department of Finance guidance is set by the International Monetary Fund. International mail and holding all other variables constant. receipts and payments are highly variable in amount and timing as well as being ongoing in nature. For the Group, the Using the exposure to interest rates from financial instruments requirement to settle in a foreign currency exposes it to the at the reporting date and the stipulated change taking place risk that future cash payment amounts may fluctuate due to at the beginning of the financial year and being held constant changes in the foreign exchange rates. The Group undertakes throughout the period, the sensitivity analysis indicated that hedging strategies with respect to the SDR exposure using the impact on profit after tax at reporting date would be $0.8 forward exchange contracts, options and collars. These aim to million (2015: $0.6 million) increase/decrease in profit after tax. mitigate the volatility experienced in the income statement Interest-bearing liabilities caused by movements in the SDR/AUD exchange rate. The consolidated borrowing position of the Group at 30 June Each foreign currency exposure, other than the SDR, is comprises the following fixed-rate unsecured bonds, which are measured and managed on an item-by-item basis and repayable in full, with $280 million maturing on 6 February 2017, individual exposures over $500,000 are hedged through the $250 million maturing on 13 November 2020 and the remaining use of forward currency contracts. $175 million maturing on 13 November 2023. Exposure Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 The carrying amount of monetary assets and monetary Payable in less than 1 year1 285.3 – liabilities as at balance date is shown in the table below. Current loan liabilities 285.3 – Other major sources of foreign exchange transaction risk are Payable in 1–5 years 2, 1 249.4 290.8 as a result of foreign sourced and priced capital equipment, Payable in over 5 years 2 173.8 422.9 purchases or sales in foreign currencies (including fuel Non–current loan liabilities 423.2 713.7 purchases) and foreign currency bank accounts. Total 708.5 713.7 Foreign currency sensitivity 1 Designated in fair value hedge relationships at amortised cost and adjusted by the gain/loss attributable to interest rate risk. The following table also details the effect on profit after tax as 2 Measured at amortised cost. at 30 June from a 10.5 per cent (2015: 10.9 per cent) favourable/unfavourable change in the Australian dollar based Foreign currency risk management on Australian Government Department of Finance guidance The Group has rights and obligations with overseas postal with all other variables held constant. The sensitivity analyses administrations which are invoiced in Special Drawing Rights below have been determined based on the exposure to foreign currencies from financial instruments at the reporting date. Exchange +10.5% Exchange –10.5% Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on Consolidated AUD ($m) Exposure profit equity profit equity 2016 Financial assets Cash on hand 127.5 (8.5) – 8.5 – Trade and other receivables 163.7 (12.0) (5.6) 12.0 5.6 Available-for-sale financial assets 11.9 – (0.8) – 0.8 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables (80.6) 5.9 – 5.9 – Net Exposure 222.5 (14.6) (6.4) 14.6 6.4 Exchange +10.9% Exchange –10.9% Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on Exposure profit equity profit equity 2015 Financial assets Cash on hand 8.1 (0.5) – 0.5 – Trade and other receivables 154.7 (14.8) (7.9) 14.8 7.9 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables (71.0) 4.9 – (4.9) – Net Exposure 91.8 (10.4) (7.9) 10.4 7.9 Of the total $222.5 million of foreign currency denominated The receivables and payables denominated in SDR, on which exposures, $122.0 million is USD, $83.1 million is SDR and $11.9 the sensitivity is shown in the table above, are not necessarily million in AUD. The remaining $5.5 million is made up of GBP, representative of the Group's exposure to currency risk EUR and NZD (2015: Total of $91.8 million is $83.8 million of for the years ended 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015. SDR and $6.9 million of USD. Remaining $1.1 million is made up The receivables and payables denominated in SDR are of GBP, EUR and NZD). highly variable in amount and timing, in particular due to the timing of receipts and settlements with overseas postal administrations. 98 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our funding structure and management of our financial risks D3 USING DERIVATIVES TO HEDGE RISK Types of hedging instruments It is anticipated that the amounts in relation to inventory The Group uses the following types of derivative financial will impact the statement of comprehensive income over the instruments as part of its risk management strategy: next one year and amounts in relation to equipment capital expenditure will impact the statement of comprehensive Interest rate swaps income over the next 5 to 20 years after the assets are available for use. Interest rate swaps are used to manage the exposure to interest rate movements arising from Group borrowings. The Group hedges its expected SDR revenue flows and has Under interest rate swap contracts the Group agrees to elected not to adopt hedge accounting on these contracts. exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate The gain or loss from remeasuring these SDR contracts is interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal recorded in profit and loss. amounts. Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the The following table details the foreign currency contracts risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of issued outstanding as at balance date: fixed rate debt held. Notional amount The following table details the notional principal amounts Average (foreign currency) and remaining terms of fixed for floating interest rate Consolidated exchange rate ($m) swap contracts as at balance date. 2016 BUY USD Fixed Notional interest principal 0–6 months 0.741 14.7 rate amount 14.7 Consolidated % ($m) BUY EUR 2016 0–6 months 0.689 4.1 From 1–5 years 5.5 280.0 7–12 months 0.678 8.2 2015 over 12 months 0.671 13.5 From 1–5 years 5.5 280.0 25.8 BUY JPY During the year, the Group had interest rate swap contracts over 12 months 89.208 2,436.6 which settled on a quarterly basis. The floating rate on 2,436.6 the $280 million interest rate swaps is quarterly BBSW plus 131 basis points. 2015 BUY USD Interest rate swap contracts are designated as fair value 0–6 months 0.790 20.3 hedges in respect of interest rates. The gain or loss from 7–12 months 0.780 1.9 remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recorded over 12 months 0.771 3.1 in profit or loss and to the extent that the hedge is effective, 25.3 the carrying amount of the borrowing is adjusted by the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk through profit or loss. BUY EUR 0–6 months 0.681 10.5 Foreign currency derivatives over 12 months 0.676 25.7 36.2 All foreign currency contracts are entered into on the basis BUY GBP of known or projected exposures. The Group has elected to adopt hedge accounting in respect of some of its foreign 0–6 months 0.510 0.8 currency hedging exposures, excluding SDR. The fair value of 7–12 months 0.502 0.2 foreign currency contracts designated as hedging instruments 1.0 is a net asset of $6.1 million (2015: net asset of $0.4 million) BUY JPY for the Group. 0–6 months 93.638 140.1 over 12 months 89.507 2,382.2 The portion of the gain or loss on the designated forward 2,522.3 currency contracts that are determined to be effective hedges is deferred in other comprehensive income and will be SELL SDR recognised in the measurement of the underlying transaction. 0–6 months 1.777 72.1 7–12 months 1.823 34.8 As at balance date, the aggregate amount of unrealised 106.9 gains/losses under foreign forward currency contracts deferred in the hedging reserve related to contracted future payments for inventory and capital expenditure. It is anticipated that the payments will mostly take place within 24 months after reporting date at which stage the amount deferred in equity will be included in the initial cost of the inventory and capital equipment. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 99 Our funding structure and management of our financial risks Recognition and measurement of derivatives If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at the income statement. If the hedging instrument expires or is fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or roll-over, and are subsequently remeasured to fair value. or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast of derivatives are taken directly to the statement of transaction occurs. comprehensive income, except for derivatives designated The Group uses cash flow hedges to mitigate the risk of in cash flow hedge arrangements with the effective variability of future cash flows attributable to foreign currency portion recognised in other comprehensive income. fluctuations over the hedging period associated with foreign The fair value of non-optional derivatives is determined exchange business activities. based on discounted cash flow analysis using the applicable The maturity profile of cashflow hedges is shown in Note D2. yield curve or forward curve (commodity) for the duration of the instrument. The fair value of optional derivatives is Fair value hedges determined based upon valuation techniques consistent with accepted industry practice. Used by the Group to hedge the exposure to changes Derivative instruments are classified as current or non-current in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or based on an assessment of the facts and circumstances unrecognised firm commitment. pertaining to the derivative (i.e. the underlying contracted cash flows) and whether it's designated in a hedge relationship. The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted for gains Hedge accounting and losses attributable to the risk being hedged. The derivative is also remeasured to fair value, with the net gain or loss At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk If the hedged item is a firm commitment (and therefore not management objective and strategy for undertaking the recognised), the subsequent cumulative change in the fair hedge. The documentation includes identification of the value of the hedged risk is recognised as an asset or liability hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, with a corresponding gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity The changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are will assess the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows also recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. attributable to the hedged risk. The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving hedge instrument expires or is sold, is terminated or exercised, offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting on an ongoing basis to determine their effectiveness. or the Group revokes the designation. If the hedged item is a financial instrument for which the Hedge accounting designations effective interest method is used, the accumulated changes Cash flow hedges in its carrying value are amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life of the instrument from the point at which hedge accounting is discontinued. Used by the Group to hedge exposure to variability The Group uses fair value hedges to mitigate the risk of in cash flows that is attributable either to a particular changes in the fair value of borrowings from interest rate risk associated with a recognised asset or liability fluctuations over the hedge period. or to a highly probable forecast transaction. The maturity profile of fair value hedges is shown in Note D2. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is effective is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. Amounts recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when hedged income or expenses are recognised or when a forecast sale occurs or the asset is consumed. When the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. 100 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our funding structure and management of our financial risks D4 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT Valuation of financial instruments Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are Except as detailed in the table below, the carrying amounts available to measure fair value, maximising the use of of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of cost in the consolidated balance sheet approximates their unobservable inputs. fair value. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or Carrying Fair disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within Consolidated ($m) amount value the fair value hierarchy, described as follows: 2016 • Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets Financial assets for identical assets or liabilities; Finance lease receivable 103.2 135.8 • Level 2: Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input Financial liabilities that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly Bonds payable 708.5 759.7 or indirectly observable; or 2015 Financial assets • Level 3: Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement Finance lease receivable 103.3 112.2 is unobservable. Financial liabilities Bonds payable 713.7 749.0 For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between Levels in the The financial assets and liabilities not measured at fair hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest value in the consolidated balance sheet are disclosed above. level input that is significant to the fair value measurement In valuing them at fair value, they would be categorised as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. as Level 2 with the fair value of each financial asset and liability determined by discounting the expected future The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair cash flows using the applicable yield curve for assets and value of financial instruments are as follows: liabilities with similar risk and maturity profiles. Cash There was no transfers between Levels during the year. The carrying amount is fair value due to the asset's liquid nature. Receivables/payables Due to the short-term nature of these financial rights and obligations, carrying amounts are estimated to represent fair values. Derivatives The fair values are calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows using a market-based yield curve and forward rates sourced from available market data quoted for all major currencies and commodities. Accordingly, these financial instruments are classified as Level 2. The fair value of forward contracts is calculated by reference to forward exchange market rates at reporting date for contracts with similar maturity profiles. As market rates are observable they are classified as Level 2. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used to value long-term debt instruments, except corporate bonds, based on discounting expected future cash flows at market rates. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 101 Other information This section includes additional financial information that is required by either accounting standards or the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability (Financial Reporting) Rule 2015. E1 OUR SUBSIDIARIES The below is a list of the Group's controlled entities, all of which are incorporated in Australia unless otherwise noted: 2016 2015 % % AP Innovation Ventures Pty Ltd1 100 AP International Holdings Pty Ltd1 100 100 ApeCom Fund Incorporated Limited Partnership9 100 APost Accelerator Pty Ltd1 100 APost Innovation Pty Ltd1 100 Australia Post Digital MailBox Pty Ltd10 100 100 Australia Post Licensee Advisory Council Limited5 50 50 Australia Post Services Pty Ltd6 100 100 Australia Post Transaction Services Pty Ltd2 100 100 Australian Express Transport Pty. Limited1 100 100 Australian Express Freight Pty. Limited1 100 100 AUX Investments Pty Ltd4 100 100 corProcure Pty Ltd1 100 100 Decipha Pty Ltd4 100 100 Discount Freight Express Pty Limited1 100 100 DFE Pty Limited1, 8 75 100 DFE Transport Pty Ltd1 100 100 Geospend Pty. Ltd.1 100 100 Lakewood Logistics Pty Ltd1 100 100 Mail Plus Pty Ltd1, 8 75 Mardarne Pty. Ltd.1 100 100 MP Rights Pty Ltd1, 8 75 Multigroup Distribution Services Pty Limited1 100 100 Our Neighbourhood Pty. Ltd.1 100 100 Our Neighbourhood Trust7 100 100 POLi Payments Pty Ltd1 100 100 Post Fulfilment Online Pty Ltd1 100 100 Post Logistics Australasia Pty Ltd1 100 100 Postcorp Developments Pty Ltd1 100 100 Postlogistics (Hong Kong) Pte Limited3 100 100 SB Parcels Pty Ltd1 100 SecurePay Holdings Pty Ltd4 100 100 SecurePay Pty. Ltd.4 100 100 Sprintpak Pty. Ltd.1 100 100 ST Couriers Holdings Pty Ltd1 100 Star Track Couriers Pty Limited1 100 100 Star Track Express Holdings Pty Limited4 100 100 Star Track Express Investments Pty Limited4 100 100 Star Track Express Pty Limited4 100 100 Star Track Pty Limited1 100 100 StarTrack Retail Pty Ltd4 100 100 Star Track Special Services Pty Limited1 100 100 STI Co (Aust) Pty Ltd1 100 – 1 Small proprietary entity not required to prepare and lodge audited financial statements with Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC). 2 Large proprietary company required to prepare and lodge audited financial statements with ASIC. 3 Entity incorporated in Hong Kong and not audited by the Australian National Audit Office. 4 Large proprietary company and has entered into a deed of cross guarantee with Australia Post Transaction Services Pty Ltd as the holding entity. Therefore, this entity is not required to prepare and lodge audited financial statements with ASIC in accordance with the relief provisions set out in Class Order 98/1418. 5 Entity limited by guarantee required to prepare audited financial statements in accordance with the company's constitution. Australia Post controls the voting rights and has exposure to variability in returns and therefore consolidates this entity. 6 Small proprietary entity which holds an Australian Financial Services Licence and is required to prepare and lodge audited financial statements with ASIC. 7 Not-for-profit entity required to prepare and lodge audited financial statements with the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission. 8 Entity required to prepare audited financial statements in accordance with the requirements of the DFE Pty Limited Shareholders Agreement. 9 Incorporated limited partnership governed by a deed required to prepare audited financial statements. 10 Small proprietary entity not required to prepare and lodge audited financial statements with ASIC. Entity has entered into a deed of cross guarantee with Australia Post Transaction Services Pty Ltd as the holding entity. 102 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Other information E2 LEASES Recognition and measurement Operating leases for assets the Group leases to external parties The determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the The Group leases or sub-leases a total of 245 sites to external date of inception. It also requires an assessment of whether parties. These are under operating leases with various the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use occupancy terms that are due to expire in the next of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys 1 to 22 years. The leased property portfolio comprises a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly 27 commercial, 41 industrial, 158 retail and 19 general sites. specified in an arrangement. The Group is party to both Lease payments receivable generally comprise a base finance leases and operating leases. A finance lease transfers amount plus an incremental contingent rental based on substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership movements in the Consumer Price Index and reviews to of the leased item, whereas an operating lease does not market-based levels. transfer substantially all these risks and benefits. The future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable Below outlines the leases that the Group is party to where under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: the underlying leased assets are not on the consolidated balance sheet. Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 – within 1 year 35.3 37.4 – from 1 year to 5 years 80.9 93.0 Finance leases for assets the Group leases to – over 5 years 51.9 42.1 extenal parties Total 168.1 172.5 The Group has a finance lease receivable relating to the disposal in 1996–97 of the Sydney GPO heritage site under Operating leases for assets the Group leases from a 99-year lease. The agreement included a seven-year external parties rent-free period to the lessee, followed by a guaranteed The Group leases a total of 993 sites. These are under minimum rental. operating leases with various occupancy terms that are The reconciliation of minimum lease payments to lease due to expire in the next 1 to 16 years. The leased property receivable is as follows: portfolio comprises 174 commercial, 303 industrial, 7 residential, 504 retail and 5 general sites. Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 Gross minimum finance lease rentals Leases generally provide the Group with a right of renewal, receivable 523.3 529.8 at which time the commercial terms are renegotiated. Finance lease revenue not yet recognised (420.1) (426.5) Lease payments generally comprise a base amount plus an Total 103.2 103.3 incremental contingent rental based on movements in the Consumer Price Index and reviews to market-based levels. Minimum finance lease rentals receivable: – within 1 year 6.5 6.5 Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 – from 1 year to 5 years 26.0 26.0 Minimum lease payments 196.2 205.6 – over 5 years 490.8 497.3 Contingent rentals 0.8 0.9 Total 523.3 529.8 Operating lease rentals 197.0 206.5 Finance lease receivable1 103.2 103.3 The future aggregate minimum lease payments under • Current 6.5 6.5 non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: • Non Current 96.7 96.8 Consolidated ($m) 2016 2015 1 The lease commitments receivable at year-end equals the minimum lease – within 1 year 167.5 167.2 payments, as there are no material contingent payments or unguaranteed residual value relating to this lease agreement. – from 1 year to 5 years 378.9 402.3 – over 5 years 183.3 212.4 Total 729.7 781.9 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 103 Other information E3 AUSTRALIAN POSTAL CORPORATION Corporation ($m) 2016 2015 Current assets 1,360.4 1,101.2 Total assets 4,920.9 4,937.0 Current liabilities 2,087.3 1,621.5 Total liabilities 3,105.9 3,038.6 Contributed equity 400.0 400.0 Retained profits 1,397.6 1,491.9 Asset revaluation reserve 11.1 7.5 Hedging reserve 6.3 (1.0) Net equity 1,815.0 1,898.4 Net profit/(loss) of the parent entity 26.6 (153.8) Total comprehensive income of the parent entity (120.9) 371.8 Australian Postal Corporation, which is the Group's ultimate • contractual obligations which relate to sub-lease rent parent and controlling entity of the Australian Postal receivables and operating lease receivables in the Corporation Group, also has: amount of $168.1 million (2015: $172.6 million). Capital • contingent liabilities which relate to legal liability claims commitments of the parent entity in relation to land that have been lodged against the corporation, including and buildings and plant and equipment amount to motor vehicle accident and personal injury claims in the $109.1 million (2015: $148.4 million); and amount of $2.5 million (2015: $2.5 million); • operating lease commitments of $620.8 million • issued bank guarantees amounting to $160.5 million (2015: $629.9 million). (2015: $150.3 million) which represent guarantees supporting workers compensation self-insurance licences in various jurisdictions; E4 AUDITORS' REMUNERATION The corporation's auditor is the Australian National Audit Office who has retained Ernst & Young (Australia) to assist with the assignment. Amounts received or due and receivable by the corporation's auditors for the following: Corporation ($m) 2016 2015 An audit or review of the financial report of the entity and any other entity in the consolidated entity 1,749,000 1,655,000 assurance related 300,000 195,000 special audits required by regulators1 – 103,000 other non-audit related1 583,500 236,200 Total auditors' remuneration 2,632,500 2,189,200 1 These services are performed by Ernst & Young (Australia) directly and include due diligence, governance, compliance and research services. 104 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Other information E5 CONTINGENCIES The Group has the following contingent assets and liabilities as at 30 June 2016. Due to the nature of the Group's contingent liabilities, the Group is not able to ascertain with any certainty the expected timing of any cash outflow that may arise, or the probability of reimbursement. Claims for damages or Guarantees other costs Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Consolidated ($m) ($m) ($m) ($m) ($m) ($m) Balance from previous period 226.2 223.9 38.5 7.2 264.7 231.1 New contingent liabilities recognised 23.4 7.3 4.4 59.4 27.8 66.7 Remeasurement (13.0) 6.6 (0.7) 3.1 (13.7) 9.7 Liabilities realised – – (4.5) (24.9) (4.5) (24.9) Obligations expired (4.2) (11.6) (35.3) (6.3) (39.5) (17.9) Total contingent liabilities 232.4 226.2 2.4 38.5 234.8 264.7 Balance from previous period 9.3 9.2 – – 9.3 9.2 New contingent assets recognised – 0.7 – – – 0.7 Assets realised – – – – – – Obligations expired (1.3) (0.6) – – (1.3) (0.6) Total contingent assets 8.0 9.3 – – 8.0 9.3 Net contingent liabilities 224.4 216.9 2.4 38.5 226.8 255.4 Recognition and measurement Contingent liabilities and contingent assets arise when: Claims for damages or other costs • there is sufficient uncertainty as to the existence These arise from legal liability claims that have been lodged of a liability or asset; or against the corporation and subsidiaries, including motor • there is an existing liability or asset where settlement vehicle accident and personal injury claims. is not probable; or Insurance • the amount of a liability or asset cannot be Generally, the corporation self-insures its own risks. However, reliably measured. with respect to catastrophic losses, appropriate insurance They are not recognised in the balance sheet but are reported coverage for both the corporation and its subsidiaries has in the relevant schedules and notes. Contingent assets been arranged with general insurers. Payments received are disclosed when settlement is probable, and contingent on account of losses in any year are recognised in other liabilities are disclosed when settlement is considered remote. income or as an offset against cost incurred, as is appropriate. Insurance premiums are recognised in other expenses as Guarantees incurred. Where appropriate, the subsidiaries insure their Guarantees relate to non-financial guarantees, including bank other risks with general insurers. At 30 June 2016, there guarantees over projected workers' compensation claims was no material contingent liability with respect to the Group's liabilities arising from the Group's self-insurance of its liability self-insurance activities. for workers’ compensation as a licence holder under the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 (SRC Act). Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 105 Other information E6 OTHER ACCOUNTING POLICIES a) Accounting for goods and services taxes d) New and amended Australian Accounting Revenues, expenditures and assets are recognised net of the Standards adopted by the Group amount of Goods and Services Tax (GST) except: The Group has applied the following standards and • when the GST incurred on a purchase of goods and services amendments for the first time for the annual reporting is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case period commencing 1 July 2015: the GST is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable; and • on receivables and payables, which are stated with the Reference Description amount of GST included. AASB 2013-9 The standard makes amendments b) Inventories Amendments to a number of Standards and to Australian Interpretations arising from the Inventories including raw materials, work in progress and Accounting issuance of AASB CF 2013-1 and the finished goods are valued at the lower of cost and net Standards – deletion of references to AASB 1031 realisable value. Initial cost of inventories also includes the Conceptual Materiality and also makes minor transfer of gains and losses on qualifying cash flow hedges, Framework, editorial amendments to various recognised in other comprehensive income. Costs incurred in Materiality other standards. There were also bringing each product to its present location and condition are and Financial amendments to a number accounted for as follows: Instruments of Australian Accounting Standards, • Raw materials – purchase cost on a first-in, first-out basis. including incorporating The cost of purchase comprises the purchase price including Chapter 6 Hedge Accounting into import duties and other taxes (other than those AASB 9 Financial Instruments. There subsequently recoverable by the Group from the taxation were no material changes to the authorities), transport, handling and other costs directly Group’s financial statements from attributable to the acquisition of raw materials. Volume the initial application of this discounts and rebates are included in determining the cost standard. of purchase; and AASB 2015-3 The standard completes the AASB’s • Finished goods and work-in-progress – cost of direct Amendments to project to remove Australian materials and labour and a proportion of variable and Australian Accounting guidance on materiality from fixed overheads based on normal operating capacity Standards arising Australian Accounting Standards. but excluding borrowing costs. from the Withdrawal There were no material changes to Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the of AASB 1031 the Group’s financial statements ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of Materiality from the initial application of this completion and the estimated costs necessary to standard. make the sale. Where this is lower than cost, inventory impairment is recognised. c) Current/Non-current classification Assets are disclosed as current when they are expected to be converted to cash or receivable within 12 months of 30 June 2016. Liabilities are disclosed as current when they are due within 12 months of 30 June 2016 or when there is no unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after 30 June 2016. 106 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Other information E6 OTHER ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) e) New and amended Australian Accounting Standards not yet adopted The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are relevant to current operations but have not been applied by the Group in this financial report. Application date of Application Reference Nature of change to accounting policy standard date for Group AASB 9 Financial Amendments to AASB 9 included the new hedge accounting 1 January 2018 1 July 2018 Instruments requirements, including changes to hedge effectiveness testing, treatment of hedging costs, risk components that can be hedged and disclosures. AASB 9 includes requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets. It was further amended by AASB 2010-7 to reflect amendments to the accounting for financial liabilities. Management is yet to complete its assessment of the likely impact on the Group’s financial statements. AASB 2014-3 AASB 2014-3 amends AASB 11 Joint Arrangements to provide 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Amendments to guidance on the accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint Accounting for operations in which the activity constitutes a business. These Acquisitions amendments are not expected to have any material impact on of Interests in the Group’s financial statements. Joint Operations AASB 2014-4 AASB 116 Property Plant and Equipment and AASB 138 Intangible 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Clarification of Assets both establish the principle for the basis of depreciation Acceptable Methods and amortisation as being the expected pattern of consumption of Depreciation of the future economic benefits of an assets. These amendments and Amortisation are not expected to have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements. AASB 15 Revenue AASB 15 establishes principles for reporting useful information to 1 January 2018 1 July 2018 from Contracts users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing with Customers and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. The core principle of AASB 15 is that an entity recognises revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Management is yet to complete its assessment of the likely impact on the Group’s financial statements. AASB 1057 This standard lists the application paragraphs for each other 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Application standard (and interpretation), grouped where they are the same. of Australian These amendments are not expected to have any material Accounting impact on the Group’s financial statements. Standards AASB 2014-9 AASB 2014-9 amends AASB 127 Separate Financial Statements, 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Amendments to and consequentially amends AASB 1 First-time Adoption of Australian Accounting Australian Accounting Standards and AASB 128 Investments in Standards – Equity Associates and Joint Ventures, to allow entities to use the equity Method in Separate method of accounting for investments in subsidiaries, joint Financial Statements ventures and associates in their separate financial statements. These amendments are not expected to have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 107 Other information Application date of Application Reference Nature of change to accounting policy standard date for Group AASB 2014-10 The amendments require: (a) a full gain or loss to be recognised 1 January 2018 1 July 2018 Amendments to when a transaction involves a business (whether it is housed in Australian Accounting a subsidiary or not); and (b) a partial gain or loss to be recognised Standards – Sale when a transaction involves assets that do not constitute a business, or Contribution of even if these assets are housed in a subsidiary. Management is Assets between yet to complete its assessment of the likely impact on the Group’s an Investor and financial statements. its Associate or Joint Venture AASB 2015-1 The amendment makes changes to a number of accounting policies 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Amendments to including the methods of disposal in AASB 5 Non-current Assets Australian Accounting Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, disclosure requirements Standards – Annual in AASB 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and AASB 134 Interim Improvements Financial Reporting and clarification of discount rates utilised in to Australian AASB 119 Employee Benefits. Accounting Standards 2012–2014 Cycle AASB 2015-2 The standard makes amendments to AASB 101 Presentation of 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Amendments to Financial Statements arising from the IASB’s Disclosure Initiative Australian Accounting project. Standards – Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to AASB 101 AASB 2015-5 This makes amendments to AASB 10, AASB 12 Disclosure of 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Amendments to Interests in Other Entities and AASB 128 arising from the IASB’s Australian Accounting narrow scope amendments associated with Investment Entities. Standards – These amendments are not expected to have any material impact Investment Entities: on the Group’s financial statements. Applying the Consolidation Exception AASB 2015-9 This standard inserts scope paragraphs into AASB 8 and AASB 133 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Amendments to in place of application paragraph text in AASB 1057. This is to Australian Accounting correct inadvertent removal of these paragraphs during editorial Standards – Scope changes made in August 2015. There is no change to the and Application requirements or the applicability of AASB 8 and AASB 133. Paragraphs These amendments are not expected to have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements. 108 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Other information E6 OTHER ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) Application date of Application Reference Nature of change to accounting policy standard date for Group AASB 16 Leases AASB 16 will primarily affect the accounting by lessees and will 1 January 2019 1 July 2019 result in the recognition of almost all leases on the balance sheet. The standard removes the current distinction between operating and financing leases and requires recognition of an asset (the right to use the leased item) and a financial liability to pay rentals for almost all lease contracts. The accounting by lessors, however, will not significantly change. The changes under AASB 16 are significant and will have a pervasive impact, particularly for lessees with operating leases. Management is yet to complete its assessment of the likely impact on the Group’s financial statements. 2016-1 Amendments This standard amends AASB 112 Income Taxes (July 2004) and 1 January 2017 1 July 2017 to Australian AASB 112 Income Taxes (August 2015) to clarify the requirements Accounting on recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses on Standards – debt instruments measured at fair value. Recognition of These amendments are not expected to have any material Deferred Tax impact on the Group’s financial statements. Assets for Unrealised Losses 2016-2 Amendments This standard amends AASB 107 Statement of Cash Flows 1 January 2017 1 July 2017 to Australian (August 2015) to require entities preparing financial statements Accounting in accordance with Tier 1 reporting requirements to provide Standards – disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate Disclosure Initiative: changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including Amendments to both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes. AASB 107 These amendments are not expected to have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements. Community service obligations 109 Community service obligations for the year ended 30 June 2016 Australia Post’s community service obligations (CSOs) are set out in s27 of the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 (the Act) which requires that: • the corporation provide a letter service for both domestic and international letter traffic; • the service be available at a single uniform rate within Australia for standard letters; • the service be reasonably accessible to all Australians wherever they reside; and • the performance standards for the service reasonably meet the social, industrial and commercial needs of the community. Performance standards Organisational arrangements Regulations made under s28C of the Act detail the particular The ongoing focus on CSO compliance is maintained by standards required to meet these obligations. Performance Australia Post’s Head of Board & Shareholder Liaison in its against these standards is subject to independent audit by headquarters and nominated CSO representatives nationally. the Australian National Audit Office (ANAO). All of the prescribed standards were met or exceeded in CSO costs 2015/16. The actual result for each standard is outlined in the There is a financial cost associated with meeting CSOs. That table below. The associated ANAO Audit Report is reproduced cost arises when the charge made for any mandated service on pages 110 to 111. does not recover the cost of its delivery. The cost is measured on a net basis (that is, after reduction of related revenue). For 2015/16 (calculated on the avoidable cost methodology), CSO costs are estimated to be $182.5 million. Performance standard 2015/16 performance Lodgement 10,000 street posting boxes 15,357 Delivery timetables PRIORITY REGULAR Delivery within a State Metro to metro next business day 3 business days Maintained Same/adjacent country to country next business day 3 business days Maintained All else 2 business days 4 business days Maintained Delivery between States Metro to metro 2 business days 5 business days Maintained Country to metro 3 business days 6 business days Maintained Metro to country 3 business days 6 business days Maintained Between country areas 4 business days 7 business days Maintained On-time delivery 94.0% of reserved services letters 96.2% Access 4,000 retail outlets (2,500 in rural and remote areas) 4,392 (2,551 in rural and Retail outlets located so that: remote areas) in metropolitan areas at least 90% of residences are within 2.5km of an outlet 93.6% in non-metropolitan areas at least 85% of residences are within 7.5km of an outlet 88.8% Delivery frequency 98.0% of delivery points to receive deliveries five days a week 98.8% 99.7% of delivery points to receive deliveries no less than twice a week 99.9% 110 Other important information Auditor General’s Report Performance Standards Other important information 111 Auditor General’s Report Performance Standards 112 Other important information Domestic Letter Service Monitor (TNS) E D P P LI E SU B TO Other important information 113 Domestic letter service monitor (TNS) 114 Other important information Survey certification Other important information 115 Survey certification 116 Other important information Survey certification Reserved/Non-reserved services Reserved Non-reserved1 Total 2016 $m % $m % $m % Revenue 1,937.3 29.6% 4,618.7 70.4% 6,556.0 100.0% Expenditure 1,951.6 30.1% 4,534.7 69.9% 6,486.3 100.0% Profit before interest & jointly controlled entities (14.3) (20.6%) 84.0 120.6% 69.7 100.0% Net interest (28.4) 100.0% Share of jointly controlled entities profits (0.3) 100.0% 41.0 Income tax expense (4.6) Profit after income tax expense 36.4 Reserved Non-reserved1 Total 20151 $m % $m % $m % Revenue 1,737.3 27.3% 4,631.2 72.7% 6,368.5 100.0% Expenditure 2,020.7 30.2% 4,674.1 69.8% 6,694.8 100.0% Profit/(loss) before interest & jointly controlled entities (283.4) 86.9% (42.9) 13.1% (326.3) 100.0% Net interest (26.0) 100.0% Share of jointly controlled entities profits 0.2 100.0% (352.1) Income tax benefit/(expense) 130.4 Profit/(loss) after income tax expense (221.7) 1 2015 expenditure within the non-reserved services includes the impacts of asset write-offs and impairments as well as a portion of letter restructuring costs associated with our reform program and an update top our cost methodology. Other important information 117 Statutory reporting requirements index for the year ended 30 June 2016 This Australia Post Annual Report is compliant with the reporting requirements of, and contains information required to be included by, the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013, the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989, and other applicable legislation. To assist readers to locate information in this Annual Report that is required to be included by legislation, the following index identifies where relevant information can be found in this Annual Report. Section Subject Pages Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 – general reporting requirements s43(1)(a) Statement of corporate objectives under the corporate plan 67 s43(1)(b)(i) Overall strategies and policies under the corporate plan 67 s43(1)(b)(ii) Performance indicators and targets under the corporate plan 67 s43(1)(c) Assessment of extent to which objectives under s43(a) have been achieved 67 s43(1)(d) Strategies and policies relating to Community Service Obligations (CSOs) IC, 1, 19, 109 s43(1)(e) Directions by the Minister under s40(1)(CSOs N/A s43(1)(f) Assessment of appropriateness and adequacy of strategies and policies for CSOs 109 s43(1)(fa) Performance standards relating to CSOs 109 s43(1)(g)(i) Notifications by the Minister under s22 of the PGPA Act 120 s43(1)(g)(ii) Directions by the Minister under s49 of the APC Act N/A s43(1)(h)(i) Impact of Ministerial notifications under s22 of the PGPA Act and directions 120 under s49 of the APC Act s.43(1)(h)(ii) Impact of other Government obligations 120-121 s43(1)(j) Ministerial power under s33(3) to disapprove postage determinations N/A s43(1)(k) Companies and other associations established or sold 101 s43(1)(m)(i)&(ii) Shares purchased and disposed of 101 s43(1)(m)(iii) Subsidiaries 101 s43(1)(n) Authority to open or examine the contents of postal articles 122 s43(1)(o) Disclosure of information 122-124 s44(1)(a) Financial targets 67 s44(1)(b) Ministerial direction under s40(i) to vary the financial targets N/A s44(1)(c) Progress in achieving the financial targets 67 s44(1)(d) Dividend payable to the Commonwealth 7, 10-11, 67, 82, 125 s44(1)(e) Ministerial direction under s54(3) as to dividend N/A s44(1)(f) Capital repaid to the Commonwealth N/A s44(1)(g)(i) Cost impact of CSOs 109 s44(1)(g)(ii) Cost impact of Ministerial notifications under s22 of PGPA Act N/A s44(1)(g)(iii) Cost impact of Ministerial directions under s49 of APC Act N/A s44(1)(g)(iv) Cost impact of other Government obligations 120 s44(1)(h)(i)&(ii) Financial information requested by the Minister in relation to the reserved 58-59 services and other activities 118 Other important information Statutory reporting requirements index for the year ended 30 June 2016 Section Subject Pages Work Health and Safety Act 2011 – reporting requirements Sch.2,s4(2)(a) Health, safety and welfare initiatives 120-121 Sch.2,s4(2)(b) Health and Safety Outcomes 120-121 Sch.2,s4(2)(c) Statistics requiring the giving of notice 120-121 Sch.2,s4(2)(d)&(e) Details of investigations and other matters as prescribed 120-121 Superannuation Benefits (Supervisory Mechanisms) Act 1990 s6(1)(b) Report on operation of superannuation arrangement 120 Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 s516A(6)(a)&(b) Report on the compliance with and contribution to the principles of ecologically 44-47, 50, 126 sustainable development s516A(6)(c) Effect of activities on environment 44-47, 50, 126 s516A(6)(d) Measures taken to minimise environmental impact 44-47, 50, 126 s516A(6)(e) Mechanisms for reviewing and increasing the effectiveness of measures 44-47, 50, 126 Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Rule 2014 s17BB(c) Approval of Annual Report by Accountable Authority 66 s17BB(d) s46 Compliance Statement 66 s17BE(a) Enabling Legislation 74, 120 s17BE(b)(i) Objects and functions of the entity 74, 120 s17BE(b)(ii) Purposes of the entity as included in the entity’s corporate plan 67 s17BE(c) Ministers responsible 120 Other important information 119 Statutory reporting requirements index for the year ended 30 June 2016 Section Subject Pages s17BE(d) Any directions given to the entity by a Minister under an Act or instrument 120 s17BE(e) Any government policy orders that applied under section 22 of the Act 120 s17BE(f) Non-compliance with a direction or order referred to in paragraph (d) or (e) N/A s17BE(g) Annual Performance Statement 67 s17BE(h) Non compliance with the finance law under section 19(1)(e) of the Act N/A s17BE(i) Actions taken to remedy the non compliance under s17BE(h) N/A s17BE(j) Details of the Accountable Authority and each member 8-9 s17BE(k) Organisational Structure (including subsidiaries) 101, 124 S17BE(l) Location of major activities or facilities 77, 125 s17BE(m) Corporate governance statement 53-63 s17BE(n) Related entity transactions 78 s17BE(o) Details of related entity transactions 78 s17BE(p) Significant activities and changes affecting the operations or structure 14 s17BE(q) Judicial decisions or decisions of administrative tribunals N/A s17BE(r) Reports made by outside bodies N/A s17BE(s) Obtaining information from subsidiaries N/A s17BE(t) Indemnity and insurance premiums for officers 120 s17BE(u) Index of annual report requirements 117-119 s17BF(1)(a)(i) Significant changes in financial structure N/A s17BF(1)(a)(ii) Events that may affect future operating results N/A s17BF(1)(b) Dividends paid or recommended 11, 67, 82, 125 s17BF(1)(c) Community service obligations IC, 1, 7, 19, 67, 109, 125 120 Other important information Statutory reporting requirements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Introduction Australia Post is subject to various statutory reporting requirements under the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013, the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989, the Work Health and Safety Act 2011, the Superannuation Benefits (Supervisory Mechanisms) Act 1990, and the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999. The index on pages 117 to 119 shows where the relevant information can be found in this annual report. A number of matters are dealt with in the main body of the report. Others are covered below. Legislation Other government obligations The powers and functions of Australia Post are set out in Administrative Law sections 14-19 of the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 The cost of meeting Commonwealth administrative (the Act). requirements in 2015/16 is estimated at approximately $1.5 million. Shareholder Ministers Postal Industry Ombudsman (PIO) As Minister for Communications, from September 2016 During 2015/16 the PIO has estimated the costs of Senator the Hon. Mitch Fifield has portfolio responsibility for investigating complaints relating to Australia Post to be Australia Post (previously Malcolm Turnbull MP). Under a dual $550,000. shareholder model, overall responsibility for the enterprise is exercised jointly with the Minister for Finance, Senator the ACCC record keeping Hon. Mathias Cormann. The cost of the regulatory audit and compliance with the ACCC’s record-keeping rules in 2015/16 is estimated at Indemnities and insurance premiums for $500,000. directors and officers Maintaining heritage properties Australia Post has in place a directors’ and officers’ liability The cost of repairing and maintaining heritage-listed insurance policy. The policy provides cover in respect of any properties in 2015/16 was $3.1 million. person who is or was a director or officer of Australia Post, when acting in these capacities. Confidentiality requirements Medical/Educational Remote Area Parcel service within the insurance contracts prohibit any additional The Medical/Educational Remote Area Parcel service provides disclosures. reduced postage rates for parcels containing health and Directors of Australia Post are also indemnified by the educational material that are sent to and from people living in corporation to the extent permitted by law against any remote communities. In the 2015/16 reporting period, revenue liability incurred in their capacity as a director. foregone is estimated at $62,000. Superannuation Government policies All Australia Post employees are provided superannuation In February 2004, the Minister of Communications, Information benefits of at least the minimum required by law. Technology and the Arts provided formal notification under From 1 January 2012, Australia Post ceased to offer section 28 of the Commonwealth Authorities and Companies membership of the Australia Post Superannuation Scheme, Act 1997, that the government’s National Code for the which pays a lump sum defined benefit, to new employees Construction Industry and associated implementation engaged under a management contract of employment. guidelines were to apply to all construction-related activity From 1 July 2012, this decision was extended to all new undertaken by and on behalf of Australia Post. The notification employees. New employees may instead join a new default has had no major impact on the corporation as Australia Post defined contribution superannuation fund, the Australia Post had, since their introduction in 1997, made compliance with Superannuation Plan, or nominate a complying the code and guidelines a condition of all of its constructionsuperannuation fund of their choice. related tenders. Work Health and Safety (WHS) report Section 49 of the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 empowers the Minister to give the Board written directions in The following information is presented in accordance with the relation to the performance of Australia Post’s functions as requirements of Schedule 2, Part 3 and Part 4 of the Work appear to be necessary in the public interest. No notification Health and Safety Act 2011 (WHS Act 2011). or direction has been issued under this provision. The Enterprise Safety Strategy focuses on the key safety and There have been no instances of non-compliance with any health risks to the business, being workers health and welldirection or order referred to above. being (health and fitness or preparedness for work), elimination of harm and care for people who may have been injured at work. In September 2015 we refreshed a set of shared values which included five values. Being Safe Everywhere is a core value for Australia Post as we continue our journey towards zero injuries and zero tolerance of unsafe acts in our workplaces. Other important information 121 Statutory reporting requirements index for the year ended 30 June 2016 During the year, Australia Post undertook the following • continuing work on contractor safety with a focus on mail activities aimed at reducing the incidence of work-related and parcel delivery contractors; injuries and illnesses and complying with WHS regulatory • focusing safety observations on load-shifting equipment, requirements. These included: manual handling and motorcycle riding; and • continuing to implement our Health and Safety strategy, • delivering an external communication campaign “bubble focusing on five priorities that underpin our safety program wrap postie” to raise public awareness to prevent collisions of work: with our postal delivery workers.  lead and empower to live safely; During the year:  develop and enhance safety systems that support the • 55 incidents notified to Comcare under section 38 safety culture we are aiming to create;  develop a continuous learning approach to increase injury • 2 investigations/compliance inspections prevention; • No seizures made under section 175 or 176  increase the visibility and relevance of our safety • No improvement notice issued under section 191 performance; and • No prohibition notices issued under section 195  encourage and support our people to care for their health • No non-disturbance notices issued under section 198 and wellbeing both physically and psychologically; • No remedial action taken under section 211 or 212 • implementing leading indicators as KPIs to drive senior • No written undertakings accepted by Comcare leader participation in addressing safety challenges and to under section 216 increase the focus on preventative safety measures; • No applications for internal review made under section 224 • convening the Enterprise Safety Council to provide leadership and direction on safety issues and activity across the • No applications for external review made under section 229 enterprise, including decision-making rights that may impact • No infringement notices given under section 243 operational decisions and activity; • No prosecution instituted under the Act • continuing the roll-out of the Safety Leadership cultural There were 21 in-house HSR training courses run with transformation initiative to over 3,000 operational leaders a total of 213 HSR and Deputy HSR participants trained. and supervisors; Also eight HSR’s attended the One Day Refresher course. • hosting a world leader in safety culture, who toured nationally and spoke to over 1,000 leaders across the Freedom of information report Enterprise. His message increased the focus on exposure as In the year to 30 June 2016, Australia Post received 280 well as transformational leadership and valuing safety; applications under the Freedom of Information Act 1982. • implementing a “Being Safe Everywhere” activity during our annual “Safety Time” stop work in October; These were handled as follows: • progressing the Australia Post Group Work Health and Safety Granted in full 103 Management System through development, consultation Granted in part 62 and implementation of integrated procedures and processes; Access refused 82 • hosting a WHS education day for the SRC licensee association with topics including safety innovation, Withdrawn 22 contractor safety and mental health; On hand at 30 June 2016 11 • conducting national vertical slice WHS audits, along functional lines for seven audit sites in accordance with the There were 17 applications for internal review received during corporation’s WHS Management System Quality Assurance the year. (WHSMS QA) Program; No additional costs were incurred in the handling of Freedom • engaging an independent auditor to conduct Australia Post’s of Information requests and related responsibilities in 2015/16. national WHSMS QA Program audits in 2015/16; Categories of documents • delivering a calendar of events as part of our Be Well, Be The categories of documents maintained by Australia Post Healthy, Be Happy health and wellbeing program to all include those relating to: employees, including access to an online self-assessment tool with over 3,500 responses, and developing a group of • corporate organisation and administration; health and wellbeing champions; • Australia Post’s financial management; • commencing a focus on mental health with mental health • management of assets; awareness training for HR professionals and operational • internal administration including policy development and managers. All staff also received information on mental program administration, reports, briefings, correspondence, health and a reminder about our employee assistance minutes, submissions, statistics and other documents; program; • Board submissions relating to the business of Australia Post; • focusing on designing our health and safety issues as • reference material used by staff including guidelines and we upgrade our equipment and facilities; manuals; • conducting a safety strategy day involving over 70 senior • working files; leaders across the business; • legal advice; and • commencing work on a group of life-saving rules; • operational documents. 122 Other important information Statutory reporting requirements index for the year ended 30 June 2016 The categories of documents listed above are maintained Examination of mail by Australia Post in a variety of formats. Some of these International mail documents, along with information on Australia Post’s organisation, structure and activities, can be obtained Australia Post is authorised under the Australia Postal free of charge by accessing Australia Post’s website at Corporation Act to open mail, as required by the Australian www.auspost.com.au. Customs and Border Protection Services, in the following circumstances: Access to documents • when it is suspected that articles may contain prohibited Access to documents under the Freedom of Information Act substances; or can be obtained by forwarding a written request to: • to determine that appropriate duties/taxes are met. Freedom of Information Officer Legal Australian Customs and Border Protection Services personnel Australia Post Headquarters have also been authorised under section 90T of the Act to GPO Box 1777 remove and open articles in excess of a particular weight MELBOURNE VIC 3001 which Customs reasonably believes may contain certain drugs or other chemical compounds being carried in Privacy and access to personal information contravention of a law of the Commonwealth. Customs has Under the Privacy Act 1988 individuals have, subject to certain also been authorised under section 90FB (3) of the Act to act exceptions permitted by law, a right to request access to their as an authorised examiner for the purpose of examining mail personal information that is held by Commonwealth agencies without opening. (i.e. by x-ray or with drug detection dogs). and private-sector organisations. Domestic mail Individuals may apply for access to their personal information Biosecurity Inspection and Quarantine officers from a held by Australia Post by writing to: prescribed state or territory (i.e. Western Australia, Tasmania Privacy Manager or Northern Territory) are authorised under section 90U of Risk & Compliance the Act to request Australia Post to open, for inspection, any Australia Post Headquarters article for delivery in that prescribed state or territory, where GPO Box 1777 the inspection officer has reasonable grounds to believe the MELBOURNE VIC 3001 item consists of, or contains, quarantine material. Fraud control Section 90UA authorises Australia Post to remove articles from Australia Post has in place an internal control framework the mail stream where it is suspected that the article consist which includes strategic, financial, operational and compliance of, or contain scam mail. Suspected scam mail may also be elements designed to deter and detect instances of fraud. withdrawn from the mail upon receipt of a written request This framework is supported by a national Fraud and from a consumer protection agency. Corruption Policy and the corporation’s Our Ethics policy. In accordance with section 90FB, Australia Post has appointed The corporation’s Assurance group comprises a number authorised examiners at designated locations where mail can of specialist groups responsible for providing risk and be opened for inspection. compliance, audit, assurance, legal, and security and Authorised Australia Post staff may open undeliverable investigation services to Australia Post. articles at approved locations for the purpose of identifying The Corporate Risk and Compliance group is responsible for the intended recipient or return addresses. They may also an enterprise-wide approach to risk management, including open mail to repair an article or its contents so that the article identification, measurement and mitigation of business can be made safe for carriage by post. risks across all areas of the business. The framework and Disclosure of information underpinning processes are consistent with the principles The corporation is authorised to disclose information to of the relevant standards. agencies which have the legislative power to obtain such The Internal Audit group applies a systematic risk-based, information. This includes instances relating to enforcement control and governance methodology to review business of the criminal law, the protection of the public revenue, the operations and related systems, including policies and reduction of threats to life and notification of next of kin. procedures, which make up the control environment. As required under s.43 (o) (i) (ii) of the Act, Tables 1 and 2 The Security group is a specialised internal group that overleaf, detail the number of times that such information provides security consultancy, crime analysis and was disclosed during the year and the authorities or bodies investigative services to Australia Post. The Security group to which it was disclosed. works closely with law enforcement agencies both within Australia and internationally. There are a number of programs in place to manage risk and compliance in specific areas, including fraud. Other important information 123 Statutory reporting requirements index for the year ended 30 June 2016 Table 1. Disclosure of information/documents (section 90J “Authority”)* (Applies to all information or documents) Number of Authority for disclosure disclosures Disclosures made to Disclosure under warrants [s. 90J(3)] 23 Australian Customs and Border Protection Services Australian Taxation Office Australian Crime Commission (NSW) Police (TAS) Australian Federal Police (Federal), Police (QLD) Police (VIC) Disclosure under a law of the 5,841 Australian Commission for Law Enforcement Integrity Commonwealth [s. 90J(5)] Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (Federal) Australian Crime Commission (Federal) Australian Customs and Border Protection Services Australian Financial Security Authority (Federal) Australian Taxation Office (Federal) Centrelink (Federal) Child Support Agency (Federal) Department of Immigration and Border Protection (Federal) Medicare Disclosures under certain laws 212 Crime Commission (NSW), establishing commissions [s. 90J(6)] Corruption and Crime Commission (WA) * There were no disclosures made under s. 90J (7) (8) or (9). Table 2. Disclosure of information/documents (section 90K “Authority”) * (Applies to information or documents not specially protected) Number of Authority for disclosure disclosures Disclosures made to Disclosure to authorised ASIO officer 205 Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (Federal) [s. 90K(4)] Disclosure for the enforcement of laws or 6,777 Australian Communications and Media Authority (Federal) protection of public revenue [s. 90K(5)] Australian Federal Police (Federal) Consumer & Business Services (SA), Consumer Affairs Victoria (VIC), Crime and Misconduct Commission (QLD) Department of Agriculture Department of Agriculture and Water Resources Department of Commerce (WA), Department of Defence (Federal) Department of Environment and Primary Industries (VIC) Department of Environment and Heritage Protection Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (Federal) Department of Sustainability, Environment, Water, Population and Communities (Federal) Fair Trading (NSW) Fair Work Ombudsman Independent Broad-based Anti-Corruption Commission Office of Environment and Heritage Office of Fair Trading (QLD) Office of State Revenue (NSW) Office of State Revenue (QLD) Residential Tenancies Authority (QLD), RevenueSA (SA) RSPCA (Federal) State Revenue Office ( VIC) State Revenue (WA) Police (ACT) Police (SA) Police (QLD) Police (NSW), Police (NT) Police (TAS) Police (VIC) 124 Other important information Statutory reporting requirements for the year ended 30 June 2016 Table 1. Disclosure of information/documents (section 90J “Authority”)* continued (Applies to all information or documents) Number of Authority for disclosure disclosures Disclosures made to Police (WA), WorkCover Queensland, Worksafe Victoria, Anti-Corruption Commission (WA), Australian Sports Anti-Doping Authority (ASADA), Attorney-General’s Department (Federal), Australian Building and Construction Commission, Australian Financial Security Authority, Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority (Federal), Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning (VIC), Department of Corrective Services (VIC), Department of Health – Therapeutic Goods Administration (Federal), Department of Human Services (Federal), Department of Parks and Wildlife (WA), Department of Racing, Gaming and Liquor (WA), Department of Natural Resources and Environment (VIC), Office of Director of Public Prosecutions, Environmental Protection Authority, Family Court of Australia, National Parks and Wildlife, Queensland Treasury – Office of Liquor, Gaming and Racing * There were no disclosures made under s. 90K (2) or (3). Note: Commonwealth agencies, unless otherwise indicated. Our organisational structure Australia Post Board Managing Director & Group CEO Chief Customer Letters & Parcels & Trusted eCommerce Group Business Group Group Office Mail Network eCommerce Services Solutions Services Finance Services Other important information 125 Australia Post – the statistics 1 – Five Year Statistical Summary Restated Consolidated ($m) 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Revenue ($m) 5,126.2 5,893.2 6,383.3 6,373.8 6,562.2 Expenditure ($m)1 4,776.3 5,682.3 6,280.3 6,726.2 6,520.9 Profit/(loss) before tax ($m)1 366.7 210.7 103.0 (352.1) 41.0 Total assets ($m) 4,175.8 4,401.5 4,651.2 5,094.4 5,043.2 Return on average operating assets (%)1 11.5% 6.2% 3.4% -8.2% 1.8% Community service obligations ($m) 165.2 173.9 205.8 211.6 182.5 Total taxes and government charges ($m) 369.3 447.3 494.2 433.9 399.3 Dividends declared ($m) 213.7 192.7 78.8 0.0 20.0 Operations2 Full-time employees (excludes casuals) 23,184 23,526 27,315 27,371 26,939 Part-time employees (excludes casuals) 9,398 8,938 8,613 8,395 7,990 1 Changes to AASB 119 Employee Benefits took effect on 1 July 2013. 2013 has been restated for like-for-like comparison. Years prior to 2013 have not been adjusted to reflect the changes as a result of this change in accounting standard. 2 Australia Post Corporation operations. 2 – Basic Postage Rate3 (BPR) and consumer price index (CPI) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 BPR cents 60 60 70 70 100 BPR concession cents 0 0 60 60 60 CPI all groups 8 capitals base 2011/12=100 100.4 102.8 105.9 107.5 108.6 Year-on-year change in BPR (%) 0.0% 0.0% 16.7% 0.0% 42.9% Year-on-year change in CPI (%) 1.2% 2.4% 3.0% 1.5% 1.0% Change in real postage (%) –1.2% –2.4% 13.7% –1.5% 41.8% 3 Postage rates applicable to standard letters carried within Australia by ordinary post. 3 – Post offices at 30 June 2015 NSW/ACT VIC/TAS QLD WA SA/NT Total Corporate offices 1 July 2015 261 202 123 79 63 728 30 June 2016 260 200 123 77 62 722 Licensed post offices 1 July 2015 864 955 471 291 318 2,899 30 June 2016 864 946 468 290 318 2,886 Community postal agencies 1 July 2015 144 97 200 104 234 779 30 June 2016 146 95 203 107 233 784 Total outlets 1 July 2015 1,269 1,254 794 474 615 4,406 30 June 2016 1,270 1,241 794 474 613 4,392 126 Other important information Australia Post – the statistics Australia Post Environmental Performance Summary Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 Emissions (tonnes) 119,478 120,367 116,251 115,620 119,345 Natural Gas 5,308 5,819 4,756 4,787 5,278 LPG (All) 5,820 5,796 5,962 5,753 5,399 Diesel including generation 96,488 97,320 95,809 95,954 100,301 Petrol 11,862 11,432 9,724 9,126 8,368 Scope 2 emissions (tonnes) 212,044 201,490 188,855 181,920 169,447 Electricity Grid 212,044 201,490 188,855 181,920 169,447 Scope 3 Emissions (tonnes) 492,373 457,328 651,563 642,795 592,888 Energy and fuel losses 36,761 36,120 39,479 34,061 29,483 Subcontracted Road Transport 103,984 109,654 214,232 264,494 237,061 Sub-Contracted Air transport 318,245 294,299 351,013 286,104 272,874 Sub-contracted rail 752 834 5,636 3,538 5,695 Sub-contracted ship 0 0 1,143 2,324 2,678 Business Travel 6,345 2,678 3,434 4,116 4,910 LPO Electricity 16,790 13,743 26,086 36,996 27,270 Waste 9,497 N/A 10,539 11,162 12,917 Other Indicators Energy Consumed (GJ) Not comparable 2,633,936 2,499,868 2,426,095 2,443,571 Renewable Energy Production (GJ) 0 0 291 1,648 3,072 Waste to landfill (Tonnes) 11,060 9,899 9,381 Waste Recycled – Operational 7,141 9,092 8,484 Waste Recycled and reuse – (Customers) 3,364 4,056 Water (kilolitres) 434, 656 Notes Australia Post has only included StarTrack scope 3 emissions from 2014 when the organisation was integrated for a full reporting year. Australia Post reports all scope 3 related transport emissions based on the calendar year which is then reported to the International Postal Corporation. GHG Emissions Commentary • Scope 1 – Australia Post has seen a 7% increase in diesel emissions in 2016 arising from a combination of emission factor changes, reduction in volume of biofuel, increased usage of some of the larger trucks. • Scope 2 – Australia Post has seen a 7% reduction in electricity emissions arising from a combination of: emission factor changes, energy efficiency and property consolidation. • Scope 3 – Australia Post has seen an 8% reduction in scope 3 emissions primarily associated with a reduction in road and air transport as product is moved onto the rail network wherever possible. Other Indicators • Energy Consumption – Australia Post total energy usage has remained flat in FY16 reflecting eth increase in diesel usage and a reduction in electricity consumption. • Renewable Energy Production Australia Post continues to increase the amount of solar generation available across the Australia Post network with a total of 978 KW’s of solar now in network. • Waste – Australia Post has reported total waste to landfill of 8,484 tonnes a reduction of over 500 tonnes from FY15. • Water – Australia Post has reported water of 434,656 kilolitres for FY16. Criteria • Scope 1 and 2 emissions have been calculated in accordance with the NGER regulations. • Scope 3 emissions have been calculated in accordance with the GHG protocol. This page has been intentionally left blank Annual Report 2016 Copies of the report The 2016 Annual Report and supporting documentation can be found online at auspost.com.au/annualreport2016 To order a printed copy of the report email annual.report@auspost.com.au or phone 13 POST (13 7678). Feedback We’d like to hear your feedback so we can continue to improve our business, including how we report on our performance. To provide your feedback, visit our website or email annual.report@auspost.com.au Contact details Australia Post headquarters 111 Bourke Street Melbourne VIC 3000 GPO Box 1777 Melbourne VIC 3000 Phone 13 POST (13 7678) auspost.com.au/contactus Twitter @auspost Awards Australia Post received a Silver award for its 2015 Annual Report at the 2016 Australasian Reporting Awards. arawards.com.au Commitment to external initiatives Australia Post is an active supporter of leading national and international sustainability initiatives. • Australia Network on Disability (member since 2004) • Australian Packaging Covenant (a signatory since 2002) • Carbon Disclosure Project (since 2015) • Catalyst (member since 2015) • Diversity Council Australia (member since 2010) • Earth Hour (supporter since 2007) • Equal Employment Opportunity Network (EEON) (member since 2016) • Global Reporting Initiative (reported in line since 2010) • London Benchmarking Group (member since 2009) • National Association of Women in Operations (NAWO) (since 2010) • Reconciliation Australia – Reconciliation Action Plan program (member since 2011) • Safety and Rehabilitation and Compensation Licensees Association (SRCLA) (President representation & member since 2009) • Social Traders Connect (member since 2015) • Supply Nation (member since 2010) • United Nations Global Compact (signatory since 2010) • UN Sustainable Development Goals Credits Editor/Project Manager Design Lizzy Kingston ERD.COM.AU auspost.com.au
