SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 THE BUSINESS IMPERATIVE About This Report This is the third sustainability report We have been signatories of the United issued by Crescent Enterprises (CE). Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since July 2013. This report serves as This report presents the progress our second annual Communication we have made in implementing our on Progress (COP) on how we are sustainability roadmap. Under the upholding our commitment to the 10 core vision of “Enabling Sustainable UNGC principles. Growth”, the roadmap looks to unite the four main pillars of our The content index for both the UNGC performance: Enabling Ethical and the GRI G4 can be found at the Business; Enabling a Stronger end of this report. Society; Enabling Talent and Enabling Stewardship of the Planet. This report comprises two sections. The ﬁrst section provides the background to Crescent Enterprises and our operating businesses. Full details of our sustainability roadmap, We welcome your feedback on our targets and plans for increased future sustainability commitments and disclosures and our progress between progress. Please direct your feedback January and December 2015 can be to cesustainability@crescent.ae found in the second section of the report. We have prepared this report using the latest Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines and it is in accordance with the ‘core’ reporting guidance. We have also ensured that the data in this report has been veriﬁed internally. The report covers our operations, and includes case studies and examples from our operating businesses; Gulftainer; Uruk Engineering & Contracting; Gama Aviation; and Clinical Pathology Services (CPS). Global Gumbo Group (G3) has not been included in this year’s report due to its limited, nonmaterial activity. We have limited our reporting to our operating businesses only, the private equity funds that we invest in are not included in the reporting boundary. This report is printed on 100% recycled paper, and has been desi designed to optimise paper usage. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability, the business imperative Embracing sustainability results Having implemented a sustainability in better business and it can now roadmap in 2014 to guide the be proven. transformation of the business, our focus in 2015 was on establishing At Crescent Enterprises, we are very a sustainability vision across our much aware of the global trends that operating businesses. are affecting our business. Globalisation and urbanisation have increased Our emphasis was on encouraging demand for air travel. Political changes, initiatives to “Enable Sustainable economic development and the Growth” via good governance, growing scarcity of resources, such socioeconomic development, as fossil fuel and water, have placed environmental management and higher demand than ever on power the development of talent. resources. Political instability in some countries within the Middle East This is our third year of consistently and North Africa (MENA) region has reporting on sustainability matters. inhibited investment into their power In this report, we aim to capture our sector, swelling the power demand journey and progress in 2015. We hope further and causing power shortages that you will enjoy learning about the and regular interruptions in service. progress we have made and we look Global trade and prosperity are forward to engaging with you more dependent on connections between closely as we continue our journey to people and businesses created by achieving sustainability leadership. ports and infrastructure around the world. Moreover, growing and ageing populations create a need for quality global healthcare at affordable prices. By responding directly to these opportunities and pressures on the society, economy and the environment, we believe we can enhance the way we do business in a way that is sustainable and proﬁtable at the same time. 1 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES CEO Statement AT CRESCENT ENTERPRISES, WE We created a three-year roadmap for VIEW SUSTAINABILITY AS A CORE sustainability in 2014 to help us align BUSINESS IMPERATIVE THAT IS our growth with the United Nations’ CRUCIAL TO THE LONGEVITY AND Sustainable Development Goals, RELEVANCE OF OUR OPERATIONS through focusing on four main areas ACROSS THE GLOBE. of intervention: Ethics, Society, Talent and Environment. The report captures Given the challenging business our progress in these areas, and the environment the world was faced with in outcomes of our sustainability efforts in 2015, our focus has been on integration the past year. and consolidation. Our diversiﬁcation strategy proved to be resilient to the In line with the ﬁrst pillar of our vision, weak economic environment. Having Enabling Ethical Business, we looked invested over US$ 1.27bn in the last ﬁve at new ways to bolster our internal years, we consolidated our investments operations and instil an organisationand projects executed, whilst tapping wide culture of good governance into new markets and sectors. Our through engaging our employees on revenues remained steady at US$ 410mn anti-corruption issues and introducing with more efficient use of our assets, a new code of ethics. We are aware leading to a signiﬁcant increase in our that accountability is critical to return on assets. achieving our goals. In line with this priority, we established the Crescent This long-term focus enabled us to look Enterprises Sustainability Committee beyond the traditional yardsticks we tasked with galvanising our employees use to measure proﬁt towards a wider to realise our vision. Externally, through framework – one that allows us to align the Pearl Initiative, we engaged with our commercial goals with the most corporate leaders and students in the optimum impact we can have on our Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region people and the planet. to promote best practices in corporate governance. In addition, as a member We set out to achieve this balance of the World Economic Forum’s Middle through our sustainability vision – East and North Africa (MENA) Regional ‘Enabling Sustainable Growth’ – that Business Council, Crescent Enterprises calls for enhancing our resilience as contributed to the development of an organisation, whilst keeping future a policy reform agenda focused on generations in mind. corporate governance as a means to improve competitiveness in the MENA Region. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Working to articulate the second pillar We will spare no effort to continuouslyusly of our vision, Enabling a Stronger educate and train all staff members rs Society, we were able to create added as well as work with our supplierss to value across all our operations. In ulture build an even stronger safety culture particular, our focus has been on to prevent any such incidents from integration and consolidation of our happening. investments. As a forward-thinking organisation, we also developed a As we look to the future and nd the strategic expansion framework that fourth pillar of our sustainability inability targets sectors with strong potential vision ‘Enabling Stewardship rdship of the for future growth and innovation, such Planet’, we are enthusiastic siastic about our as technology, renewable energy and partnerships with local cal organisations consumer focused businesses. Most like EWS-WWF and d Bee’ah that notably, we enhanced our corporate help us manage our resources more citizenship programme to enable effectively and wisely. Employees internal and external engagement erating businesses across our operating that is driven through meaningful eek and implement ways continue to seek partnerships and measurable impact in he environmental impact of to reduce the the communities we operate in. ations. their operations. This brings us to the third pillar of our Looking g back on 2015, we can vision at Crescent Enterprises. With oud of what we have achieved. be proud regard to Enabling Talent, 2015 has I am conﬁdent we will see many more been a catalyst for internally driving dations of our efforts in the coming validations our gender equity platform. I am proud ear. They will serve as a solid base for year. to share that Crescent Enterprises is further sustainable progress to beneﬁt now also a signatory of the United our customers, communities, and the Nations Women’s Empowerment world at large. Principles. As part of this commitment, t, we rolled out a number of developmental opportunities for ourr employees – aimed speciﬁcally at enhancing training and related beneﬁts eneﬁts for our female personnel. While e we had a marked improvement in the health BADR JAFAR and safety tracking function across Chief Executive Officer our operating businesses, we deeply regret the loss of life of a colleague at one of Gulftainer’s container ainer terminals which, despite adhering g to the highest industry safety standards, ards, happened in connection with the operation of a ship to shore crane. 3 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES Contents 06 ABOUT US 10 MANAGING 16 PROGRESS ON OUR 18 ENABLING SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL BUSINESS ROADMAP 26 ENABLING A 34 ENABLING 40 ENABLING 46 GRI G4 STRONGER SOCIETY TALENT STEWARDSHIP CONTENT INDEX OF THE PLANET Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 5 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES About Us Crescent Enterprises, one of the Crescent Enterprises is a wholly-owned Our diversiﬁed global businesses United Arab Emirates’ (UAE) most subsidiary of the Crescent Group, one come under three verticals – operating prominent multinational companies, of the most progressive family business businesses, strategic investments and has succeeded in growing a diverse, groups in the MENA region, which business incubation, which through global range of sustainable, scalable has been actively contributing to the complementary levels of activity and proﬁtable operating ﬁrms through economic landscape of the region and expertise, strive for sustainable a ‘relationship-driven’ approach. The for over 44 years. Crescent Group’s corporate growth and expansion on a company is headquartered in the UAE, other subsidiary, Crescent Petroleum, global level. and employs 4,882 professionals in 20 is the ﬁrst and the largest indigenous, countries across ﬁve continents. privately-owned upstream oil & gas company in the Middle East. Operating Businesses Uruk Engineering & Gulftainer Contracting Ports and Logistics Gulftainer is the largest, privately Uruk Engineering & Contracting (Uruk) owned, independent port management offers turnkey solutions in engineering, company in the world, and has been procurement and construction (EPC) delivering world-class performance with projects ranging from power, oil for its customers for 40 years. The and gas, to petrochemical, waste water Power and Engineering company’s portfolio includes operations and infrastructure, using its own across 11 ports in six countries. In June assets and resources. 2015, Gulftainer entered into North America following the opening of Since its inception in 2003, the company Canaveral Cargo Terminal in Florida, has consistently demonstrated leadership USA. Gulftainer aims to become one in the ﬁeld and worked with a variety Healthcare of the world’s top container terminal of global companies, including Bechtel operators over the next decade, with a International, GE, Alstom, and ABB, in global footprint across ﬁve continents addition to several Iraqi ministries. Uruk and handling up to 18mn Twenty-Foot is headquartered in Dubai, UAE, with an Equivalent Units (TEUs). office in Baghdad, Iraq and project offices on-site. Business Aviation Clinical Pathology Services Gama Aviation Momentum Logistics Clinical Pathology Services (CPS) was Gama Aviation is a global business Momentum logistics (Momentum) is the ﬁrst purpose-built, standalone aviation services company listed on a fully integrated, third party logistics private medical testing laboratory the London Stock Exchange (AIM). The provider, offering a complete suite of in Dubai. Fully equipped to meet company has a network of 44 operating supply chain management solutions. the growing demand for healthcare locations across ﬁve continents, Momentum provides transportation, and world class clinical standards in managing a ﬂeet of more than 145 freight forwarding, warehousing, the region, CPS is the ﬁrst Clinical aircraft. The global headquarters are logistics cities and container services. Pathology Accredited (UK) laboratory located at Farnborough Airport in Launched in 2008, to enhance outside of the European Union. It is the UK, with regional headquarters in Gulftainer’s service offering, also the ﬁrst UAE facility to achieve Connecticut, USA; Sharjah, UAE; and the company now has operations the General Civil Aviation Authority Hong Kong, China. spanning the Middle East, with accreditation for the purpose of headquarters located at the Sharjah carrying out drug and alcohol testing Inland Container Depot (SICD). in the aviation industry. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 5 “At Crescent Enterprises, our strategic direction continues to be driven by a long-term focus on sustainable growth rather than short-term capital gains. This places sustainability at the core of our operations. As a part of our diversiﬁcation goals, we also plan to enter into sectors such as FMCG, renewables and technology businesses, with a view to transform innovative ideas into viable businesses that create shared value and are strongly rooted in our tradition of good governance.” NEERAJ AGRAWAL EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Strategic Investments Business Incubation Crescent Investments is the private As an incubator for internal start-ups equity and alternative investments spanning a wide range of sectors and division of Crescent Enterprises. industries, CE-Ventures conceives With a long-term view, its strategy and develops businesses that is geared towards maintaining a generate a sustainable social impact. balanced portfolio of alternative asset class investments, including private equity, venture capital, real estate and other structured investments. Active investments in the division include: The Abraaj Group, Growthgate Capital, TVM Capital Healthcare Partners, Siraj Palestine Fund I, Samena Limestone Holdings, Duet-IBC MENA Real Estate Opportunities Fund, Wamda MENA Ventures I, and Hedosophia MENA. 7 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES PORTS AND LOGISTICS OPERATING BUSINESSES Gulftainer STRATEGIC The largest privately owned port INVESTMENTS management company in the world 6.5mn 2.11 TEUs handled Lost time injury frequency Crescent Investments Momentum Logistics A balanced portfolio of alternative asset A fully integrated third party class investments, including private logistics provider equity, venture capital, real estate and other structured investments. 35% 60% 2 New strategic investments added Expansion in UAE of ﬂeet replaced over customer networks the past 24 months OUR VALUES Diversity and Inclusion Responsibility Respect cultural diversity and work Serve the community and protect the effectively and inclusively with every environment in which we work individual Entrepreneurship Integrity Foster a culture of impact innovation by Conduct business ethically and adhere supporting the exchange of knowledge to the highest governance standards at every level of our operations Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 BUSINESS AVIATION POWER AND ENGINEERING HEALTHCARE Gama Aviation URUK Engineering & Contracting Clinical Pathology Services (CPS) A global business aviation A turnkey solutions provider in engineering, First purpose-built, standalone private services company procurement and construction medical testing laboratory in Dubai 145+ 0.007 US$ 197mn 70% 2,000+ 35% Aircraft under Lost Time Injury Proposed of small purchases sourced Tests provided Targeted reduction management Frequency Daura project from local suppliers and 40 proﬁles of energy CE-Ventures BUSINESS A corporate incubator mandated INCUBATION with conceiving and developing sustainable businesses. 4 Concepts under development FAST FACTS 2015 Subsidiaries and afﬁliates 22 Countries of operations 20 Number of employees 4,882 Total assets US$ 1,383mn Revenues US$ 410mn Shareholder funds US$ 928mn Investments executed US$ 29mn 9 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES Managing Sustainability We started the implementation of our 3-year sustainability framework in 2015. This represented a transition period for some of our operating businesses, particularly with Gulftainer’s post acquisition integration, Gama Aviation’s public listing in the UK, and the security challenges near Uruk’s sites in Iraq. We are strongly committed to managing our sustainability performance and we will continue to report in line with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines for sustainability reporting and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Communicating with our stakeholders CRESCENT GOVERNMENT SUPPLIERS BUSINESS CUSTOMERS ENTERPRISES’ AND LEADERS OPERATING REGULATORS BUSINESSES CAPITAL COMPETITORS COMMUNITIES IMPACT EMPLOYEES PROVIDERS AROUND OUR INVESTMENT OPERATIONS INSTITUTIONS Internal engagement External engagement • Crescent Enterprises’ Sustainability • In addition to our regular meetings with external Committee and Corporate Citizenship stakeholders, participation in conferences and Committee lead discussions to plan and roundtables, and external publications, our Executive evaluate sustainability initiatives. Management engages with external stakeholders at international events such as the World Economic Forum, • We conduct annual sustainability the UNGC Regional Forum and the World Forum for discussions with our operating businesses Foreign Direct Investment on topics material to Crescent to support the development of a systemic Enterprises and our operating businesses. This year, approach to sustainability reporting. topics included: Discussions focus on progress against the four pillars of our sustainability framework. o The role of Family Business in championing inclusive growth • We engage with Crescent Group o Corporate Governance for competitiveness employees through multiple channels, from in the Middle East and North Africa our annual team building day, to regular o Women’s leadership feedback and dialogues sessions with employees on performance. • We conduct regular events with corporate citizenship and government partners to identify solutions to sustainability challenges. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Partnerships for sustainability We have committed to several partnerships to drive engagement on social, environmental and governance issues. These include the Pearl Initiative, UN Global Compact, UN Women’s Empowerment Principle, Cherie Blair Foundation for Women, Sharjah Leadership Programme and Emirates Wildlife Society – World Wildlife Fund (EWS-WWF) among others. There have been noteworthy steps taken towards more active and ongoing stakeholder engagement. We remain keen to explore more opportunities to gather internal and external feedback, not only on our sustainability report, but more importantly on our sustainability roadmap and the steps that we have taken to implement sustainability into our business. 11 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES Materiality Our materiality process this year has been further shaped by the United Nations and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs build on the 2000-2015 Millennium Development Goals, which were designed to combat poverty, gender inequality and access to water and sanitation. The SDGs are linked to a broader 2030 Sustainability Agenda to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all. MATERIAL ASPECTS FOR CRESCENT ENTERPRISES IN 2015 UN SUSTAINABLE HEALTH PEACE, JUSTICE AND DEVELOPMENT STRONG INSTITUTIONS GOAL DESCRIPTION Ensure healthy lives and Promote peaceful and inclusive promote well-being for all societies for sustainable at all ages. development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. OUR IMPACT AND We invest in the healthcare sector We believe good governance CONTRIBUTIONS through our operating business is a necessary element for a Clinical Pathology Services and more sustainable company. through our investment in TVM At Crescent Enterprises, we Capital Healthcare Partners, value transparency and integrity. a healthcare-focused fund. This is deeply rooted in our Our Occupational Health & Safety company’s culture and values practices foster the protection and it is continuously shared with of our employees at work. We others through our Partnerships. provide Crescent Enterprises employees and their dependants with the highest level of medical care that is available. CRESCENT ENTERPRISES PILLAR REFERENCE Enabling Talent Enabling Ethical Business GRI G4 • Employment and well-being • Anti-corruption and bribery MATERIAL ASPECTS • Occupational health and safety • Governance • Regulatory compliance Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Each goal has speciﬁc targets to be achieved over the next 15 years. We have mapped our sustainability strategy and reporting Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to the SDGs that are most in line with our operations and societal impacts. The infographic below illustrates our impact and contribution to society based on the relevant SDGs. This year’s report focuses on the drivers that will help Crescent Enterprises evolve to a more sustainable and resilient organisation. PARTNERSHIPS EDUCATION GENDER EQUALITY AND WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT Help to revitalise Ensure inclusive and equitable Achieve gender equality and the global partnership for quality education and empower all women and girls. sustainable development and promote lifelong learning look to strengthen the means opportunities for all. of implementation. Crescent Enterprises has partnered We support many educational Crescent Enterprises is a with many organisations and initiatives through its corporate signatory of the UN Women’s institutions in the region as well citizenship programmes. We Empowerment Principles to as at a global level over the past value education at all levels promote gender equality. We years to promote transparency and and this is reﬂected in our have a number of policies in lasting changes, including the Pearl programmes and partnerships place to support women in the Initiative, the World Economic Forum targeted at children, graduates, workplace, including leadership and the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles to enhance women’s entrepreneurs and Crescent and learning opportunities and participation in economic activity. Enterprises’ employees. maternity beneﬁts. We also partnered with educational institutions to promote learning and mentoring, such as Education for Employment, Ashoka and Cherie Blair Foundation initiatives. Enabling Enabling a Enabling a Ethical Business Stronger Society Stronger Society Enabling Talent Enabling Talent Enabling Talent • Governance • Training and career • Employment development • Supporting entrepreneurs and SMEs 13 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES Materiality continued MATERIAL ASPECTS FOR CRESCENT ENTERPRISES IN 2015 ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH INFRASTRUCTURE AND INDUSTRIALISATION Ensure access to affordable, Promote sustained, and inclusive Build resilient infrastructure, reliable, sustainable economic growth, full and promote inclusive and sustainable and modern energy for all. productive employment and industrialisation and foster good working conditions for all. innovation. Through our businesses, All Crescent Enterprises’ We invest in power infrastructure we have been contributing operating businesses contribute through Uruk and transport towards the accessibility towards economic growth in infrastructure through Gulftainer of energy. Uruk has added their countries of operation. and Gama Aviation. Crescent 1150MW of dependable new Enterprises fosters a spirit of power generation capacity to innovation through CE-Ventures. Iraq’s national grid, with further increments planned in the future. Enabling a Stronger Society Enabling a Enabling a Stronger Society Stronger Society Enabling Talent •Energy •Financial performance •Infrastructure development •Market presence •Local hiring Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CLIMATE CHANGE OCEANS BIODIVERSITY, FORESTS AND DESERTIFICATION Take urgent action to combat Conserve and sustainably use Protect, restore and promote climate change and the oceans, seas and marine sustainable use of terrestrial its impacts. resources for sustainable ecosystems, sustainably manage development. forests, combat desertiﬁcation, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. We conduct Environmental, Gulftainer takes extra Crescent Enterprises partners Social and Governance precautions to prevent with the EWS-WWF to promote (ESG) risk analysis for all new operations impacting the marine nature conservation. Gulftainer also investment opportunities. and terrestrial environment. collaborates with the EWS-WWF Gama aviation has energy for turtle conservation. and emissions management Environmental impact assessments procedures in place. are conducted prior to considering any new projects at Gulftainer, Uruk and Gama to take preventative measures in reducing environmental impacts. Enabling Enabling Enabling Stewardship Stewardship Stewardship of the Planet of the Planet of the Planet •Energy and Emissions •Biodiversity •Biodiversity 15 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES Progress on our Sustainability Roadmap Our vision Enabling Ethical Business Our Pillars Enabling responsible business operations through strong commitment to transparency and accountability Our Themes • Governance • Anti-corruption • Compliance RAVI KUMAR • Supply chain management Executive Director and Chair of Sustainability Committee Our Goals To establish common systems and policies related to governance, transparency and accountability across Crescent Enterprises’ “Crescent Enterprises has successfully operating businesses established the foundation for running Material aspects: Anti-corruption and bribery, Governance, a sustainable organisation, with the Regulatory compliance guidance of our three-year roadmap set in 2014. Understanding that sustainability is a business imperative, Our • Established a Sustainability Committee we had set realistic but far-reaching Achievements • Introduced a new code of ethics targets to stay committed and have • Developed an anti-corruption programme at Crescent Enterprises made an encouraging start. We in 2015 • Full compliance with rules and regulations achieved across have identiﬁed the need to track our Crescent Enterprises and operating businesses progress more accurately in some • Incorporated ESG criteria into our strategic opportunity identiﬁcation process areas and plan for improved monitoring • As a member of the World Economic Forum’s Middle East and North standards next year. We have also set Africa Regional Business Council, Crescent Enterprises contributed out a host of initiatives and training towards the development of ‘Corporate Governance for for 2016 and 2017, aimed at improving Competitiveness in the Middle East and North Africa,’ a report our performance going forward.” covering analysis and policy recommendations for corporate governance in the region • Supply chain policy, code of ethics, prequaliﬁcation and evaluation in place at Crescent Enterprises In 2014, Crescent Enterprises developed Plans for 2016 • Enhance risk management function and adapt ESG risk a sustainability roadmap to achieve management evaluation its vision of Enabling Sustainable • Roll out anti-corruption training to Crescent Enterprises employees and then to operating businesses’ employees Growth. Based on analysis of Crescent • Build further skills and sustainability knowledge within Crescent Enterprises and our operating Enterprises’ team in order to challenge historical norms to drive businesses’ material issues, we deﬁned innovation and creativity four key pillars and assigned goals and • Adopt green supply chain practices by implementing paperless Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to procurement in 2016 each pillar to be achieved by 2017. This • Structure stakeholder engagement across Crescent Enterprises table summarises our roadmap, along and our operating businesses and actively seek feedback on with the progress we have made in sustainability initiatives 2015. We have also highlighted our goals Plans for 2017 • Conduct country risk assessment studies for ESG risks in for 2016 and 2017. countries of our operation • Conduct audit readiness for supply chain Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Enabling Sustainable Growth Enabling a Stronger Society Enabling Talent Enabling Stewardship of the Planet Driving the socioeconomic development of Being an employer of choice and supporting Understanding CE’s impact and identifying our countries of operations young people and entrepreneurs opportunities for improvement • Direct/indirect economic value generation • Employee safely and well-being • Quality Management Systems • Local employment • Building a high performance culture • Energy, water, waste and biodiversity • Social responsibility programs • Employment practices • Local procurement (diversity, gender equity) To create a measurable positive impact in To be recognised as an employer of choice To establish a baseline for environmental the communities in which we operate. performance and manage impact Material aspects: Employment, Training Material aspects: Employment, Financial and career development, Supporting Material aspects: Energy and emissions, performance, Market presence, Local entrepreneurs and small and mediumbiodiversity hiring, Infrastructure development sized enterprises (SMEs) • Value generation through successful operations • Better tracking of health and safety information • Energy and water data tracked for select across the operating businesses and strategic at Gulftainer and Gama operating businesses investments in new areas, including technology • Enhanced employee beneﬁts by providing additional • Implemented a stronger waste management • Re-designed corporate citizenship programmes maternity beneﬁts and medical beneﬁts tracking system to create lasting and measurable impact within • Crescent Enterprises signed the UN Women’s • Continued support for biodiversity projects Crescent Enterprises and externally Empowerment Principles through EWS-WWF partnership • 85-90% local procurement at Gulftainer • Tracked employee training hours at Crescent • Gama Aviation achieved ISO 14001 • 70% of Uruk’s small purchases are made Enterprises certiﬁcation at UK operations from local suppliers • Crescent Enterprises updated criteria for employee • 100% local procurement at Crescent Enterprises ranking and aligned behavioural competencies to (limited to suppliers, not manufacturers) our corporate values. This was the focus of Crescent • Identiﬁed partners to encourage growth in local Group’s team away day supply chain development • Gulftainer implemented an enhanced employee feedback system • Expand our geographic footprint to allow • Conduct employee satisfaction survey at • Plan sessions to educate employees further diversiﬁcation Crescent Enterprises on environmental topics • Finalise criteria for corporate citizenship • Roll out Crescent Enterprises Wellness partner selection programme • Identify areas to increase potential for local • Target zero fatalities across Crescent procurement across Crescent Enterprises and Enterprises and our operating businesses our operating businesses • Support initiatives to promote capacity building in communities where we operate • Evaluate the impact of corporate • Roll out employee satisfaction survey • Reﬁne measurement citizenship spending at operating businesses of environmental performance • Evaluate impact of capacity building • Standardise health and safety tracking • Set targets for resource efﬁciency programmes in communities where across Crescent Enterprises and our (energy, water, waste) we operate operating businesses • Assess realistic targets for diversity • Encourage employees’ contribution to sustainability initiatives through workshops and events 17 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES Enabling Ethical Business Enabling Responsible Business Operations Through a Strong Commitment to Transparency and Accountability “Our governance practices provide a valuable guide for implementing appropriate policies and putting the right systems in place, which translate into a strong compliance culture within the company. Our partnerships with the Pearl Initiative and the United Nations Global Compact, to ﬁght corruption and advocate good governance, additionally strengthen our resolve to enable responsible business among internal and external stakeholders.” KIRSTY SMALLMAN Legal Counsel “Research clearly demonstrates Through its initiatives to strengthen corporate governance internally and that well-governed companies are in society, Crescent Enterprises is contributing towards the achievement able to attract and retain the best of the following UN SDGs and the UNGC principles under Enabling talent, attract greater investment, are Ethical Business pillar: more resilient in a volatile economic environment and as a result are more sustainable in the long term. SDG 16 SDG 17 UNGC Good governance is essential in emerging markets in order to create Antian environment of trust for outside corruption investors, especially when most Principle 10 companies are controlled by a single or a few shareholders and where the risks of shareholder abuse are perceived to be high. Companies have real opportunities to attract investors with longterm perspectives by integrating Businesses should Promote peaceful and Strengthen the means Environmental, Social and Governance work against inclusive societies of implementation practices into their business model for sustainable and revitalise the corruption in all and strategy”. 1 development, provide global partnership its forms, including Crescent Enterprises is committed access to justice for for sustainable extortion and bribery to effective corporate governance, all and build effective, development adherence to the law, and the accountable and inculcation of a culture of ethics inclusive institutions at all levels and compliance. 1Extract from a report on ‘Corporate Governance for Competitiveness in the Middle East and North Africa’ published by Crescent Enterprises in partnership with Alissa Amico and the Pearl Initiative Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE The Crescent Group Board of Directors Our internal committees serve as an The key responsibilities of the oversees the activities of Crescent integral part of our operations, fulﬁlling Sustainability Committee include: Enterprises and Crescent Petroleum. commitments to both internal and • Deﬁning the organisation’s It evaluates the strategic direction external stakeholders. They have been sustainability strategy and roadmap; and risk management of the company established to oversee policies and whilst adhering to sound corporate procedures in speciﬁc areas across our • Monitoring progress on established governance principles. At the Crescent companies. This year, the Sustainability sustainability goals and targets within Group level, research is underway Committee has been established to Crescent Enterprises and its operating to assess the existing governance drive the organisation’s sustainability businesses; framework and address adequate strategy and embed responsible succession planning. We remain corporate behaviour within Crescent • Developing business policies to committed to expanding our Enterprises and its subsidiaries. incorporate sustainability within board through independent This 5-membered Committee reports the organisation; and members in the future. to the Crescent Enterprises • Engaging with our operating Executive Committee. businesses and driving the The Crescent Enterprises Executive Committee oversees the activities understanding and uptake of Crescent Enterprises’ operating of sustainability at all levels businesses. Their role includes of the organisation. performing strategic reviews, assessing capital resources, and evaluating investment and operational opportunities. 19 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES CRESCENT GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS HAMID JAFAR MAJID JAFAR BADR JAFAR Chairman Vice Chairman Managing Director RAZAN JAFAR NEERAJ AGRAWAL RAVI KUMAR Director Director Director CRESCENT ENTERPRISES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE BADR JAFAR NEERAJ AGRAWAL RAVI KUMAR CEO Executive Director Executive Director CRESCENT ENTERPRISES INVESTMENT COMMITTEE NEERAJ AGRAWAL RAVI KUMAR TUSHAR SINGHVI Executive Director Executive Director VP, Corporate Development and Investments CRESCENT ENTERPRISES HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE BADR JAFAR RAVI KUMAR RENE HANSEN CEO Executive Director Director, Human Resources CRESCENT ENTERPRISES SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE RAVI KUMAR NEERAJ AGRAWAL RENE HANSEN Executive Director and Executive Director Director, Chair of Sustainability Human Resources Commitee OLA AL HAJ HUSSAIN GHADA ABDELKADER Manager, Corporate Manager, Corporate Citizenship Development and Investments CRESCENT ENTERPRISES CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP COMMITTEE OLA AL HAJ HUSSAIN AMAR MAJALI ANANTH ACHAMTA Manager, Corporate Manager, Communications Head of Accounts Citizenship KIRSTY SMALLMAN GHADA ABDELKADER Legal Counsel Manager, Corporate Development and Investments Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PEARL INITIATIVE As a founding member of the Pearl Further key achievements of the year As part of the anti-corruption and good Initiative, the private sector-led include holding the inaugural Regional governance efforts, the Pearl Initiative non-proﬁt organisation developed in Forum for the Pearl Initiative and the conducted two major events this year; partnership with the United Nations United Nations Global Compact under the Roundtables on Anti-Corruption Office of Partnerships, Crescent the theme Corporate Accountability and a competition for students to Enterprises continues to advocate for Matters. The landmark Forum identify best practices in ethical greater transparency, accountability was attended by more than 600 behaviour. Through its Student Case and best business practices in the Gulf international and regional business Study Competitions, university business Region. By actively working alongside leaders and helped to enhance the students across the Arabian Gulf were Pearl Initiative’s management team, role of the Private Sector in advancing encouraged to research, write and we play a vital role in engaging with corporate sustainability and responsible submit case studies highlighting good and encouraging the private sector business practices. During 2015, the corporate governance practices they and stakeholders to adopt and spread Pearl Initiative expanded the scope of ﬁnd in companies in their respective these principles across the region. its existing programmes with a new countries. Apart from building an As a member of the World Economic three-year collective action programme important collection of regionally Forum’s MENA Regional Business to raise awareness and encourage applicable corporate governance Council, Crescent Enterprises and the the adoption of integrity practices in practices, this programme ensures that Pearl Initiative contributed towards the businesses across the Gulf Region in the intrinsic value of ethical behaviour development of ‘Corporate Governance collaboration with the Siemens Integrity is a key part of a business education. for Competitiveness in the Middle East Initiative. In addition, to promote and North Africa,’ a report covering Integrated Thinking and Reporting analysis and policy recommendations in the Private Sector across the Gulf for corporate governance in the region. Region, the Pearl Initiative signed a The report ﬁndings were planned to Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) be presented at the World Economic with His Royal Highness The Prince of Forum in Davos. Wales’s Accounting for Sustainability Project (A4S) and held two high level round table events to engage with leaders on the importance of this type of reporting for the Private Sector in the Gulf Region. The Pearl Initiative also delivered a high-level Executive Education Programme jointly with Cambridge University Judge Business School on “Leadership and Trust”. 21 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES In just ﬁve years, the Pearl Initiative private sector that embraces good ROUND TABLE ON has amassed an extensive list of governance as a pillar for sustainable ANTI CORRUPTION achievements in line with its pursuit growth, the Pearl Initiative has engaged In 2015, the Pearl Initiative held to shaping a thriving economy in the the following stakeholders Gulf Region. Underpinned by a strong on governance topics: two successful Anti-corruption Roundtable Forums aiming to share insights and knowledge, and help improve policies and actions to mitigate the risk of possible corrupt practices within organisations. The 5,480 178 7 business leader speakers regional insight “Corporate Integrity, Transparency participants reports and Competitiveness” Forum was held with Asharqia Chamber of Commerce in Dammam on 13 September. The “Raising AntiCorruption Standards in the Gulf Region” Forum in collaboration with the World Economic Forum and the United Nations Global Compact, UAE Local Network was 65 roundtable forums 5,980 students reached 25 universities engaged held in Dubai on 28 October. across the region Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Anti-corruption and compliance Crescent Enterprises has deﬁned a new code of ethics that contains seven key ethical elements which employees must comply with to help maintain a professional and effective work environment. Code of ethics Conﬁdentiality and Conﬁdentiality and security of information is a top priority security of information Employees are expected to treat all information acquired in the course of work as conﬁdential Correspondence Guidelines for the professional use of company-provided tools for communication Anti-bribery and Conducting ourselves professionally, and with integrity in all of our business dealings and relationships corruption Uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in all jurisdictions in which we operate Gifts, entertainment Gifts, entertainment and hospitality are not permitted unless reasonable, justiﬁable and made in good faith and hospitality Intellectual Protecting intellectual property rights by observing the Company’s procedures and standards property rights Prohibition of insider We strictly prohibit insider dealing, which is the act of executing trading decisions based on nonpublic information dealing Anti-retaliation We do not tolerate retaliation against anyone who, in good faith, raises a concern, question or complaint about misconduct and wrongdoing, even if it turns out to be unfounded Conﬁdentiality and security of information in addition to anti-bribery and anti-corruption measures are some of the most important components of UNGC the code of ethics. The purpose behind the code is to: Anti-corruption • Improve decision making process at all levels to ultimately Principle 10 improve transparency • Reduce ambiguity and individual perceptions with regards to ethical standards to create a cohesive understanding of the company’s ethical framework Businesses should work against corruption • Protect the Company’s reputation against legal disputes in the event in all its forms, including of a breach of ethics extortion and bribery. • Enhance the Company’s brand and level of interaction with external stakeholders 23 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES THE ROLE MODEL POLICY FOR Objectives covered by the anti-corruption programme: POSITIVE CHANGE We strongly believe in a system that • Ensuring commitment and • Implementing effective measures encourages positive reinforcement to accountability at all levels of to prevent incidents occurring and promote long-term behavioural change. Crescent Enterprises in relation managing bribery, corruption and At Crescent Enterprises, we see merit to anti-bribery, corruption and money-laundering risks in a system that encourages good anti-money laundering compliance • Developing clear policies and examples of corporate governance, • Providing Crescent Enterprises’ simple processes ethical behaviour, and anti-corruption. employees with a clear • Demonstrating commitment and Therefore, along with “Whistle-blowing” understanding of their obligations, accountability at all levels of Crescent for instances of misconduct, our and of bribery, corruption and Enterprises in relation to antiemployees are encouraged to actively money-laundering risks bribery and corruption participate in “Trumpet-blowing” compliance matters to report a good ethical practice of a colleague. The two systems work Gulftainer, Uruk and Gama Aviation harmoniously to promote a solid all disseminate anti-corruption practice for professional behaviour. TRAINING AND AWARENESS ON requirements to employees via policy, employee Code of Conduct and ZERO ANTI-CORRUPTION incidents of corruption have Employee Handbook, respectively. Crescent Enterprises and our been identiﬁed To support the implementation of the Code of Ethics, Crescent Enterprises operating businesses continuously started the development of an anticorruption training programme in 2015. ensure full adherence to national and international laws. ZERO ﬁnes and non-monetary The programme will be in compliance sanctions for nonwith the UK Bribery Act 2010, the compliance with laws and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 1977 regulations and other anti-corruption legislation. A user-friendly anti-corruption manual will be developed, followed by training for all employees starting with Crescent Enterprises in 2016 and then all operating businesses’ employees thereafter. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 MANAGING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN IMPACTS The key areas of focus of our Supply Chain Policy are Crescent Enterprises is committed to • Eliminate and mitigate • Decisions based on total cost ethically procuring goods and services supply chain risk of ownership (TCO) and conducting business to maximise • Health, Safety, and Environment • Build local supply chain value not just for the company, but for and Quality assessment of suppliers and support local suppliers to the economies in which we operate. grow wherever we operate • Reduce usage, re-use and recycle Through our supply chain policy, we wherever possible • Strong long term supplier relations aim to partner with suppliers who share • Be ethical, fair and transparent built on mutual beneﬁts and trust our dedication to transparency and high standards of Health, Safety and in all our activity • Encourage challenge from the Environment (HSE) management. supply chain helping us to deliver innovative and creative solutions We strive to achieve progress in these areas by integrating sustainable practices throughout our supply chain starting from supplier pre-qualiﬁcation through product selection to supplier performance evaluation. We also regularly review speciﬁcations to ensure suppliers are not restricted in offering new and innovative solutions. 25 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES Enabling a Stronger Society Driving the Socio-economic Development of our Countries of Operations “At Crescent Enterprises, we consider not just ﬁnancial gains, but also our indirect economic impact on society as true indicators of our success. Reinforcing this approach, we invest at least ﬁve per cent of our projected annual net cash ﬂow into our new and enhanced Corporate Citizenship programmes that seek to translate multiple levels of positive impact on our employees and the community at large. In 2015, we tapped into new markets and sectors and achieved steady revenues that supported our efforts to enhance the lives of those around us. Each year, the success we achieve on this front, inspires us to improve on past performances.” TUSHAR SINGHVI VP, Corporate Development Through our sustainability strategy Through our investment in infrastructure, and Investments we aim to contribute to the global we are fully committed to contributing transition towards a sustainable towards a more connected world, society. Aside from our commitment supporting national development to the SDGs and the principles of the agendas in the countries where UNGC, we have aligned our objectives we operate. with the UAE’s 2021 vision. We are We continue to enhance our corporate committed to achieving a Cohesive citizenship programme to generate more Society and Preserved Identity and shared value and measurable positive strive to improve the UAE’s ranking in change. We pledge 5% of our annual the global happiness index and human net cash ﬂow towards our corporate development index. citizenship budget. Crescent Enterprises’ new Corporate Citizenship structure will help us to better understand the impact of each social investment. Crescent Enterprises SDG 4 SDG 5 is contributing towards the achievement of the following UN SDGs under Enabling a Stronger Society pillar: Ensure inclusive and Achieve gender equitable quality equality and empower education and promote all women and girls lifelong learning opportunities for all SDG 7 SDG 8 SDG 9 Ensure access to Promote sustained, Build resilient affordable, reliable, inclusive and sustainable infrastructure, promote sustainable and economic growth, inclusive and sustainable modern energy full and productive industrialisation and for all employment and decent foster innovation work for all Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 DIRECT/INDIRECT ECONOMIC well as market and ﬁnancial intelligence. We have deployed US$ 29mn in VALUE GENERATION For example, in the UAE, our growth enhancing the organic growth of our We strive for leadership, global strategy is underpinned by the UAE’s operating businesses and executing competitiveness and purpose in the national agenda, with the pursuit of a opportunistically new investments in sectors we operate in and in the ﬂexible and knowledge-based the technology space. communities we serve, while delivering economy powered by world-class value to all of our stakeholders. Our talent to ensure long-term prosperity for the UAE. Crescent Enterprises pursuit of sustainable capital generation has invested over and social impact will be accomplished Our ﬁnancial performance is derived through a multi-faceted approach. This comprises strategic investments in from the underlying business activities of our companies. Despite a challenging US$ 1.27bn new geographies, such as sub-Saharan economic environment, 2015 was a in the past 5 years Africa and Asia, and additional industry steady year for Crescent Enterprises. verticals, such as consumer-related Our focus has shifted from the heavy businesses, renewables and technology. infrastructure spending, having invested We are committed to actively engaging over US$ 1.27bn in the past ﬁve years, While our employee wages and beneﬁts with our companies and ventures to to integrating packages have increased, turnover drive value creation, by providing our businesses. in Saudi Arabia and Brazil resulted in strategic and operational guidance as lower spending this year on employee wages overall at the end of the year. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED, (US$ mn) PROJECTS AND INVESTMENTS EXECUTED (US$ mn) Revenue Employee wages and beneﬁts Payments to Government (Royalties and taxes) 714 410 404 250 294 167 117 29 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 157 136 137 92 88 79 74 68 14 18 20 45 5% of projected annual net cash ﬂow invested in Crescent Enterprises’ 2011 2012 2013 2014* 2015 Corporate Citizenship *2014 ﬁgures restated as a result of an internal restructuring carried out in 2015 27 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES PROVIDED OPERATING BUSINESSES’ We are optimistic about the overall has aggressive plans for expansion, PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT growth of the transport sector as it aiming to become one of the world’s continues to build on the momentum top container terminal operators in the Gulftainer officially opened its experienced in 2014 with the support of next decase, with a global footprint operations at Port Canaveral lower oil prices reducing overall costs. across ﬁve continents, and handling in Florida. While US$ 5mn was With numerous projects underway air, up to 18mn TEUs. In 2015, Gulftainer’s made as an initial investment land and sea the region is strongly container volume increased to 6.5mn prior to business commencement, positioning itself to become a global TEUs, up from 6.4mn TEUs in 2014. remaining funds will be deployed force in terms of transport capacity and Due to the social and political once business increases and infrastructure. instabilities in Iraq in 2015, Uruk additional facilities are required. For 40 years, Gulftainer has been adapted its operations to focus on Gulftainer invested to improve delivering world-class performance rehabilitating existing power plants, operational efficiency at the to its customers across its operations involvement in the oil and gas sector Khorfakkan Container Terminal, in the Middle East, Europe, Brazil and and supporting projects commissioned including new state-of-the-art the USA. Gulftainer’s investment into by the government. cranes and port equipment. port infrastructure supports open trade, a critical driver for economic growth and diversiﬁcation. Gulftainer Gama Aviation completed the integration of Hangar8 following Gama Aviation’s successful reverseGAMA AVIATION CASE STUDY takeover, which involved the phaseGama Aviation successfully seeks to build further scale and depth out of Hangar8 and JetClub brands completed its reverse takeover into the business while maintaining to streamline Gama Aviation’s of AIM-listed Hangar8 in January a disciplined approach to optimising brand identity. 2015. Gama Aviation and Hangar8 growth. Gama Aviation’s operations ﬁnalised the integration on 30 June provide agility to connect markets. 2015 including a reorganisation of The company’s reliable services Uruk focused on rehabilitation the business into a single entity, and enable businesses to reach an projects for existing power plants, phasing out Hangar8 brand to move increasingly globalised marketplace increased its involvement in the forward as a class-leading service from its 44 locations across ﬁve oil and gas sector, and services to across the world under the Gama continents. projects commissioned Aviation brand. The company by the government. GAMA AVIATION’S ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 CPS entered into exclusive agreements with multiple healthcare providers with lab 15.1% Revenue increase 27.6% Gross proﬁt increase 113% EBITDA increase management initiatives to stimulate business growth. GAMA AVIATION’S ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 2015 (BY REGION OF OPERATION) USA Europe and Africa MENA Asia Paciﬁc and China Revenue (US$ mn) 190.2 190.1 25.1 6.5 Gross proﬁt (US$ mn) 19.1 39.5 2.6 0.3 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 “Within the framework of our Corporate Citizenship efforts, we have adopted a new community development strategy that enables us to go further beyond ad-hoc donations and sponsorships, to a more collaborative approach. The end-goal is to build synergistically with our partners a stronger society through meaningful contributions that resound with our aspirations.” OLA AL HAJ HUSSIN Manager, Corporate Citizenship ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL A pioneering corporate citizenship AND GOVERNANCE RISK model is currently being designed to MANAGEMENT UPDATE inﬂuence, engage and realise tangible In 2015, we integrated Environmental, value and positive change across three Social and Governance related main stakeholder groups: Crescent Enterprises’ workforce, developmental 2015 Corporate criteria into our strategic opportunity identiﬁcation process to ensure longand humanitarian partners, and the Citizenship initiatives term value to our stakeholders. We larger society. The new programme reached out to reviewed close to 100 opportunities will be rolled out in 2016 and 2017. We 23,167 children and from a ﬁnancial as well as an ESG have deﬁned ﬁve areas for spending 216 youth and women. perspective. Besides the expected and our contribution to each area is ﬁnancial returns, our decision to ﬂexible and based on present social invest in Wamda MENA Ventures investment opportunities. For example, Fund was a result of the fund’s social the majority of our spending this year OUR CORPORATE goal of supporting entrepreneurs and went towards Arts and Culture which CITIZENSHIP SPENDING strengthening the technology ecosystem includes our partnership with the in the MENA region. The fund’s core Sharjah Children’s International Film strategy is to invest in high growth Festival and the production of the 5 technology start-ups led by exceptional Middle East Theatre Academy’s play. 6 entrepreneurs. Wamda Capital supports As a member of the World Economic companies in its portfolio by providing Forum’s Regional Business Council for 12 ongoing and in-depth strategic support. MENA, Crescent Enterprises aims to The fund’s approach closely matches contribute towards the WEF’s “New our strategic approach of building Vision for Arab Employment” to reduce partnerships for enabling a the dramatic 29% youth unemployment 56 stronger society. rate in the Arab world. Crescent Enterprises has agreed to equip 3,500 21 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP PROGRAMMES youths with skills and knowledge to help them ﬁnd or create jobs by 2017. During 2015, we revisited our social This commitment is further supported responsibility scheme and updated our by many of our corporate citizenship Arts and Culture 56% plan based on a stakeholder initiatives, such as the Sharjah mapping exercise. Entrepreneurship 21% Leadership Programme, Education for Employment and Cherie Blair Community 12% Foundation for Women. Governance 6% Environment 5% 29 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES Corporate citizenship programmes Enabling talent in art and culture Middle East Theatre Academy The Middle East Theatre Academy (META) was founded by Badr Jafar, CEO, Crescent Enterprises, and celebrity Kevin Spacey in 2011. The non-proﬁt Academy offers a range of creative opportunities for young, emerging artists throughout the Middle East, with a special focus on motivating underprivileged youth, by facilitating workshops, master classes and special events. ‘Home Grown’, META’s ﬁrst programmea joint venture between Crescent Enterprises and Kevin Spacey Foundation offered 34 talented youth across the region a once-in-a -lifetime, expense-free opportunity, to realise their potential in the areas of art and theatre. The selection process was extensive: out of more than 150 initial applicants only 34 academics have been selected. Following the selection, the 18 to 25 year old students representing 13 countries Total Number of Number of Number of followed an intensive two-week training number of applicants 168 applicant countries 13 participants selected for 50 participants auditioned 27 course which culminated in a theatrical performance, including H.H. Dr. Sheikh auditions live Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qasimi, Ruler of Sharjah and the Oscar Award winning actor Kevin Spacey. Total cast Number of male applicants 2/3 Number of female applicants 1/3 Number of skype auditions 60 members 34 The play ‘Dhow Under The Sun’ tackled themes of environmental and social challenges in the Arab region and demonstrated the importance of authentic leadership and was aimed to nurture young ﬁlm and theatre talent in the region. Number Number Age of male ﬁnalists 17 Number of ﬁnalists countries 11 of female ﬁnalists 17 range 18-25 The students got an opportunity to be exposed to a large audience, not only through the actual live event attendance of almost 200 spectators, but also through the media exposure throughout the event. Sharjah International Children’s Film Festival The festival emphasises the inﬂuence that art can play in changing perceptions, and positively shaping the lives of young people through exposure to new cultures and Children participation Film submissions traditions. The 2015 edition welcomed the 2014 15,000 2014 144 participation of over 23,000 children and attracted almost twice the number of ﬁlm 2015 23,000 2015 287 submissions compared to the previous year. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Corporate governance Pearl Initiative programmes • Two-day Senior Executive programme in partnership with the Cambridge Judge Business School to build trust at senior levels. Topics covered corporate governance, organisational performance and behavioural economics • ‘Pearl Initiative and UN Global Compact Regional Forum’ on corporate accountability • Published two very well received research-based insight reports focused on the Gulf Region; “Women’s Careers in the GCC: The CEO Agenda” and “At A Glance: A Practical Guide to Anti-Corruption in the Gulf Region”. • 11 Roundtables on anti-corruption and corporate reporting • Engaged with more than 100 university students in ﬁve universities across the Region through workshops, seminars and high-proﬁle case study competitions. Entrepreneurship Sharjah Innovation week We participated with Ashoka Middle East in a virtual awareness campaign on sensitising the public to the GCC region’s most pressing issues: health, environment, and women’s participation for inclusive growth. Education For Employment (EFE) Sharjah Tatweer Forum Crescent Enterprises continued to provide strategic guidance and networking support, This initiative, which Crescent with the aim of assisting EFE in the scale up of employment programs for Arab youth Enterprises signed in 2014, aims across the MENA region. to empower the Emirate’s future In 2015, EFE organised a launch event in Dubai and began a collaboration with Sharjah leaders with international best Business Women’s Council (SBWC) to develop and empower entrepreneurs in Sharjah. business practice knowledge and corporate management skills. Cherie Blair Foundation for Women 27 potential leaders have graduated in 2015 after successfully completing Our partnership with the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women provides empowerment, the program. mentorship and support to female entrepreneurs. As part of the Foundation’s ‘Mentoring Women in Business’ programme, eight employees of Crescent Enterprises provided mentorship support to women entrepreneurs across the MENA Region in 2015. Education Dubai Cares Over the past 3 years, Crescent Crescent Enterprises also supported Enterprises has supported the ‘Adopt 47 women in a 18-month adult literacy a School’ initiative by Dubai Cares, a programme that focuses on teaching adults Percentage of girls philanthropic organisation working to basic literacy and numeracy skills, whilst improve children’s access to quality also covering topics that are relevant to the 2014 54% primary education in developing participants’ everyday lives. countries. 2015 61% The construction of a three-classroom primary school sponsored by Crescent Enterprises was a catalyst for community participation in Piparkoti village in Students enrolled Western Nepal. It allowed the community access to education, and literacy skills 2014 174 for their children and grandchildren. The school enrolled 167 students (100 girl). 2015 167 31 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES Environment Emirates Wildlife Society World Wildlife Fund (EWS WWF) Bee’ah As an annual platinum corporate member, our support to EWS-WWF contributed to the We launched a pilot project organisation’s signiﬁcant milestones in the past year. Some of these milestones are: in partnership with Bee’ah, the Middle East’s leading EARTH HOUR integrated environment and waste management company, to As the national coordinators of Earth enable employee contribution to Hour, EWS-WWF’s 2015 awareness environmental protection. campaign saw the participation of all seven emirates and reached A recycling program has been around 2.3mn people on social media implemented across all common platforms across the UAE. Hashtags in areas of the Crescent Group relation to Earth Hour made a total of headquarters, for employees to 31.7mn impressions across the emirates. properly dispose of paper, plastic The UAE community also got involved and aluminium, for the initial phase in the Tongue Twister challenge and of this pilot project. donated their support to EWS-WWF through JustGiving.com. CLIMATE CHANGE AND MARINE CONSERVATION ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION ENERGY PROGRAMME EWS-WWF concluded the four yearlong EWS-WWF concluded the EcoEWS-WWF is engaging with relevant Marine Turtle Conservation project, which Schools programme, with the support decision makers as well as with the used satellite tracking devises on 90 of the Ministry of Education, and private sector to help the UAE scale up female hawksbills to identify key foraging sponsorship of HSBC Bank Middle its efforts to tackle climate change. The grounds, temporal activity patterns and East, an education programme that organisation also published a report potential migration bottlenecks. The develops environmentally responsible called “What is holding back the private research data and results improved the citizenship. Under student leadership, sector” that identiﬁed the top challenges overall understanding of hawksbill habitat schools implemented simple innovative hindering companies from addressing and behaviour in a climate-challenged ways to control resource consumption energy and water efficiency solutions environment, helped identify key marine and succeeded in lowering on average across the UAE. protected areas for the hawksbills in their water usage by 42% and energy the region, and will support sea turtle by 17% in 2015. From 2012 to 2015, 45 conservation-related policy decisionschool across the UAE participated in making at national and regional levels. Eco-Schools, which collectively reduced electricity usage by 30% and water In 2016, EWS-WWF will launch a follow up usage by 31%. ground breaking research project – The Gulf Green Turtle Conservation Project – with the ultimate aim of conserving endangered marine species and critical habitats in the UAE and wider region. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 LOCAL PROCUREMENT Wherever feasible, Crescent Enterprises and our operating businesses seek partnerships with local suppliers. Gulftainer and Uruk continue to achieve high local procurement levels. Crescent Enterprises has not deﬁned a local procurement target, however local suppliers are encouraged to participate in our procurement process as long as they meet our minimum performance standards. Crescent Enterprises obtains all of its office supplies locally, with a view to increase the amount of locally manufactured products acquired in the future. URUK continues to invest in building a local supply chain. We are committed to driving local employment and entrepreneurship by working closely with and encouraging local suppliers. In 2015, URUK procured about 70% of its small purchases from local suppliers. Gulftainer continues to invest in building a local supply chain. In 2015, its supplier base consisted of 85-90% local suppliers. 33 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES Enabling Talent Being an Employer of Choice and Supporting Young People and Entrepreneurs “I am happy to be part of a vibrant ecosystem that places value on continuing education of its people. My superiors mentored me towards pursuing my professional qualiﬁcation and I was adequately supported with paid leaves of absence. These initiatives are great pillars of support and equip us for workplaces of the future.” ROGER JOSE Accountant We are actively tackling the regional challenges of diversiﬁcation, and Crescent Enterprises is contributing towards the achievement of the continue to enhance current practices following UN SDGs and the UNGC principles under Enabling Talent pillar: and policies in order to cater to the needs of upcoming generations. Our focus is on maintaining a culture of SDG 4 UNGC equal opportunities for all. We are Human Rights and Labor working towards establishing a more diverse workforce which will support us in our goal to be recognised as an employer of choice. Ensure inclusive and Principle 1 equitable quality Businesses should support and respect the education and promote protection of internationally proclaimed human lifelong learning rights We are particularly driven by the opportunities for all Principle 2 UAE 2021 vision of being the best Make sure that they are not complicit in human in the world in entrepreneurship. rights abuses This will play a key role in unlocking the potential of nationals, and SDG 5 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of enabling them to be a driving association and the effective recognition of the force in the UAE’s future economic right to collective bargaining development through the Principle 4 development of small and medium The elimination of all forms of forced and enterprises in the private sector. compulsory labour Principle 5 Achieve gender The effective abolition of child labour equality and empower all women and girls Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 BUILDING A HIGH-PERFORMANCE CULTURE At Crescent Enterprises and across our operating businesses, we are proud of our employees’ loyalty. This is an indication that as a company, we are providing our employees with the right opportunities for growth and development, and providing challenging and stimulating career paths. Our employee beneﬁts and training opportunities further support professional and personal development. Career and training development programmes aim to promote entrepreneurial behaviour which include: undertaking risks, engaging in teamwork, celebrating achievements, supporting creativity, and encouraging GULFTAINER’S ADDED Based on studies showing a positive new business ideas. This is very much in NEW FEEDBACK SYSTEM AND correlation between a healthy lifestyle line with the SDG to ensure education EMPLOYEE BENEFITS and productivity, Gulftainer worked on for all and the UAE’s 2021 vision to Talent and company culture are enhancing its staff’s living conditions promote an entrepreneurial culture. We viewed as the most important assets through its Khorfakkan project encourage a workplace that supports of an organisation by management improvement project in 2015. The ﬁrst individual entrepreneurship and the leaders. An example of good practice phase of the project focused on two engagement in innovative projects. We is Gulftainer’s Project EmPOWER aspects of the residents’ lives namely believe that the positive attitude and (Employee Performance, Objectives, nutrition and overall refurbishment of the encouragement of senior management Work, Evaluation, Reward) a performance camp. The food menu was upgraded to are key for generating and developing management system (PMS) for employee cater to the different nationalities offering new business ideas. The Executive development. The PMS is based on the a wider variety of food choices. Rooms Committee promotes a culture based implementation of two projects: Enterprise were renovated and recreation areas on internal support and tolerance for Resource Planning (ERP) and a Terminal were created to ensure residents have a risk taking, where employees have Operating System (TOS) and aims to pleasant living environment. LCD screen the opportunity to freely express assess the employee’s performance on an TVs and sound systems, a new pool table, themselves and share their ideas. individual level and team level to ensure foosball table, darts and board games were they are working towards achieving installed. The gym room and sport areas LONG SERVICE EMPLOYEES were extended and received new state of the organisation’s goals. By identifying CPS the art equipment. The second phase of the best individuals and best teams, EmPOWER enables the organisation to the project will focus on upgrading the Uruk build more like them and invest in the living quarters of the camp’s residents right development opportunities for their i.e. bedrooms, living rooms, kitchens and Gama Aviation staff. The PMS is also an objective way of washrooms. The Khorfakkan project was evaluating employee performance which is extremely well received by the camp’s linked to an annual incentive programme. residents with 95% registered positive Gulftainer This will ensure that good performanceis feedback on the camp’s improvements. rewarded and provides the opportunity for Crescent Enterprises career progression within the company. 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% <10 years 10-20 years 20+ years 35 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES To create a culture of trust, Crescent Enterprises’ UNGC employees are encouraged to raise any concerns Human Rights related to any unethical behaviour, discrimination or Principle 1 harassment in the workplace to our Human Resources Businesses should support nd respect Department in line with Crescent Enterprises’ open the protection of internationally door policy. No cases of discrimination were proclaimed human rights reported in 2015. Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit Crescent Enterprises and its operating businesses in human rights abuses uphold all international and national human rights, labour laws and regulations. We have implemented UNGC strict policies through our Code of Conduct and Labour Employee Handbook to prevent the employment of child labour and forced labour at any of our operations. Principle 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour RETAINING TALENT We are pleased that across all regions, employee turnover remains low, a testament to our high levels of employee engagement. EMPLOYEE PROFILE ACROSS CRESCENT ENTERPRISES AND OUR OPERATING BUSINESSES EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY REGION NORTH SOUTH EUROPE AMERICA AMERICA employees at the employees at the employees at the 495 end of the year 15 end of the year 389 end of the year 495 22 361 90 10 81 90 17 53 MENA ASIA TOTAL employees at the employees at the employees at the 3,973 end of the year 10 end of the year 4,882 end of the year 4,064 0 4,942 459 10 650 550 0 710 Employees at beginning of year* New joiners Leavers *Excluding temporary employees Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND WELL-BEING GULFTAINER’S HEALTH AND Crescent Enterprises and our operating businesses are proactive in ensuring SAFETY PERFORMANCE employee safety. The case studies on the following pages highlight the measures The safety of our employees is a implemented to protect employees and contractors at work. priority, especially for operations such as Gulftainer with extensive technical operations. Each member GAMA AVIATION’S HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE of the Gulftainer group is responsible for conducting his or her work safely, Gama’s safety improvement plan focuses on increasing performance including taking precautions to through a mixture of proactive and reactive health and safety indicators. prevent unsafe situations from arising. Gulftainer has also implemented new safety management reporting systems to support its existing safety SAFETY STATISTICS 2014 SAFETY STATISTICS 2015 practices. The systems allow for better monitoring of the company’s safety performance. Having better data 0 Number of fatalities 0 Number of fatalities enables Gulftainer’s management to be more proactive about managing safety risks, in order to achieve its goal of Zero Harm to People or the Environment. per 100,000 hours per 100,000 hours During 2015, a Gulftainer employee lost his life working at the Sharjah Container Terminal which, despite adhering to the highest industry safety standards, happened in 0.22 Lost time in hours 0.007 Lost time in hours due to connection with the operation of a ship to shore crane. Gulftainer deeply regrets the loss of life and the HSE and Engineering departments have due to accidents per accidents per 100,000 hours conducted a thorough investigation and implemented further actions to 100,000 hours prevent such incidents in the future. We will spare no effort to continuously educate and train all staff members as well as work with our suppliers to 526 404 build an even stronger safety culture to prevent any such incidents from happening. Building a stronger safety culture has moved to the top of our Number of reportable Number of reportable strategic agenda for next year. accidents per 100,000 hours accidents per 100,000 hours GULFTAINER’S HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE AT UAE PORTS* Number of lost 48% Percentage of corrective 75% Percentage of corrective 2014 time injuries 10 2015 9 actions closed within 60 days actions closed within 60 days Lost time injury frequency rate per 1,000,000 hours 2014 2.53 2015 2.11 *Sharjah Container Terminal and Khorfakkan Container Terminal only 37 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES (DIVERSITY, In line with our commitment to the GENDER EQUITY) AND LOCAL HIRING WEP, our female and male employees ACHIEVING WOMEN’S were given equal access to education EMPOWERING DIVERSITY and training programmes. In 2015, 40% FORUM 2015 of Crescent Enterprises’ participants Commitment to the UN Global in training programmes were female Crescent Enterprises Compact’s Women’s employees. Two Crescent Enterprises presented suggestions Empowerment Principles (WEP) female employees were also for women entrepreneurs Gender diversity is important for encouraged to pursue professional seeking investment support businesses to provide services that qualiﬁcations with the beneﬁt of a meet the needs of all stakeholders. two weeks’ fully paid study leave. from business leaders at We are committed to ensuring all Across the world, many women this prestigious forum. employees are selected on the basis struggle to balance the pressure The theme of the forum of their relevant merits and abilities of work when starting a family and was to identify ways to and given the fair opportunities for Crescent Enterprises has implemented several policies to support working remove barriers that female promotion within the company. mothers. At Crescent Enterprises, entrepreneurs often face female colleagues are entitled to ﬁfty when accessing funding Crescent Enterprises’ Equal (50) full-paid working days (around Opportunities Policy 65-70 calendar days) of maternity in the region. The forum It is our policy as an employer to leave for one or more years of service, was a good platform for treat all people equally, irrespective which is more than the UAE labour law Crescent Enterprises to entitlement. Furthermore, Crescent of race, ethnic origin, gender, marital promote gender equality Enterprises provides comprehensive or parental status, faith, disability, in the ﬁnancial sector and medical coverage for female employees age or political believe. In line with that includes preand post-natal care. understand the challenges our policy, employees of same New fathers at Crescent Enterprises are female entrepreneurs in the grades are paid equally irrespective provided ﬁve days of paternity of their gender. leave to support their families. region face. Our adoption of the seven UNGC UNGC Women’s Empowerment Principles Labour Principle 6 this year will put gender issues at the heart of our decision making going forward. This report serves as an interim Communication on Progress The elimination of as we have not yet completed one discrimination in respect year of implementing the Principles. of employment and We plan to collect more information occupation to report our progress against the principles next year. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 WOMEN’S Establish high-level Treat all women and corporate leadership men fairly at work EMPOWERMENT for gender equality Respect and support PRINCIPLES human rights and nondiscrimination Ensure the health, Promote education, safety and welltraining and being of all women professional and men workers development for women Implement enterprise Promote equality Measure and publicly development, supply through community reporton progress chain and marketing initiatives and to receive gender practices that advocacy equality empower women We strongly encourage female PROMOTING LOCAL HIRING employee participation in local business Insofar as possible, Crescent networks, especially those focusing on building awareness, educating, Enterprises and our operating promoting opportunities and enhancing businesses seek to develop the capacity positive change in the community of the communities in which we work, towards the acceptance of women in through hiring, training or capacity business through empowering women building. Through our partnerships with and motivating them to be productive local, regional and global entities, members of the society and economy. we commit to equipping 3,500 youth Going forward, we will continue to in the MENA Region with required explore ways of increasing gender skills to help them ﬁnd or create jobs equality, including ensuring that there are enough female as well as male by 2017. We will work alongside our candidates for new job openings, corporate citizenship partners to allowing ﬂexible hours and revising deliver soft skills and technical training maternity leave. Crescent Enterprises’ programmes aimed at improving youth management will also invite ongoing skills. Through these programmes feedback from employees and we will also provide mentorship and stakeholders on how to create a more internship opportunities for youth and gender-diverse working environment. potential entrepreneurs. 39 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES Enabling Stewardship of the Planet Understanding Crescent Enterprises’ Impact and Identifying Opportunities for Improvement “Our corporate culture promotes responsible consumption. We strive to manage our environmental impact by implementing new initiatives that preserve our resources, reduce and recycle our waste. Our people are key to good waste management and we plan for more engagement to educate and increase awareness on various environmental topics.” SHAURIK MEHTA Assistant Manager, Administration We believe it is our responsibility to Crescent enterprises is contributing towards the achievement of ensure our activities have a positive the following UN SDGs and the UNGC principles under Enabling effect on the environment. We Stewardship of the Planet pillar: can enable this by systematically measuring and managing the impact of our processes and actions. We have SDG 13 SDG 14 SDG 15 started to measure our baseline by improving our information collection to calculate our energy, water, and waste consumption, as well as our impact on biodiversity wherever we operate. Through the use of environmental and quality management systems, we Take urgent action to Conserve and sustainably would like to be able to determine combat climate change use the oceans, seas and and minimise how our operations and its impacts marine resources for negatively affect the environment (i.e., sustainable development cause adverse changes to air, water, or land); comply with applicable laws, regulations, and other environmentally UNGC oriented requirements, and then aim to continually improve ENVIRONMENT on the above outcomes. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial Principle 7 Businesses should support a ecosystems, precautionary approach to environmental challenges; sustainably manage Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater forests, combat environmental responsibility; and desertiﬁcation, and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion halt and reverse land of environmentally friendly technologies. degradation and halt biodiversity loss Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Energy and emissions This year, we have managed to track A particular highlight is that we Energy consumption at energy consumption at a number managed to achieve a 45% reduction in Crescent Enterprises head office of operating businesses’ operations. energy consumed per employee at the We plan to continue monitoring our Crescent Enterprise head office this performance so that we can understand year. This reduction is as a result of Energy consumed per our demands and identify areas for increasing awareness with “switch off” employee (kWh) further savings notices near lights and air-conditioning 2014 6,527 in the future. to ensure all equipment is turned off when not in use. 3,616 2015 % YoY -45% change GAMA AVIATION ENERGY MANAGEMENT Gama complies with Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) requirements for energy reporting at its UK sites. Gama has also analysed its 2014 energy consumption in more detail to identify opportunities for further improvements. Heating is responsible for the largest part of Gama’s energy consumption, but lighting represents the largest area for energy savings. For 2016, Gama plans to implement an environmental awareness campaign, assess its energy bills and conduct a cost-beneﬁt analysis for the replacement of hangar lighting with energy efficient bulbs. Gama Aviation 2014 audited site energy consumption proﬁle 68% 17% 5% 4% 1% 5% Heating Lighting Kitchen Equipment Air conditioning/cooling Office equipment Other (Equivalent energy to meet the electricity 1,461,464 kWh/year needs of 152 homes for one year) 587,150 kWh/year Amount of energy gama could save by implementing electricity improvements, amounting to £ 80,158 in ﬁnancial savings In 2014, Gama achieved ISO14001 certiﬁcation. As part of its management system, and to support this certiﬁcation, Gama has set performance indicators to establish and lessen energy usage in the properties it directly controls. Having reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 50% over 2011-2014, Gama Aviation is researching additional opportunities to further improve its performance in the coming years. 41 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES CPS ENERGY MANAGEMENT CPS continues to track its energy Energy consumed (kWh) 65% consumption and although the energy consumed increased by 15% over the LAB CONSUMPTION year, the company is still in line with 2014 197,540 its initial target of reducing energy consumed by 35% when compared 2015 228,010 % YoY 15% 35% to the organisation’s 2013 baseline. CPS continues to seek opportunities change to reduce energy use through OFFICE CONSUMPTION increased employee awareness and the introduction of further energy efficient (Equivalent energy to meet the electricity needs of 23.7 homes for one year) equipment. WASTE AND WATER MANAGEMENT Crescent Enterprises and our operating businesses are striving for better waste tracking and reducing the amount of waste going to landﬁll. At Gulftainer, stricter tracking procedures since 2014 meant that more waste was recorded in 2015 for some categories, such as hazardous waste, metal, paper and mixed waste. Waste generated at Gulftainer 2014 2015 Fold Change operations (kg) Hazardous 56,820 111,480 1 Non-hazardous 9,727 514,283 52 66,547 625,763 8 TOTAL WASTE TOTAL WASTE FOLD CHANGE GENERATED IN KGS GENERATED IN KGS (2014) (2015) Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Waste recycled (kg) 2014 2015 Fold Change Hazardous 19,710 16,600 -0.2 Non-hazardous 33,712 247,242 6 53,422 263,842 4 TOTAL WASTE TOTAL WASTE FOLD CHANGE RECYCLED IN KGS RECYCLED IN KGS (2014) (2015) Gama Aviation’s waste is managed by external landlords as it rents, rather than owns most of its sites. Accordingly, Gama does not currently record waste data, except where required by ISO 14001. Gama contracts ISO 14001 certiﬁed waste management contractors to remove waste at Gama-controlled sites but does not directly track data. Hazardous waste generated at Gama Aviation operations (kg) 2015 Low hazard adsorbents 400 Mixed hazardous waste 5,887 Mixed hazardous and commercial 1,680 7,967 Kg TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED IN KGS 43 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES CRESCENT ENTERPRISES’ WASTE REDUCTION DRIVE PAPERLESS BOARD MEETINGS AT CRESCENT ENTERPRISES In late 2015 we moved to paperless Executive Committee meetings in a bid to reduce paper waste. Diligent Board has been rolled out in We plan to measure and report on the impact of this initiative in 2016. Crescent Group, Crescent Petroleum and Crescent Enterprises including some of the subsidiaries as the UNGC UNGC platform for creating and distributing the board material in a secure and Environment Environment user friendly manner. Diligent Boards Principle 8 Principle 9 turns the tablet/laptop into a highly secure digital board book. The app provides directors and executives with immediate access to their most time-sensitive and conﬁdential information, along with the tools to review, discuss and collaborate undertake initiatives to encourage the development on it with key decision-makers. promote greater environmental and diffusion of environmentally responsibility friendly technologies. Impact of Crescent Group Crescent Group partners with Shred-it paper recycling to securely destroy and recycle office paper waste, saving forest resources. Number of trees saved We have partnered with the Sharjah by reducing paper waste management company, Bee’ah, waste at Crescent to recycle plastic, cans and materials Group head offices other than paper. Recognising the 2014 161 growing challenge of managing e-wastes, we have also setup an 2015 171 e-waste collection point at our head office. This year, the Crescent Group head Water consumption at offices recycled 129kg of e-waste, Crescent Enterprises mainly consisting of cables, batteries and laptop accessories. Through the Bee’ah partnership, and planned Water consumption per employee (gallons) sustainability awareness sessions, we hope to encourage more employees to use resources wisely and reduce 2014 1,515 waste, at the office and at home. 2015 629 Water consumption per person has also been reduced at our % YoY -58% change head office, although we have not formally implemented water saving campaigns. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GREEN INITIATIVES AT MOMENTUM LOGISTICS Momentum’s Transport division has made signiﬁcant developments to ensure efficient, environmentally-friendly trucking operations. Some of the key initiatives to reinforce the Sustainability Blueprint include: 1 2 Replacement of 60% of the ﬂeet over the last On-going 24 months to have majority of the ﬂeet with driver training automatic gearboxes improving fuel efficiency and reducing asset wear and tear 3 4 5 6 Tyre inﬂation checks Oil sampling Daily vehicle GPS tracking solutions health checks QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Management systems implemented across To ensure continuous improvement in management of environmental, safety and quality issues, our Crescent Enterprises’ operating businesses operating businesses have implemented international standards. Regular audits are conducted to ensure compliance. The management systems will enable us to contribute to global goals linked to sustainable ISO 9001:2008 development as well as national environmental Gulftainer protection goals, such as the UAE’s 2021 vision URUK pillar of improving the quality of air, preserving CPS water resources, increasing the contribution of clean energy and implementing green growth plans. Crescent Enterprises and our operating businesses comply with applicable laws, regulations, and other environmentally oriented requirements, and aim OHSAS 18001 to continually improve performance as per our Gulftainer voluntary ISO commitments. Gama UNGC Environment Principle 7 ISO 14001:2008 Gulftainer Gama URUK Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 45 CRESCENT ENTERPRISES GRI G4 Content Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Description of the disclosure Page Number (or Link) UNGC Disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the G4-1 Pages 2-3 organisation ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation Inside cover G4-4 Brands, products, and services Page 6-7 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Page 6 G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates Page 6 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Page 6 G4-8 Markets served Pages 8-9 Page 9 (employees); G4-9 Scale of the organisation Page 27 (operations) G4-10 Number of employees Pages 9, 36 Nonecollective bargaining G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements agreements are prohibited Principle 3 by UAE labour law G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain Page 25 G4-13 Signiﬁcant changes to the organisation structure Page 35 (employee changes) G4-14 Precautionary approach Page 40 Principle 7 Externally developed economic, environmental and social G4-15 Pages 12-15 Principle 10 charters or principles G4-16 Memberships of associations Page 11 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated ﬁnancial G4-17 Page 6 statements Process for deﬁning the report content and the Aspect G4-18 Pages 12-15 Boundaries G4-19 Material aspects Pages 12-15 G4-20 Reporting content and aspect boundaries Pages 12-15 G4-21 Material aspect boundaries within and outside the organisation Pages 12-15 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 General Standard Description of the disclosure Page Number (or Link) UNGC Disclosures G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information Page 27 G4-23 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods Pages 16-17 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Pages 10-11 G4-25 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders Pages 10-11 G4-26 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement Pages 10-11 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder G4-27 Pages 10-11 engagement REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period Inside cover G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions Inside cover Report is developed using the G4-32 In accordance option chosen G4 core requirements. GRI index is located on pages 46-48. No external assurance was sought G4-33 Policy on external assurance for this report. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation Pages 19-20 Principle 10 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of G4-56 Pages 8, 23-24 behavior SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Description Page Number (or Link) UNGC Indicators MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Reasons for materiality, impacts and the organisation’s G4-DMA Pages 12-15, 26-27 approach to manage impacts G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 27 Coverage of the organisation›s deﬁned beneﬁt plan G4-EC3 Page 35 obligations 47 DMA and Description Page Number (or Link) UNGC Indicators MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Reasons for materiality, impacts and the organisation’s G4-DMA Pages 12-15, 28-29 approach to manage impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and G4-EC7 Pages 28-33 services supported CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY Reasons for materiality, impacts and the organisation’s G4-DMA Pages 40-45 Principle 8 approach to manage impacts G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Pages 40-45 Principle 9 CATEGORY: SOCIAL MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT Reasons for materiality, impacts and the organisation’s G4-DMA Pages 34-39 Principle 1 6 approach to manage impacts G4-LA1 Employee hiring and turnover rates by gender Partially reported on page 36 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided G4-LA2 to temporary or part-time employees, by signiﬁcant locations Partially reported on page 35 of operation SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION Reasons for materiality, impacts and the organisation’s G4-DMA Pages 12-15, 34-35 approach to manage impacts Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that G4-LA10 support the continued employability of employees and assist Pages 35-39 them in managing career endings MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION Communication and training on anti-corruption policies G4-SO4 Pages 22-23 Principle 10 and procedures Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2015 49 Crescent Enterprises Crescent House Buhairah Corniche PO Box 2222, Sharjah United Arab Emirates T +971 6 554 7222 F +971 6 544 7888 cesustainability@crescent.ae www.crescententerprises.com
