SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 Contents Foreword 3 Moving forward in our sustainability work  4 Sustainability governance  8 Materiality analysis  10 Interaction with stakeholders  11 Accounting principles and reporting boundary  12 GRI index  14 Cargotec Corporation More information Porkkalankatu 5, FI-00180 Helsinki Karoliina Loikkanen P.O. Box 61, FI-00501 Helsinki, FINLAND Director, Corporate responsibility Tel. +358 20 777 4000 communications@cargotec.com www.cargotec.com Cargotec’s Sustainability review Sustainability is an integral part of all Cargotec’s into one publication. This review includes a operations, and we provide information pertaining to description of Cargotec’s focus areas regarding sustainability via several media. Cargotec publishes sustainability, as well as a GRI index, with references sustainability information in the form of this annual to relevant information sources where additional sustainability review, as part of the Cargotec information can be found. Annual Report and on the Cargotec website at This review has been prepared in accordance www.cargotec.com. with the G4 sustainability reporting guidelines defined The purpose of this review is to comply with the by the global reporting initiative GRI. The review international GRI G4 framework and summarise the corresponds to the core option in the G4 reporting main points of Cargotec’s sustainability information guidelines. GRI in brief The level of detail that is expected from GRI – The Global Reporting Initiative – is an organisations reporting on sustainability depends on independent institution that develops globally what internal or external impacts are material to the applicable guidelines for organisations on how to organisation and its stakeholders. The GRI guidelines conduct sustainability reporting. GRI’s G4 guidelines are available online on the GRI website. for reporting sustainability are designed to be universally applicable to all organisations across the world. The GRI guidelines are available online on the GRI website. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 3 Moving forward in our sustainability work In 2015, we focused on creating a foundation for future sustainability work. Our aim was to continue with the implementation of our 2014 targets and integrate our sustainability work into our new strategy. Code of Conduct s Offering ex Co mp lia nc e wi th law celle an d rul es of so cie ty in eco-effi nce cient systems Hu ma n rig hts an d en vir on me nt Bu sin es s co nd uc t 4 Sustaina Su pp lie r re lat ion s bility demands fo W or k en vi ro nm en t party and r third in in our sph terface la tio ns ere C us to m er re of interes t EVE L IT Y L UR 3 Susta MAsTtainability in ab service ility in operat ions in su 2020 2 Susta inab manufa ility in c based turing operatio ns ring o ff e ces ervi ss s ld -cla d wor Buil on ip 2016 tali sati ersh digi lead Lea d c lass ld ld wor ui 1B The numbers refer to the 2016 targets listed on the following page. 4 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 In 2015, our first target was to create a Cargotecsustainability work, acting as a road map that guides level joint environmental impact evaluation criteria our development. At the same time, progress in our for our products. Mid-year we reconsidered the sustainability targets propels us forward in achieving initial target, as our offering scale is wide and the our must-win battles. On this path, our Code of environmental impacts of products vary. A detailed Conduct both guides our sustainability work and analysis of our equipment and systems would grows stronger by the steps we take in advancing enable us to offer our customers comprehensive sustainability. information about the environmental impact of our offering and match information to meet the needs of Sustainability targets for 2016 individual customers. Hence, we decided to focus Our sustainability targets for 2016 and onwards on developing a specific environmental impact support our strategy and help us achieve stronger evaluation of individual products at Kalmar, Hiab and maturity in sustainability. MacGregor. The second target was to review the environmental, health and safety (EHS) targets for each business area. Kalmar and Hiab reached their Targets for 2016 targets and focused on monitoring energy efficiency in manufacturing units and further improving personnel safety. At MacGregor, re-organisations 1 Permanent sustainability reviews on several management levels: and management changes postponed target Sustainability review is included in business implementation to the end of the year; however, area reviews – review is conducted in the the subsequent progress has been good and work business area management team and towards a high EHS management level is on its way. Executive Board meetings biannually, and The third target was to improve the coverage of Board of Directors meeting annually. our environmental and safety reporting. We are now systematically monitoring all larger units centrally. As we have achieved good progress in our reporting, we 2 IIFR 5: Level 5 industrial injury frequency rate (IIFR) at manufacturing sites — prepare will proceed to set precise numeric targets for safety to set concrete IIFR targets for all service issues at the corporate level. sites by the end of 2016. Target four was to develop our supplier sustainability evaluation criteria. We renewed the criteria as planned, and decided to continue the 3 Service EHS concept setup: Service EHS concept implemented by the end process in 2016 to achieve a more comprehensive of the year to ensure that all Cargotec outlook of sustainability risks relating to suppliers. maintenance personnel have received renewed environmental and safety training. Aligning sustainability work with our new strategy Cargotec’s strategy aims to secure profitable growth 4 Supplier evaluation: Sustainability risk analyses and audit plans for suppliers by focusing on services, digitalisation and people developed further by the third quarter of leadership. Our three must-win battles — Build 2016. world-class services offering, Lead digitalisation, Build world-class leadership — form the core of The numbers refer to the respective notations in our strategy. These topics are also the focus of our the drawing on the previous page. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 5 Megatrends demand more sustainable cargo handling Our sustainability road map is strongly linked to global megatrends that shape the world and transform cargo handling: digitalisation, the growth of the global consuming population, urbanisation, and growing energy concerns. For more information, please see Cargotec’s Annual Megatrends Review 2015 and its strategy section. These megatrends offer us significant opportunities and prospects, in which Population growth sustainability is a prerequisite to success. Digitalisation enables increased efficiency and Urbanisation sustainability, allowing customers to optimise their operations with intelligent cargo handling solutions. As a forerunner in the cargo handling GDP growth per capita business, Cargotec can support the building of more sustainable value chains as digitalisation Consuming advances. population The global consuming population is estimated to almost double in the next ten years. This Energy demand 2018 increases demand for eco-efficient and intelligent cargo handling systems that decrease the load to the environment and material resources needed Digitalisation in the entire cargo handling chain. Urbanisation accelerates global construction activity, increasing the need for urban logistics solutions and adding to the demand for on-road load handling solutions that can operate flexibly and safely in challenging urban areas. The estimated annual increase of 1–2% in energy demand creates a need to further explore, produce and transport energy from various supply sources, which boosts the seaborne trade and offshore market growth. Simultaneously, the limited traditional energy resources and their We sh continuously increasing costs set pressure to our industry to develop more energy-efficient cargo handling systems. This trend is in sync with our ambitions and supports the targets we have set for ourselves. Must-win battles Build world-clas 6 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 Customer need 2020 Leader in t intelligen dling for solutions in o h a n carg Sustainability Better efficiency Safety Profitable growth s Service ip a d e r s h le 2013 Produc ip lead e r t s h Transformation journey Our purpose: ape cargo handling s services offering Lead digitalisation Build world-class leadership SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 7 Sustainability governance Cargotec’s Extended Executive Board is the Our Board of Directors’ roles and responsibilities highest level of executive management dealing regarding sustainability issues and the processes with sustainability issues. It conducts a bi-annual through which such issues are brought to the Board’s sustainability review and approves corporate attention are explained in detail in the Corporate level sustainability targets. Cargotec’s Senior Vice Governance principles found on the Cargotec President, Communications is responsible for website. In 2016, Cargotec is starting a new practice sustainability issues in the Extended Executive Board. whereby sustainability issues will be presented to The management teams of Kalmar, Hiab and the Board in the form of a consolidated sustainability MacGregor hold a sustainability review bi-annually for review. their respective business areas, and approve possible The sustainability responsibilities of the various adjustment needs of the corporate level sustainability corporate and business functions will be further targets to ensure that the targets match business clarified in 2016, and steps will be taken to further area operations. standardise the sustainability work and enhance its Operationally, sustainability is managed both efficiency. at a corporate and a business area level over organisational boundaries. Key responsible Policies and management approach organisations are units working with strategy, quality, The main goals and principles of our sustainability R&D, sourcing, EHS (environment, health and safety), work are defined by Cargotec’s Code of Conduct and HR and legal issues. The corporate level sustainability our policies. The Code of Conduct defines our way targets are proposed, reported on and monitored of working. It describes the basic principles of ethical both internally and externally by Cargotec’s Corporate integrity together with our Anti-Corruption Policy, Responsibility function, and each business area which resolutely prohibits transgression of any kind in has its own function responsible for coordinating its our actions. The Cargotec Code of Conduct can be sustainability work. reviewed at www.cargotec.com. Sustainability targets are implemented and Social responsibility principles are defined in more monitored in both shared and separate processes detail in our Employment policy and in other related jointly by business areas and the Corporate HR policies. The implementation of HR policies Responsibility function. In general, results and is monitored primarily with our human resource anomalies are reported to the Executive Board as information system ZONE, which has been in use one entity. Certain sustainability perspectives, when globally since January 2015. With ZONE we get relevant, are also presented separately as parts better visibility to our workforce, enabling us to assess of other projects. Sustainability issues are always the implementation rate of certain HR policies and brought forward separately if the need arises. processes. To ensure that our principles regarding social responsibility are understood everywhere 8 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 at Cargotec, the Code of Conduct review is also Supply chain management consists of Cargotec included in Cargotec’s Performance and Development Sourcing Council, including business area presidents Plan discussions. and the Cargotec CEO. Each of the three business Cargotec’s EHS policy determines principles areas have supply management teams that report relating to environmental and safety management. directly to the business area in order to better support The EHS policy is implemented within the integrated the needs of the business. There is a high level of management systems, including processes collaboration between the business areas’ Supply described in the EHS and Quality management chain management teams in 11 different areas in standards ISO14001, ISO9001 and OHSAS18001. order to gain synergies across the entire corporation. The coverage of externally certificated systems of These collaboration areas include, for example, Cargotec production sites are ISO14001: 75%; supplier development and sustainability. All new OHSAS18001: 60% and ISO9001: 90%. EHS policy suppliers are audited based on Cargotec’s supplier is also integrated into each business area’s R&D criteria prior to acceptance. The Cargotec and processes to ensure that environmental, health business area supplier criteria are built to ensure that and safety aspects are understood in product our suppliers conduct their business in compliance development to a reasonable level within each with international human rights and environmental individual product type. laws. CR governance and processes Reviews, targets, policies Controls, tools BOARD Coordination, OF development Implementation Code of Conduct tools DIRECTORS R&D processes Sourcing criteria and audits EEB DIRECTOR, CR Comms KALMAR HR HR information system Legal HIAB QEHS QEHS management R&D systems BUSINESS BA AREA MACGREGOR Real estate Communication MANAGEMENT CR Sourcing channels TEAMS COORDINATORS EEB: Extended Executive Board BA: Business area CR: Corporate responsibility QEHS: Quality, Environment, Health & Safety SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 9 Materiality analysis Cargotec aims to report on sustainability issues in a From 2010 onwards, Cargotec’s sustainability manner that meets the needs of our customers and reporting content has been approved by senior investors. We actively involve them in discussions executive management representatives or the regarding the content of our reporting to improve Cargotec Executive Board. our communication. This review describes our The Executive Board has assessed the reporting work and sustainability focus areas, also taking into content of this 2015 review to evaluate its alignment consideration the communication needs towards with our new strategy and our sustainability targets, external stakeholders. Our strategy defines our and to ensure that we report matters that are both sustainability approach, which has set the basis for internal priorities and of interest to our stakeholders. the review. Although no external comments were received from The reported material key indicators are based stakeholders requesting changes in the review, the on our internal KPIs, measurements, processes Executive Board approved the reporting content with and policy statements. To ensure that the review is some adjustments to help define a standard reporting comparable with other companies and fulfils requests structure and ease comparisons with future reporting. by external stakeholders, our current sustainability As our strategy work advances, the reporting reporting framework has been influenced by peer structure will most likely be somewhat adjusted in the and competitor benchmarking, as well as day-to-day future as well. work that involves analysing investor and customer requests. Our sustainability reporting has also been influenced by requests arising from Cargotec’s commitment to the UN Global Compact and other key international commitments and organisations relating to sustainability (EHS) issues. Some examples of our work in this area: in 2012, ten of our main clients and analysts were interviewed for a Master’s thesis on our sustainability reporting, which indicated that although our stakeholders were satisfied with our reporting, they wished for more information on sustainability targets, costs and product life cycles. In 2013, we conducted a Key Account Review of approximately 50 of our largest clients. Our goal was to assess how they report on sustainability issues and to add to our insight into how key customers wish to see us report on sustainability. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 Interaction with stakeholders We uphold open and transparent dialogue with our Cargotec’s online Human Resources Information various stakeholder groups, actively responding to System ZONE is a key tool for managing, monitoring information requests and queries and proactively and analysing data about our employees. Cargotec’s providing information online, in print, and through intranet and its People Portal section serve as a various forms of direct communication. Our ongoing platform for distributing people processes and dialogue and collaboration with different stakeholders ZONE related information. We periodically conduct enable us to identify opportunities to create value for structured surveys with our employees, such our customers and shareholders and provide input as employee satisfaction surveys, and regularly for setting our sustainability targets. Integrity, fairness, arrange co-operation group meetings, target and confidentiality and compliance with stock exchange performance discussions as well as team meetings rules guide all our communications. Cargotec’s and personnel info meetings. main stakeholders are its customers, personnel and Our other stakeholder groups include suppliers, investors. authorities, research and educational institutions, and Cargotec serves investors on many fronts. We media. Cargotec actively monitors global dialogue provide rapid and easy access to the latest company regarding sustainability issues and attends Global information online to support fair valuation of the Compact networks as a member. We participate in company’s shares, and we regularly arrange meetings numerous collaborations with research institutions with investors. In 2015, our Capital Markets Day for in sustainable product development initiatives. For analysts and investors was arranged in London in example, Hiab completed an EU-funded project, November. iLoad, in collaboration with two Polish universities: Our business areas gather customer feedback West Pomeranian University and the Silesian regularly and engage in active dialogue with University of Technology. An augmented Reality customers through, for example, direct meetings, Control project and smaller project collaborations marketing, extranet, newsletters and social media. with KTH in Stockholm and Umeå University continue Examples of new forums set up to enhance customer into 2016. Kalmar’s most significant research dialogue in 2015 include Kalmar’s global Dealer collaborations are with Tampere Technical University, Forum, which provides valuable feedback utilised Finland, with which it has established versatile in setting the business area’s growth agenda, cooperation. Kalmar is also actively involved in FIMA and Hiab’s Dealer Council – a forum owned by (the Forum for Intelligent Machines) and has joint dealers – that has already provided valuable input. projects with, for example, VTT Technical Research Customer input is also increasingly used in product Centre of Finland Ltd. Kalmar and MacGregor development; a noteworthy example of this is Hiab’s both collaborate with Åbo Akademi University in BIG5 range in which customer insight formed the Finland, and both are also active participants in foundation for the entire product design phase. projects coordinated by FIMECC (Finnish Metals and Engineering Competence Cluster). SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 11 Accounting principles and reporting boundary Aspect boundaries within one in the USA and one in the UK. One production the organisation site in India and one in Korea are not included in Cargotec’s sustainability information, presented in the any of the figures, nor are they included in the 2015 GRI table and related materials, are reported from all information. Cargotec sites. Certain indicators are reported from Cargotec production sites. Those indicators are: Aspect boundaries outside the organisation G4-EN3; G4-EN5; G4-EN6; G4-EN8; The Cargotec sustainability review describes G4-EN15; G4-EN16; G4-EN18; G4-EN21; company policies and related management G4-EN23; G4-EN32; G4-LA5; G4-LA6; processes related to certain material aspects that are G4-LA14; G4-HR10. outside of Cargotec Group companies. These include information about our supplier management and According to the Cargotec sustainability accounting our approach to other third party interaction. Those principles, new sites (sites acquired or rebuilt) indicators are: should start the reporting of their environmental and safety-related figures after a reasonable time of EHS G4-EN32; G4-LA14; G4-HR4; G4-HR5; management practice implementation. Normally this G4-HR6; G4-HR10 as well as G4-24-G4-27. has been completed after one full operational year. If production on a site is closed during a year, the site’s figures are consolidated until the end of that year. Accounting methodology, conversion Production sites in this review include 16 units factors, discrepancies (2014: 17). Compared to 2014, the production Economic responsibility data presented in this site in Germany is now included in the review as a review is based on Cargotec Corporation’s audited new site and one of the two UK sites is excluded. consolidated financial statements and collected Additionally, the production on one site in Sweden through Cargotec’s centralised financial reporting has ended and it has been removed from the 2015 and consolidation system. Data has been prepared extrernal reporting. When comparing the information according to the International Financial Reporting from previous years, the following changes have Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. taken place in the number of reporting sites: in the Cargotec’s accounting principles for the consolidated EHS report in 2013, 14 sites were included and the accounts are available in note 2 to the consolidated production sites in Poland were reported as one unit. financial statements. In 2014, the Polish sites started reporting as two units due to a re-organisation process. In 2014, two production sites were added to the reporting scope: 12 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 G4-EC1 has been defined and calculated as organisation. Gross GHG emissions are presented follows: in CO2 equivalent tonnes. CO2 emission factors for Sales include revenues from goods and services the 2015 figures relating to direct energy usage sold to customers during the financial year. Sales (GHG Scope 1) are based on Statistics Finland’s taxes and discounts are deducted from sales. fuel classification 2015. Emission factors for indirect Purchases include the cost of goods and services energy usage (GHG Scope 2) are from the IEA purchased from suppliers during the financial year. Statistics publication “CO2 Emissions from Fuel The figure includes also capital expenditure. Combustion” (International Energy Agency, 2015). Wages and benefits include wages, salaries and Conversion factors for earlier years remain unchanged bonuses paid and/or accrued to Cargotec employees for the gross amount figures. Other emissions to air during the financial year as well as social costs of are reported in case the site is requested to have an employment for the financial year. They also include environmental permit for emission release. As the air fringe benefits and pension costs. emissions are regulated locally the calculations are Creditors’ share of value added is presented as based on site-specific methods. interest on debt and borrowings. The base year was reset as 2013 due to The distribution of value added to the public significant changes in the reporting scope. The sector includes income taxes. No deferred taxes are historical data of new reporting sites is not available. included in this figure. The distribution of value added Energy and GHG emission intensity indices include all to shareholders is the total dividend which Cargotec’s production sites in the reporting scope. Board of Directors proposes for distribution to Personnel-related information unit is head count. shareholders from the parent company’s distributable The amount of Cargotec employees by business funds. area, presented under G4-10, is derived from Unit conversions used in environmental, Cargotec’s legacy HR system with the principles health and safety data consolidation are based defined in the Financial review 2015. Other HRon the International System of Units (SI). Energy related data is based on data from Cargotec’s new consumption and water consumption are based on online human resources information system. There invoices or continuous measurements. Cargotec is a slight difference between the two systems greenhouse gas emissions are calculated by using concerning head count information, but the difference energy consumption at production sites as a proxy. is considered insignificant. Unless otherwise stated, When supplier/rental operations at a site use the HR figures include permanent (full-time and part-time) site energy, this consumption is included in the total and temporary employees, trainees and supervised energy consumption. The disclosed GHG emissions workers. We continue to develop the new system to include all greenhouse gases generated from further enhance its data quality. direct and indirect energy consumption within the SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 13 GRI index SR: Sustainability review 2015 AR: Annual review 2015 FR: Financial review 2015 UNGC GRI CONTENT REFERENCE AND OMISSIONS principle GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the CEO AR: CEO’s review G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, AR: Megatrends, Strategy and opportunities SR: Moving forward in our sustainability work ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation AR: Cargotec in brief G4-4 Primary brands, products, and AR: Kalmar, Hiab, MacGregor services G4-5 Headquarters’ location AR: Cargotec in brief G4-6 Countries of operation AR: Cargotec in brief SR: Accounting principles G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form FR: Cargotec corporate governance statement 2015 G4-8 Markets served AR: Cargotec in brief, Kalmar, Hiab, MacGregor G4-9 Scale of the organisation AR: Company key figures 14 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 UNGC GRI CONTENT REFERENCE AND OMISSIONS principle G4-10 Employee data SR: Accounting principles 6 Cargotec employees by business area 2015 2014 2013 Kalmar 5,328 5,219 5,269 Hiab 2,757 2,572 2,823 MacGregor 2,543 2,737 2,354 Corporate 209 176 164 Total 10,837 10,703 10,610 Total workforce by employees and supervised Female workers and by gender1 % % Share of own employees in total workforce 93 18 of which permanent contracts 87 17 of which temporary contracts 12 22 of which trainees 1 29 Share of supervised workers in total workforce 7 18 Permanent employees by employment type and gender2 % Fulltime 98 of which female (%) 16 Part-time 2 of which female (%) 58 Total workforce by region and gender1 % EMEA 61 of which female 18 APAC 25 of which female 18 AMER 14 of which female 19 Total workforce 100 of which female 18 1) Total workforce includes supervised workers. Headcount of the total workforce was 11,749. 2) Number of permanent employees was 9,576. Majority of the work managed by Cargotec is conducted by own employees. There are no significant variations in the employment numbers during the reporting period. G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements Collective bargaining agreements are applied on a country-specific basis. 3 Information on the bargaining agreement coverage is available in Finland and Sweden, where payroll system is integrated into HR systems. 96% of our employees in Finland and 100% in Sweden are covered by local bargaining agreements. Statistics are not available for operations in other locations. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 | GRI INDEX 15 UNGC GRI CONTENT REFERENCE AND OMISSIONS principle G4-12 The organisation’s supply chain Cargotec appreciates long-term and localised suppliers throughout each business area. We choose our suppliers with care and on the basis of objective factors such as quality, reliability, delivery and price. Compliance with laws and regulations, and respect of international human rights are required of each supplier. The decreasing trend in the number of suppliers will continue as business areas concentrate increasingly on preferred suppliers. In Kalmar, the total number of suppliers was around 1,100 at the end of 2015 – down by ca. 100 suppliers from 2014. Approximately half of the suppliers were from Europe, roughly 25% from America and about 20% from Asia. The share of Eastern European and Chinese partners is increasing. The top-50 suppliers covered 60 percent and the top-100 suppliers 75 percent of the supply volume. Currently, Kalmar has 30 strategic global partners, whose agreements last from three to five years at a time. Those strategic partners are monitored by Kalmar’s global Supplier Relationship Management in order to ensure that the supplier requirements are met. Hiab has a total of some 800 suppliers, of which 20–25 are preferred suppliers. Focusing on preferred suppliers enables continuous development. Together with a few selected suppliers, Hiab runs extended Supplier Relationship Management programmes to generate competitive advantages, business benefits and customer values for both Hiab and the suppliers. The top-50 suppliers covered 65 percent and the top-100 suppliers 80 percent of the supply volume. The major part of Hiab suppliers is from Europe (81%), whereas the share of Eastern Europe suppliers is increasing due to the strong focus on the factory in Stargard, Poland. The rest of the suppliers come from America (13%) and Asia (6%). MacGregor has a history of more than 20 years of collaboration with particular suppliers, and the termination of contracts is extremely rare. The number of suppliers leaped in 2013–2014 due to acquisitions and was approximately 900 at the end of 2015. The top-50 suppliers covered 65 percent and the top-100 suppliers 75 percent of the supply volume. Over 70% of the supplier volume was from Asia. G4-13 Significant changes during the AR: Kalmar, Hiab, MacGregor reporting period FR: Board of Director’s report G4-14 Precautionary approach Cargotec has signed the Global Compact, which includes the principle on precautionary approach. Additionally, Cargotec’s environmental, health and safety policy defines the precautionary approach as the basic objective of Cargotec EHS work. G4-15 External characters, principles and • United Nations initiative “Global Compact” initiatives • UN Declaration of Human Rights • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises • ICC Business Charter • Clinton Global Initiative • Baltic Sea Action Group All initiatives are voluntary and multi-stakeholder in nature. G4-16 Memberships in associations • Baltic Sea Action Group (BSAG) • Center of Maritime Technologies (CMT) • Finnish Industrial Internet Forum (FIIF) • Finnish Marine Industries • Finnish Metals and Engineering Competence Cluster (FIMECC) • German Engineering Federation (VDMA): Marine Equipment and Systems • Global Compact Nordic Network • ICC Finland • Norwegian Offshore & Drilling Engineering (NODE) • Port Equipment Manufacturers Association (PEMA) IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 List of entities in the consolidated FR: Consolidated financial statements (IFRS) financial statement G4-18 Defining the report content and the SR: Materiality analysis aspect boundaries 16 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 | GRI INDEX UNGC GRI CONTENT REFERENCE AND OMISSIONS principle G4-19 Material aspects identified SR: Accounting principles and reporting boundary LIST OF MATERIAL ASPECTS IDENTIFIED: Economic: Economic performance Environmental: Energy, Water, Emissions, Effluents and waste, Supplier environmental assessment, Environmental grievance mechanisms Social: Labour practice and decent work: Employment, Labour/management relations, Occupational health and safety, Training and education, Diversity and equal opportunity, Supplier assessment for labour practices, Labour practices grievance mechanisms Human rights: Freedom of association and collective bargaining, Child labour, Forced or compulsory labour, Supplier human rights assessment, Human rights grievance mechanism; Society: Anti-corruption, Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Product responsibility: Customer health and safety, Product and service labeling G4-20 Aspect boundary within the SR: Accounting principles and reporting boundary organisation G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the SR: Accounting principles and reporting boundary organisation G4-22 The effect of restatements of There are a few changes related to environmental and safety figures from 2013 information provided in previous and 2014, but effect of these restatements in total figures is minor. reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous SR: Accounting principles and reporting boundary reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged SR: Interaction with stakeholders G4-25 Identificaton and selection of SR: Interaction with stakeholders stakeholders G4-26 Approach to stakeholders SR: Interaction with stakeholders engagement G4-27 Response to key topics and SR: Interaction with stakeholders, Materiality analysis concerns raised In addition to ongoing dialogue, certain issues regarding Cargotec’s operations and responsible business have been given special attention. We have been open and transparent in these discussions and wish to continue to do so in the future. Our interaction with employees builds a foundation for both innovations and a committed workforce. We receive highly valuable feedback from our employees. Structured methods of gathering employee feedback include our employee engagement survey Compass. In 2015 Compass received an 86% response rate (2014: 75%). Among other things, 2015 Compass results show that employee engagement has increased slightly from the previous year, from 69% to 70% in 2015. Overall work satisfaction level was now 66% (2014: 62%). Based on our employee feedback, their understanding, belief and commitment to the future strategies of our business areas has consistently increased and employees find the development of our Customer Focus as positive. Still, there is room for improvement in both of these areas and we will continue efforts to develop these aspects of our operations. Cargotec has also commented on United Against Nuclear Iran’s discussion about Cargotec equipment, which has been sold to Iran via second-hand channels not controlled by Cargotec and reportedly seen to be used in human rights violations. We are sad and deeply concerned about the ongoing situation. We have clearly stated that we have and will continue to follow international rules and regulations regarding trade with Iran. As Iran’s trade develops we will assess possible impacts of our actions to find if Cargotec’s operations affect the existence and possible continuation of these possible human rights violations. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 | GRI INDEX 17 UNGC GRI CONTENT REFERENCE AND OMISSIONS principle REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 1 January 2015–31 December 2015 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous Cargotec SR 2014 on 24 April 2015 report G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions communications(at)cargotec.com G4-32 ’In accordance’ option, GRI content This review has been prepared in accordance with the G4 sustainability index, and external assurance reporting guidelines defined by the global reporting initiative GRI. The review corresponds to the core option in the G4 reporting guidelines. See the Independent assurance report. The external assurance covers indicators under the specific standard disclosures as well as G4-10 and G4-11 under the general standard disclosures. G4-33 Assurance See the Independent assurance report. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure Link to website: Corporate governance section SR: Governance G4-35 The process for delegating authority Link to website: Corporate governance section for sustainable topics SR: Governance G4-36 Executive-level positions with SR: Governance responsibility for sustainability topics G4-37 Processes for consultation between Link to website: Corporate governance section stakeholders and the highest SR: Materiality analysis, Interaction with stakeholders, Governance governance body on sustainability topics ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Codes of conduct, codes of ethics Link to website: Code of Conduct 10 G4-57 Mechanism for seeking advice on Link to website: Code of Conduct 10 ethical and lawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity G4-58 Mechanism for reporting concerns Link to website: Code of Conduct 10 about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity 18 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 | GRI INDEX UNGC GRI CONTENT REFERENCE AND OMISSIONS principle SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH G4-DMA SR: Sustainability governance ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated Economic value generated and 2015 2014 2013 and distributed distributed, MEUR Economic value generated 3,729 3,358 3,181 Sales 3,729 3,358 3,181 Economic value distributed 3,627 3,309 3,177 Purchases 2,811 2,567 2,515 Wages and benefits 680 636 581 Interest expenses 21 33 24 Income taxes 63 37 31 Dividends 521 35 27 Economic value retained 102 49 4 1) Based on the Board’s proposal for dividend Omission: Taxes by region/country are not disclosed. Cargotec will develop the tax reporting in line with the upcoming changes in the international reporting. G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s FR: note 27, Employee benefits defined benefit plan obligations Omission: Cargotec does not disclose the level of participation in retirement plans. The development of the reporting will be in line with the the development of our systems and processes in due course. ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the SR: Accounting principles and reporting boundary 7, 8 organisation Energy consumption, TJ 2015 2014 2013 Direct energy consumption 135.54 130.92 117.07 Non-renewable sources 135.12 130.92 117.07 Diesel 30.81 27.02 24.21 Gasoline 0.003 0.00 0.00 Kerosene 0.41 1.75 0.00 Light fuel oil 8.59 6.80 7.35 Liquified petroleum gas 14.64 14.69 18.34 Natural gas 80.67 80.66 67.17 Renewable sources 0.42 0 0 Wood pellets 0.42 0 0 Indirect energy consumption 195.25 234.25 219.36 Electricity 145.73 171.06 163.00 District heat 49.52 63.19 56.36 Total energy consumption 330.79 365.17 336.43 Consumption of indirect energy decreased 17%, and direct energy consumption increased 4% compared to 2014. Total energy consumption decreased 9% compared to 2014. No energy is sold outside the organisation. No cooling or steam consumption within the organisation. G4-EN5 Energy intensity SR: Accounting principles and reporting boundary 8 Energy intensity 2015 2014 2013 Energy intensity index 1 82 105 100 1) Energy intensity index is based on the ratio: total energy consumption/sales by production sites. The reference year is 2013, where index value is 100. In 2015, energy intensity decreased 22% compared to 2014. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 | GRI INDEX 19 UNGC GRI CONTENT REFERENCE AND OMISSIONS principle G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Energy reduction was set as an environmental target in Kalmar and Hiab business areas. Kalmar reached its target of reducing energy consumption by 2%. Reduction of Kalmar’s total energy consumption was 14.48 TJ, and total indirect and direct energy consumption decreased 10% from the 2014 level. In Hiab the target was to continuously improve energy efficiency. Hiab’s energy savings were 40.18 TJ, and decrease in total energy consumption was 19% from the 2014 level. Reduction in Hiab was mostly due to changes in production footprint and related changes in the reporting boundary. A more comprehensive example on Cargotec’s energy consumption is given in the energy intensity index, which represents the energy consumption in proportion to sales. G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements There is no industrial standard currently existing for evaluating the 8, 9 of products and services environmental impacts of any of the Cargotec products or services. The Cargotec product range is wide, which increases the difficulty in having one evaluation methodology or same parameters to evaluate all products or services. Therefore, business areas have developed evaluation methodologies and related parameters as per individual products and/or services, when required by customers, regulation or other market development need. We do not publish calculation methodologies or detailed information about the technical achievements due to business secrets. Energy reductions are presented as percentage as it gives a better perspective to the scale of reduction. Products listed under this indicator are those that have been launched during the 2015 reporting period. Please refer to cargotec.com, kalmarglobal.com, hiab.com and macgregor.com for more information about our eco-efficient offering. Kalmar: K-Motion, new drive train system embedded in the Gloria reachstacker. Fuel reduction during usage time up to 40% compared to standard reachstacker. Our estimation is based on the energy usage litre/hour. ASC 5.0. Automatic stacking crane, decreasing energy usage by approximately 3%. Our estimation is based on the MWh/h. AR: Kalmar section. Hiab: MULTILIFT Futura, energy savings compared to standard product are approximately 10%. Our estimation is based on the energy usage litre/hour. MOFFETT E-Series E2 and E4 electric truck-mounted forklifts. These are lithium-ion-powered forklifts that replace the previous diesel-powered models, thereby removing the requirement to use traditional fuels. AR: Hiab section. MacGregor: MacGregor semi-electric knuckle-boom crane. Crane is mostly electrically powered with hydraulic cylinders to control jib movements. With re-generative energy system, the crane decreases ships’ overall power consumption. Our estimation is based on the energy usage kWh/litre. AR: MacGregor section. WATER G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water consumption, m3 2015 2014 2013 7, 8 Municipal water supplies 90,600 87,400 82,700 Sites are connected to public drainage systems, one site has its own well. No other water sources are used. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 | GRI INDEX UNGC GRI CONTENT REFERENCE AND OMISSIONS principle EMISSIONS G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) SR: Accounting principles and reporting boundary 7, 8 G4-EN16 emissions (Scope 1) Energy indirect greenhouse gas GHG emissions, tCO2e 2015 2014 2013 (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Direct GHG emissions 8,100 7,800 7,100 Indirect GHG emissions 24,900 23,900 18,200 Total 33,000 31,700 25,300 Even though indirect energy consumption has decreased compared to 2014, Scope 2 emissions have increased due to changes in the production footprint and related country-specific CO2 emission factors. The increase of Scope 1 emissions is due to increased direct energy usage. Scope 1 emissions include also diesel used in testing, parts of which are left in the product’s tank while the product is being delivered to the customer. No biogenic CO2 emissions. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions SR: Accounting principles and reporting boundary 8 intensity GHG emissions intensity 2015 2014 2013 GHG emissions intensity index1 108 121 100 1) GHG emissions intensity is based on the ratio: total GHG emissions/sales by production sites. The reference year is 2013, where index value is 100. In 2015, emissions intensity decreased 11% compared to 2014. G4-EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant air Weight of emissions, t 2015 2014 2013 7, 8 emissions Nitrogen oxides 2.0 2.7 0.7 Particulate matter 0.2 0.1 0.1 Sulphur dioxide 0.2 0.3 0.3 Volatile organic compounds 54.6 51.4 50.6 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Weight of waste, t 2015 2014 2013 8 disposal method Hazardous waste for disposal 500 700 400 Non-hazardous waste for disposal 1,200 1,100 1,100 Recycled waste 7,400 5,700 6,400 Total waste 9,100 7,500 7,800 Waste reporting criteria has been revised in 2015, which may affect the comparability of the figures year-to-year. Omission: Cargotec does not publish information on disposal methods due to lack of data from waste management contractors. Approximately 40–50% of the waste is metal and aluminium, which have a high recycling rate. In addition there was a small amount of waste generated with no weight data available. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of No significant spills have occurred during the reporting period. significant spills SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that See G4-LA14 8 were screened using environmental criteria ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-EN34 Number of grievances about A small number of cases reported prior to 2015 are still under process 8 environmental impacts filed, according to our own procedures. During 2015, 19 new cases were reported addressed, and resolved through through the Code of Conduct response process. Of these, seven (7) cases formal grievance mechanisms have or should be closed pending final review. Others remain open under an active or pending internal investigation or review process. The grievances are mostly around areas of business conduct and work environment as defined in our code. Due to the low amount of cases, to protect the anonymity of persons/organisations in question, Cargotec does not publish any other detailed information about these cases. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 | GRI INDEX 21 UNGC GRI CONTENT REFERENCE AND OMISSIONS principle SOCIAL EMPLOYMENT G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new Rate of new employee hires and 6 employee hires and turnover by age employee turnover Number % group, gender and region New employee hires1 1,044 11 Employee turnover2 1,350 14 Voluntary turnover3 700 7 New employee hires by gender, % of new New hire age group and region Number hires rate1 % New employee hires by gender Male 840 80 11 Female 204 20 12 New employee hires by age group Under 30 years old 353 34 28 30–50 years old 552 53 10 Over 50 years old 124 12 5 New employee hires by region EMEA 380 36 6 APAC 352 34 17 AMER 312 30 20 Employee turnover by gender, Turnover age group and region Number % rate2 % Employee turnover by gender Male 1,113 82 14 Female 237 18 14 Employee turnover by age group Under 30 years old 251 19 20 30–50 years old 718 53 13 Over 50 years old 379 28 15 Employee turnover by region EMEA 637 47 11 APAC 348 26 17 AMER 365 27 23 Disclosure of turnover and new hires is based on the data on permanent employees. There was no age group information available of 15 persons hired and 2 persons leaving the company. 1) The new employee hire rate is based on the following ratio: number of new permanent employees/total number of permanent employees at the end of the year. For example, a new employee hire rate inside a breakdown group is: number of new permanent female employees/total number of permanent female employees. 2) Turnover rate is based on the following ratio: number of permanent employees leaving the company/number of permanent employees at the end of the year. 3) Voluntary turnover is based on the ratio: permanent employees resigning voluntarily/total number of permanent employees. LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding The minimum notice periods regarding operational changes are defined by 3, 6 operational changes, including national legislation and local collective bargaining agreements. Cargotec whether these are specified in operates in various countries and there is no standard definition for the length collective agreements of notice period. Similarly, there is no standard content for collective bargaining agreements globally regarding the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiations. 22 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 | GRI INDEX UNGC GRI CONTENT REFERENCE AND OMISSIONS principle OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce All Cargotec production sites have occupational health and safety committees. represented in formal joint Employees working at a particular site have representation in their respective management-worker health and committee. safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, Number of injuries by type 2015 2014 2013 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, total number of Back 5 9 5 work-related fatalities, by region Eyes 3 1 6 and by gender Feet 0 6 10 Hands 20 27 36 Head 5 4 5 Legs 9 11 12 Multiple parts of the body 1 0 0 Neck 0 1 0 Thorax 0 5 5 Total number of injuries 43 64 79 Number of injuries by region 2015 2014 2013 EMEA 26 37 51 APAC 7 14 22 AMER 10 13 6 Rate of injury (IIFR)1 , % 2015 2014 2013 IIFR 5.76 9.11 12.23 Injury reporting covers both Cargotec employees and supervised workers. In addition, contractors are included when they are under Cargotec’s health and safety management. In 2015, there were no reported injury cases occurring to contractors. Injuries include lost time injuries, i.e. such incidents that lead to absence beyond the day of the injury. No work-related fatalities have occurred during the reporting period of 2013–2015. 1) Rate of injury is the number of injuries per million hours worked on a twelve month rolling base. Omission: No data regarding either lost days, occupational diseases and absentee rate, or injuries by gender and region. The development of the reporting will be in line with the development of our systems and processes in due course. TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving AR: Personnel 6 regular performance and career Cargotec Performance and Development Plan (PDP) covers 5,884 employees, development reviews, by gender mostly in manager, specialist and expert level positions. Additional PDPs and by employee category outside this group are held as per local practices. The PDP completion rate for the first mentioned 5,884 employees is regularly monitored; in 2015 it was 91%, of which 26% were female and 74% were male. The completion rate for local PDPs was not monitored centrally in 2015. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies Composition of governance Board of Extended 6 and breakdown of employees per bodies Directors Executive Board employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Male, % 86 64 membership and other indicators Female, % 14 36 of diversity Under 30 years old, % 0 0 30–50 years old, % 0 36 Over 50 years old, % 100 64 Omission: Cargotec does not currently follow the break-down of employees per employee category. The development of the reporting will be in line with the development of our systems and processes in due course. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 | GRI INDEX 23 UNGC GRI CONTENT REFERENCE AND OMISSIONS principle SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOUR PRACTICES G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers Cargotec’s supplier criteria include elements to audit the compliance of that were screened using labour the supplier regarding management of labour practices, human rights, practices criteria anti-corruption and the environment. In 2015, the criteria were renewed to further emphasise the importance of these aspects. All business areas have implemented Cargotec’s supplier criteria with business-specific adjustments. Based on audit records, over 90% of new product suppliers were audited regarding the management of labour practice and human rights, and over 80% were audited against the environmental management criteria. LABOUR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour SR: See G4-EN34 practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms HUMAN RIGHTS FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified Link to website: Code of Conduct 3, 6 in which the right to exercise Cargotec’s Code of Conduct and related policies state that Cargotec is freedom of association and committed to respecting international human rights and request the same from collective bargaining may be its suppliers and agents. Freedom of association, abolition of child labour and violated or at significant risk, and forced or compulsory labour are basic principles to comply with. Cargotec has measure taken to support these not identified significant risks related to these principles in its own operations, rights nor in the supplier operations. Cargotec launched its online Human Resources (HR) information system in 2015, which further supports Cargotec to prevent CHILD LABOUR the possible non-compliances with the principles. The system enables factG4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified based, equal and transparent people management and decision-making 5 as having signigicant risk for across the whole company. It improves visibility over our workforce, as well as incidents of child labour, and the speed and quality of our people processes globally. measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour In line with Cargotec corporate sustainability targets for 2016, suppliers will be FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR further evaluated in relation to these risks. G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified 4 as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that SR: See G4-LA14 2 were screened using human rights criteria HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human SR: See G4-EN34 1 rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 24 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 | GRI INDEX UNGC GRI CONTENT REFERENCE AND OMISSIONS principle SOCIETY ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-SO3 Total number and percentage Link to website: Code of Conduct 10 of operations assessed for risks Cargotec initiated a risk assessment of corruption risks in 2013 covering the related to corruption and the operations of Cargotec. Main identified risks were related to the interaction significant risks identified with third parties. There have been numerous initiatives and trainings for key organisations after the risk assessment to prevent the risks. As an example, a new agent appointment process was defined. The process includes several actions ensuring the prospective agent’s compliance with the anti-corruption legislation. Training sessions on the new process were arranged to employees working with agency management. G4-SO4 Communication and training Link to website: Code of Conduct 10 on anti-corruption policies and Cargotec’s Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy and related processes procedures were discussed in the Cargotec Board of Directors before Board approved the documents. Cargotec’s Code of Conduct and the Anti-Corruption Policy have been communicated to all Cargotec employees via several channels. Both policies are available in Cargotec intranet. The Code of Conduct is part of new employees’ initiation. Code of Conduct e-learning course was launched in 2014 and the participation rate on the target group achieved 90% level. Target group includes employees with an individual company email address and access to the intranet. The e-learning tool covers all sub-sections of the Code of Conduct but has a special focus on anti-corruption. The course will be renewed regularly, after which the participation rate will be re-evaluated. The Code of Conduct and participation to the e-learning of each employee is also revised in the personal development plan (PDP) discussion. As of 2013, trainings on anti-corruption have been organised for business area management teams on several levels, and for the corporate Executive Board. Cargotec’s Code of Conduct is communicated to agents and suppliers. Omission: As the Code of Conduct applies to all employees, Cargotec follows the completion rates of e-learning tool trainings “as of number of employees”, not “as per employee category and region”. Additional trainings and communication processes are also followed by sites/events. GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO11 Number of grievances about See G4-EN34 impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through grievance mechanisms PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product 100%. and service categories for which Customer health & safety is the top priority in Cargotec’s offering. Health and health and safety impacts are safety impacts are evaluated in all product categories. The scope of health assessed for improvement and safety impact evaluation depends on the product type, usage, customer demands and existing regulative requirements. The EU Machinery directive and related standards guide the evaluation when applicable; outside the EU, local regulations and requests are followed. Products are tested carefully before being delivered to customers. Delivery processes that need special logistic solutions are assessed separately for possible risks to health and safety. The usage of products is tested carefully before delivery to customers and/or when the final assemblies at customer’s facilities are conducted. Possible hazardous materials used in the components of the equipment are controlled with appropriate safety management practices and safety data sheets. Production is always planned taking into account the special features of produced product safety. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring AR: Kalmar, Hiab, MacGregor customer satisfaction SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 25 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report To the Management of Cargotec Corporation management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of Selected sustainability information that We have been engaged by the Management is free from material misstatement, whether due to of Cargotec Corporation (hereinafter also the fraud or error. “Company”) to perform a limited assurance engagement on the Selected sustainability Practitioner’s independence and information described below for the reporting period quality control 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015. We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Selected sustainability information Professional Accountants issued by the International The Selected sustainability information consists of Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which the General Standard Disclosures G4-10 and G4-11 is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, and the Specific Standard Disclosures disclosed as objectivity, professional competence and due care, Indicators indicated in the Company’s GRI index 2015 confidentiality and professional behaviour. (hereinafter the “Selected sustainability information”). PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies International The Selected sustainability information is set out in Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly the Company’s Sustainability review 2015 and within maintains a comprehensive system of quality control the Annual report 2015 on the Company’s website. including documented policies and procedures We have not been engaged to provide assurance regarding compliance with ethical requirements, on any information relating to prior reporting periods professional standards and applicable legal and or to any other information in the Sustainability review regulatory requirements. 2015 or within the Annual report 2015. Practitioner’s responsibility Management’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance The Management of Cargotec Corporation is conclusion on the Selected sustainability information responsible for preparing the Selected sustainability based on the procedures we have performed and information in accordance with the Reporting criteria the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our as set out in Cargotec Corporation’s reporting limited assurance engagement in accordance with the principles and the G4 Sustainability Reporting International Standard on Assurance Engagements Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements The Management of Cargotec Corporation is Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial also responsible for such internal control as the Information”. That standard requires that we plan and 26 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance Limited assurance conclusion about whether the Selected sustainability information Based on the procedures we have performed and is free from material misstatement. the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to In a limited assurance engagement the evidenceour attention that causes us to believe that Carcotec gathering procedures are more limited than for a Corporation’s Selected sustainability information reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore for the reporting period ended 31 December 2015 less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable is not properly prepared, in all material respects, in assurance engagement. An assurance engagement accordance with the Reporting criteria. involves performing procedures to obtain evidence When reading our assurance report, the inherent about the amounts and other disclosures in the limitations to the accuracy and completeness of Selected sustainability information. The procedures sustainability information should be taken into selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement, consideration. including an assessment of the risks of material Our assurance report has been prepared in misstatement of the Selected sustainability accordance with the terms of our engagement. We information. do not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone Our work consisted of, amongst others, the else, except to Cargotec Corporation for our work, following procedures: for this report, or for the conclusions that we have • Interviewing senior management of the Company. reached. • Visiting the Company’s Head Office as well as four sites in Finland, Germany and Poland. Helsinki, 10 March 2016 • Interviewing employees responsible for collecting and reporting the Selected sustainability PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy information at the Group level and at the different sites where our visits took place. • Assessing how Group employees apply the Maj-Lis Steiner reporting principles and procedures of the Authorised Public Accountant Company. • Testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from original documents and systems on a sample basis. • Testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculations on a sample basis. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015 27 www.cargotec.com
