annual report 2015 Annual report 2015 Aldesa in 2015 At ALDESA, we offer global construction solutions, custom-made for our clients. Each project is tackled with responsibility, adaptability, solvency and seriousness and with a view to creating value. All of this is possible thanks to the Group’s highly qualified employees who are committed to our values, the company, innovation and the protection of the environment. EMPLOYEES PROJECTS PERMANENT HEADQUARTERS 2.622 3 CONTINENTS 8 COUNTRIES POSITIONING NET TURNOVER OFFICES & BRANCHES 10th 881,5 2 CONSTRUCTION COMPANY MILLION EUROS 34 IN SPAIN DISTINCTIONS Geographic Diversification Operating countries with permanent headquarters Poland Norway Spain Romania Mexico Guatemala 3 Peru India NET TURNOVER EBITDA Spain Mexico Poland Peru Other countries Spain Mexico Poland Peru Other countries 43.50% 43.20% 38.30% 50.80% 37.80% 48.20% 35.30% 46.70% 46.40% 41.50% 28.80% 34.30% 20.40% 18.20% 13.30% 13.80% 12.40% 3.70% 4.80% 5.00% 4.30% 3.50% 1.20% 3.40% 3.10% –1.60% 2.30% –0.40% –1.30% –0.90% 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2015 Annual report 4 6 Letter from the Chairman 1 ACTIVITY REPORT BY GEOGRAPHIC MARKETS 18 SPAIN 54 POLAND 8 We are Aldesa 18 Sectorial scene 54 Sectorial scene 20 Construction 56 Construction 20 Civil Engineering 56 Civil Engineering 27 Building 57 Building 29 Underground work 59 Industrial 30 Industrial 61 Investment activities 37 Investment activities 40 MEXICO 62 PERU 40 Sectorial scene 62 Sectorial scene 42 Construction 64 Construction 42 Civil Engineering 64 Civil Engineering 44 Building 64 Building 45 Underground work 65 Underground work 47 Industrial 66 Industrial 53 Investment activities 67 Investment activities ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITY REPORT 70 Letter from the Honorary Chair 96 Environment 3 116 H DIRECTORY  ead offices and Group Companies 5 72 The Group and the Corporate 108 Commitment to the Social Responsibility community 78 Collaborators 84 Commitment to our clients Letter from the Chairman The 2015 financial year marked the beginning of recovery, and we saw investment in public infrastructures increase in various countries, resulting in a growth in the sector. Although this recovery continues to be slow, the forecast situates growth in the sector at approximately 14% for 2016, for residential and non-residential construction and public engineering works. This year, the Aldesa Group has diversified its activities in the markets where it already operates and this has been complemented with specialisation in our business lines and concentration on affiliates which are already established and permanently operating in some countries. Thus, we offer an added value that permits us to be more efficient and above all, to offer a competitive edge to our clients. Our focus on private clients has also shaped our activity, with custommade projects and global solutions that respond to their construction and management needs. 6 In financial terms, the net business turnover obtained by Grupo Aldesa S.A. and its subsidy corporations in 2015 stood at 881.5 million euros and the EBITDA reached 93.6 million, representing an increase of 30% and 15.5% respectively, with regards to 2014. These results rank us among the top ten construction companies in Spain and Mexico and also give rise to optimism for the future after a period of economic slowdown in the sector. Complementary to the forecast of economic growth, the company has encouraged a culture of ethics and continuous dialogue with its interest groups with a view to generating value in each and every action it takes. The Group’s values have been instrumental in achieving results: Commitment, Trust and Collaboration are the three pillars on which we have built a culture that extends throughout our organisation, by means of specific actions such as the launch of the Corporate Code of Ethics. This GLOBAL project is our goal for next year, and aims to encourage good business practice throughout our entire value chain. Likewise, we have made progress in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility with our adhesion to the United Nations Global Compact and with activities focused on similar organisations which have been promoted by our Honorary President. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Letter from the Chairman Each of our technical, professional and social achievements have been made possible thanks to our dedicated team, which always aims for excellence and success. I would like to thank this great team for all their hard work. This vision is a challenge to our business group to become a benchmark in the execution of global projects that require a fast response, and which are closely adapted to the market, thus generating value for our interest groups and committed and sustainable innovation in management. Alejandro Fernández Chairman 7 We are Aldesa 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | We are Aldesa Our strategy as a group has been to encourage further development in the territories where we already have a permanent presence, a strategy which has transformed us into a fully GLOBAL company. This internationalisation process has had a parallel diversification in the services we offer, and as a result, in the value that we generate for our clients. This year has been one of general growth and business development. We have provided other services in countries where we operate, extended our projects and worked towards specialisation in our core business, which lies in three lines of business: — Construction — Industrial 9 — Investment activities We have decided to be just one, more Global and stronger, ALDESA, without other names or country names, and with the single integrated name GROUP, with Divisions, on which specialised affiliates within the business, such as PROACON, COALVI and ACISA depend, and which has a single general message aimed at clients: “your trust is our commitment”. Our value as a GROUP providing global construction, industrial and energy solutions, depends on our highly qualified team of professionals, who are experts with international experience and who are capable of developing high quality, complex projects with diligence and commitment. A team that has made it possible to diversify our services while maintaining specialisation in sectors where we really generate value, thus making each project unique, with smart, innovative solutions, custom-made for each client. Matilde Fernández Managing Director of Corporate Affairs Grupo Aldesa 10 1 Activity report by geographical markets Activity report by geographical markets 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Aldesa in projects ALDESA is one of the largest building groups in Spain and Mexico, devoted to the development of civil engineering projects and building infrastructures, and also operates in the industrial sector and has investments in renewable energy and concessions. 13 Through our Construction, Industrial, Concessions and Aldesa Home divisions we provide comprehensive integrated solutions made to measure for our clients, who know they can depend on our responsibility, reliability and solvency, with timely delivery guaranteed and value-added on every project. All of this is possible thanks to our team; committed to its objectives, society, innovation and the environment. ALDESA has more than 40 years’ experience in which we have adapted to new market demands and to the needs of our clients, exceeding the strictest requirements for quality, safety and respect for the environment, with a firm commitment to meeting delivery dates. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our divisions LINES OF BUSINESS Construction Industrial CIVIL ENGINEERING INDUSTRIAL BUILDING Electrical installations Unique buildings Optic fibre Refurbishment projects Industrial sheds Residential building Mechanicals installations ENERGY Power lines & Substations Generation projects Underground works Traffic & Street lighting Railways Communications & Systems 14 Concessions Home Roads Development management Education Rental & Sale Courts In-house real estate Sport Operating & Maintenance ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Aldesa develops and executes Projects and ACISA: The division specialises in large transport Building Work, turning ideas into realities. ALDESA infrastructures, traffic, street lighting and security 15 CONSTRUCCION undertakes all types of work in systems. It is a benchmark in the market for the startthe sector, including Infrastructures, Refurbishment, up and maintenance of traffic management centres Unique buildings and Residential buildings. This in major cities. It also envisages the planning and specialisation in the sector adds value to every project development of the smart cities of the future. with innovative customised solutions for every client. ALDESA CONCESIONES: Grupo Aldesa has made a PROACÓN: The division specialises in the construction strong commitment to concessions, mainly through of railway tunnels for high-speed trains, urban metro the substantial growth in recent years of transport lines, roads and dual carriageways, hydraulics and infrastructure operations in Spain and Mexico, mining projects, completing its portfolio with work although new public service operation projects are related to soil mechanics and special foundations. being added. It currently operates in Spain, Mexico, Peru and Guatemala. ALDESA HOME: In Spain, Grupo Aldesa’s real estate activity is concentrated in Aldesa Home, created in COALVI: Coalvi contributes its experience most 2006 in order to operate in the property market with a notably in the specialist areas of railway construction, single brand. It focuses its activity on developments repair and conservation (tracks, electrification, under different public protection regimes. tunnels and infrastructures). Aldesa Home carries out all the activities related to ALDESA INDUSTRIAL centralises all Aldesa’s property development: from the purchase of land for activities in the field of applied engineering, to give development to direct sales to consumers and aftercomprehensive solutions throughout the value chain. sales service. At the same time, it carries out the We design turn-key projects, such as electrical, comprehensive management of property projects for mechanical and special installations, energy projects third parties. in all their stages, traffic management systems, street lighting, engineering and software for airports, and security systems in buildings. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Grupo Aldesa private companies that have awarded the company projects such as the construction of the longest stretch of the Durango-Mazatlán Super-highway, around the technological renewal of a large proportion of the country’s motorways, and the construction of new terminals at the airports with the largest volume of the World traffic, such as Cancún and San José del Cabo. The tunnelling technology exported to Mexico has also made the Group a benchmark in the underground Spain is the country in which Grupo Aldesa was works sector in Mexico, for both its equipment and its founded and has its corporate headquarters. It portfolio of projects. has been the starting point for the international development of the Group, which currently has In Poland Aldesa has maintained its contracting permanent operations in 8 countries and projects strategy, making good use of synergies in different executed in more than 20. areas and its knowledge of the sectors in which it already operates. The company has established Despite the difficult years that have affected the a solid presence in the private and public building sector, the Group has closed the year in tenth market, with the implementation of projects where it position in the ranking of construction companies, demonstrates its excellent construction techniques, consolidating its position in the sector. as well as in the Polish energy sector, both in the field of renewables – where it is submitting tenders for major Data from the EU statistical office (Eurostat) confirm contracts, contributing not only the construction, but that national construction company activity grew also the necessary facilities and assembly work, and by 20.3% compared with January 2015, the largest the maintenance and management of the system’s annual increase of all member states. The Spanish operations and in that of power line installations. It construction sector has thus returned to healthy is also applying its experience and its own technology growth at the start of 2016. in the field of street lighting and traffic management systems, in which it is a specialist. 16 In a few years the Group has succeeded in establishing its position among Mexico’s leading construction Peru is an emerging market in South America with groups, thanks to the confidence of institutions and considerable potential for growth, and in which ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Aldesa can make a big contribution, thanks to its experience in the construction of roads and other specialist areas in civil engineering, such as underground and hydraulics projects, and those related to energy. Aldesa also operates in other geographical markets with very specialised projects, its entry taking place when in-depth studies have been carried out of the business risk and real business opportunity in each of these countries. The complicated relief of Guatemala provides a niche of opportunities for Grupo Aldesa, especially with regard to underground works. Work is in progress there on the civil hydaulics project, valued at 34 million dollars, for the construction of the “El Recreo II” hydroelectric power plant for Genepal, in the municipality of San Felipe (department of Retalhuleu). In Romania, a market with great potential for Aldesa given its experience in the construction and extension of highways and dual carriageways, it is working, together with Comsa and the local company Teloxim, on the construction of a motorway, with an estimated cost of 129 million euros, for the Romanian National Company of Motorways and Highways. The project consists of the construction of a 21.14 km section of the motorway that will link the towns of Lugoj and Deva, in Transylvania. 17 Aldesa is one of the Spanish groups with most experience in the world of railways, which gives it a competitive edge for tenders related to this type of infrastructure in India. In this country, it is working with a very reliable, solvent partner, Tata Projects, on the execution of an ambitious project, valued at more than 600 million dollars and promoted by Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCC), which is run by the Ministry of Railways. The project involves the design and construction of 343 km of railway line between Bhaupur and Khurja (state of Uttar Pradesh), in the Eastern Corridor of the country. The project, which involves two tracks, comprises construction work on 27 major structures, track assembly (with all materials included), earth movement, ballast and building. In 2015 the Group was also active in the infrastructures market in Norway, whose transport network needs to adapt to a growing population and to adverse geographical conditions. The ambitious modernisation programme set in motion by the government offers numerous opportunities to companies like Aldesa, able to adapt to both the magnitude and the complexity of the projects, as well as to geographical and climatological constraints. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Construction GDP 2015 74.9% 17.1% Services Industry and Energy 2.5% Agriculture and Fisheries 5.5% OUTLOOK BY SECTOR Construction OUTLOOK BY SECTOR SPAIN National Statistics Institute 18 Production growth by activity (%) Actyvity 2015 Forecast 2016 Residential building +5 +9 Non-residential building -5 + 2.5 Civil engineering work +6.2 + 2.4 Euroconstruct Forecast for construction sector production Financial year % 2016 4 2017 5.5 Euroconstruct El sector representa el 5,5% del PIB (INE) ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Increase in Industrial engineering, assembly, 1.4% maintenance and industrial services 1.94% GDP 7% Increase in exports Renewable Energies 42.8% Total energy production Installed wind power 23,025.3 Spain MW 2nd place EU ranking Wind power 5th wind power producer in the world 47,721 production in 2015 GWh Coverage of demand 19.4% 19 Installation forecast to 2021 (20% of power consumption) new 8,537 MW, mostly wind and photovoltaic MW Lighting points Traffic and Street 7,964 Outdoor lighting on roads in Spanish lighting. Communication MILLION municipalities and Smart systems Traffic lights Consumption per unit equipped with incandescent or halogen 300,000 bulbs is of the order of 1,250 kWh/year Energy 200 refurbishment MILLION/€ of existing buildings Green projects ERDF Funds 2,000 MILLION/€ Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Aldesa Construction CIVIL ENGINEERING Railways Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value New Levante high-speed Started ADIF Execution of the new high-speed railway access. Madridtrain access to the city of Murcia Castile La Mancha Valencian and reorganisation of traffic on the Community – Murcia Region. conventional rail network.. This includes Section: accesses to Murcia and remodelling and extending the station’s permeation of the railway route historic building, modifying the present track and platform layout, constructing the underground access tunnel, and renewing tracks and modifying their gauge on a 2 km section to allow the access of any type of train to the station. Premaintenance and Started ADIF Maintenance work on newly introduced maintenance of infrastructure, high-speed train line in Villada base area. 20 tracks and trackside devices. High-speed lines MadridBasque country-French border and North-northwest corridor. Valladolid-Burgos and Venta de Baños-León sections ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Extension and adjustment of Started TMZ and TMZ Construction of track on ballast and railway installations Services concrete base. Construction of large concrete slabs to accommodate shipping containers. Preventive and corrective track Started ADIF Preventive and corrective measures in the maintenance in the ValladolidValladolid-Burgos and Venta de BañosLeón section of the high-speed León sections of the high-speed train line train line Foundation of the Quintana del In progress ADIF 11.1 km section with major construcPuente-Villodrigo (Palencia) tion projects for viaducts over the River section in the Valladolid-Burgos Arlanza (294 metres) and over the A-62 North-northwest Corridor of the dual carriageway (160 metres). The prohigh-speed line ject also includes the construction of a covered section on the Madrid-Hendaye railway line (211 metres) and a sidings facility. Formation on the CernadillaIn progress ADIF Construction of 19.1 km of new railway Pedralba de la Pradería subformation including the construction of section, in the Zamora-Lubián five viaducts, two tunnels (Otero, at 1,144.5 section of the Madrid-Galicia metres, and Puebla, at 1,498.5 metres), ten high-speed line flyovers, five underpasses, four overhead bridges for fauna and a sidings facility.. The viaducts at Puebla-Este (756 metres) and Palacios (419 metres) are important features of the project.. 21 Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Railway formation on the 3.2 km In progress ADIF In this section separate routes are section between Lubián (Zamora) envisaged for the right and left tracks. and the tunnel at La Canda, in the The project includes the following major North-northwest Corridor of the infrastructure features: four single-track Madrid-Galicia high-speed line rail tunnels with a total length of 5,039 metres, four viaducts with a total length of 860.5 metres, 395.5 metres of track formation, a bridge over the Porto stream, and six connecting galleries between twin tunnels. Mediterranean Corridor rail link In progress ADIF Construction of a new section of the Madrid-Barcelona-French border Mediterranean railway corridor. high-speed line Maintenance of Madrid-Figueres In progress ADIF Maintenance of infrastructure, track and high-speed line: Montagut, trackside equipment for the period 2014Vilafranca and Sant Feliú centres. 2017 Assembly of high-speed train In progress UTE Assembly of track on ballast. gauge track in Cambrils-Perafort Mediterranean section (Tarragona) Corridor Installation of track in VandellósIn progress UTE Assembly of track on ballast. Cambrils section (Tarragona) Mediterranean Corridor 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Maintenance of the GabaldónIn progress ADIF Maintenance of infrastructure, track and Alicante section of the Madriddiversions in the Gabaldón (Cuenca) Castile La Mancha-Valencian Alicante section of the high-speed line. Community-Region of Murcia high-speed line. High-speed train accesses Finished ADIF Execution of the infrastructure and entering Alicante, as part of the superstructure of the last 1,020 metres project for New High-speed of the Madrid Alicante line, finishing in Railway Access in Levante. Alicante Terminus station.. A 370-metre Madrid – Castile-La Mancha – cut-and-cover tunnel has been laid; a Valencian Community – Region 650-metre rail yard with international of Murcia standard and conventional formation has been constructed, as well as a new departure lounge for high-speed and longdistance Iberian gauge services, and a new car park. Prolongation of line 5 of the Finished Ministry of Construction of 9.452 km of the metro Valencia metro in the section Infrastructures, line: one open air section (8.561 km), an from the Airport to Ribarroja de Territory and underground section (0.580 km) and a Turia Environment of 0.311 km section in a cutting. The project the Government also included the construction of four of the stations (La Cova, La Presa, Masía de Community of Traver and Riba-roja), two underpasses Valencia and a flyover to eliminate level crossings, and the construction of a viaduct over the 23 CV-370 road. Gauge-change facilities in León Finished ADIF Manufacture and assembly of two gauge (Madrid-Asturias high-speed line) changers in the vicinity of León station (going towards Madrid and León). These changers allow the switch from international gauge to Iberian gauge and vice versa of CAF and Talgo type trains as they pass through. The changers are type TCRS3, newly introduced in Spain. Dual carriageways Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Burgos ring road (BU-30), In progress Sociedad 9 km section envisaging twelve viaducts between Villalbilla de Burgos and Estatal de and seven underpasses. Quintanadueñas Infraestructuras del Transporte (SEITT) Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value A-54 dual carriageway from Lugo In progress Ministry of Construction of the section formed by to Santiago, Vilamoure-Nadela Public Works and two dual carriageways: the A-54 Lugosection and link to Lugo Transport Santiago between Vilademoure and Nadela (7 km) where it links to the A-6, and the branch running to Lugo (4 km), from Vilamoure as far as the intersection with the N-540. The project also envisages the construction of eight retaining walls, sixteen underpasses, twelve flyovers, a pedestrian walkway and five viaducts, including the one planned over the River Miño (341 metres). Sarria-Monforte corridor. Section In progress Ministry of Construction of a 9.3 km section from II: Noceda-A Aspera (Lugo) Territorial Policy, Noceda to Aspera in the Sarria-Monforte Public Works and (Lugo) corridor, including six viaducts, one Transport of the of them 245 metres long, over the River Xunta de Galicia Noceda. A-334 dual carriageway from Finished Regional 8.7 km section including 16 structures Baza to Huércal-Overa. Bypass Government of mostly designed to cross existing section at Albox (Almería) Andalusia Public riverbeds and watercourses. The section Works Agency of the dual carriageway comprises two 3.5-metre wide lanes in each direction. It includes three links leading to Albox, Almanzora, Cantoria and Arboleas. 24 Duplication of roadway on the Finished Regional 8.5 km section of road, including two A-491 between El Puerto de Santa Government of flyover links, three underpasses and and Rota (Cádiz) Andalusia Public 4,104 m2 of reinforced concrete retaining Works Agency walls. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Hydraulics Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Irrigation supply network with Started Canal de Isabel II Construction of irrigation supply network reclaimed water, Valdemoro Management with reclaimed water. It consists of a (Madrid) 15 km adduction pipe from Sotogutiérrez WWTP. Two regulation tanks with capacity for 1,500 m3 and 3,000 m3 respectively, are being built, both in reinforced concrete. From the latter water is supplied to the municipality via a 31 km distribution network. Irrigation supply network Started Canal de Isabel II Construction of irrigation supply network with reclaimed water, Rivas Management with reclaimed water. An 8 km pressure Vaciamadrid (Madrid) pipe takes the water from the Suroriental WWTP to a reinforced concrete reservoir, which has a capacity of 7,000 m3. The water is then distributed via a 27 km network. Another 5 km pressure network is being built from the WWTP to supply water to the lower part of the municipality. Project design and construction In progress Aguas de las Drafting of construction project, execution of waste water treatment plant at Cuencas de of works and commissioning of waste Sinova (Soria) España (Acuaes) water treatment plant in Sinova (Soria), the fifth largest water treatment plant project awarded in Spain in recent years. 25 The new plant will treat waste water for the equivalent of 180,000 inhabitants and it will have a peak processing capacity of 48,000 m3 per day. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Itemised project for compliance In progress Cantabrian Works to collect waste discharged into with revised hydrological-sanitary Hydrographic the River Casaño and take it to the WWTP requirements of the River Casaño Confederation built in the town of Arenas de Cabrales. between towns of Poo and Arenas The project also includes hydraulic de Cabrales (Asturias) control measures related to improving water quality. The works are intended to protect the river’s pattern of currents in flash floods, reduce the risk of damage and ensure the water quality needed in a river considered a Site of Community Importance (SCI) in RED Natura 2000. Modernisation of irrigation Finished Community of Execution of three water storage tanks systems for the Community of Regantes de with total capacity of 868,000 m3 with Regantes de Dólar (Granada) Dólar waterproofing totalling over 96,000 m2 and the execution of an irrigation network of 1,200 hectares consisting of 128 km of piping and 144 flow control boxes feeding 960 remote controlled supply lines to individual plots. Subsidiary supply line to Rota Finished Environment and 18.25 km of piping with nominal diameter and Sanlúcar de Barrameda. New Water Agency of 1,000 mm, and construction of 60 flow route for first section (Cádiz) of the Regional control boxes. Government of Andalusia 26 Overflow tanks for sewage system Finished Murcia Region Improvements to infrastructure of sewage in the south of Santiago de la Agriculture network in the southern part of Santiago Ribera (Murcia) and Water de la Ribera and correction of problems Department. related to the uncontrolled discharge of Directorate waste water and rainwater into the Mar General for Water Menor. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Urbanization Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Urbanization of “Sector R-21” of In progress Bétera Sector The area of the development is 194,361 the General Land Use Plan for square metres. The facilities necessary Bétera (Valencia) for future building on the plots are being installed: mains power supply, drinking water, telephony, drainage network and gas network. In the first stage an overflow tank and a pumping station were constructed. BUILDING quality, commitment and personalised customer service. Aldesa develops and executes Projects and Building Work, turning ideas into realities. Building work Refurbishment projects includes all types of project in the sector including refurbishment, unique buildings and residential The group has extensive experience of redesigning building. The generation of value in every project is large public spaces, large catering service projects based on innovative solutions which are custom and especially in the refurbishment of buildings of made for the client. historical or artisticic importance (convents, theatres, etc.) both for conservation and to adapt them to Unique buildings different uses. 27 This refers to corporate buildings, industrial centres, Residential building shopping centres, hotels, and leisure, cultural, health and educational centres; both public and private. Aldesa has developed projects throughout Spain, The company’s broad experience in construction with the construction of homes, residential estates, and the development of complex projects requiring buildings and residential areas. Our work in the area specialists and skilled management teams has of residential construction includes the “ALDESA made Aldesa the company it is today: a leader in exclusive” line, specialising in luxury homes and Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 exclusive designs for individual houses and residential  2 projects initiated by the Building division, •1 complexes. including residential projects, educational centres, hotels and refurbishment. Overall progress currently Aldesa’s clients have placed their trust in the stands at 18%. company’s experience in the residential market, acknowledging its talent for innovation, its  eneration of value: Launch of CQ ALDESA service. •G professionalism and the guarantee of a brand  ur commitment to quality and customer service •O whose slogan is: “your trust, our commitment”. is reflected in CQ ALDESA, the service that provides This commitment to continuous improvement and attention for every development. meeting our clients’ needs has allowed Aldesa to develop its own quality seal, which begins with its  team of independent professionals will personally •A after-sales service: CQ ALDESA. handle every project. Landmarks in 2015:  hen we are able to guarantee that it has been •W successfully and perfectly concluded, the project is • +45,000 square metres built. handed over to its owner. Verín (Orense) Construction of cultural centre A Corveira, Culleredo (La Coruña) Construction of health centre Camí de Picos, Lérida 28 Balaídos, Vigo (Pontevedra) 80 homes Expansion of shed in Balaídos industrial site Mirador de Fuentes Blancas, Burgos 59 homes Montcada i Reixac (Barcelona) 38 homes Stella Maris Stage II, Madrid Refurbishment and expansion of educational centre Bouygues, Barcelona Hotel, 205 rooms Zola Stage III, Madrid Expansion of educational centre Zola Stage III, Las Rozas (Madrid) Ecoresort Vallromanes (Barcelona) Expansion of educational centre Five-star hotel, 60 rooms Recoletos Building, Madrid Refurbishment of Marqués de Salamanca Palace Casa Bonay, Barcelona CESA plant, Getafe (Madrid) Luxury hotel, 67 rooms Construction of aeronautical systems centre San Sebastián de los Reyes (Madrid) Armilla (Granada) Bonaire, Aldaia (Valencia) Heated swimming pool in sport facilities Leroy Merlin shopping centre Refurbishment of mall Valdemoro (Madrid) Teatro Cervantes Building, Málaga 76 homes 123 homes ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Tunnel on the Cernadilla-Pedralba In progress State Execution of the double section Otero de la Pradería sub-section, in the Corporation tunnel, for circulation in both directions, Zamora-Lubián section of the of Terrestrial 990 metres long with a 142 wsquare metre Madrid-Galicia high-speed line Transport cross section. Infrastructure (SEITT) Double tunnel on the sub-section In progress ADIF Execution of four tunnels, in two practically between Lubián and La Canda parallel pairs, each with left and right tracks. (Zamora), in the North-northwest The lengths are 870 m and 630 m in the Corridor of the Madrid-Galicia case of Hedroso, and 1,604 and 1.614m in high-speed line. the case of Lubián. Both tunnels incorporate five linking galleries between them, with a total length of 578 m. Stabilization of slope-walls in In progress Aldesa/ Stabilization of slope-walls with cement 630 National Road, Pajares Pass Demarcation grouting pipe injections, as well as (Asturias) of State drainage through draining wells connected Highways horizontally among themselves and with in Asturias disposal to the outside. (Ministry of Public Works) 29 Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Aldesa Industrial TRAFFIC AND STREET LIGHTING Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Road lighting in Barcelona Street lighting and Started Government of Conservation of street traffic lights Catalonia lighting and traffic lights on roads assigned to the Barcelona Regional Road Service. Revised design for 9 Traffic lights Started Barcelona City Supply of equipment for crossroads in Barcelona Council new traffic lights at 9 crossroads in the city of Barcelona. South-west traffic Traffic Started DGT (Ministry for Introduction of special management Home Affairs) measures for traffic in the area covered by the South-western Traffic Management Centre. 30 South-west traffic Traffic Started DGT (Ministry for Introduction of special management Home Affairs) measures for traffic in the area covered by the South-western Traffic Management Centre. Maintenance of traffic Traffic Started Tarrasa City Maintenance and light network in Tarrasa Council conservation of traffic lights (Barcelona) in the town. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Street lighting Baix Street lighting Started Private Prolongation of Baix Llobregat area (Barcelona) Llobregat dual carriageway. Street lighting Cenes de la Street lighting Started Cenes de la Vega Renewal of street lighting in Vega (Granada) Town Council Cenes de la Vega. Traffic and Control Room Traffic In progress Almería City Operation of the Traffic maintenance, Almería Council Control Centre in the city of Almería, conservation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of the different components of the traffic light system following collisions and vandalism and the supply of the traffic control systems and equipment necessary to expand the current system on public roads in the municipality of Almería. Traffic maintenance, Traffic In progress Granada City Conservation, maintenance Granada Council and installation of equipment for regulating, controlling and managing traffic in the city. Maintenance of traffic Traffic In progress Terrassa City Maintenance and light network in Terrassa Council conservation of traffic lights 31 (Barcelona) in the town. Traffic maintenance, Traffic In progress Seville City Conservation, maintenance, Seville Council replacement and operation of equipment for regulating and supervising traffic and ensuring road safety in the city. Conservation and Street lighting In progress Seville City Conservation, maintenance maintenance of public Council and renewal of public street street lighting in the lighting in the southern part southern part of Seville of the city. Maintenance of street Street lighting In progress Granada City Maintenance and renewal lighting, Granada Council of street lighting in the city. Comprehensive road Comprehensive In progress Private Comprehensive road mainmaintenance BCN eastmaintenance tenance Barcelona east Sorigue Maintenance of street Street lighting In progress Cenes de la Vega Maintenance of public lighting in Cenes de la Town Council street lighting in the Vega (Granada) municipality. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Maintenance of street Street lighting In progress Private Supply, installation, repair lighting Barcelona west and maintenance of area systems used for traffic control and regulation, and street lighting in the Barcelona west area. Conservation and Traffic In progress Ministry for Home Services, works and supplies operation of ITS, DGT Affairs for the conservation and Málaga operation of ITS facilities on roads managed from the South-eastern Traffic Management Centre, which has its headquarters in Málaga. Traffic maintenance Traffic In progress City Council of Traffic maintenance in Alicante Alicante Alicante. Signs and signals on the Traffic In progress Regional Signs and signals on the Granada light metro Government Granada light metro. of Andalusia railways 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Conservation of road Traffic In progress Barcelona City Conservation and assistunnel network in Council tance with the operation Barcelona of road network tunnels in Barcelona. INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Processing plants Installation Started Private Processing plant facilities and refurbishment of and refurbishment of supermarkets supermarkets in Catalonia. Refurbishment of sailing Installation Started Institut Balear de Work to refurbish the school in Palma de Infraestructures y nautical and fishing school. Mallorca Serveis Educatius i Culturals Industrial unit, Móstoles Installation Started Private Preparation for building (Madrid) an industrial unit for a company specialising in the manufacture of special aluminium components for vehicles. 33 Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Son Sant Joan Airport, Installation Started AENA Airports Renewal of the false ceiling Palma de Mallorca on the first floor, module A, at Palma de Mallorca Airport. Lighting, Edificio Reloj, Installation Started Barcelona Replacement of the general Barcelona Provincial Council lighting system in Edificio Reloj, recently incorporated in the Escuela Industrial, to improve energy efficiency. Vía Sabadell shopping Installation Started Private Works in Vía Sabadell centre, Sabadell shopping centre, building C. (Barcelona) Campus Diagonal-Besòs Installation Started Private Execution of new building of the Polytechnic construction work for University of Catalonia completion of the Campus (UPC), Sant Adrià de Besòs, Diagonal building. (Barcelona) Electrical installations in Installation Started Private Electrical installations in automobile plant, Martorell factory belonging to client (Barcelona) in the automobile industry. Ornamental fountains in Maintenance In progress Almería City Conservation and Almería Council maintenance of ornamental fountains. 34 Efficient air-conditioning, Installation In progress AENA Airports Introduction of a more Tenerife Norte airport efficient solution for the air-conditioning system in the passenger terminal at Tenerife Norte airport. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Mega towers Installation In progress AENA Airports Including mega towers in T1 platform and adapting to SMP. Maintenance of Maintenance In progress Private Preventive maintenance photovoltaic plants in and corrective measures Andalusia and the necessary surveillance and operations of photovoltaic plants in Seville and Huelva. Ibiza airport Installation Finished AENA Airports Revised version of visual aids and PAPI system to assist aircraft at Ibiza airport Maintenance Cartagena Installation Finished Private Work on electrical systems (Murcia) as part of the maintenance of the industrial plant. School in Caldes de Installation Finished Private Facilities for newly built Malavella (Girona) educational centre. COMMUNICATIONS AND SYSTEMS Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Cliente Generación de valor 35 Recording images of Security and Started Algeciras Port Provision of a system to Algeciras Harbour (Cádiz) technology Authority record images to support the management of the Algeciras Bay Harbour. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Cliente Generación de valor Digital classrooms in Hardware Started Red.es Supply and installation Andalusia of digital classrooms in Andalusia. Judicial chambers in Hardware Started Red.es Supply of equipment Galicia for judicial chambers in Galicia. Digital whiteboards in the Hardware Started Balearic Islands Supply and installation Balearic Islands Government of equipment comprising digital whiteboards, projectors and computers for public education centres. Security of municipal Security In progress Granada City Maintenance of security buildings in Granada Council systems in municipal buildings. Information technologies Networks and Finished Department Provision of network (ICT) in public education telecommunications of Education, infrastructure, equipment centres, Canary Islands Universities and and various services in Sustainability the field of information and communication technologies (ICT) in public non-university education centres in the 36 Canary Islands. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Aldesa Investment activity CONCESSIONS Projects Type of activity Generation of value Autopista de La Mancha Dual carriageway Aldesa is part of Autopista de La Mancha, the company (Ciudad Real) that has been responsible for 19 years for the operation, maintenance and conservation of the Puerto LápiceVenta de Cárdenas (Ciudad Real) section of the A-4 dual carriageway, which is 107 km in length. Courts in El Vendrell (Tarragona) Judicial Aldesa has been granted a 27-year lease by GISA, for and Manresa (Barcelona) the conservation of the Courts of El Vendrell (Tarragona) and Manresa (Barcelona). The former, which has a floor area of approximately 10,100 m2, brings together seven courts that were scattered throughout the municipality of El Vendrell with future enlargement up to twelve courts envisaged. The Manresa courts have a total net floor area of 15,058 m2 and consist of two buildings that contain the offices of twelve judicial bodies. 37 Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects Type of activity Generation of value Torrevilano school in Madrid and Education Aldesa is a majority shareholder in the Torrevilano school Montesclaros school in in Madrid and Montesclaros school in El Boalo, both El Boalo (Madrid) subsidised by the Community of Madrid, which involved an investment of approximately 30 million euros. Marina Salinas Sport Aldesa Marina Salinas is also responsible for the operation of Torrevieja Marina Salinas, one of the most complete and modern marinas in the Mediterranean, for a period of 30 years, as well as the marketing of its over 700 moorings under leasing or rental agreements, with a view to meeting the high demand for moorings in the Valencian Community. RENEWABLE ENERGIES Projects Type of activity Generation of value Orrea wind farm, Pontevedra EPC+ Operations 42 MW installed power. 21 Gamesa G114 2.0 MW wind turbines. Turn-key construction, commissioning and operations. Wind farm in Mesada, Pontevedra EPC+ Operations 11 MW installed power. 6 Gamesa G114 2.0 MW wind turbines. Turn-key construction, commissioning and operations. 38 Wind farm at Xalo, La Coruña EPC+ Operations 45 MW installed power. 23 Gamesa G114 2.0 MW wind turbines. Turn-key construction, commissioning and operations. Wind farm at Sierra de San Jorge, EPC+ Operations 40 MW installed power. 20 Gamesa G114 2.0 MW wind Badajoz turbines. Turn-key construction, commissioning and operations. Wind farm at Burguillos, Badajoz EPC+ Operations 40 MW installed power. 20 Gamesa G114 2.0 MW wind turbines. Turn-key construction, commissioning and operations. Wind farm at Alijar, Jerez de la Operations. Wind Aldesa is a 50% shareholder of this wind farm, which has Frontera (Cádiz) power production installed capacity of 24 MW and has been in operation since 2005. Wind farm at Valdivia, Osuna Operations. Wind Aldesa has a 50% holding in the wind farm, which has 28.5 (Sevilla) power production MW installed capacity and has been in operation since 2007. Wind farm at Tharsis, Alosno Operations. Wind Aldesa owns 100% of this wind farm, which has installed (Huelva) power production capacity of 4.25 MW and has been in operation since 2005. Enersol Solar Santa Lucía Operations. Solar Aldesa is a 51% shareholder of 9 photovoltaic plants, photovoltaic plants (Sevilla y power production which have 38.17 MW installed capacity and have been in Huelva) operation since 2008. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets REAL ESTATE Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Generation of value 76-home development in Development Started The development consists of 76 homes, Valdemoro (Madrid) management with their corresponding storage rooms, and 133 parking spaces on three levels. It also includes large common areas with a swimming pool, padel tennis court, and children's play area, in a closed complex. 59-home development in Burgos Development Being The development consists of 59 homes management processed with their respective parking spaces on two separate basement floors, plus one storage room per property. 38-home development in Development Being 38 homes in closed complex with Montcada i Reixac (Barcelona) management processed residents' swimming pool, children's play area, fully equipped gym and hall for community events. 38 parking spaces on a single basement floor and two business units are also envisaged. 30-home development in Lérida Development Being Development comprising 30 homes management processed with private gardens on ground floor and terraces on upper floors. 60 parking spaces on two basement floors and a storage room per property are also envisaged. Located in closed complex 39 with residents' swimming pool. 31-home development in Sant Development Being The development comprises 31 homes, 68 Feliú de Llobregat (Barcelona) management processed parking spaces on two basement floors, 31 storage rooms and two business units, with a swimming pool and children's play area in a closed complex. 234 Development management homes Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Public investment 1.3 BILLION National Infrastructure Programme 2014-2018 PESOS Developed by the Secretariat for Communications and Works and Service 4,201.64 Transport Office Mexico City MILLION PESOS Annual Public Works Programme 2016 OUTLOOK BY SECTOR 417,000 MILLION National Hydraulics Plan PESOS 2014-2018 MEXICO Federal Electrical 2,700 Commission (CFE) MILLION DOLLARS Allocated to 15 renewable energy projects, which will have a total installed 1,000 capacity of 4,800 MW 40 MILLION Federal Electrical DOLLARS Commission (CFE) Allocated to 15 projects to reduce technical and non-technical losses Federal Electrical 26,000 in both distribution and transmission MILLION networks. Commission (CFE) DOLLARS Allocated to 85 power generation infrastructure projects 14,000 MILLION 2015-2018 Allocated to wind farms DOLLARS ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Energy output from renewables Potential for power generation from 100,278 GWh /year renewable sources Secretariat for Energy 15% In 2015 3% from wind power sources In 2024 50% from wind power 35% sources Installed 3,283 capacity MW in 2015 In 2018 41 Mexican Wind Power Association 4,800 MW Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Aldesa Construction CIVIL ENGINEERING Airports Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Accesses and platforms for Started Grupo Construction of accesses and geotechnical operations on runway no. Aeroportuario platforms for geotechnical operations 2 of the new Mexico City International de la Ciudad de on runway no. 2 of the new Mexico City Airport (State of Mexico) México International Airport. Extension of the Terminal 3 platform In progress Aeropuertos del Extension of the Terminal 3 platform at at Cancún International Airport Sureste Cancún International Airport. (Quintana Roo) Construction of taxiway link at In progress Aeropuertos del Construction of 12R-12L taxiway Terminal 3 of Cancún International Sureste threshold link at Cancun International Airport (Quintana Roo) Airport. 42 Dual carriageways and roads Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Amado Nervo toll booths on road Started Secretariat for Construction of Amado Nervo” from Jala to Puerto Vallarta (Nayarit) Communication payment facility on the road from and Transport Jala to Puerto Vallarta. (SCT) ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Road from Coatzacoalcos to Tuxtla Started Secretariat for Modernisation and enlargement via Gutiérrez (Veracruz) Communication the construction of unpaved roads, and Transport drainage works, asphalt concrete (SCT) paving, ancillary works, signage, and structural work on the road from Coatzacoalcos-Tuxtla Gutiérrez at the Allende-Nuevo Teapa junction, from km. 3+500 to km. 7+100. El Beltrán bridge (Jalisco) In progress Secretariat for Construction of El Beltrán road Communication traffic bridge at km 116+855 for the and Transport Guadalajara-Colima Motorway. (SCT) Siglo XXI Motorway (Morelos) In progress Secretariat for Concession to build, operate, exploit, Communication conserve and maintain the 61.8 km and Transport section of the Siglo XXI Motorway (SCT) between Jantetelco and El Higuerón (Xicatlacotla) for 30 years. Cuernavaca -Paso Express bypass In progress Secretariat for Widening of the Cuernavaca (Paso (Morelos) Communication Express) bypass, consisting of and Transport increasing the number of lanes (SCT) between km 80+000 and km 96+000 to up to 10, 5 in each direction. Work will be executed in three stages. Felipe Carrillo Puerto bypass In progress Secretariat for Construction of Mérida and (Quintana Roo) Communication Valladolid junctions at km 5+950 and Transport and 8+850 respectively, as well as (SCT) the construction of toll booths on the trunk road and two auxiliary 43 facilities at the Mérida km 5+950 junction on the Felipe Carrillo Puerto by-pass. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Jala-Compostela Highway (Nayarit) Finished Secretariat for Construction of unpaved roads, Communication drainage works, asphalt concrete and Transport paving, structural work, ancillary (SCT) works, and signage from km 37+800 to km 46+380. Flood protection works Arriaga Finished Secretariat for Repair work related to drainage, (Chiapas) Communication embankment works and road and Transport surface in sections 1 (Arriaga-Tierra (SCT) y Libertad) and 3 (Tuxtla GutiérrezSan Cristóbal de las Casas). Hydraulics Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation Arch over the River Remedios Started National Water Construction of an arch over the (Mexico State) Commission River Remedios on the borders of (CONAGUA) Nezahualcóyotl and Ecatepec de Morelos. Works include drainage of the channel using a port, fitting and removal of plugs, pipe laying, construction of discharge systems and ancillary works. 44 BUILDING Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation Terminal 4 Cancún International Being Aeropuertos del Work includes construction, masonry, Airport (Quintana Roo) processed Sureste facilities, finishing, platforms, accesses, access roads and car parks, outside works for airwards side and roofing on the land side. This terminal will consist of ten buildings with two double-height floors and a mezzanine, a shopping area and a space for catering, among other services. DownTown Santa Fe, Mexico City Being Private The complex comprises three office processed blocks with 23, 21 and 15 floors, and a total floor area of 138,000 square metres. Work consists of the foundations, structure, facilities and finishing of the three towers and underground parking on twelve levels. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation Hotel & Resort, Cancún Started Private Overall construction of and facilities in (Quintana Roo) several blocks of rooms, restaurants and outdoor areas located in the tourist area of Playa del Carmen. Construction of Corporate In progress Private Construction of a new office block for a Building for pharmaceutical company, pharmaceutical company comprising Mexico City building and architectural finishing, underground car parks, internal and external spaces, and general facilities. Financial Operations Centre, In progress Private Works contract and fixed price for Mexico City core&shell finishing of operational building interiors, corporate building electrical installations. Work includes the construction of exit tunnels for the corporate building. UNDERGROUND PROJECTS Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation Civil engineering construction Being Government of Construction of 13 ports, a work and ancillary works for processed Mexico City 3.9-kilometre tunnel from Mixcoac to the extension of Line 12 of the Observatorio, with a total of 4.5 km collective transport system of track including shunting yard, (stage 1), Mexico City transition area and preliminary works. 45 Tunnel on the Morelia south bypass Started Secretariat for Construction of Tunnel II on the Morelia (Michoacán) Communication south bypass, total length 0.7 km, and Transport including accesses, in the Ramal(SCT) Carmelinas section. Chimalpa I and Chimalpa II tunnels, In progress Private The tunnels (530 and 225 metres Naucalpan (State of Mexico) respectively) are located on the Toluca – Naucalpan toll motorway. The crosssection of the tunnels is 159.72 m2, the largest in the country when construction began, and the width is 21.15 metres. The contract also covers also cladding, drainage, asphalt coating, entrance and exit slopes, as well as electrical installations for street lighting, ventilation and control systems. Interlomas tunnels in the In progress Secretariat for Construction of two twin 575-metre municipality of Huixquilucan Communication tunnels and two other twin 124-metre (State of Mexico) and Transport tunnels, each to accommodate two (SCT) lanes in each direction. The project includes the construction of a metal bridge to provide a link between the tunnels, lighting and ventilation within the tunnels. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation Stage I of the construction of the In progress National Water Construction of a 5.9 km tunnel Poniente II outflow tunnel and Commission 7 metres in diameter, usinG a TBM project and realignment of the open (CONAGUA) tunneller, starting at the catchment air section of the Poniente outflow area of the San Javier and Xochimanga (State of Mexico) rivers in Atizapán de Zaragoza and running as far as the open air discharge structure at Cuatitlan Izcalli. The project also requires the execution of a port at a depth of 80 metres with a 13-metre diameter, as well as access and exit box sections. Cut-and-cover tunnel in Second Finished SCT Baja California The execution of this 0.36 km cut-andAccess to Beaches at Tijuana cover tunnel and nearly 500 metres of (Baja California) facilities was marked by the discovery of a geological fault that affected the construction procedure, making it necessary to incorporate complex technical solutions to prevent the collapse of embankments, work which was carried out successfully. In 2015 this project earned a second award in the Fourteenth Edition of the OBRAS CEMEX awards in Mexico, in the category of Infrastructures, and the Ninth Premio Potencia award for Machinery, Public Works and Civil Engineering in the tunnels category. 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Aldesa Industrial TRAFFIC AND STREET LIGHTING Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Corrective and Traffic Finished Federal Roads and Preventive and corrective preventive maintenance Bridges maintenance of devices of smart tunnels, and systems they comprise, tunnels, machine sheds and cleaning smart and and control rooms on conventional tunnels, the Durango-Mazatlán machinery sheds and control highway centres on the Durango(Durango and Mazatlán) Mazatlán highway funded by Fondo Nacional de Infraestructura. Installations on Traffic Finished National Bank Supply, installation and Guadalajara-Colima of Works commissioning of toll stretch of highway and Services systems, remote toll (Jalisco) (BANOBRAS) collection, ITS and high capacity optic fibre communications network. This is a major route for heavy traffic, mainly from 47 Manzanillo, one of the most important ports in the Mexican Republic. Installation of LED Street lighting Finished Private Installation of luminaires luminaires, Los Mochis using different powers (40, (Sinaloa) 70, 100, 150 and 200 MW), wiring, lamp posts and administrative procedures. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 INSTALLATION PROJECTS Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Project to reduce power Electricity Started Federal Electrical Six projects for the reduction losses, CFE Commission of voltage loss on 23 kV line, (State of Mexico) (CFE) total transformer capacity of 116.616 MVA and the construction of 462.71 circuit km of power line; and one to ensure accurate measurement. This work involves the removal, supply and installation of 156,669 AMI type meters which can use any type of communication. Unit for automobile plant Industrial units Started Private Construction of 8,150 m2, unit (Puebla) including execution of civil engineering work, structure, partitions and fire prevention system, control, ventilation, voice and data systems, electrical and plumbing installation. Access bridges Industrial units Started Private Industrial infrastructure and for plant staff (Puebla) construction of bridges for staff in automobile plant. Waste treatment centre Industrial units Started Private Construction of waste in automobile plant treatment centre in automobile 48 (Puebla) plant. Unit for distribution Industrial units Started Private Work on distribution centre, centre of large retailer, including execution of civil Toluca (State of Mexico) engineering work, structures, earth moving, finishes, screens, masonry and lighting. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Torre Hexa Reforma site, Electric / In progress Private Plumbing, installation of Mexico City Core&shell structured wiring and supply of equipment for structured wiring. Press shed for Industrial units In progress Private Supply of material and automobile plant workforce for the execution (Puebla) of civil engineering work for finishing in the press shed for the client's new plant in the automobile sector. Painting shed for Industrial units In progress Private Supply of material and automobile plant workforce for the execution (Puebla) of civil engineering work for finishing in the painting shed for the client's new plant in the automobile sector. Facility warehouse Industrial units In progress Private Supply of material and for automobile plant workforce for the execution (Puebla) of civil engineering work for finishing in the facility warehouse for the client's new plant in the automobile sector. Finishing in spine Industrial units In progress Private Interior finishing for building warehouse in automobile in client's plant in automobile plant (Puebla) sector. Hotel installations, Electric and Finished Private Improvements to architecture, Cancún (Quintana Roo) energy electrical installation and HVAC system to be carried out 49 in a total of fourteen buildings with rooms, each up to 8 floors plus a basement, and in the hotel's outside areas. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 POWER LINES AND SUBSTATIONS Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value 400 kV interconnection High voltage line Started Private Construction of 72 km high in Pesquerías 900 MW voltage line, with capacity for combined cycle 900 MW and 400 kV. Interconthermoelectric project nection in Pesquería 900 MW (Nuevo León) thermoelectric project and Escobedo substation. Sistemas Norte stage III Lines and Started Federal Electrical Execution of four projects: (Baja California) substations Commission a 115 kV power line with a (CFE) total length of 8.6 circuitkm and three substations handling voltages of 115, 69, 34.5 and 13.8 kV, with a total transmission capacity of 60 MVA, plus 12 feeders. Lines and substations in Lines and Started Federal Electrical Construction and installation Mexicali-La Paz substations Commission of four substations with (Baja California and Baja (CFE) voltages of 230, 161, 115 California Sur) and 13.8 kV, with 255 MVA transformation capacity, 1.8 MVAr, thirteen feeders and two power lines with voltages of 161 and 115 kV and a total length of 13.9 circuit km. Lines and substations Lines and In progress Federal Electrical Construction and installation 50 Veracruz substations Commission of two distribution (CFE) substations with voltages of 115 and 13.8 kV, with 110 MVA total transformation capacity, 6.6 MVAr medium voltage compensation, seven high voltage feeders and 18 medium voltage feeders. Another 115 kV high voltage double circuit line totalling 1,142 km. This includes 5.40 circuit km of medium voltage trunk line. Lines and substations in Lines and In progress Federal Electrical Construction and installation Chiapas-Villahermosa substations Commission of two 115 kV substations, (Sur Peninsular) (CFE) with total transformation (Chiapas and Tabasco) capacity of 60 MVA and 3.6 MVAr compensation plus 14 high and medium voltage feeders. An overhead 115 kV high voltage line with a total length of 4.92 circuit km and an underground 115 kV high voltage line with a total length of 3.18 circuit km. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value GAT lines and substations Lines and Finished Private Transformer-booster (Veracruz) substations substation (from 13.8 to 115 kV), 115 kV distribution substation,115 kV high voltage lines (total length 2 km), trunk lines, 15 km optical fibre cable laid and enlargement of bay to create secondary substation. GENERATION PROJECTS Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Internal Combustion Plant Construction In progress Federal Electrical The project consists of Guerrero Negro IV Commission comprehensive execution of (Baja California Sur) (CFE) the following: engineering, construction, installation, supply of equipment and materials, testing, technical support and a series of requirements to ensure safe, efficient operation of the plant. It will consist of two 18V28/32S motorgenerators and all necessary equipment, also including 51 a 34.5 kV connection to existing generation plants and the CFE electricity grid. With this contract, Aldesa entered the Mexican market for power generation based on non-renewable sources. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Wind farm at San Jacinto, Construction In progress Private EPC contract for the Arriaga (Chiapas) construction of a large complex of infrastructures, civil engineering, mechanical and electrical work. The site will have 20 MW total installed capacity, with 11 Vestas V100 wind turbines, a 34.5 kV medium voltage network, a 34.5/115 kV transformer substation, a 115 kV high voltage overhead line and a switching substation to connect the system to the CFE grid. The project also poses a challenge in terms of sustainable construction, as it is located in the vicinity of La Sepultura biosphere reserve, well known for its rich biodiversity. 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Aldesa Investment activity CONCESSIONS Projects Type of activity Generation of value Siglo XXI Motorway Roads Aldesa, together with the largest Mexican infrastructure investment (Morelos) fund and the largest Mexican highway operator, was awarded the tender for the federal concession of the 61 km Siglo XXI motorway at the end of 2013, with planned investment close to 180 million euros. Guadalajara-Colima Roads Since 2012 Aldesa and a Mexican company have held a 10-year motorway (Jalisco) concession to operate the Guadalajara-Colima motorway. This was the first contract for the modernisation of toll systems, traffic control and communications, and the operation of toll collection areas put out to tender by the National Bank of Works and Public Services (BANOBRAS) and placed the Group at the forefront for motorway operation and modernisation projects throughout the country. Arriaga – Roads Since 2007 Aldesa has held the federal concession for the Arriaga – Ocozocoautla Ocozocoautla and Tuxtla Gutiérrez – San Cristóbal toll motorways, and Tuxtla Gutiérrez which have a total length of 139.5 km. The concession has been granted – San Cristóbal for a period of 30 years. The project also envisaged the construction (Chiapas) and operation of the Tierra y Libertad Ocozocoautla section, which is 53 73 km long. RENEWABLE ENERGIES Projects Type of activity Generation of value Chacabal I (Yucatán) EPC+Operation 30 MW installed capacity. 15 Vestas V110 2.0 MW wind turbines. Turn-key construction, commissioning and operations. Chacabal II (Yucatán) EPC+Operation 30 MW installed capacity. 15 Vestas V110 2.0 MW wind turbines. Turn-key construction, commissioning and operations. Pinos (Zacatecas) EPC+Operation 30 MW installed capacity. 15 Gamesa G114 2.0 MW wind turbines. Turn-key construction, commissioning and operations. Cadereyta (Querétaro) EPC+Operation 30 MW installed capacity. 15 Gamesa G114 2.0 MW wind turbines. Turn-key construction, commissioning and operations. Cardonal (Hidalgo) EPC+Operation 30 MW installed capacity. 15 Gamesa G114 2.0 MW wind turbines. Turn-key construction, commissioning and operations. San Luis de Paz EPC+Operation 30 MW installed capacity. 15 Gamesa G114 2.0 MW wind turbines. (Guanajuato) Turn-key construction, commissioning and operations. Juchique (Veracruz) EPC+Operation 30 MW installed capacity. 15 Gamesa G114 2.0 MW wind turbines. Turn-key construction, commissioning and operations. Las Glorias Photovoltaic 30 MW installed capacity. (Aguascalientes) installation Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Growth in construction Financial year % 2014 3.5 2015 5.2 Euroconstruct OUTLOOK BY SECTOR Forecast for construction POLAND sector production Financial year % 2016 7 2017-18 8 54 Euroconstruct ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Public investment Infrastructures and 27,400 Environment Operational MILLION EUROS Programme 2014-2020 52,000 MILLION Investment in building EUROS in 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers National Action Plan Percentage from renewable 15% energies in 2020 12ª RANKED Poland Wind power worldwide = 5,100 MW at end 2015 Increase in wind 1,266.2 55 power in 2015 MW 33% (2nd highest in EU) WWEA Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Aldesa Construction CIVIL ENGINEERING Dual carriageways and roads Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value S-19 expressway: link In progress Directorate Construction of a road with 2+1 lanes that will between Sokołów General For include a link at a different level to the existing Małopolski Północ and National Highways road no. 875. The most significant structure will Stobierna (Rzeszów) and Motorways be a 150-metre five-span viaduct. The project also (GDDKIA) includes two new rest areas equipped with toilets, car parks and green spaces. The contract marked the beginning of the Group's production in the Polish transport infrastructure market. Railways Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value 56 Transformation of the In progress Polish National Refurbishment designed to ensure an improvement Gliwice railway station Railways in travellers’ comfort, bringing the building up to complex (Silesia) (PKP SA – PKP) modern service standards. Work will involve all the sectors concerned with the transformation of the railway station building, together with the infrastructure of platforms and tracks, covering lateral and island platforms, as well as subways. A modern complex will be created while conserving historical features. This project has the added difficulty of keeping the station in service while work is in progress. Car parks Projects Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Multilevel public Finished Tychy City Construction of two multilevel car parks with more car parks in Tychy Municipality than 670 parking spaces, within the city of Tychy’s (Silesia) (MZUIM) transport system. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets BUILDING Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Housing complex in Residential Started Private All-inclusive contract for the four stages, Wroclaw construction of stages IV, V and (Lower Silesia) VI of the housing complex. The eight buildings forming part of the project have a total net floor area of approximately 65,500 m2. Work includes all electrical installations, plumbing and air-conditioning, as well as the construction of communal outdoor areas. This contract marks the entry of Aldesa Polska in the residential sector. CENT III Biological and Educational In progress University of Construction of the Centre for New Chemical Sciences centres Warsaw Technologies: Ochota campus Faculty at the (CeNT III), one of the most modern University of Warsaw research centres in Europe and the only national interdisciplinary research institution. The building will comprise five floors above ground plus a basement and it will have a net floor area of 10,456 m2. Ochota Centre for New Educational In progress University of Construction of the Centre for Technologies (CeNT centres Warsaw New Technologies (CeNT II), II): second stage which includes the teaching in the construction building of the Faculty of Physics, of the Faculty of the underground car park and 57 Physics building at the infrastructures on the site. University of Warsaw Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Institute of Geological Educational In progress Jagiellonian Construction of a new building to Sciences, Krakow centres University house the Institute of Geological Sciences at this university, one of the oldest in Europe. The building, which will have a total area of 5,800 m2, will be designed and built taking into account the principles and criteria of sustainable development, especially care for the environment and the efficient use of raw materials throughout the construction cycle. It will be equipped with a BMS, photovoltaic panels (roof-façade) and geothermal heat pumps. It will also have a roof garden, which will allow better temperature control in the building and will act as an acoustic barrier. Offices in Za Bramką, Corporate building In progress Wielkopolskie Construction of a 64,224 m³ fourPoznan Centrum storey building for offices and Wspierania municipal services, including an Inwestycji underground car park with 300 (WCWI) parking spaces. History and Archive Educational Finished Adam Construction of a building with a Faculty of the Adam centres Mickiewicz net floor area of 14,400 m2, plus Mickiewicz University, University infrastructures on site, roads and Poznan green spaces. Revitalisation of Educational Finished Polytechnic Refurbishment of a historical 58 the campus of the centres University, Łódź industrial age building and the Polytechnic University, construction of a new building Łódź with a total area of 6,000 m2 to house the Faculty of Technical Physics, Computer Science and Applied Mathematics. CIOP, Warsaw Public building Finished Central Institute Construction of a building to house for Labour the Research and Development Protection Centre for Safety Technologies in Work and the Environment (TechSafe-Bio). ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Aldesa Industrial TRAFFIC AND STREET LIGHTING Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Maintenance of traffic Traffic In progress Road and Bridge Permanent maintenance and lights, Lublin Administration of repairs of the system of lights Lublin used to control traffic in the city. Construction of ITS Traffic Finished Rzeszów City Pioneering project in Europe, in Rzeszów and Council connecting all equipment surroundings wirelessly and connecting moving buses using broadband transmission. The project has included the construction of an all-inclusive urban transport system in Rzeszów and the surrounding area, including design, construction of the road traffic control system, implementation of the ITS for urban transport, start up of Comprehensive Management of Urban Traffic and Transport 59 with the ICT Platform and the transformation of intersections and reorganisation of traffic in the city. Transport systems, Traffic Finished Road and Bridge Construction and modernisation Lublin Administration of of the existing municipal public Lublin transport infrastructure. INSTALLATION AND ASSEMBLY Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Enlargement of the Industrial units Started Private Extension of the present factory industrial automobile by 20,000 m2 without the need components plant to stop production. The project in Września (Greater includes all construction work, Poland) foundations, steel structures, cladding, car parks and access roads. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Installation of engines, Assembly Started Miejskie Installation of two gas engines in Hajdów (Lublin) Przedsiębiorstwo the cogeneration plant and local wastewater treatment plant. Wodociągów i Kanalizacji w Lublinie COMMUNICATIONS AND SYSTEMS Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Białystok Sector A Broadband In progress Podlaskie Broadband network in the east (Podlachia) internet networks Voivodeship of Poland. Marshal's Office Białystok Sector E Broadband In progress Podlaskie Broadband network in the east (Podlachia) internet networks Voivodeship of Poland. Marshal's Office OF Lublin (Lublin) Broadband In progress Lublin Voivodeship Broadband network in the east internet networks Marshal's Office of Poland. POWER LINES AND SUBSTATIONS 60 Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value 400 kV high voltage Electricity grids In progress Polskie Sieci Turn-key construction of overhead power line Energetyczne (PSE) a 138 km 400 kV double Ostrołęka – Olsztyn circuit overhead line. Work Mątki also includes design, land purchase, and environmental and town planning procedures. 400 kV overhead Electricity grids In progress Polskie Sieci Turn-key construction of power line Gdańsk Energetyczne (PSE) a 120 km 400 kV double Przyjaźń – Żydowo circuit overhead line. Work Kierzkowo. also includes design, land purchase, and environmental and town planning procedures. 220 kV high voltage Electricity grids In progress Polskie Sieci Turn-key project for complete overhead power line Energetyczne (PSE) modernisation of a 32 km Glinki Reclaw 220 kV double circuit overhead line plus replacement of 15 km of guard wire. Work also includes design, land purchase, and environmental and town planning procedures. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Aldesa Investment activity RENEWABLE ENERGIES Projects Type of activity Generation of value Wind farm at Lubartów Started Contract for the execution of a 51.2 MW wind farm with 16 Vestas (Lublin) V112 wind turbines, the corresponding 110kv/30kv electric substation, and a 28 km connection to the existing high voltage underground line in the electricity grid. This is Aldesa’s first wind farm project for a private client in Poland. Wind farm in Karwice In progress Turn-key contract for 16 2.5 MW wind turbines with 40 MW (Western Pomerania) total installed capacity, as well as related infrastructure and maintenance over the next three years, the client being PGE Energy. 61 Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Public investment National Public 3,943 Investment System (SNIP) MILLION 194% increase in investment compared with 2014 SOLES 1,348 projects Ministry of Economy and Finance 8,200 MILLION In new hospital infrastructure DOLLARS OUTLOOK BY SECTOR Hydraulics projects 1,600 2011-2016 Ministry 20,000 of Transport and PERU Communications MILLION Projects in infrastructures, especially DOLLARS in the railway sector Energy sector 42,000 MILLION 62 until 2023 DOLLARS 500,000 Photovoltaic panels Installation in rural areas of the country Electricity sector 1,800 MILLION investment DOLLARS 2010-2014 Presidency of the Council of Ministers ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Power production Hydroelectric 70,000 MWh 22,000 MWh Wind Geothermal 3,000 MWh 63 Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Aldesa Construction CIVIL ENGINEERING Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Stairs and pedestrian Maritime Finished Administrative Technical dossier and bridges at Malecón Municipal subsequent execution of six Costa Verde in the San Company of Lima connections between the Isidro Miraflores(EMAPE) Costa Verde beach circuit Barranco section, Lima and the city of Lima via stairs, ramps and pedestrian bridges. BUILDING Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value National School Public Building Started Comptroller Ten-storey office block with of Control of the General of the basement, adjacent building Comptroller General of Republic for auditorium and large the Republic in Lince, parking area, the total area to 64 Lima be built extending over more than 10,000 square metres. JDA offices in San Building Started Private Eleven-storey office block Isidro, Lima Corporate with six basement levels. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Infinium Green building Residential In progress Private 20-storey de luxe housing in Santiago de Surco, block with a total floor area of Lima 22,000 m2. The curved exterior and two vertical gardens on the façade make this building an architectural landmark in the city. Comprehensive Public Building In progress Park Servicies Comprehensive redesign redesign of the Sinchi and Urbanization of Lima of one of the city's great Roca local park in (SERPAR) recreational parks via the Comas, Lima construction and fitting out of modern facilities for family activities (sports, cultural centre, minizoo) as well as upgrading paths and green spaces and introducing service networks. Aliaga Business Center Corporate building Finished Private Unique office project with a in Magdalena del Mar, total floor area of 11,916 m2 Lima on 18 floors above ground and 8 basement levels. To reach this depth excavation to 26 metres was necessary, a task that has been made more difficult by the limited area available, as the plot only measured 544 m2. 65 UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION WORK Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Tunnels at Puruchuco Road tunnel In progress Municipality of Ate Construction of two 77-metre and access roads in Ate parallel tunnels with 3 lanes. (Lima) The execution of the project is very difficult because of the limited scope for digging. The tunnels are located in an especially sensitive sector that demands the least possible disturbance of the surface, which is a pre-Inca archaeological site belonging to el Cerro de Mayorazgo. Activity report by geographical markets | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Aldesa Industrial POWER LINES AND SUBSTATIONS Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value 60kV power line Bella High voltage Started Electrical Company Execution of a new 60/22.9 Unión – Chala and of South West kV bay in the Bella Unión associated substations (SEAL) substation, execution of a in Caravelí (Arequipa) new 70 km long 60 kV power line and execution of a new electricity substation in the municipality of Chala, also 60/22.9 kV. 138kV power line High voltage Finished Electrical Company Execution of a new 220/138 Socabaya – Industrial of South West kV bay, execution of a new Estate and associated (SEAL) 9.8 km 138 kV power line substations, Caravelí and a new 138/33kV bay in (Arequipa) the electricity substation, including the assembly of a power transformer. The work is part of the 2013-2017 Investment Plan, designed 66 to extend and reinforce the power transmission system. GENERATION Projects Type of activity Status in 2015 Client Generation of value Hydroelectric Construction and Started Private Extension of the existing stapower station in installation tion, construction of machine Chalhuamayo, room and installation of two Mazamari (Satipo) turbines and two generators, as well as construction of four access bridges. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Activity report by geographical markets Aldesa Investment activity RENEWABLE ENERGIES Projects Type of activity Generation of value Wind farm at Malabrigo, EPC+ Operations 50 MW installed capacity. 25 Gamesa G114 2.0 MW wind turbines. La Libertad Turn-key construction, commissioning and operation Wind farm at Brea, Piura EPC+ Operations 60 MW installed capacity. 30 Gamesa G114 2.0 MW wind turbines. Turn-key construction, commissioning and operation Photovoltaic plant at La EPC+ Operations 30 MW capacity. Turn-key construction, commissioning and Joya, Arequipa operation 67 68 2 Corporate Social Responsibility report Letter from the Honorary C In the last few years we have experienced a technological revolution that positions us in an increasingly demanding and competitive industry. In order to be part of this global market and position ourselves as a business group that generates value in every project, we are committed to a sustainable business model based on geographical diversification, efficiency, budgetary and financial discipline, long-term views and solidity. The effort we all make at this time helps us to face the future with optimism and new dreams and continue doing great things. In this regard, having the best team, with committed and qualified staff, is essential to achieving our objectives and to attaining excellence as a Group. What has characterised each of our projects has been our clear demonstration of the essence of the Aldesa Group. With the understanding that what is not profitable is not possible, all our projects have become a challenge where we have been able to maintain the philosophy of doing things well. Acting, responding, innovating, meeting deadlines and providing comprehensive service are part of our commitment in every project. 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Letter from the Honorary Chair hair In this regard, I feel bound by my responsibilities as Honorary Chair to convey the Aldesa philosophy in each of our projects. As a tool for solving problems that affect everyday activity in society, engineering forces us as professionals to be part of the work and to keep up to date. Only in this way can we improve our environment because, as Isaac Asimov said: “Science can amuse and fascinate us all, but it is engineering that changes the world”. If we can infuse this philosophy into all our projects, we will develop comprehensive solutions that lead to an improvement in people’s quality of life. That is a responsibility not only to ourselves, but to society. It is important for us to be aware that each project presents us with a unique opportunity. Because our work will last. With a multidisciplinary team joined by the next generation of professionals and technologies with decades of experience, we will position ourselves as a leading group in the execution of comprehensive projects in new businesses and countries. In this way, we are going to continue working with integrity, cooperation and respect while producing value. We are going to be an agent for positive change in society and continue building confidence in this way. Antonio Fernández Honorary Chair Grupo Aldesa 71 The group and corporate social responsibility 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report The Group’s Corporate Responsibility strategy, summarised in the slogan “Building confidence”, is based on a series of corporate values which extend to every level of the organisation The Aldesa Group has for years now been working to ensure that its economic development is compatible with the integration of environmental and social concerns within its management model. The growth and diversification experienced by the Group over recent years require a greater focus on the consequences of the activities undertaken and their impact on society. The Aldesa Group has therefore set out a series of strategic objectives within the field of Corporate Responsibility, ranging from the application of R&D+i projects focused on the sustainability of civil engineering, to a decisive investment in renewable energies, along with waste management for reuse, the extension of the Occupational Safety Plan to the employees of subcontractor companies, and involvement in cooperation and development projects in the poorest regions of the world. 73 The Group’s Corporate Responsibility strategy, summarised in the slogan “Building confidence”, is based on a series of corporate values which extend to every level of the organisation and aim to be not simply a hallmark, but a genuine commitment to all stakeholders: clients, employees, partners, suppliers, subcontractors, public authorities, users and society in general. All these values take the form of a series of areas and management systems establishing the implementation of the corresponding policies and action plans in order effectively to fulfil all these undertakings. •Commitment to Human Resources with high-level technical skills. Aldesa is aware that its success has been made possible by its human team. The growth registered by the Group over recent years demands the continuous recruitment of professionals with an ambitious approach and high-level technical skills in all fields of the business. One of the cornerstones of employee development within the Human Resources policy is internal promotion and specialist training. •High level demands in Safety and Risk Prevention. Occupational safety is a fundamental cornerstone for Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Aldesa in structuring all activities it undertakes, and legal and regulatory requirements to reduce defects is just as important as profitability, quality output. and establish a framework for the continuous The Group has a serious commitment to safety improvement of the Group’s processes. One of the and occupational risk prevention, establishing a aims of the Aldesa Quality Policy is to make quality a series of undertakings and directives expressed in fundamental element of the organisational culture, its Health and Safety policy, which must be fulfilled and to ensure that all personnel identify with and by all employees, thereby involving them in the sincerely commit to this goal. preventive management of safety. • Strict fulfilment of established delivery deadlines. • Application of sustainability and new technologies. No detail is overlooked in the planning of tasks Aldesa has in place the capacity to use the most required by each project, and if the periodic advanced techniques in the execution of its projects, monitoring of partial deadlines detects the slightest selectively incorporating the most appropriate delay, consideration is given to increasing the team technology. The available technological options are and working shifts. Aldesa here achieves definitive analysed in order to enhance construction methods, delivery by the agreed deadline in 98% of cases, with a particular emphasis on the efficiency of and even delivers projects months early, thereby processes and on sustainability. It likewise works avoiding any unnecessary inconvenience of clients on advanced technological projects connected with and users. electrical engineering and telecommunications. •Environmentally friendly management. Aldesa’s • Compliance with the most demanding quality environmental policy places a particular standards. Aldesa has for more than a decade emphasis on prevention and the establishment now held certification for its Quality Management, of continuous improvements to the Group’s thereby guaranteeing compliance with client environmental performance, with a high level of requirements in terms of satisfaction, as well as involvement throughout the organisation. Aldesa 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report has for some 10 years now had in place its ISO 14001 Environmental Management certification, guaranteeing compliance with the applicable environmental regulations and legislation, and the use of processes which avoid, reduce and control pollution. • Support for initiatives which create value for the community. Aldesa’s social initiatives focus on the development of projects connected with its operations to generate value for the community by satisfying their fundamental needs. These projects correspond essentially to support for the development of infrastructure in the world’s poorest regions, providing the population with access to basic infrastructure services, and the social integration of the most underprivileged individuals in those communities where the Group operates. Convinced of the need to maintain a sustainable business model, the Board of Directors of the Aldesa Group is committed to the approval of policies which affect the various spheres covered by Corporate Responsibility, to ensure they are aligned with the expectations of stakeholders and the strategic objectives which have been set. Dialogue with stakeholders and 75 communication The dialogue with our stakeholders is part of the communication strategy and CSR. This commitment is manifested in actions for creating value and development in countries where we have activities. We are focusing our action for listen our stakeholders in order they will be part of our daily operations. In particular cases of works close to the population, for example, we have established communication platform and briefings for a smooth communication. Public affairs Communities Employees Enterprise Partners Governments Board Clients Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The Global goals for sustainable — Goal 9: Innovation and Infrastructure development — Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities Aldesa´s corporate strategy states its commitment Creating value around the world in the 8 countries we to the objectives of sustainable development where have business is a challenge for us. So there are other companies play a key role. objectives that Aldesa is directly related such as clean Aldesa has identified in the development of its activity water and sanitation, decent jobs and renewable two principle goals: energy. 76 UN Global Compact In 2015 the Aldesa Group signed the letter of support This international United Nations initiative started in to the UN Global Compact as a significant step in 2000 they have joined since then more than 12,000 its commitment to society. In order to align their signatories in 150 countries around the world, so that strategies and operation with universal principles on the Global Compact of the United Nations is today human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption the largest voluntary initiative of corporate social and take actions that advance societal goals. responsibility in the world. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report Promotion of sustainable development During 2015 the Aldesa Group undertook internal Responsibility, giving it the opportunity to inform the awareness-raising campaigns addressing the need wider business fabric of various aspects connected to apply the principles of sustainable development, with sustainability. The Group’s companies likewise and took part in various events, including congresses, play an active role in organisations and associations seminars and conferences, connected both with which promote the responsible development of their the promotion of its activities and Corporate respective sectors. Leading associations and organisations supported by Group companies in 2015 ■ AEC – Spanish Association of Roads ■ AEE – Wind Power Business Association ■ AENOR Standardization Committees ■ AETOS – Spanish Association of Tunnels and Underground Works ■ AIMMGM – Mexican Association of Mining Engineers, Metallurgists and Geologists ■ AMDEE – Mexican Wind Energy Association ■ AMITOS – Mexican Association of Tunnel Engineering and Underground Works ■ AMIVTAC – Mexican Association of Routes Engineering 77 ■ ANCI – National Association of Independent Builders ■ APREAN – Association of Developers and Producers of Renewable Energies of Andalusia ■ CAMESCOM – Spanish Chamber of Commerce in Mexico ■ Chamber of Contractors of the Valencia Region ■ CCOC – Official Chamber of Works Contractors of Catalonia ■ CMIC – Mexican Chamber of the Construction Industry ■ COGENERA México – Association of Cogeneration sector ■ Construction Employment Foundation ■ CSIC – Higher Scientific Research Council ■ ITS México – Mexican Association of Intelligent Transport Systems ■ ITS Polska – Polish Association of Intelligent Transport Systems ■ ITS España – Spanish Association of Intelligent Transport Systems ■ Polish-Spanish Chamber of Commerce ■ UNEF – Spanish Photovoltaic Union Contributors 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report Aldesa grows through the experience, talent and energy of its employees, making the management of its Human Resources a commitment to excellence HUMAN RESOURCES The Aldesa Group intends, in a global environment, to provide effective and efficient responses to the needs of society and consolidate itself in all sectors where it operates as a business leader and one of the best companies to work for. And it wishes to achieve this through the creation of diverse opportunities for professional growth in a work environment conducive to the full development of its human resources in a comprehensive way, including their personal and professional aspects. Aldesa grows through the experience, talent and energy of its employees, making the management of its Human Resources a commitment to excellence, teamwork, enthusiasm, committed dedication and respect for people, fostering corporate ethical and cultural values and principles. These 79 principles are based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the principles of the International Labour Organisation and recommendations from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Aware of the importance of its human resources for the success of the organisation and knowing that the motivation of the employees is essential for the proper functioning of the company, the Human Resources Department, through its Selection and Development, Personnel Management and Industrial Relations and Training departments, has spared no effort to design and establish training, development and communication policies directed towards the career development of their employees, attracting and managing talent and pursuing their personal well-being, guiding the effort of each of them to contribute to the corporate achievements of the Group. The fact of currently being a diversified Group entails different models of industrial relations. The aim is to ensure strict compliance with labour legislation and in-house regulations. It should also be noted that 100% of the staff of the Aldesa Group belongs to sectoral collective agreements, depending on the activity. Moreover, international growth requires the management of diversity, both in terms of cultural differences and groups of people. Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The Aldesa Group continues its expansion beyond group interviews. These are followed by technical our borders. At the end of the 2015 financial year, interviews with the heads of each department and close to 60% of the workforce works outside Spain. a range of tests (essentially for languages) which All this is the result of consolidation and growth in complete the evaluation process. countries in Europe, America and even Asia, with particular dynamism in Mexico, Poland and Peru. Aldesa Group’s Job Catalogue includes a description In this sense, one of the main attractions of Aldesa of each job, making it possible to know the mission lies in the numerous options for promotion and and functions to be carried out, the necessary skills professional development that are emerging as a profile and other essential requirements such as result of the expansion process being experienced by experience, training or language skills. This serves to the Group in recent years. standardise criteria, allowing the different countries to speak the same language in terms of the posts and profiles they need to fill. LOCATION STAFF % ■ Spain 42 All selection processes end with the welcoming of the ■ Mexico 33 new employee on their first day in the organisation as part of this process. ■ Peru 7 ■ Poland 11 POSITIONS CLOSED BY COUNTRY % ■ Other countries 7 ■ Spain 24,2 TOTAL Group 100 ■ Mexico 49,2 ■ Peru 16,2 Selection ■ Poland 10,2 In the Aldesa Group staff selection plays a key ■ Other countries 0,2 role. We want to correctly identify people who will TOTAL Group 100,2 80 integrate our human capital. It is a rigorous process that ensures respect for the principles of equality and “non-discrimination”. Training The selection of staff who will be part of the Group Training at the Aldesa Group is designed as a strategic is based on a comprehensive assessment of the tool for the achievement of the effectiveness and qualifications of candidates through individual or development of Human Resources. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report At Aldesa training is developed under a standard centralised management model with a view to lending value to the company by way of the professional development of people. To this end, every year the Training Department draws up a Training Plan, bearing in mind the specific training needs of the organisation, as well as the training demands of the employees, based on a survey that is conducted to determine training needs. During 2015, over 350 courses were delivered in Spain, Mexico and Poland for more than 670 employees, covering a broad spectrum of subjects such as the prevention of occupational risks, quality, environment and information technology (SAP, CIPRO, Autocad, etc.), which entailed a total of over 12,000 teaching hours, without overlooking the importance of English as the official language of the globalised world we now inhabit. Only in Mexico, a group of more than 9,000 workers were trained in the field of Occupational Risk Prevention, Quality and the Environment. In addition, as a training entity certified by Fundación Laboral de la Construcción (the Labour Foundation for the Construction Industry), Aldesa Construcciones is also qualified to provide training to workers in the metal industry. Several courses on different specialities have been taught relating to the Second Training Cycle as contemplated in the 4th General 81 Agreement on the Construction Sector (2007-2011) and required to obtain the Professional Construction Card. Aldesa also maintains a close relationship with various Universities to bring the professional reality closer to all its students. In this way, in Spain it collaborates with a series of public and private institutions, which include the Civil Engineering School of the Valencia Polytechnic University, the Confemetal Foundation and the Madrid Civil Work Engineers’ Association. In Mexico, we work closely with the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), Tecnologico de Monterrey (TEC) and the National Polytechnic Institute (IPN) to incorporate into our teams the best engineers and recently graduated architects through the Engineers-in-Training Aldesa programme. This high performance programme involves recent graduates entering a comprehensive development plan for a period of three years. At the same time, in this regard the presence of Aldesa should be noted in the Recruitment Fair of the Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 National Polytechnic Institute (IPN) and in the 15th management system for legal audits and compliance Employment Fair of the UNAM, in order to attract new with OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health Safety talent for future incorporation into the organisation. Advisory Services), successfully passing the audits to ensure that our organisation is among the leading In Poland it holds the Engineers-in-Training firms in this regard. This system not only satisfies programme in partnership with the University of the legal requirements, but also establishes the Science and Technology (AGH) in Krakow and the requirements to be fulfilled by organisations wishing Polytechnic Universities of Krakow, Warsaw and to optimise the performance of their Occupational Gdansk. At the same time, it has signed a framework Health and Safety Management System. From the cooperation agreement with the University of perspective of employees, the risks associated Technology in Lublin. It also took part in the Job with the activity undertaken by the company are Fair promoted by the University of Science and minimised, thereby achieving the continuous Technology in Krakow. enhancement of working conditions, moving closer to the goal of “Zero Accidents”. In 2015 Aldesa Polska also took part in one of the most important job fairs in Poland: Absolvent During 2015 the ambitious targets set in the Risk Talent Days. This event, organised by several Prevention Plan were fulfilled. The key initiatives thousand students and graduates from Warsaw comprised visits to work sites, with the priority focused and surrounding areas, was an opportunity to on promoting strict compliance with legal demands, acquire an unforgettable experience and valuable fulfilment of specialist training needs, information information on the movement around the process and awareness-raising regarding responsibilities of the job market or a career in the building industry. and obligations in this field, and encouragement of Absolvent Talent Days also offered the opportunity to a committed approach throughout the organisation. personally meet representatives of the most famous Likewise, prevention procedures have been extended companies operating in Poland, participate in both to all collaborating companies and subcontractors, panel discussions with the greatest personalities demanding a level of compliance identical to that of in the world of corporate culture to share their the Aldesa Group at its work facilities. 82 experience and workshops held on the process of career development. At the same time, there was As a direct consequence of this effort, the accident room for individual consultations with professionals rate figures achieved in 2015 by the companies of from Human Resources departments, including the Group were considerably down on the previous representatives of Aldesa Polska who helped choose year and well below the average for the sectors within the best career path. The company received a which it operates. commemorative diploma as a “Youth Talent Friendly Employer” for participating in this event. The specific safety and health management projects in 2015 were targeted on the one hand at achieving OCCUPATIONAL RISK PREVENTION the safest work environment and on the other at disseminating Aldesa Group’s commitment to the The Aldesa Group is committed to the integration of prevention of occupational risks. risk prevention at all levels of the organisation. To this end, Occupational Risk Prevention policies are The Aldesa Group in Mexico achieved in 2015 the designed and implemented, aimed at promoting the milestones established in the Occupational Risk improvement of working conditions and the level of Prevention Action plan for the year, unquestionably protection, safety and health of its workers. thanks to the effort and commitment of the organisation for the integration of Risk Prevention In compliance with the legal requirements of at every level. This effort has been critical to Occupational Risk Prevention, risk prevention maintaining low accident rate indices and always operations at the Aldesa Group are organised well below those in the industry. The companies through the Joint Prevention Service, and with in the Construction Area have reduced their the collaboration and support of other areas and indices in comparison with the previous year, the departments of the organisation. Concessions Division completed its second year with zero accidents and the Industrial indicators In 2015, the companies of the Aldesa Group in remain low, but slightly higher than in the previous Spain submitted their Occupational Risk Prevention year. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report Lastly, it is particularly noteworthy for this year the The main actions implemented in Aldesa Group Peru renewal of the Health, Safety and Environmental during the past year include: Management System certificate based on •D  eveloping, adopting and disseminating the Policy compliance with standard OHSAS 18001:2007. on Health and Safety at Work. Thus, the first three-year cycle is completed since the Management System was certified in 2012 and •E  stablishing the Central Committee on Security standardisation is consolidated in terms of safety of Aldesa Group Peru and Subcommittees in the within the organisation. different projects. With regard to Poland, the most significant actions •E  stablishing procedures for the management of the taken were as follow: Health and Safety at Work System in accordance with ISO 14001:2004. • Adapting system procedures to the requirements of • Identifying hazards and risks of the different Polish law so that they were in conformity with it. projects. • Introducing new format models of formats aimed •D  eveloping safe procedures for high-risk jobs in the at simplification. different projects. • Start of work related to setting Health and Safety standards. •M  onitoring safety legal requirements to ensure strict compliance in the different projects. • Development of programmes for specialised training courses, aimed at different levels of the •E  stablishing goals for health and safety at work. organisation. •S  tructuring the different emergency brigades. • Signing of a framework contract for the supply of •S  tandardising Health and Safety at Work Plans in Health and Safety equipment. the different projects. Finally, it is important to note the excellent the During 2015 we worked with the aim of obtaining accident rate indices achieved since the start of safety certification OHSAS 18001. In-house training operations in this country. 83 on health and safety at work for staff and contractors The Aldesa Group in Peru has worked hard in 2015 of the different projects was also undertaken. It is to control the risks in the various activities of the also worth highlighting the positive results achieved different projects awarded. in the accident rates. Commitment with our Clients 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report This commitment is set out in the Quality Policy which ensures that the final product is safe, reliable and complies with all applicable specifications, standards and codes QUALITY The Aldesa Group has a long-standing commitment to provide high quality products and services to its clients. This commitment is set out in the Quality Policy which ensures that the final product is safe, reliable and complies with all applicable specifications, standards and codes. The general objectives of the Quality Policy focus on: — Consolidating quality as a basic element in the culture of Aldesa Group companies. — Strengthening the identification and sincere commitment of all employees to the Quality Policy. 85 — Bolstering participative quality management which takes advantage of the capabilities of the entire workforce. — Permanently optimising the global business process.. Quality Policy — Ensuring that the products and services supplied to our clients are safe, reliable and comply with applicable specifications, standards and codes. — Reducing faults. — Establishing actions geared towards prevention and not only detection. — Supplying products and services whose price/quality ratio fulfils our clients’ expectations. — Maintaining permanent contact with clients, working together to improve our products and services. — Training, motivating and involving all staff in the management and development of the implemented Quality System. Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 of these systems are certified as per the ISO 9001 standard and their scope includes all types of projects as well as the various activities carried out in the Industrial Area. Companies certified as per ISO 9001 Standard in Spain Construction Area Industrial Area ■ ALDESA ■ ACISA CONSTRUCCIONES ■ GRUPO AMS ■ PROACON For the Aldesa Group, Quality Management Systems ■ COALVI are essential for achieving the objectives defined by the company, generating an added value that makes The unification and integration of the Management it easier to comply with and go a step beyond in Systems of Aldesa Group companies are also worth fulfilling the initial expectations of its clients. mentioning. This has made it possible to combine criteria, setting up a single work system within Group The different companies comprising the Aldesa companies, creating a more effective and efficient Group in Spain have implemented quality data analysis methodology that encourages System management systems at all their work sites. Most feedback and hence improvement. 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report Satisfaction surveys enhancement processes as a priority. Hence the fact that procurement and subcontract management is One of the greatest concerns of the Aldesa Group the cornerstone of its Quality Management System. is the satisfaction of its clients. To this end, direct surveys and interviews are conducted periodically The Group has a specific system that specifies to obtain their point of view on the fulfilment of their the lines to be followed for proper procurement expectations and their perception of the final quality management. The first step is an initial assessment of suppliers, which analyses their ability to supply of the projects executed. This serves as the basis for products and services in accordance with the establishing improvement measures every year. requirements stipulated by the Aldesa Group. The The level of satisfaction of the Group’s clients is high, aspects which are evaluated include their human and material resources, products and services certified by according to the satisfaction surveys conducted accredited bodies, as well as their commitment to the when projects and services awarded have been environment. completed. This fact is borne out by the clients’ trust in awarding their main projects to Aldesa. This initial approval enables the inclusion of the Group-approved suppliers in the database, which are Most of the quality objectives in each of the then assigned a specific activity group and an initial company’s operating processes were fulfilled in 2015, score. ensuring the constant improvement of processes. When each of the projects for which they were Commitment to suppliers contracted is completed, a reassessment is carried and contractors out to rate aspects such as meeting deadlines, quality levels, Environmental guidelines and their The Aldesa Group views the involvement of its legal obligations, and a score is then assigned. This suppliers and subcontractors in continuous makes it possible to obtain a supplier rating based on 87 Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 88 the merits or demerits accumulated in the different •P roject review to detect possible shortcomings, projects executed. A minimum threshold is defined undefined aspects, proposed improvements, etc. below which the supplier is excluded as an approved supplier and not readmitted until it demonstrates •S trict control of the documents used (blueprints reliably that it has improved in these aspects. and necessary technical documentation). This approved supplier database is computerised •C arrying out documented inspections upon receipt and its use and consultation are mandatory in all of materials and their subsequent traceability, and procurement processes. So far a list of almost controls and inspections at the start, during and 38,000 evaluated suppliers has been built up in four at the end of the execution of each project unit or categories. during the rendering of each service to ensure that all requisites specified by the clients are complied The computer application that handles the evaluation with as well as all applicable legal and regulatory of suppliers has online access, which means that requirements. all operational centres and work sites can pass on information about the performance of each supplier Each Plan also includes the preparation and instantaneously and in real time, and so the results of execution of tests by the major approved laboratories the evaluation take effect from the point at which the in which the materials used are controlled and the process is performed at each work site. pertinent final tests are conducted to ensure that the project complies with all requisites. A calibration and Quality assured in every process verification programme is established for the different and service measurement equipment used at projects to ensure that their measurements are accurate. The optimal The Aldesa Group implements Quality Assurance condition of the Group’s own ancillary resources and Plans (QAPs) for each project and service. These those of collaborating companies is also subject to plans include, inter alia: control and follow-up. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report It is also ensured that all employees involved in each • Generate reports that contribute to the decisionof the project phases or who render services are making process at all levels and the processing of duly qualified in terms of the required training and a larger number of indicators. experience. In addition, a methodology has been defined that is used for evaluating suppliers and • Eliminate, to a large extent, the use of paper and subcontractors, all of which ensures compliance with minimise administrative tasks. each and every project requirement and the fulfilment of clients’ expectations. Information videos have also • Have a common platform that is applicable at all Aldesa Group companies. been produced in order to enhance and underpin the effectiveness of the training given in this field to the • Have a solid and exportable solution that can grow Group’s workers. into new functionalities. Quality-focused software Thanks to all these measures, the Aldesa Group enjoys a high level of competitiveness in the sectors The Aldesa Group has IT tools applied to management, where it operates, achieving constant improvement which contribute added value and make it possible to: and fulfilling the expectations of its clients. • Manage and expedite the Quality Systems through As regards to Mexico, during 2015 the Integrated online IT tools. Management System was recertified in quality, environment and multi-site occupational health • Have information in real time on the Quality at all of according to standards ISO 9001, 14001 and OHSAS Aldesa Group’s projects and work sites. 18001. Work has also been ongoing on developing new technical procedures, as well as in the review • Ensure the filing of records in electronic support to to improve other procedures associated with the prevent losses. operational processes of each of the Group’s divisions. 89 Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 For the renewal of the certificates, Aldesa the Group companies that have such accreditation: satisfactorily completed over 20 days of external Aldesa Construcciones and Aldesa Nowa Energia. audits and certification processes, and fully complied This is a significant fact because it is helping to with the approved programme of internal audits. consolidate the culture of continuous improvement of work by Aldesa in this country, in addition to turning The actions of 2015 include the following milestones: Aldesa Nowa Energia into a benchmark company in the Industrial division of the Group that has such • 15 quality accreditation for the companies that certification in Poland. make up Aldesa Group Mexico issued by UKAS, ANAB and EMA.. In addition to these major achievements, work also continued on the implementation of compliance • Expanding the scope of quality certificates including procedures and internal processes at the company “Design and Development” of standard ISO itself, along with the development and continuous 9001:2008 for companies in the Industrial Area. enhancement of quality standards. Among others, for example, it has improved the systematic approval • Adapting the system to the needs of energy projects of suppliers and purchases by reporting each of the achieving its specialisation in this area. projects on the performance of these companies, which ensures that only the best suppliers can • Consolidating the use of digital platforms in key participate in the implementation of the activities. processes, such as measuring the effectiveness of training and evaluating customer satisfaction. At the same time, over the course of the past year the objectives that had been set were fulfilled, thereby In Poland, during 2015 certification audits were contributing to the progressive consolidation of the satisfactorily completed under standard ISO 9001 by Quality system. 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report As a result of Aldesa Group’s strong commitment to continuous improvement, rigorous Quality assurance plans are prepared for in each customer’s project, developed by applying strict inspection programmes and operational activities to ensure that the quality of the projects meets and exceeds the requirements and expectations of our customers. As regards to Peru, the main actions carried out by the Aldesa Group in 2015 include: • Establishing a Quality Policy and its dissemination among the different projects. • Establishing Quality Management System procedures according to ISO 9001. • Developing PTEs for the different tasks in the implementation of projects. • Quality control of materials and equipment in projects. • Continuous monitoring of calibration certificates of measuring equipment. • Developing Quality Plans for specific projects. 91 • Permanent control of quality observations in the projects, seeking their minimisation. • Monitoring and compliance with customer requirements. Throughout last year Aldesa worked in Peru in order to obtain the ISO 9001 certification. At the same time, the objectives set out in the Quality Plans for each of the projects of the company were met, thereby ensuring the continuous improvement of the processes. INNOVATION In Aldesa Group, R&D+i is understood as a differentiating element that promotes the organisation’s activities and competences, ensuring resource optimisation and improving both service quality and efficiency. For these reasons, it constitutes a strategic axis within the company’s management model. The vocation of the Aldesa Group is to remain a leading exponent for its clients in all business areas in its commitment to R&D+i, investing every year Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 in both technical and human resources, as a vital and personnel. However, at the Aldesa Group the activity in response to the constant demand for new ability to innovate is an asset which belongs to all technologies and products. Proximity to the market businesses and departments, as an implicit activity and an understanding throughout the organisation at every area of the organisation, with the national provide the channel for information sources and international areas representing the main focus generating new innovative projects which will act as driving forward new developments at the Group in the driving force of the corporation’s growth. the present. Given the current market circumstances, with In Spain during 2015, Aldesa Construcciones easily ever-increasing globalisation and high levels of surpassed the first audit carried out by AENOR of its competitiveness, the internationalisation of Innovation R&D+i Management System, according to standard is vital as a means of business growth. The Aldesa UNE 166.002:2006, after being renewed for a period of Group, as a company operating in sectors demanding four years in 2014. In turn, Acisa passed satisfactorily products or services derived from substantial the second follow-up audit of its R&D+I Management R&D+i activities, is convinced of the need to transfer System, certified in 2013. knowledge and to deploy the latest advances and technology in new international markets, with the These achievements position the Aldesa Group as a ability to incorporate innovations or launch new construction group with an innovative policy providing products within potential priority business areas, the guidelines required in order to optimise the thereby increasing the competitiveness of the organisation’s technological innovation processes. It Group’s companies against an international backdrop, will also allow the Company to establish objectives positioning itself at the forefront of technology in in accordance with current activities and services, to Europe and worldwide. extend its knowledge and enhance the administration of R&D+i operations, thereby increasing the Innovative or R&D+i activities are often seen as competitiveness of the Group in a sector which is the inherent business of a specific department constantly evolving. 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report Centralised monitoring of R&D+i activities, in development of projects related to smart traffic and accordance with a progressive but decisive task transport management, the engineering of industrial 93 of coordination, detection and support of novel processes, and telecommunications, being a major initiatives in all the Group’s operational areas, has pillar of the company in recent years innovation in facilitated effective management of technology Smart Cities, researching various topics such as the projects connected with sustainable, construction, balance of emissions resulting from the prioritisation engineering and telecommunications activities, along of public transport, pattern generation using Big Data with comprehensive work to improve documentation, analysis, cybersecurity, digital trust, management, as reflected in the considerable number of projects guidance and refuelling of electric vehicles, cloud classified by accredited bodies. computing, and information for the driver to adapt their progress for better progression in signalised The Aldesa Group currently has 65 key certified networks. projects, a figure which is expected to rise by 15% during 2016. Many of these projects have also been The completion of the many certified R&D projects in supported by a wide range of bodies, including the Aldesa Group in Spain has generated extensive the CDTI (Industrial Technological Develop and innovative own know-how which is being currently Centre), the Regional Government of Andalucía, the applied as a differentiating factor for the organisation Autonomous Region of Madrid and the Ministry of in the largest international projects in Mexico, Industry, Energy and Tourism (MINETUR). Poland or Peru, making it possible to offer clients a technological leap in services. In 2015 the Aldesa Construction Division focused its innovation operations on projects to optimise Mexico the execution of major civil engineering projects, the mitigation of environmental impact, sustainable ■ The Emisor Poniente II drainage tunnel (TEPII). construction and energy efficiency. Construction of a 5.52-km hydraulic tunnel using a TBM-type tunneller, connecting the West The Industrial Division, the Group’s main technological Interceptor with Rio San Javier, with an excavation area, has continued to focus its efforts on the diameter of 8.4 m and 7 m when the tunnel Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 is finished. Structurally it consists of a ring of in Mexico, specifically in the Infrastructure category, segments and a secondary coating of reinforced and first prize in the category of tunnels of the 9th concrete. This project is being implemented with Potencia Awards for Public Works Machinery and technological improvements that have enabled Civil Engineering. the optimised assembly and progression of the tunneller. ■ Energy Loss Reduction in Distribution Project. Execution of all necessary activities for the ■ Second access to beaches in Tijuana. This project, construction and installation work to reduce executed in the state of Baja California for the losses with 23 kV voltage, a total 116,616 MVA Secretariat of Communications and Transportation transforming power, line construction and (SCT), has a total length of 4.1 km and consists of a measurement assurance. These activities involve vehicular bridge across a scenic road, a false tunnel the removal, supply and installation of 156,669 439 metres long, 15 metres wide and 10 metres AMI-type meters communicated through an high, including the dirt road, drainage, side slope innovative integrated smart system with new stabilisation, hydraulic concrete pavement, lighting, features that optimise data capture, the processing additional work and signage. The experience of measurement-taking and the management of gained within the Group in the construction of the information received. false tunnels and slope stabilisation has allowed the development of complex solutions for the Poland completion of a very technically complicated project, again showing its leadership position ■ ITS Rzeszów Project (Intelligent Transport in Mexico in the specific sector of tunnels and System of the City of Rzeszów). The role of the foundations. Aldesa Group has been designing and integrating smart control systems of the road traffic in the ■ This tunnel, where all activities were marred by a city, installing cameras and panels as well as geological fault that conditioned the construction modernising crossings and control centres. The process, forcing to successfully incorporate main technological achievement of the project 94 complicated technical solutions to prevent the was the integration of all systems using the latest collapse of the side slopes, was awarded in 2015 technologies in data transmission (WIMAX, LMDS the second prize in the 25th OBRAS CEMEX Awards and RADIO LINE). ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report ALDESA GROUP NOTEWORTHY R&D+I PROJECTS Years 2014/2015* CONSTRUCTION DIVISION ■ Development of a local data network for energy management in buildings. ■ Innovative solutions in tunnelling by using new generation technology (with Proacon). ■ R&D of new construction applications for materials under multi-purpose sustainability criteria. ■ Efficient design of mixed metal structures with unconventional concrete based on integration and safety sustainable criteria. ■ Development of technological improvements applied to efficient construction processes in unique projects. ■ New support techniques in unique locations with a considerable incline and environmental impact (with Proacon). ■ Innovative techniques in the design of structures under distinctive tension conditions. ■ Research of a linear solar-powered transport system. ■ Development of technological improvements applied to efficient construction processes in unique projects. ■ Innovative techniques in the design of components for railway infrastructure (COALVI). 95 INDUSTRIAL DIVISION ■ New technologies for energy-efficient facilities that improve the quality of life of citizens. ■ Development of a ubiquitous system for traffic regulation based on cloud computing solutions paradigm. ■ Development of a universal multi-purpose decentralised protection system to improve cybersecurity and digital trust in communications in critical environments. ■ Self-learning traffic pattern generation system derived from the analysis of heterogeneous data sources employing Big Data techniques. ■ Development of the first smart network for energy management in the railway sector (FERROSMARTGRID). ■ R&D of new traffic technologies for integration into the smart cities of the future. ■ Development of a road information system for efficient and sustainable driving in urban areas. ■ Design and development of a smart system with new integrated communication features that optimise data capture, the processing of measurement-taking and the management of the information received. ■ R&D of technological processes to design sustainable engineering in automated ecosystems. * Certified or in the process of certification according to the UNE 166001:2006 standard Environment 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report The Group’s commitment is borne out in the guidelines of its environmental policy The Aldesa Group has a long-standing interest in achieving and demonstrating a great commitment to the respect for the Environment and to the preservation of the natural surroundings. The Group’s commitment is borne out in the guidelines of its environmental policy. Environmental Policy — Compliance with the applicable environmental regulations and legislation, and any requirements which the company signs up to in this regard. — Usage of processes, practices or materials which avoid, 97 reduce or control pollution, based on a principle of prevention. — Continuous intensification of environmental management, to obtain improvements in the company’s environmental performance. — Establishment and regular review of environmental objectives and targets, in accordance with the undertakings assumed in this declaration. — To communicate to the employees concerned and encourage their involvement in the method for developing and applying the Environmental Management System. These environmental policy principles are undertaken within the framework of an Environmental Management System based on the ISO 14001 standard which ensures compliance with applicable environmental law and regulations and the use of processes that prevent, reduce and control pollution, stressing prevention and establishing on-going improvement in the company’s environmental performance. The main companies comprising the Aldesa Group in Spain have their own environmental management systems that have been certified pursuant to the ISO 14001 standard. Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 •S ubsequently, the applicable environmental Companies certified legislation is identified (EU, State, Autonomous as per ISO 14001 Community and local), as well as the possible environmental requirements contemplated in Standard in Spain licenses, authorizations or environmental impact statements. To facilitate this identification task, Construction Area Industrial Area a specialised external service reports any legal ■ ALDESA ■ ACISA novelties as they arise. CONSTRUCCIONES ■ GRUPO AMS •O nce the requirements and obligations have been ■ PROACON identified, compliance by the employees and ■ COALVI subcontractors and collaborating companies is controlled. To this end, an Environmental Inspection With a view to complying with the requirements of this Programme (PIM) is established which sets out the standard, Aldesa has implemented an Environmental inspections to be carried out, those responsible for Management Plan at each of its projects and work doing so, their frequency and their results. sites where the following actions are carried out, inter alia: Periodically, environmental improvement actions are established by defining environmental objectives. • The environmental aspects generated by the activities which are carried out at these sites are In the Construction Area the main impact of works is identified and evaluated (mainly waste, atmospheric the volume of inert waste generated. This is mainly emissions, spillages and noise). The criteria applied the product of excavation and demolition, rubble, in conducting this assessment of environmental timber and rebar. Along these lines and with the aspects are: its nature and toxicity, magnitude, commitment to environmental improvement, work is impact on the receiving environment, likelihood of carried out each day to reduce the volume of waste occurrence and severity of the consequences. so that it does not end up in landfill sites. Prevention 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report comes first, properly planning the activities and established such as fuel storage sites. Other types 99 analysing construction alternatives to prevent, of spillages, such as those produced when cleaning reduce, and minimise waste. For waste that cannot the concrete-mixing drums or bentonite sludge be prevented, alternatives are sought, such as reusing frequently used in construction projects, are collected it at the work site or sending it to other projects that at recycling sites for their subsequent treatment. require excavated material thereby avoiding the need for new quarries. Another alternative to landfill is to use the surplus material for agricultural improvement. These are properties which, either because of the contours of the terrain or because of their degraded condition, are not suitable for agricultural use. In these cases, the land is restored and enhanced using clean earth left over at other work sites. In the case of timber and surplus rebar and metals, they are handed over to authorised operators for subsequent recycling. As for hazardous waste (such as empty containers for aerosols, paint, resins, foams and silicone, along with machinery waste, such as brake fluid, filters, used oil, etc.), this is segregated and managed at each of the works sites and centres by means of authorised companies. At the same time, to prevent spillages at work sites, several systems for containing possible spillages are Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Construction Area-Spain HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED INERT WASTE GENERATED YEAR 2015 YEAR 2015 Waste (kg) Waste (kg) Asbestos 82,977 Earth 10,726.844 Used oil 7,889 Rubble 8,599,649 End-of-life electronic equipment 2,577 Concrete 276,409 Contaminated earth 1,540 Metals 248,972 Contaminated rags and papers 1,008 Asphalt mix 119,580 Hoses 916 Construction and Empty containers 851 demolition wastes 99,313 Empty spray cans 322 Timber 85,878 Oil filters 224 Paper/Cardboard 53,467 Toner and ink cartridges 92 Plastics 33,648 Empty aerosols 86 Aluminium 9,370 Non-halogenated organic solvents 35 Total 20,253,133 Batteries and/or accumulators 34 Fluorescent tubes 5 Total 98,556 100 Industrial Area-Spain HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED INERT WASTE GENERATED YEAR 2015 YEAR 2015 Waste (kg) Waste (kg) End-of-life electronic equipment 980 Rubble 180,300 Contaminated empty containers 468 Iron 29,340 Batteries and/or accumulators 257 Mixed metals 24,875 Paints 146 Earth and rock 18,120 Mercury cells 142 Gypsum 11,950 Fluorescent tubes 18 Concrete 10,370 Sprays 18 Timber 2,440 Coolant 9 Electronic equipment 2,060 Empty sprays 4 Paper/Cardboard 1,753 Total 2,042 Copper 503 Luminaries 232 Plastics 25 Aluminium 4 Total 281,972 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report As to the control of noise and emissions to air, the Control of consumption of natural machinery used at work sites is controlled and resources preventive maintenance and the use of recentlymanufactured machinery is required also confirming Controlling the use of natural resources, including that official technical inspections are up-to-date. water, fuel, and electricity, is another key aspect of the Group’s environmental policy. In the Industrial Area, similar environmental control guidelines, adapted to the specific activities and In addition to raising awareness among employees, peculiarities of this division, are implemented. several specific measures were implemented last The Group’s recycling policy for offices also year to optimise fuel consumption at work sites: the contemplates systematic collection of waste such as functioning hours of generators were adjusted in paper or printer and photocopier toner by authorised cases where the use of this equipment is essential, companies for subsequent recycling and reuse, also encouraging the use of machinery manufactured respectively. One indicative figure is that during 2015, more recently to ensure that the use of resources is 11.6 tonnes of paper and 670 kg of RAEE-registered kept at a minimum. electronic equipment were recycled. Regarding consumption of electricity, used mostly We should also mention that last year IT tools were in office buildings, a study was conducted last year also applied last year to environmental management. to determine the sources of consumption (mainly We already have real time information on the lighting and air conditioning). Adjustments have environmental performance at all of the Group’s work been made to power ratings, the scheduling of sites and centres. The reports that are generated start-up times and proper temperature regulation in contribute to the decision-making process at all accordance with the orientation of the building, so as levels, also making it easier to handle a greater to reduce and optimise consumption, thereby helping number of environmental indicators. to cut CO2 emissions. 101 Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 In this spirit, studies are being conducted on Several awareness-building campaigns were 102 energy efficiency at the Aldesa Group headquarters conducted throughout 2015 at all the work centres (replacing the current lighting with LEDtype lighting, in order to raise awareness among employees to placing timers in various public areas, etc.), which is ensure that they use water, fuel, and electricity in a expected to contribute to a continuous reduction in responsible manner. Educational videos have also CO2 emissions. been used as a tool to improve and underpin the effectiveness of the training delivered. Raising environmental awareness Control of Greenhouse With a view to completing the environmental Gas Emissions (GGE) improvement measures, since 2000 different environmental awareness-building campaigns have One of the main environmental issues in modern been carried out aimed both at its own workers and society is climate change. Reducing carbon dioxide those of collaborating companies. These include the emissions to air has become a key concern at the dissemination of operating guidelines for sustainable Aldesa Group and the reason for considering it a management at the offices and the publication of priority objective. various good practice manuals which encompass the different activities in projects involving construction, Aldesa continues to promote initiatives and actions machinery, masonry, structures, electrical installations to reduce its ecological footprint and minimise and fixtures and fittings. greenhouse gas emissions (GGE), by implementing a reporting system for this field. Aldesa also shares its concern for the environment with suppliers and collaborating companies, The objective of the Emissions Inventory Project particularly when their activities could have a major is to provide a precise idea of GGE generated by impact on the projects, ensuring that their workers each activity to compare the situation against its have the training and environmental awareness peers and to identify improvement options. In 2015, required for carrying out their activities. work was ongoing on the calculation, analysis, and ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report measurement of emissions based on three different • More efficient production of solar-based electric scopes: power to replace conventional sources with renewable sources and the development energy • Scope 1: Direct sources of emission. Those storage technologies. associated directly with production activity. • Creation of new systems for hydrogen production • Scope 2: Indirect emissions. Emissions which are from renewable sources and mechanisms for generated indirectly. An example would be those efficient storage. emitted to produce the electrical energy consumed • Implementation of energy efficiency and CO2 by the company. capture improvements. • Scope 3: Other sources such as the emissions • Improvement in the efficiency of the management generated by employees’ travel and business trips, of industrial waste. supplies and services acquired, etc. • Creation of new solutions in the end-to-end water Growing energy consumption and the increase in cycle. the transport sector mean that CO2 emissions are currently a serious problem that must be taken into • Measurement of the impacts of our activity on the consideration since these emissions are the main environment. cause of global warming. In view of this situation of environmental degradation, the Aldesa Group has During 2015 the initiative to reduce emissions promoted environmental innovation focusing its generated by the Group’s fleet of vehicles continued, efforts on producing energy from renewable sources: maintaining the key criterion in vehicle selection 103 Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 that they should produce the lowest possible CO2 The activities carried out this year have been multiple emissions. Since this initiative was launched, and complex because of the uniqueness of many standard vehicle emissions have successfully been of the projects implemented, but the following reduced by 4.46%. milestones must be highlighted: •S  pecialising in the integrated management BREEAM sustainable building of projects subject to the issuance of LEED During 2015 new building construction projects were certification. We add value to the team of undertaken to be certified under BREEAM (Building environmental specialists training them as Leed AG Research Establishment Environmental Assessment and Leed AP. Methodology). This certification serves to promote more sustainable construction, generating economic, • Improved environmental standards in the work site environmental and social benefits for all parties by increasing the ratios of legal compliance per associated with the lifespan of a building (developers, project. owners, tenants and/or users), while also conveying the Corporate Social Responsibility of the company • Improved preventive controls to minimise the with regard to society and the market, in an generation of hazardous waste, coupled with unmistakable and easily perceptible manner. greater control of its generation and cost. In Mexico during the 2015 financial year, recertification • Increased quality of internal training through the of the following certifications was achieved: development of a corporate catalogue of courses ISO9001:2008 for our Quality Management System, by speciality. ISO14001 for the improvement of the Environmental Management System and OSHAS18001 for the • Improved environmental operational controls improvement of the work environment and worker through the review of the applied Inspection Points health. Programmes. 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report Significant environmental aspects — Atmospheric emission of dust and particles — Atmospheric emission of noise and vibrations 105 As part of the environmental management system we seek to identify and assess the environmental • Concession Road Sections aspects resulting from our business, applying specific evaluation criteria for the various activities and — Greenhouse gas emissions (GGE) identifying the requirements in accordance with the — Atmospheric emission gases, particles and noise applicable environmental regulations. This analysis On the other hand, Aldesa strives to promote and has served to identify for each project the most work to the highest principles of transparency significant environmental aspects, along with the and legality, these being the guiding basis of our definition of measures to be taken so as to minimise operations, recognising the importance of respecting their impact. To summarise, they can be grouped as our agreements and commitments. For this reason, it follows: is particularly noteworthy that during 2015 no fines or penalties were received for breach of environmental • Corporate Offices regulations.. — Greenhouse gas emissions (GGE) — Energy consumption Waste management — Consumption of water and forestry products (paper) The collection and treatment of waste by managers — Generation of non-hazardous waste (paper) approved by local environmental authorities are among the activities regularly performed. The aim is • Construction Projects to guarantee the proper handling of waste generated during execution of each project headed by Aldesa — Greenhouse gas emissions (GGE) Group Mexico. — Energy consumption — Alteration of soil and subsoil Municipal Solid Waste, Hazardous and Special, is — Waste management (inert and hazardous) summarised in the following table by company: Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MSW (tn) SW (tn) HW (tn) C. Aldesem 126.88 42.38 23.16 Proacón Mexico 3.03 – 0.5 ADM 17.94 – 2.88 Concesionaria 13.14 – 0.94 In Poland, during 2015 certification audits were •A  dapting the Environmental Management System satisfactorily completed under standard ISO 9001 by and construction projects subject to the issuance the Group companies that have such accreditation: of the LEED certificate (Leadership in Energy & Aldesa Construcciones and Aldesa Nowa Energia. Environmental Design), the sustainable building certification system developed by the US Green Major efforts have been dedicated to the process Building Council. of implementing environmental management systems, beginning with the identification of •E  stablishing Environmental Management System regulatory requirements in the country, followed procedures according to ISO 14001:2004. by adaptation and enhancement in accordance • Identifying the environmental aspects and impact with the environmental management guidelines generated in the projects. established by the Aldesa Group itself, which are in many cases more demanding than the •M  onitoring of environmental legal requirements to 106 regulations in each country. This entire process was ensure strict compliance in the different projects. successfully completed, ultimately being awarded the aforementioned certificates, while ensuring •C  omplying with the requirements set out in the compliance with environmental legislation. environmental studies of ongoing projects. In the field of awareness-raising, a series of During 2015 work was carried out in Peru with the aim courses is furthermore being staged to increase the of obtaining ISO 14001 environmental certification. environmental sensitivity of employees, along with a A major effort was made to fulfil our environmental number of evaluations derived from different aspects commitments, these being the guiding base of their requiring supervision during projects. In 2015 major operations. True to this commitment, it should be efforts were dedicated in this sense through the emphasised that during the past financial year no provision of initial training activities at the time of the fines were received for breach of environmental incorporation of new workers to each project. regulations. The various Quality Plans required by each of our As for waste management, collection and treatment clients, investors or contract supervisors also include of waste is carried out by companies authorised by the identification and assessment of environmental the environmental authorities and they are some aspects affecting every project, as well as the of the activities carried out regularly, which aim to appropriate implementation of preventive actions to ensure the proper management of waste generated ensure the optimal environmental performance of during the execution of each project. the Aldesa Group in Poland, viewing this as a priority issue, along with Health and Safety at construction Minimisation of Environmental sites, in other words, value-added as regards our Impact clients. The Aldesa Group Peru performs a range of activities Among the main actions undertaken by the Aldesa in order to minimise environmental impact. Those Group in Peru in 2015 the following stand out: undertaken during the past year include in particular: ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report Identified Impact Environmental Control Measure ■ Impaired air quality due to • Periodic technical review of the machinery to be used. gaseous combustion emissions • It will be checked that the machinery is provided with catalytic converters, (SO2, CO and NO2). which reduce the concentrations of combustion gases by at least 75%. • The contractor will be asked that their mobile units (machinery) have a document certifying that they have passed their maintenance, thus reducing the concentrations of the parameters that are emitted from the tailpipes and therefore their degree of toxicity to the worker’s health and/or neighbouring population. ■ Impaired air quality due to • Soil and/or construction aggregate drenching. emissions of particulate • Anti-dust perimeter screens will be installed in the boundaries, retaining matter and dust generated dispersing particles. by construction activities (earthworks) and movement of • During transportation of removal material, the material will be fully covered mobile units. by a wet blanket or other suitable material. • Order and cleanliness will be maintained in work areas. ■ Increased level of environmental • Noise levels will not exceed those under National Environmental Quality noise generated by construction Standards for Noise S.D. 085-2003-PCM. These are 70 dB during daytime activities (earthworks, operation and 60 dB during night time. of machinery). 107 • It will be checked that the contracted company use their hearing protection equipment to avoid any effects on health of the worker. • It will be checked that the machinery has undergone preventive maintenance. • Construction activities will be performed only during daytime. ■ Increased levels of vibration caused by the activity of earthworks. ■ Solid household waste • Household waste will be disposed of by the Municipality of the City. generation. • Recycled paper will be handed over to SOS Children’s Villages, who offers a recycling programme called “Fulfil Your Role”, with which we would be serving a dual purpose: Environmental prevention and social responsibility, because the money raised by the sale of the paper contributes to the welfare of children who have been abandoned at SOS Children’s Villages. • For the proper disposal of solid waste, a company that provides solid waste services authorised by DIGESA will be hired. • Solid waste containers (cylinders) will be temporarily installed for the segregated storage of solid waste. ■ Generation of excess material and hazardous waste (rags with • Signs indicating where the temporary storage is will be placed. grease, solvents, etc.) Commitment to the Community 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report Aldesa’s social initiatives focus on the development of projects connected with its operations to create value for the community by satisfying their fundamental needs Within the current economic context of sustainability, the company must set itself goals which go beyond achieving the maximum profit, establishing not only an economic target, but also a social target. As a result, the list of undertakings given by Aldesa to its stakeholders is supplemented by its Social Action programme, providing corroboration of the Group’s willingness to allocate resources which will help reduce social inequality. The plan was devised in an attempt to link corporate strategy up with the social and economic needs of the community. Aldesa’s social initiatives focus on the development of projects connected with its operations to create value for the community by satisfying their fundamental needs. These projects correspond to two operational spheres: the promotion of infrastructure development in the poorest regions of the world, and the social integration of the least 109 privileged individuals in those communities where the Group is active. The key operational strategic approaches in this regard are as follows: • Access to basic infrastructure services for the population, such as drinking water supply and sanitation. • Sustainable management of natural resources within the region, so as to develop more underprivileged rural areas. • Development of initiatives focused on training in those countries where the Aldesa Group operates, alongside the inclusion of disabled people within the labour market. In Spain, Aldesa runs a number of campaigns among its employees intended to promote collaboration with initiatives undertaken by a range of NGOs. For the eighth year running Aldesa implemented at its corporate head office the blood donor campaign organised by the Spanish Red Cross, encouraging employees to take part and facilitating the deployment of a mobile Donor Centre unit. Clothes were donated by employees to this NGO on the occasion of the “Solidarity Wardrobe” biannual campaign. Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 110 The Aldesa Group headquarters in Madrid also For the Christmas campaign last year, the Group hosted twice the Charity Market organised by chose a charitable cards platform to send out its the Capacis Foundation, pursuing the mission of Christmas greetings in digital format, working social and occupational inclusion of people with specifically with the Save the Children charity. disability, while also incorporating other social and environmental concerns. The Group’s employees The Aldesa Group shares with ONGAWA the had the chance to purchase donated products and philosophy that engineering is a fundamental tool in providing universal access to basic services. As a others produced by the students themselves at their result, it has over recent years been collaborating with workshops. The money raised was allocated in full this Spanish charity in support of various cooperation to funding of the Occupational Classroom project projects. Aldesa’s support currently takes the form (Aula Laboral) through which the foundation provides of the dissemination of the aims and activities of training suitable for disabled people, to develop their ONGAWA projects (volunteer schemes, seminars, social skills and so allow them to take their place in membership campaigns, etc.), through the use of the world of work. both external and internal communication forums and channels. In 2015 the company kept the “recycling points”, with containers to deposit writing materials (ballpoint, A new awareness initiative involved the distribution felt tip marker pens, etc.), which can no longer be among the Group’s female employees of used because they are damaged or have run out of commemorative badges to mark the World Day ink. This waste will be processed by the recycling against breast cancer, in order to raise awareness firm Terracycle, with the profits being donated to the about early detection. maintenance of the orphan foster home run by ECAI Cielo 133, an organisation authorised by the Madrid With regard to training and occupational inclusion, the Regional Government for international adoptions, in Aldesa Group works in partnership with the Adecco Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Foundation for the occupational inclusion of people ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report who, for various reasons, face major difficulties to support local communities in the areas in which in finding employment, and who because of their their projects take place, by extending this support to mental or physical disabilities are at a high risk of cooperatives in rural communities. occupational exclusion. As part of this collaboration, the Group prepares a monthly report, which it sends In 2015 Aldesa supported for the third consecutive to the Foundation, on its job vacancies and describing year communities in a critical situation in the areas the required profile. The Foundation then checks of Guerrero, Chiapas and Oaxaca, via the Fair Trade the Job Candidates Database and after screening, initiative for corporate Christmas gifts, through forwards the CVs of those who match the job profiles. foundations and companies that directly support communities in areas with a high marginalisation In keeping with its Corporate Social Responsibility rate: Plan, one of Aldesa’s objectives is to help people who encounter difficulties in finding a job and to ensure that •P roject 7-Life in Solidarity Alternatives for they find a quality job always putting the emphasis on Development and Peace C.A. A civil association their capabilities rather than their limitations. Another organised by the Missionaries of the Holy Spirit in means of making a contribution is to encourage Mexico Province. They work, promote, increase, charitable actions among Group employees for articulate and qualify initiatives for social advocacy the benefit of more underprivileged groups, by in favour of life, dignity and justice. publicising charitable campaigns undertaken by the Foundation, and collaborating with the Sisaldown • Sabrá Dios. Company developing a self-sustainable Special Manufacturing Employment Centre for the Project that sells mescal, reinvesting 100% of profits occupational inclusion of people with disabilities. directly in the development of the industry and indirectly in education projects in mescal-producing In Mexico, the Group has carried out, since the onset communities. They work directly with the producers of its activity in the country, various programmes in accordance with the principles of fair trade. 111 Corporate Social Responsibility report | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 During 2015 corrective activities continued in order to management. In 2012 it launched the “CAS Forestry 112 minimise the environmental impact of the operations Nursery”, the main aim of which is to provide selfof the Group in Mexico, including in particular sufficiency in the production of forestry plants, which reforestation campaigns along with the monitoring of will then help reforest the sections of highway run reforestation performed in previous years, to increase by the concession company, generating a positive the survival rate of the saplings and, in short, the environmental impact. The facility currently produces success of these measures. 45,000 plants per year, and is therefore expected to lead to an increase in reforestation levels over the A leading role is played by the initiatives undertaken coming years. by Concesionaria de Autopistas del Sureste (CAS) for the reforestation of the sections of highway which Final mention should be made of the establishment it operates and maintains. With the aim of reducing in 2014 by the Aldesa Group of forestry nursery pollution and protecting the environment, CAS began for the Siglo XXI Highway project. Located in the its environmental enhancement programme five municipality of Jonacatepec (Morelos State), it has years ago now, with the main aim of reforesting the capacity for 40,000 plants, and covers a surface area right of way corresponding to the Tuxtla Gutiérrezof 4,000 m2. It houses species rescued in accordance San Cristóbal de las Casas and Arriaga-Ocozocoautla with environmental programmes, and has facilities highways in Mexico, in the state of Chiapas. As in the including security huts, germplasm processing area, last four years, a new Reforestation Campaign was storeroom, shade mesh shed and irrigation system. launched in collaboration with the students from Secondary School number 311 in the municipality of On the other hand, among the activities undertaken Jiquipilas (Chiapas), leading to 1,500 trees of various by companies of the Aldesa Group in 2015 to transfer species being planted. to the business different sustainability-related issues, and specifically to the environment, mention should As a part of its environmental management be made of Aldesa Group’s presence at Mexico policies, CAS has the overriding aim of reducing or Wind Power 2014, the most significant trade fair and controlling pollution on the basis of a principle of series of international conferences focusing on wind prevention, continuously intensifying its environmental power in the country, held in Mexico City. It provides a ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Corporate Social Responsibility report meeting point for both public authority management intended to be recycled. Thus, for each tonne collected figures responsible for the generation of strategies, and sold by the NGO resources are generated for 10 policies and sustainable energy regulation, and children from their Community Homes to receive also companies engaged in project development, food for a month. component and equipment manufacturing, technical and financial service providers, R&D leaders, etc. Aldesa has also extended its social commitment to 113 the communities of villages in Guatemala whose In Poland from October 2015, Aldesa Nowa Energia lands are affected by projects being undertaken in has been organising educational workshops for this country, ensuring that the impact is minimal, and children near the route of the Gdańsk Przyjaźń – implementing a number of forms of cooperation to Żydowo Kierzkowo powerline, which using fun show generate benefits for local development: what electricity is and how to handle it. The idea and objective of the project are to strengthen from an •D onation of construction materials for the Barrio early age awareness of what current is and how San Pedrito Religious Community to build a church it benefits us, but also how to avoid the dangers in El Palmar (Quetzaltenango). associated with its use. Aldesa’s project is organised in 18 schools in all 11 municipalities crossed by the •D onation of building materials to assist in the powerline we are building. The training workshops restoration of an Educational Family Core for are still being delivered and the initiative is likely to Development school in Aldea Belén, El Palmar last until April 2016. (Quetzaltenango). The charitable side of Aldesa in Peru was likewise •E conomic cooperation for the restoration of roads illustrated during torrential rains in Chosica, which and other structures at the San José Los Encuentros caused numerous victims among the population and Colony in El Palmar (Quetzaltenango). significant damage to property and housing. Aldesa wanted to provide assistance working with Caritas Peru •E conomic cooperation and gifts for festive activities in supporting the victims of this tragedy, which led to at the Rural Mixed School of the San José Los this area being declared a disaster area for 60 days. Encuentros Colony in El Palmar (Quetzaltenango). Aldesa has been working with SOS Children’s Villages •E conomic cooperation and donation of building Peru, participating in the campaign “Recycle me: Fulfil materials to Aldea Tierra Colorada in San Felipe YOUR role” through the delivery of office waste paper (Retalhuleu). 114 A-54 Santiago-Lugo 3directory 115 Aldesa Directory HEAD OFFICE SPAIN MEXICO GRUPO ALDESA Aldesa Construcciones Río Mississippi, 49 Bahía de Pollensa, 13 Bahía de Pollensa, 13 Colonia Cuauhtémoc –Delegación 28042 Madrid (Spain) 28042 Madrid Cuauhtémoc Tel.: +34 91 381 92 20 Tel.: +34 91 381 92 20 06500 Mexico City grupo-aldesa@aldesa.es centralita@aldesa.es Tel.: + 52 55 5533 0480 centralita@aldesa.es www.aldesa.es info@grupoaldesa.com.mx comunicacion@aldesa.es www.grupoaldesa.com.mx www.grupo-aldesa.com PROACON Tel.: +34 91 772 17 00 PROACON México info@proacon.es info@proacon.com.mx www.proacon.es www.proacon.com 116 ACISA www.acisa.es Aldesa Energías Renovables aldener@aldesa.es Aldesa Home Tel.: +34 91 382 11 60 aldesahome@aldesa.es www.aldesahome.es Coalvi POLAND Madre Rafols, 2 50004 Zaragoza Postepu 18 – Neptun Building Tel.: +34 976 39 01 16 02-676 Warsaw www.coalvi.es Tel.: +48 22 570 44 65 biuro@aldesa.pl www.aldesa.pl Dekerta, 24 – Diamante Plaza Building 30-703 Krakow Tel.: +48 12 421 14 00 biuro@aldesa.pl www.diamante-plaza.pl ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Directory PERU GUATEMALA ROMANIA Avenida Paz Soldán, 193 PROACON Guatemala Buzesti 75-77 San Isidro, Lima 4ª Avenida, 15-70 Paladium Sector 1 Bucharest Tel.: + 511 213 8600 Building Tel.: +40 311 507 605 info@aldesa.pe Zona 10 Guatemala info@aldesa.ro https://aldesaperu.wordpress.com Tel.: +502 500 80 100 info@proacon.gt PROACON Perú www.proacon.com info@proacon.com www.proacon.com 117 NORWAY INDIA LUXEMBOURG Karl Johans Gate 18C Unit 426-A Regus Business Centre Aldesa Financial Services 0159 Oslo Rectangle One Gabriel Lippmann, 9 Tel.: +47 21643914 / 21380955 Saket 110017 New Delhi Parc d’Activites Syrdall 2 nº 4 info@aldesa.no Tel.: +91 11 665 44710 L-5365 Munsbach jferrandiz@aldesa.es Tel.:+352 27 35 39 01 PROACON Entreprenør afs@aldesa.es info@proacon.no www.proacon.es/no www.grupo-aldesa.com www.grupo-aldesa.com
