23 January 2016 Communication on Progress COP Year: 2015 On behalf of Planson International Corporation, I reaffirm the company’s support and commitment to the UN Global Compact initiative and its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We are acutely aware of the impact our decisions and actions have in the world. We have teams and initiatives to address each area and to continually improve the Global Compact and incoporate its principles into our business mission, culture and operations. We share these principles with our stakeholders using our primary communication channels. In 2015 we developed and adopted the following policies: Environmental Policy, Quality Management System Policy, and CSR Requirements for Suppliers. We also committed to pursuing ISO9001 certification. Human Rights Actions We are committed to informed, proactive and unflagging support of human rights and freedoms, and equal treatment of all, regardless of race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, physical or mental disability, familial status, sexual orientation, age, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. We hold regular employee training to ensure understanding and implementation of all laws governing protection of human rights, prevention of sexual harassment, and guarantees of nondiscrimination. We observe all laws and regulations protecting the privacy of our employees, vendors, customers and partners. We support human rights organizations through financial, material and time contributions. As a woman-owned business, we strongly support women’s advancement in education, employment, business, health, and family. We do not do business with individuals, companies, governments or organizations identified as violators of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Outcomes All Planson staff, customers, business partners and suppliers are informed that Planson supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. We make financial and time contributions to nonprofit organizations promoting human rights, the health and wellbeing of girls and women, early education, physical fitness, sports, the arts, and publicly financed online adult education. Labour Actions Planson is an Equal Opportunity Employer. We comply with all laws, including labor laws, which prohibit:  Unfair treatment because of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age, disability or genetic information.  Harassment by managers, co-workers, or others in the workplace, because of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age (40 or older), disability or genetic information.  Denial of a reasonable workplace accommodation that the employee needs because of religious beliefs or disability.  Retaliation because the employee complained about job discrimination, or assisted with a job discrimination investigation or lawsuit. Our policy of equal employment opportunity encompasses all aspects of the employment relationship including hiring, promotion and transfer, selection for training opportunities, wage and salary administration and the application of benefit plans and Company policies. Planson surveys employees for feedback, holds human resource training and development sessions, and submits official reports bi-annually on the office working environment, including training, ergonomics, mental health, conflicts, indoor climate, and sexual harassment. We believe in the power of information technology for capacity building to achieve development objectives. We partner locally with in-country ICT companies, who provide high level technical support, hardware and software installation, end user training, education, and warranty repairs. We are committed to delivering services through this global network of local partners who respect all the ten principles of the Global Compact. Our local partners gain access to large opportunities thanks to our cooperation, financial strength and experience, and as they prosper local economies are also strengthened. We maintain a safe, positive, respectful work environment. Outcomes Planson consistently upholds the 4 Principles regarding Labour both internally and externally. Environment Actions Planson as a Value-Added Reseller of Information and Communication Technology has a positive impact on the environment by: 1) Promoting only manufacturers and distributors who are committed to environmentally friendly technologies, including: Optimized packaging process to minimize packaging materials and waste Guaranteed high content of recycled content, post-consumer and post-industrial Energy Star rating EPEAT power supply efficiency Asset Recovery Services E-Waste recycling ISO 14001:2004 certification for Environmental Management System (EMS) 2) Implementing environmentally sound policies in our own facilities IN 2015 we installed a 40kW photovoltaic system provides 100% of our electric, hot water, cooling and most heating through solar energy: High-efficiency electric water heater High-efficiency air source heat pump for heating and cooling Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Program for paper, toners, ink, e-Waste, plastics, glass, metal Biodegradable packaging materials Standard duplex draft printing Hybrid company vehicle Staff carpooling Weatherization, super-insulation, remotely managed environmental monitoring of building Low energy appliances, electronics and lighting Fulltime telecommuting for 2 staff, flexible part-time telecommuting for all Green space conservation 3) Assisting our customers to be protective of the environment TCO assessment Recycling program for expended consumables and e-Waste Certified Destruction and Recycling Recovery service for commodity grade metals and non-metals, destruction of all data, no portion of such material deposited in a landfill Outcomes Packaging: Our packaging is 100% biodegradable Non-recycled waste: 35% reduction in waste Paper: 95% is recycled Toner/Ink: 99% is recycled Electric use: 100% reduction in commercial generated usage – excess solar generated power is fed back to mains Fossil fuel use: 80% reduction in usage Green space: Member of Maine Small Woodlands Owners of Maine (SWOAM), 250 acres of forest preserved and managed sustainably under a Certified Forest Management Plan Anti-Corruption: Planson upholds Principle 10 by working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Actions We maintain a strict code of ethics in all our business transactions. We reject all questionable advances, promptly report incidents of impropriety, and file protests against corrupt actions. We do not engage in corrupt activity or sanction corrupt activity by any business associates or outside partners. In the past 2 years we have received training from US officials implementing anti-corruption initiatives. We access a direct line to report any instances of improper sales, extortion or bribery. We continually encourage our manufacturers/vendors to ensure that there is a level playing field for all resellers to protect the interest of our customers and ensure open, fair and transparent competition. Outcomes We maintain a zero tolerance policy toward corruption. Our business operations are free of all corrupt practices. Sincerely yours, Connie Justice Founder and President e-mail: connie@plansonintl.com tel: + 1 207 926 3100
