MONSANTO 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT W O R K I N G T O G E T H E R , it’s well within our reach. A place where all people have access to balanced meals and better tomorrows. A healthy planet that can nourish and sustain all forms of life. But getting there means taking on major challenges that no one can overcome alone. As we take decisive action and continue to embed sustainability into our business, we also work with our collaborators and partners to cultivate meaningful change. From the planting of ideas to the harvesting of results, we’re striving to make sustainable agriculture a positive force. Not just for today, but for generations to come. MESSAGE FROM Monsanto is also a co-chair of the Climate Smart meant the necessary separation of some of HUGH GRANT Agriculture (CSA) working group of the Low our employees and the suspension of some Carbon Technology Partnerships initiative led planned work. As a company in the business Dear Stakeholders, by the World Business Council for Sustainable of helping farmers, when their business hurts, Development. The CSA aims to make more food ours does too. But I’m confident that we Sustainability is a journey that presents a constant available, strengthen the climate resilience of have a sound plan for moving forward. but welcome challenge: how can we push farming communities and reduce greenhouse ourselves to achieve even more? How do we gas emissions from commercial agriculture. Monsanto will continue working hard to feed a growing planet in a changing climate? become a more sustainable company. We’re using data science to leverage information We committed to reporting in accordance These are tough questions, and we must collaborate about seeds, soil and weather to help farmers with the Global Reporting Initiative and to find answers. We grow better together. use resources more efficiently and raise better supporting the recently released United harvests, improve their livelihoods and their Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We At Monsanto, we have deep expertise in a range efforts to steward their land. We’re providing remain committed to the Ten Principles of the of topics. But we’re certainly not experts on information and answering questions about the United Nations Global Compact, filing our everything. That’s why we work with farmers, safety of our products, particularly when those Communication Progress and taking affirmative researchers, nonprofit organizations, universities, skeptical of modern agriculture raise questions. actions to address these critical areas. NGOs and other businesses to share expertise and ideas. In this year’s report, we’re pleased Monsanto recently advanced important All things considered, this was a pivotal year in to feature perspectives from some of our sustainability goals. We’ve increased irrigation our sustainability journey. We’ve taken decisive collaborators on critical issues facing agriculture. efficiency in our seed production business action on climate change, and we’re making and curbed our operational greenhouse gas real progress against our commitments. I’d In December 2015, we announced our intention to emissions intensity in our crop protection like to thank the thousands of employees, make our operational footprint carbon neutral by business. And we became the first company farmers and partners who made that possible. 2021. And, more importantly, we rolled out a vision to partner with the National Fish and Wildlife to help farmers build upon the great work that Foundation’s Monarch Butterfly Conservation Sincerely, they’ve already achieved and someday drive carbon Fund, making a multimillion-dollar commitment neutral crop production on farms all over the world. to support efforts to benefit monarch butterflies. I think 2015 was a tipping point in global efforts to address climate change. The Paris Agreement 2015 also presented some challenges. and related efforts drove home the point that we Depressed commodity prices have been Hugh Grant all need to work together to address this issue. hitting companies in many different sectors, Chairman of the Board Monsanto is proud to be a small part of that. including agriculture. This economic reality and Chief Executive Officer EXECUTIVE SUMMARY M O N S A N T O ’ S A P P R O A C H T O S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Our long-standing commitment to sustainability is embedded in our core business strategy, operations and products as evidenced by our progress against our goals and commitments. We will continue to strive to be best in class in these areas and demonstrate our commitment to sustainability and agricultural innovation. We embrace continuous improvement as the path forward to becoming a more sustainable company. As we look back on our progress over the last year, our efforts can be categorized in three broad areas: P E O P L E , P L A N E T and our C O M P A N Y, as summarized in the following pages. Our approach encompasses these key principles: Act Ethically Drive Agricultural Improve Food and and Responsibly Innovation Nutrition Security Advance Product Embrace Collaboration Preserve and Stewardship and Transparency Advance Biodiversity Create a Great Engage Communities Reduce our Work Environment and Society Operational Footprint Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 4 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY HELPING TO ENSURE FOOD farmers converted 2,200 hectares from rice sponsored by the Monsanto Fund provided AND NUTRITION SECURITY to corn, increasing their income by up to education grants to 164 schools and 400 percent. The protocol improved water scholarships to 352 students. (Page 34) Expanding Water Efficient Maize for Africa: efficiency and reduced the use of pesticides Forty conventional DroughtTEGOTM hybrids and fungicides, while reducing labor and other Taking a Global Approach to Community were approved for commercial release in costs by as much as 80 percent. (Page 29) Health and Safety: From organizing Kenya, South Africa, Tanzania and Uganda in disease prevention seminars to distributing this multi-stakeholder partnership. Farmers Smallholder Farmer Resources: Providing first-aid kits, our sites implement harvested 20 to 35 percent more grain information and training to smallholders is a programs to tackle community issues. under moderate drought conditions using priority of our Mobile Farm Care initiative, which Our Off-the-Job Safety efforts reached DroughtTEGOTM hybrids, compared to the has 3.8 million farmers enrolled. (Page 30) over 1.3 million people globally – up seed they historically planted. (Page 27) 27 percent from 2014. (Page 36) Engaging on Health and Nutrition: We are in Grow Asia: As part of World Economic dialogue and sharing insights with food and Forum’s Partnership for Indonesia Sustainable nutrition leaders through the Leaders Engaged F O R G I N G T H E WAY Agriculture, corn harvest in fall 2014 delivered in Advancing Dialogue Network. (Page 32) IN HUMAN RIGHTS approximately $250 more income and Our Human Rights Policy is informed by 14 percent more grain per hectare when REACHING OUT the United Nations Universal Declaration compared to previous harvests. (Page 29) TO COMMUNITIES of Human Rights and the International Vietnam’s Rice-to-Corn Crop Rotation: To Labour Organization’s Declaration on Staking the Future on STEM Education: We improve farmer livelihoods during a period Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. supported the Feed, Nourish, Thrive career of decreased rice demand, the Vietnamese One hundred percent or 30,732 of our resources campaign and the Nourishing Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development seed supply and labor provider contracts 9 Billion Net Impact university outreach selected our DEKALB® Cultivation Rice-tocontained human rights clauses. (Page 48) program. The America’s Farmers programs Corn Rotation Protocol. In the first few months, Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 5 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY M I T I G AT I N G A N D ENSURING ACCESS same amount of land, reducing the motivation ADAPTING TO T O F R E S H WAT E R to turn forests into cropland. (Page 61) C L I M AT E C H A N G E Using Water More Efficiently: We increased Exploring the Benefits of Healthy Soil: Fighting Climate Change in Our Own our irrigation water application efficiency by 9 Monsanto has invested in soils research Backyard: We made significant progress in percent compared to our 2010 baseline through through the Soil Health Partnership, Resilient reducing our crop protection greenhouse a pilot seed production program using advanced Economic Agricultural Practices initiative gas emissions intensity by 16 percent irrigation management techniques. (Page 58) and the Agronomic Science Foundation against our 2010 baseline and are 73 to better understand healthy soils and the Mapping Water Risks: Through our water-risk practices that promote them. (Page 65) percent of the way to our goal. (Page 52) assessment, 14 facilities were determined to Helping Others Adapt to and Mitigate be located in areas of high risk, representing Heightening Honey Bee Health: Climate Change: With external experts, less than 0.3 percent of our total water We continue to engage in the Honey Monsanto has developed carbon withdrawal. We are developing plans to Bee Health Coalition and its Bee Healthy neutral crop production models to further mitigate our water risk. (Page 59) Roadmap and Forage & Nutrition Working share broadly in the hope that the crop Group to improve pollinator health. (Page 67) production sector could have a positive B I O D I V E R S I T Y: P R E S E R V I N G Researching Natural Solutions for Plant Health impact on climate change. (Page 53) S U S TA I N A B L E L A N D S C A P E S and Pest Control: Our Agricultural Biologicals Applying Data Science to Feed a Growing research platform includes the BioAg Alliance Making the Connection Agriculture Population: The Climate Corporation’s partnership with Novozymes, which uses and Biodiversity: We’ve been working with integrated solutions platform leverages microbes to improve plant and soil health Conservation International to preserve and data science and digital tools like the and protect against pests, and the BioDirect™ restore critical forests in Brazil and develop the Nitrogen Advisor to aid farmers. (Page 57) technology product pipeline, which taps into Sustainable Agriculture Landscape Program in natural processes for pest control. (Page 70) Indonesia to help farmers grow more food on the Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 6 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY O U R C O R P O R AT E ADDRESSING CRITICAL ISSUES Summarizing Our View on Food Labeling: GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK As a company involved in one of the first Stewarding Product Safety: Our seed and steps of food production, we are one of many Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility crop protection products are subject to our stakeholders involved in the dialogue about Committee (SCRC): The SCRC reviews the Life Cycle Stewardship Activities Management labeling. We support the voluntary labeling company’s sustainability goals and reporting, Process to ensure their safety and integrity, of food products containing ingredients meets periodically with stakeholders to from gene discovery and plant development derived from GMOs, as well as a federal hear external perspectives and investigates through seed production, marketing, approach to food labeling. (Page 88) significant emerging issues. (Page 78) distribution and discontinuation. In 2015, 20 product and technology stewardship reviews Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate WORKING WITH OUR and 488 field trial compliance and trait quality Citizenship Throughout Our Business: S U P P LY C H A I N corporate audits were performed. (Page 83) Through our global Business Conduct Office, we implement ethics and compliance Supporting the Science on Glyphosate: We launched our supplier sustainability initiatives and directives. In 2015, we After the International Agency for Research risk assessment process, evaluating the addressed a total of 393 inquiries. (Page 80) on Cancer (IARC) panel classified glyphosate economic, environmental and social in Category 2A (“probably carcinogenic to profiles and behaviors of key suppliers. Political Contributions: The Center for Monsanto will use these supplier profiles humans”), Monsanto asked a panel of 16 Political Accountability ranked Monsanto experts to review IARC’s assessment. They to enhance our relationship management and several other companies number concluded “none of the results from a very efforts, assess opportunities and risks, three out of 500 companies included large database, using different methodologies, and develop supplier specific plans that on the CPA-Zicklin Index. (Page 81) provides evidence of, or a potential mechanism incorporate best practices. (Page 90) for, human carcinogenesis.” (Page 87) Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 7 9 Pursuing a broad range of sustainable agriculture solutions to help nourish our growing world. GUEST CONTRIBUTORS A N D C O M M E N TAT O R S 30 Nguyen Hong Lam 26 Farmer in Xuan Loc District, Dong Nai Province, Vietnam 32 Amy Myrdal Miller, MS, RDN, FAND President, Farmer’s Daughter® Consulting 53 Dr. Chuck Rice Helping make balanced meals more accessible for Distinguished Professor, Kansas State University and an author of everyone on the planet and improving lives for the Intergovernmental Panel on farmers, employees, consumers and communities. Climate Change (IPCC) report 56 Peter Bakker President & CEO, World Business 51 Council for Sustainable Development 64 Fitri Hasibuan Project Manager, Conservation International Indonesia 66 Nick Goeser, Ph.D. Balancing agricultural and societal demands with Director, Soil Health Partnership and Manager of Soil Health and Sustainability, environmental resources through solutions that National Corn Growers Association help farmers grow crops more efficiently. 77 Placing high ethical standards, effective corporate governance, responsible product stewardship and transparent reporting at the center of the way we operate our business. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 8 11 OUR PRODUCTS 11 Row Crop Seeds 12 Vegetable Seeds 12 Crop Protection 12 Data Science 13 A G R I C U LT U R A L We are more than 20,000 employees committed to I N N O VAT I O N : O U R APPROACH TO pursuing a broad range of sustainable agriculture S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y solutions to help nourish our growing world. 14 Governing and Managing Our Sustainability Commitment We produce seeds for fruits, vegetables and key crops – such 15 Goals and Progress as corn, soybeans and cotton – that help farmers have better 18 Identifying Material Issues harvests while using water and other important resources more 22 Working Collaboratively efficiently. We work to find sustainable solutions for soil health, and Transparently help farmers use data science to improve farming practices 22 External Charters and Principles and conserve natural resources, and provide crop protection 23 Inviting Conversation products to minimize damage in the field from pests and disease. 24 Earning Recognition Through programs and partnerships, we collaborate with others to help tackle some of the world’s biggest challenges. We are a diverse collection of food enthusiasts, moms and dads, innovators, botanists, farmers and thinkers all striving for the same thing: helping to make balanced meals – of fruits, vegetables and protein – more accessible to all and doing it in a way that helps protect the environment so that everyone wins. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 9 2015 Revenue: Global Locations with Significant Operations: $15B 400+ FACILITIES in 5 7 C O U N T R I E S See our 2015 Form 10-K for Complete Financial Information 20K Employees + Globally See our 2015 Form 10-K for Details S T. L O U I S, MISSOURI Global Headquarters Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 10 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO OUR PRODUCTS We are dedicated to providing farmers high-quality crop production products and services. Our seeds, crop protection products and data science offerings are most effective when used in combination as part of an integrated system approach. Row Crop Seeds Through scientific development and highTHE PLANT BIOTECHNOLOGY PROCESS We develop and deliver systems that enable technology applications, we can more quickly seeds to grow into stronger, more resilient and effectively identify and select the traits crops that can produce better harvests that bring improved options to farmers. 1 Desired trait of a living thing is identified while using resources more efficiently. The science of plant biotechnology and its Throughout the history of civilization, plant products, commonly referred to as genetically breeding innovations were made as a solution to a problem. Even indigenous farmers who modified organisms (GMOs), have helped develop highly effective solutions for farmers. 2 Beneficial trait is adapted to a new plant worked the fields more than 10,000 years Biotechnology applied in agriculture and at ago understood that in order to survive, they Monsanto strengthens plant resistance to needed plant varieties specifically adapted to insects, adverse weather conditions and weed pressures, and enables farming practices 3 Plant is tested for food and environmental safety their conditions. Crop selection that was done and nutritional value by early farmers has evolved into the science of that are better for the environment. plant breeding. Today, plant breeders increasingly Our row crop seed brands include DEKALB®, understand the genetic characteristics and focus on developing plant varieties that have greater Asgrow®, Deltapine®, Agroeste®, Channel®, 4 New plant is better able to thrive La Tijereta®, WestBred® and others. tolerance to adverse weather conditions and disease resistance than previous generations. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 11 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO More than 98 percent of our vegetable seed research and development investment is in Data Science conventional plant breeding. Currently, two of We offer data science-based digital tools to our vegetable crops include biotechnology provide insights that support farmers as they innovations: sweet corn and squash. In make decisions throughout the growing season. both cases, these innovations were used because traditional methods of pest and The Climate Corporation, a division of Monsanto, disease control were not as effective as offers Climate FieldView™, an integrated a biotech solution. Our vegetable seed platform that helps farmers sustainably increase brands include Seminis® and De Ruiter®. productivity with digital tools. The platform brings together data science, predictive analytics, integrated seed science, field science, local Crop Protection weather monitoring and data modeling to develop customized insights both field by field At any stage, seeds and plants are at risk and in specific locations within a given field. from insects, weather, poor soil conditions, weeds and disease. We work to create In addition to helping farmers have better Vegetable Seeds solutions to help protect plant health harvests, many of the insights provided by and minimize environmental impact. Climate FieldView™ enable them to improve We combine traditional plant breeding profitability by making better informed with scientific techniques to create more Our current crop protection offerings include operating and financing decisions and use flavorful and attractive vegetables that can Roundup® branded herbicides and Acceleron® resources like nutrients, pesticides and better withstand nature’s challenges and seed applied solutions, while our Agricultural water more efficiently. So it’s good for provide consumers with visually-appealing, Biologicals R&D platform includes understanding, the farmer and for the environment. great-tasting vegetables on their plates. applying and deploying soil microbes and other products derived from nature. As part of both the Vegetables that look, feel and taste joint BioAg Alliance with Novozymes and through appealing encourage consumption of our own BioDirect™ technology research these nutritious foods. And vegetables that pipeline, we use naturally occurring processes to stay fresh longer can reduce food waste. help control weeds, insects and viruses. We will Some of our seeds produce vegetables continue to offer a range of sustainable chemistry with enhanced nutritional profiles. solutions to help farmers protect their crops. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 12 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO AG R I C U LT U R A L I N N O VAT I O N : OUR APPROACH TO S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Our long-standing commitment to sustainability is embedded in our core business strategy, operations and products as evidenced by our progress against our broad-ranging commitments. We are focused on how Monsanto can contribute to the 2030 Development Agenda of the United Nations and •• Advance Product Stewardship – S U S TA I N A B L E A G R I C U LT U R E advancement of the Sustainable Development Work to ensure that our products are Goals (also known as the Global Goals) by developed and used in a way that We believe sustainable agriculture means growing the helping make balanced meals accessible to all optimizes productivity while minimizing right amount of food on less land using resources in while using resources more efficiently. Driving risks and environmental impacts. an efficient manner that preserves natural ecosystems, addresses water scarcity and climate change, improves sustainable agriculture requires a wide range •• Create a Great Work Environment – farmer livelihoods and benefits society. This approach of approaches and resources. At Monsanto, we is often referred to as sustainable intensification. Provide employees with the skills, collaborate with farmers, researchers, nonprofit benefits and protections they need organizations, universities, NGOs and many to move our company and industry others to advance the principles of sustainable forward and grow professionally. agriculture to help feed a growing population. Embrace inclusion and diversity. Addresses Water Improves Scarcity and Farmer Monsanto is committed to sustainability. Our •• Drive Agricultural Innovation – Climate Change Livelihoods approach encompasses these key principles: Provide farmers with the products SUSTAINABLE and processes they need to reap the INTENSIFICATION •• Act Ethically and Responsibly – best possible harvests while using Ensure effective corporate governance, resources as efficiently as possible strive for ethical behavior from all of to combat and adapt to climate our employees and drive sustainable change and freshwater scarcity. Benefits Preserves practices within our supply chain. Society Ecosystems Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 13 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO •• Embrace Collaboration and Transparency – Our Office of Sustainability is a cross-functional Work with others to integrate and act on Governing and Managing Our team of employees who have day-to-day wide ranging expertise and perspectives. Sustainability Commitment responsibilities in core areas of sustainability Elicit feedback and encourage questions including stakeholder engagement, food and Our sustainability commitment starts at the about our company and its products. nutrition security, environmental management, top with the Sustainability and Corporate health, safety, supply chain, global policy, business •• Engage Communities and Society – Responsibility Committee of our board of conduct and human rights. The Office is responsible Continue to grow positive relationships directors, which reviews and monitors our for aligning and embedding sustainability in with the communities where we do sustainability performance. Operationally, the company across functions, operations and business and with society at large. Preserve our Executive Sustainability and Product processes in all regions of the world, and is and respect human rights and dignity. Stewardship Committee assesses global accountable to the Executive Sustainability and •• Improve Food and Nutrition Security – challenges and opportunities, sets direction, Product Stewardship Committee. The Office also Spearhead and participate in initiatives that reviews goals and commitments, and aligns works closely with our Global Business Operations bring farmers the tools and skills they need to the resources needed to achieve them. Leadership Team and Executive Team. grow the right amount of food. Engage food and nutrition leaders in ongoing dialogue. •• Preserve and Advance Biodiversity – S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y G O V E R N A N C E AT M O N S A N T O Partner with NGOs and others to promote sustainable practices and land use to benefit farmers, communities and nature and find Board of Directors Sustainability and solutions for protecting beneficial species Corporate Responsibility Committee like honey bees and monarch butterflies. •• Reduce Our Operational Footprint – Look for opportunities to cut greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste Executive throughout our business, including Sustainability Global Business Office of Executive and Product Operations with our contract growers. Sustainability Team Stewardship Leadership Team Committee Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 14 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Goals and Progress As we further integrate sustainability into our company operations, we will continue to set both internal and broader external goals to support the advancement of sustainable agriculture. Monsanto’s Operational Footprint C A R B O N N E U T R A L O P E R AT I O N S Make our operational footprint carbon neutral by 2021 (commitment announced in December 2015) GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY I R R I G AT I O N WAT E R A P P L I C AT I O N E F F I C I E N C Y Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our crop protection operations by 22 percent Increase irrigation water application efficiency across our global seed production (per pound of active ingredient) by 2020, relative to our 2010 baseline. operation by 25 percent by 2020, compared to our 2010 baseline. 73% 35% of Goal of Goal 20 1 0 2 0 15 2020 2 0 10 2 01 5 2 02 0 BA S E L I N E PROGRESS GOAL BASE LI NE PROGRESS G OAL Total GHGs 4.8 4.0 3.7 Efficiency 67% 73% 84% per Product, Metric Ton/ Metric Ton Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 15 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto’s External Goals and Progress IMPROVE HARVESTS CONSERVE RESOURCES Help farmers double yields by 2030 from 2000 levels Help farmers use one-third fewer key for corn, soybeans, cotton and canola. resources per unit of output to grow crops. Based on population growth predictions, Monsanto made a commitment in 2008 to develop Monsanto made a commitment in 2008 to develop improved seeds and agronomic practices improved seeds and agronomic practices to help farmers double yields by 2030 from 2000 levels for that by 2030 would help farmers use one-third fewer key resources than in 2000 per corn, soybeans, cotton and canola in countries where farmers have access to the full complement unit of output to grow corn, soybean and cotton. We recognize these improvements of tools for these crops, including plant breeding, biotechnology and agronomic management. will be made by farmers who utilize new technologies and better management practices provided from a diverse set of partners, including but not limited to Monsanto. According to the United States Department of Agriculture Foreign Agricultural Service, significant Cotton is ahead of pace, soybeans are on pace, while corn is tracking off pace. progress has been made against these aggressive goals, especially in countries of high technology adoption. Due to factors such as weather and individual country policies, worldwide crop yields are not currently on pace at this point to double yields by 2030 to meet the anticipated demand for food. Canola 30% of Goal Corn 18% of Goal Cotton 37% of Goal Soybeans 45% of Goal Soybeans 13% of Goal Cotton 67% of Goal Corn 21% of Goal 20 0 0 2 0 30 2000 2 03 0 BA S E L I N E GOAL BASE LI NE G OAL Double One-third Yields Fewer Key Yield-gain percentages are based on a three-year rolling average. Resource reduction percentages are based on a three-year rolling average. Resources Data source: USDA Production, Supply and Distribution View; analysis by Monsanto. For more information on this goal see Source: Monsanto internal estimates. Reflects U.S. results only due to limitations Our Commitments to Sustainable Agriculture white paper. on reliable data elsewhere. Key resources include land use, irrigation water, energy, soil loss and greenhouse gas emissions. For more information on this goal see Our Commitments to Sustainable Agriculture white paper. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 16 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto’s External Goals and Progress U S E N U T R I E N T S M O R E E F F I C I E N T LY Help farmers use nutrients more efficiently and curb greenhouse gas emissions on 1 million acres in the United States by 2020. 20% of Goal 20 1 4 2015 2020 BASELINE PROGRESS GOAL Acres 200 K 1M IMPROVE LIVES M O N A R C H B U T T E R F LY Improve the lives of 5 million resource-poor farm families by 2020. Expand outreach and habitat improvement (Page 68) 4.2 M $5.62 B 100 K 100 K Smallholder in Additional Net Milkweed Plants for Farmers Reached with Best Farmers Income as a Result of Planting Where Quality Management Practices Adopting Biotech Technology Adoption Habitat is Needed for Monarch Habitat Based on global meta-analysis data compiled by ISAAA and PG Economics. CARBON NEUTRAL CROP PRODUCTION H O N E Y B E E H E A LT H Drive carbon neutral practices (Page 53) Multiple outreach and (commitment announced in December 2015) research goals (Page 67) Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 17 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Identifying Material Issues In 2015, Monsanto worked with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to identify the sustainability issues that matter most to the success of our company and to our many stakeholders, both internal and external. This process, known as a materiality assessment, is designed to inform our sustainability strategy, business actions and the content of this report. This materiality assessment refreshes and builds upon a similar process we undertook a few years ago. For a detailed description of the process and its outcomes, see Page 92. T H E I S S U E S L I S T E D H AV E B E E N I D E N T I F I E D A S M AT E R I A L M AT E R I A L T O P I C / T O M O N S A N T O O R O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S B E C AU S E T H E Y DEFINITION R E L AT E T O T H E T O P I C S L I S T E D B E L O W MONSANTO STAKEHOLDERS •• Business conduct and ethics •• Business continuity Product Safety and Stewardship – Developing and stewarding products and •• Human health •• Risk mitigation technologies that meet or exceed regulatory requirements relative to safety, •• Environmental impacts •• Reputation human health and the environment. •• Community safety •• License to operate •• Product durability Innovative Technologies and Products – Responsibly applying innovation •• Business success •• Harvests to technologies, products and services that help farmers have better harvests •• License to operate •• Farmer livelihoods and use resources efficiently. •• Integrated business solutions •• Environmental impacts •• Risk mitigation •• Environmental impacts Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation – Developing technologies •• Operational footprint •• Human health and products that help farmers mitigate and adapt to climate change, •• License to operate •• Food and nutrition security helping manage the impacts of climate change and curbing our operational •• Innovation •• Harvests greenhouse gas footprint. •• Business continuity •• Larger societal impacts •• Business success •• Harvests Sustainable Chemistry – Developing socially and environmentally responsible weed, •• License to operate •• Farmer livelihoods insect and disease management solutions and agronomic practice improvements •• Risk mitigation •• Environmental impacts for use in crop production. •• Integrated business solutions •• Biodiversity Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 18 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO T H E I S S U E S L I S T E D H AV E B E E N I D E N T I F I E D A S M AT E R I A L M AT E R I A L T O P I C / T O M O N S A N T O O R O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S B E C AU S E T H E Y DEFINITION R E L AT E T O T H E T O P I C S L I S T E D B E L O W MONSANTO STAKEHOLDERS •• Essential product input •• Water access •• Operational footprint •• Water as a human right Water Consumption and Management – Applying innovation and best practices to •• Sufficient water access •• Impacts and risks of drought protect, conserve and manage water resources related to our operations, contract •• Energy/cost to move water •• Essential product input seed production and crop production. •• Climate change adaptation •• Environmental impacts •• Risk mitigation •• Climate change adaptation •• Customer choice •• Reputation •• Fair competition Business Practices and Competition – Following methods or processes to deliver •• Regulatory approval •• Innovation products and services that meet the standards of customers based on value, quality, •• Business success •• Farmer livelihoods service and fair competitive market practices. •• Customer development and retention •• Food and nutrition security •• Community vitality •• Harvests •• Business success Global Hunger and Nutrition Security – Helping farmers generate better •• Human health •• Product development harvests through a broad range of solutions and partnerships to help nourish •• Farmer livelihoods •• Innovation a growing world population. •• Rural development •• Climate change adaption •• Climate change adaptation •• Reputation •• Fair competition •• License to operate Business Ethics and Transparency – Operating in a transparent, compliant, •• Knowledge of company practices •• Risk mitigation ethical and socially responsible way. •• Corporate governance •• Employee retention and engagement •• Transparency •• Corporate governance and citizenship •• License to operate •• Facility management •• Community safety, Positive Relationships with Local Communities and Society – Enhancing •• Business continuity vitality and development the communities in which Monsanto operates and engaging in philanthropy, •• Employee engagement •• Human rights STEM education and employee volunteerism for the betterment of society. •• Future workforce •• Educated public •• Corporate citizenship •• Humanitarian and disaster relief •• Community engagement and support Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 19 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO T H E I S S U E S L I S T E D H AV E B E E N I D E N T I F I E D A S M AT E R I A L M AT E R I A L T O P I C / T O M O N S A N T O O R O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S B E C AU S E T H E Y DEFINITION R E L AT E T O T H E T O P I C S L I S T E D B E L O W MONSANTO STAKEHOLDERS •• Product development •• Consumer protection Regulatory Approval Systems – Executing robust product assessments to support •• Business success •• Environmental protection receipt of product approvals, ensuring compliance with regulations and managing •• Business growth •• Economic development conditions of registrations. •• Business continuity •• Food and nutrition security •• License to operate •• Business success •• Farmer livelihoods Smallholder Farmers – Engaging with smallholder farmers to help them overcome •• Poverty eradication •• Product access challenges, leading to better harvests, improved livelihoods and resource access. •• Reputation •• Food and nutrition security •• Market opportunity •• Community development •• Reputation •• Climate change mitigation Land Use and Deforestation – Ensuring soils and forests thrive by utilizing, •• Ecosystem services •• Environmental impacts encouraging and enabling the use of best management practices, products •• Climate change mitigation •• Biodiversity and services by farmers. •• Biodiversity •• Water quality and access •• Sustainable intensification •• Land use changes •• Harvests •• Harvests Soil Health – Promoting land stewardship through the application of effective •• Climate change mitigation and adaptation •• Climate change mitigation and adaptation and innovative farm practices to enhance crop production today and ensure •• Environmental impacts •• Environmental impacts its viability for future generations. •• Sustainable intensification •• Farmer livelihoods •• Business conduct and ethics •• Fair conditions and pay Human Rights – Supporting the full realization of human rights of our •• License to operate •• Eliminating child labor employees and business partner employees throughout our value chain. •• Reputation •• Eliminating forced labor •• Risk mitigation •• Business success •• Innovation •• Access to products Patents and Plant Variety Rights – Delivering innovation with support •• Risk mitigation •• Economic growth of intellectual property, patent and plant variety protection rights. •• Collaboration •• Morality of patenting life •• License to operate •• Farmer choice •• Market development Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 20 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO T H E I S S U E S L I S T E D H AV E B E E N I D E N T I F I E D A S M AT E R I A L M AT E R I A L T O P I C / T O M O N S A N T O O R O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S B E C AU S E T H E Y DEFINITION R E L AT E T O T H E T O P I C S L I S T E D B E L O W MONSANTO STAKEHOLDERS •• Business success and continuity Talent Management, Diversity and Benefits – Attracting, retaining, developing, •• Innovation •• Economic growth incenting and empowering Monsanto employees, promoting professional •• Diverse perspectives •• Increase skilled workforce growth, leveraging the power of diversity and creating a great work environment. •• Employee engagement, •• Inclusion and diversity development and well-being •• License to operate GMO (genetically modified organism) Labeling – Labeling food products •• Heightened societal interest •• Reputation that contain ingredients derived from crops grown with GMO seeds. •• Health and safety perceptions •• Business continuity •• Business success Biodiversity – Preserving ecosystems where Monsanto and its farmer customers •• Environmental impacts •• Reputation operate by promoting sustainable landscapes, understanding environmental •• Community vitality •• License to operate challenges associated with crop production and supporting monarch butterfly •• Health and conservation of species •• Soil and water quality habitat development and honey bee health. •• Soil and water quality •• Pollinators •• Business success •• Individual and community •• License to operate health and wellness Occupational Health, Safety and Wellness – Ensuring a healthy, •• Recruiting and retention •• Health system burdens safe and secure workplace that promotes well-being. •• Employee well-being and engagement •• Education •• Risk mitigation •• Livelihoods •• Cost savings •• Innovation Data Management and Access – Ensuring responsible management of farmer, •• Data ownership and privacy •• Business success business partner, employee and company data while expanding farmer access •• Access to digital services •• Risk mitigation to digital agriculture solutions. •• Farmer livelihoods •• Customer relationships •• Business conduct and ethics •• Transparency Political Spending – Managing political actions and contributions responsibly, •• Business success •• Fair competition transparently and in alignment with Monsanto’s policies. •• Reputation •• Anti-corruption Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 21 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Working Collaboratively S TA K E H O L D E R S and Transparently The table below provides a sampling of the various stakeholders with whom we engage. As more and more people join the conversation African Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF) • Climate Leadership about food, we have a responsibility to help make Group • Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) • Field to Market Alliance • Honey Bee Advocacy Groups Health Coalition • Institute for Sustainable Agriculture (IAD) • Soil Health relevant information available to them. Based Partnership • Sustainability Consortium • World Business Council for Sustainable on feedback from stakeholders, we’ve taken Development (WBCSD) • World Economic Forum (WEF) New Vision for Agriculture significant steps to engage in conversations about how food is grown and gets from farm to table, American Production and Inventory Control Society (APICS) • Biotechnology Innovation Organization • Confederação Nacional da Indústria (CNI) • Council of Supply Chain as well as the role we play along the way. Industry Groups Management Professionals (CSCMP) • CropLife International • International Seed Federation • National and Regional Seed Industry Associations • US-ASEAN We engage with stakeholders that have interest Business Council, Inc. in agriculture production, water, soil health, Mid-States Minority Supplier Development Council • Minority Business Development human rights, climate change, food and nutrition Agency • National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC) • National security, biodiversity, GMO labeling, science and Minority Supplier Development Council • St. Louis Minority Business Council • Southern technology, business practices, innovation, inclusion Regional Minority Supplier Development Council • United States Business Leaders Diversity Groups Network • Veteran Business Resource Center • WEConnect International • Women’s and diversity, youth development, community Business Development Center • Women Business Enterprise Council South • Women’s health and other topics related to our business. Business Enterprise National Council • Women’s Minority Business Development Agency Business Center Chicago We interact with organizations and individuals on an ongoing basis as part of regularly planned visits, •• Privacy and Security Principles for Farm Data technical seminars, conferences and updates. External Charters and Principles •• Sustainable Development Goals Although the frequency of our engagement Monsanto’s policies and business activities varies, the intent to stay engaged in areas of •• United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) are informed by a variety of external charters mutual interest is foremost in our minds. The and principles. Some of these include: •• UNGC CEO Water Mandate groups identified throughout the report provide insight into how they see our role in society. •• American Business Act on Climate Pledge •• Universal Declaration of Human Rights •• Customs-Trade Partnership •• U.S. Green Building Council’s We have also developed and co-sponsored online Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) Leadership in Energy & Environmental forums where consumers can ask questions about Design (LEED) Principles where their food comes from and other topics •• International Labour Organization’s of interest. These include The Conversation, La Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work •• WBCSD WASH Pledge Conversación, GMO Answers and Hablemos Claro. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 22 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO “So is Monsanto doing anything to make “How does Monsanto up for the rapid collaborate for a better destruction of the life in society, and monarch butterflies?” how does it protect “Do you carry out Page 68 people and the any kind of action environment against to eradicate hunger negative effects?” “The WHO has just in Africa?“ released a study Pages 27-37; 48-50; 51-72 confirming a positive Pages 27-29 link between cancer “If you have nothing and glyphosate. “Why do you feel the to hide, why do you Comments?” need to own patents continue to spend on seeds causing Page 87 millions of dollars farmers to be unable to Inviting Conversation to prevent GMO plant using their own labeling?” seeds, why do this?” In 2014, Monsanto launched its online discussion forum, The Conversation, followed by a Spanish Page 88 Page 86 language counterpart, La Conversación, in “How is Monsanto 2015. These forums are dedicated to addressing responding to the questions from anyone who has them. Here are ‘superweed’ issue?” 10 of the actual questions asked and answered Page 69 on these sites, along with where you can find “What is Monsanto “Do your products information on these topics in this report. doing to help pollute the ‘balance’ meals?” environment?” “What is Monsanto’s Pages 27-33 position on helping Pages 51-72; 83 consumers fully understand the things they eat?” Pages 32-33 Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 23 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Equality Index on best practices for Earning Recognition lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) workplace policies and efforts. The people of Monsanto work hard to advance the company’s sustainability vision. •• DiversityInc – Monsanto ranked And while we don’t do it for the external number 43 on the 2015 Top 50 recognition, we appreciate it when received. Companies for Diversity. It is our Below are some of the recent honors we’ve eighth consecutive year on the list. received from third-party organizations. •• Hispanic Network and Black EOE Journal – Monsanto was People recognized as a Top Diversity Employer by Hispanic Network magazine and •• Great Place to Work – Monsanto was Black EOE Journal. Monsanto was recognized as an employer of choice recognized on three lists as a Top in virtually every region where we Employer for Hispanics, Africanoperate. Monsanto was recognized on Americans and LGBT people. •• Software Technology Parks of India Great Place to Work’s Top 25 World’s (STPI) IT Export Award – In fiscal year Best Multinational Workplaces for the •• Monsanto Mexico, Great Place to Work 2015, Monsanto was recognized by fourth straight year, where we were for Gender Equality – Monsanto Mexico the STPI for employing the highest recognized for success in 12 countries. ranked number 11 on gender equality percentage of differently-abled employees for an environment that provides equal •• Great Place to Work’s 50 Best Workplaces for the second consecutive year. opportunities for decision making and for Diversity – Great Place to Work and development for females and males. •• Monsanto Thailand, National Best Fortune magazine have recognized Safety and Occupational, Health and Monsanto as number 30 on the 50 •• Mexico Without Child Labor Award – Environment Award – Monsanto Thailand’s Best Workplaces for Diversity. Monsanto’s Mexico sites in Los Mochis facility in Phitsanulok was recognized and Villagrán were recognized by the •• Human Rights Campaign Corporate for its world-class environment, health, Secretaria del Trabajo y Previsión Equality Index – Monsanto was recognized safety and security practices by the Social (STPS) department of the by Human Rights Campaign with a perfect Department of Labor Protection and Mexican government for having score of 100 on its 2016 Corporate Welfare at Bitec Bangna, Bangkok. fields free of child labor. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 24 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Planet a result of the company’s Sustainable Agriculture Landscape Partnership •• Wildlife Habitat Council – Monsanto with Conservation International. has 15 sites in the United States and Brazil that have been recognized by the Wildlife Habitat Council for their Company Wildlife at Work and Corporate Lands •• Newsweek Green Rankings – for Learning programs. Both programs Monsanto ranked number 52 among recognize outstanding wildlife habitat U.S. companies and number 84 management and environmental globally on the 2015 Newsweek education efforts at corporate sites. Green Rankings, which rates the •• Prairies for Tomorrow Award – largest publicly-traded companies on Monsanto’s facility in Muscatine, overall sustainability performance. Iowa, received the Prairies for •• Corporate Responsibility Magazine Tomorrow Award, given jointly by 100 Best Corporate Citizens for 2015 – and Industry for serving as an ethical the Wildlife Habitat Council and Monsanto ranked number 41 on the role model and supporting the Pheasants Forever for the execution list based on performance in seven government’s anti-corruption policies. of corporate wildlife habitat projects. key areas of corporate responsibility. •• European Water Stewardship This is the sixth time Monsanto •• Monsanto Philippines, Department Certificate – Monsanto Europe’s has been included on this list. of Labor and Employment Awards – facility in Antwerp is the first company Monsanto Philippines was recognized •• Golden Peacock Award – Monsanto for not engaging in child labor and in the chemical sector in Belgium was recognized as a winner of the not using products or materials to obtain a gold-level European Golden Peacock Global Award produced through the use of Water Stewardship certificate, the for Sustainability in 2015. Winners child labor; and, for the seventh highest recognition awarded by are selected from 1,000 entries consecutive year, achieving zero the European Water Partnership. from more than 25 countries. lost time due to an accident. •• Monsanto Indonesia, Sustainable •• Malaysia National Corporate Ethics Business Award – Monsanto Indonesia Award – Monsanto Malaysia was was recently awarded for Best Land recognized by the Malaysian Use, Biodiversity and Environment as International Chamber of Commerce Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 25 27 HELPING TO ENSURE FOOD AND NUTRITION SECURITY 27 Expanding Water Efficient Maize for Africa 28 Grow Africa: Bringing Resources to Sub-Saharan Farmers 29 Grow Asia: Improving Farmer Livelihoods 30 Providing Information and Training to Smallholder Farmers 32 Engaging on Health and Nutrition 32 L.E.A.D.ing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue: Member Interview 34 REACHING OUT TO COMMUNITIES 34 Staking the Future on STEM 36 Taking a Global Approach to Helping make balanced meals more accessible for Community Health and Safety everyone on the planet and improving lives for 37 Volunteering for the Greater farmers, employees, consumers and communities. Good: Monsanto Together At Monsanto, we’re passionate about people. Our goal is to 38 IMPROVING LIVES FOR OUR PEOPLE improve lives everywhere: for our employees, the farmers we work with and in the communities we touch around the world. 38 Developing Our Employees 40 Embracing the Power In collaboration with a diverse group of public, private and of Inclusion and Diversity nonprofit stakeholders, we’re improving global food security and 41 Rewarding Great Work striving to eliminate hunger, malnutrition and poverty. We offer 43 Employee Composition Data our employees a work environment that is safe and inclusive. 45 Promoting Employee Health, And we’re educating the next generation of leaders and investing Safety and Well-Being in causes that make a genuine difference in people’s lives. 48 F O R G I N G T H E WAY IN HUMAN RIGHTS 48 Our Human Rights Policy 49 Tracking Our Progress 50 Respecting Human Rights in High-Risk Areas 50 Helping Eradicate Child Labor Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 26 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO HELPING TO ENSURE FOOD AND NUTRITION SECURITY Helping make balanced meals more accessible to all is a complex undertaking that encompasses interdependent factors including crop production, access to inputs, distribution systems, agronomic knowledge, technology, access to capital and local customs. National Agricultural Research Institutes in One of the first major food security partnerships Expanding Water Efficient Kenya, Mozambique, South Africa, Tanzania in which we engaged, Water Efficient Maize for Maize for Africa and Uganda; the International Maize and Wheat Africa (WEMA), underscores the importance Improvement Center (CIMMYT); and Monsanto. of working with global, regional and local The WEMA project is a multi-stakeholder partners to make a difference where it partnership that aims to improve food The WEMA partnership seeks to develop counts most – in the lives of people on security and livelihoods among smallholder a pipeline of conventional and biotech the ground in their local communities. farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa by developing seeds for African farmers under the brand hybrid maize (corn) seed that uses water DroughtTEGO™. The partnership makes Monsanto also plays an active role in the more efficiently and resists insect pests. In DroughtTEGO™ seed variety licenses available World Economic Forum’s (WEF) New Vision Africa, maize is the main source of food to seed companies of all sizes, royalty free, for Agriculture and has done so since its for more than 300 million people. to deliver these hybrid seeds to farmers. inception. This global initiative engages business, government, civil society, farmers and WEMA is led by the African Agricultural In 2015, 40 conventional DroughtTEGO™ development partners to achieve sustainable Technology Foundation (AATF), and funded hybrids were approved for commercial release agricultural growth in the face of a growing by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the in Kenya, South Africa, Tanzania and Uganda, world population. Monsanto is involved in two Howard G. Buffett Foundation and the United and 23 seed companies now license new hybrids of WEF’s regional partnerships, Grow Africa and States Agency for International Development royalty free and make them commercially Grow Asia (see Pages 28 and 29, respectively). (USAID). Key WEMA partners include the available to African farmers. Farmers have Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 27 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO In the meantime, additional conventional Corridor of Tanzania (SAGCOT) as the hybrids are expected to be approved for focus of new partnerships that aim to commercial release and seed-company enable agricultural growth in this region. licensing is ongoing to achieve WEMA’s Monsanto has been a partner in SAGCOT goal of improving food security and since its start in 2010. Working with NGOs, livelihoods for more than 25 million farmer organizations, researchers and people in Sub-Saharan Africa. the Ministry of Agriculture, we’re helping improve crop production systems and the maize and vegetable value chains in Grow Africa: Bringing Resources the region to improve food security. to Sub-Saharan Farmers Insect-Resistant Cowpea. Monsanto is The vast majority of farmers in Sub-Saharan continuing to support the efforts of the Africa are women tending crops on small AATF, a not-for-profit organization working areas of land to provide for their families. to help improve cowpea productivity. been able to harvest 20 to 35 percent more These smallholder farmers face many grain under moderate drought conditions Cowpea is an extremely important food grain challenges, like insects, disease and drought, using DroughtTEGO™ hybrids, compared legume in Africa’s dry conditions. Nearly which can mean the difference between to the seed they had historically planted. 200 million people consume this crop due having enough food for their children and to its quality protein content, and it’s grown While only conventional seeds have been village or not. Monsanto is involved in several on more than 12.5 million hectares of land. available to African farmers through the WEMA initiatives to address these challenges as However, a pest known as the Maruca pod partnership so far, WEMA plans to introduce part of our Grow Africa commitment. borer can reduce harvests by 80 percent. four white maize biotech hybrids to address Because most cowpea farmers lack access Agriculture First. Tanzania’s economy is additional crop production challenges. The to effective insecticides, AATF is attempting highly dependent on agriculture and the seed variety licenses are already available to access specific genes to protect cowpea government has made it a national priority by under the brand YieldGard® in other parts of against the Maruca pod borer, facilitate establishing Kilimo Kwanza (Agriculture First), the world, but it will take time to complete licensing agreements and educate farmers on a program to achieve food security, poverty the regulatory approval process in Africa. sustainable use of the insect-protected seeds. reduction and increased economic growth. The partnership’s goal is to obtain approval to begin field trials and distribute seeds to To advance these goals, the government In 2015, cowpea trials were planted in Burkina smallholder farmers in future growing seasons. designated the Southern Agricultural Growth Faso, Ghana and Nigeria and harvest took Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 28 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO place from late October to January 2016. will review improvements in, and safety Additionally, AATF made progress toward of, the cassava varieties before they are commercialization by submitting regulatory made available to smallholder farmers. applications in Ghana, Malawi and Nigeria. Moving forward, AATF hopes to expand field trials to additional countries and continue Grow Asia: Improving working to bring insect-resistant cowpea to Farmer Livelihoods the African marketplace, with our assistance. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations Virus Resistant Cassava. Monsanto is (ASEAN) region is home to 625 million people continuing to partner with St. Louis-based who face food and nutrition security as a Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, constant threat. The ASEAN goal is to feed one the National Crops Resources Research of the world’s youngest and fastest-growing Institute in Uganda and the Kenya Agricultural populations through sustainable and efficient Livestock and Research Organization use of land and water resources by minimizing on the Virus Resistant Cassava for Africa the impacts of, and the contributions to, climate to assist farmers in growing both crops, while (VIRCA) project. Cassava is a nutrientchange. We’re engaged in several related minimizing the impact to the environment. rich root vegetable that serves as a dietary initiatives as part of our Grow Asia commitment. In 2015, our DEKALB® Cultivation Rice-to-Corn staple for 130 million people in East Africa. Rotation Protocol was selected as a preferred Unfortunately, the plant is susceptible to Vietnam. In recent years, demand for cropping system by the Vietnamese Ministry diseases like cassava brown streak disease Vietnamese-grown rice has dropped of Agriculture and Rural Development. (CBSD) and cassava mosaic disease (CMD). dramatically, impacting the livelihoods of Vietnamese in the Mekong Delta. The Working alongside the government, Monsanto Working with varieties that already Vietnamese government began helping trained 5,000 rice farmers on corn planting provide some protection against CMD, the farmers transition their rice paddy fields techniques. Within three months, farmers in VIRCA project is using biotechnology to to corn and soybean fields, all while two regions converted 2,200 hectares from improve cassava’s resistance to CBSD – preserving the rice-growing ecosystem rice to corn, increasing their income by up to increasing the chance that farmers have that is still important to Vietnam. 400 percent. The new crop rotation process abundant harvests. Field trials are currently also improved water efficiency and reduced underway, and the VIRCA team continues Our Monsanto Vietnam team introduced a the use of pesticides, fungicides, labor and to work with government regulators who rice-to-corn crop rotation concept in 2014 other costs by as much as 80 percent. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 29 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO The first corn planted in June 2014 delivered Smallholder Mobile Farm Care Initiative. approximately $250 more income and 14 Knowing that 70 percent of smallholder percent more grain per hectare by November farmers have access to cellular telephones, 2014, when compared to previous harvests. Monsanto combined agronomic knowledge Project partners are exploring options to and mobile technology to bring free, extend the scope and scale of this initiative relevant information and advice directly to additional corn farmers across Indonesia. to farmers in the field to help them make decisions for a successful harvest. Philippines. The most recent WEF Grow Asia initiative that we’re involved in kicked off in The Mobile Farm Care Initiative evolved from the Philippines in late 2014. The program, now the Dr. DEKALB Farm Care Service and similar Nguyen Hong Lam in its planning phases, will focus on cassava, information services for cotton and vegetable Farmer in Xuan Loc District, corn, coconut, coffee and fisheries. Project farmers that comprised the Monsanto Farm Dong Nai Province, Vietnam partners have determined priorities, reviewed Advisory Services (MFAS) smallholder program. standard operating procedures, formed The original program launched in India in 2010 working groups and conducted stakeholder as a simple SMS-based program designed Indonesia. The WEF Partnership for mapping. The first activities on the ground to work with conventional cellular phones Indonesia Sustainable Agriculture (PISAgro) are expected to take place in March 2016. typically owned by smallholder farmers. addresses food security by increasing There are plans to introduce the program to agricultural production and improving the Africa and South Asian nations in the future. welfare of smallholder farmers. The decadeProviding Information Based on the increased adoption of “smart” long initiative aims to increase agriculture and Training to mobile devices and rural Internet access, the productivity by 20 percent, increase farmer Smallholder Farmers Mobile Farm Care Initiative now features a incomes by 20 percent and decrease database that includes weather, agronomy and greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent. Smallholder farmers, who make up about commodity price services, making the program 90 percent of all farmers globally, are more robust, informative and interactive. Together with Indonesian farmers, Bank Rakyat often challenged with rural isolation and Indonesia, Cargill, and the Regional Government limited agronomic resources. Monsanto There are 3.8 million farmers enrolled of East Java, Monsanto participated in a is helping empower these farmers and more than 90 percent of them say pilot project focused on maximizing corn through partnerships like the Mobile Farm they are very satisfied with it. Farmers crop productivity and providing farmers Care Initiative and smallholder training have reported experiencing benefits with access to financing and credit. efforts in many parts of the world. ranging from $20 to $100 per acre. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 30 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Smallholder Farmer Training. Another way we strive to make a real difference in the lives of farmers and farming communities is by offering training to smallholder farmers, both through sustainability partnerships and as part of our standard business practices. S O M E E X A M P L E S O F M O N S A N T O S M A L L H O L D E R FA R M E R T R A I N I N G I N F I S C A L Y E A R 2 0 1 5 COUNTRY T YPE OF TRAINING NUMBER OF SMALLHOLDER FARMERS Philippines Farmers receive productivity training on overall best agronomic practices – 40,000 from insect resistance management to choosing the best hybrid for their land. Indonesia Through a partnership with PISAgro, farmers receive training on good agriculture practices to improve productivity like irrigation, planting and harvesting. Farmers learn sustainable 185,000 practices such as reduced tillage and composting to produce natural fertilizer. Vietnam Farmers received training on the overall best agronomic practices for productivity and sustainability through DEKALB® conventional field days and meetings. In addition, they 196,000 were educated on DEKALB® corn with Genuity® stacked trait technology before the product’s launch using online resources and field tours. India As part of Project SHARE 2, farmers learned to increase productivity in a sustainable 71,000 way through demonstration plots, irrigation infrastructure and partnerships. India Centers of Excellence farm trials and Indian Cotton Farmer Network 27,799 Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 31 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Engaging on Health and Nutrition Interest in food – from seed to supermarket to sauté pan – is growing. That’s why we’re working together and learning from external leaders involved in conversations about food and nutrition, including culinary specialists, dietitians, food and nutrition science academics, and their organizations and societies. We’re openly sharing information and insights with these food community leaders. That is the impetus behind initiatives such as Monsanto’s Leaders Engaged in Advancing Dialogue (L.E.A.D.) Network. L.E.A.D.ING THE FOOD There’s a lot of diverse expertise within the L.E.A.D. Network: media dietitians, AND NUTRITION DIALOGUE: retail experts, seasoned communicators, both from rural areas and big cities. We’re committed to being a voice for farmers among consumers who MEMBER INTERVIEW want to eat a healthy diet, but have questions about food and agriculture. Amy Myrdal Miller, MS, RDN, FAND, is a member of the Monsanto L.E.A.D. Network, a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist, a farmer’s What have you gotten out of your daughter and president of Farmer’s Daughter® Consulting. She is a membership in the L.E.A.D. Network? member of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and holds a BS in I enjoy the opportunity to develop closer relationships with other dietitians dietetics and an MS in nutrition communication. As a L.E.A.D. Network who deal with the same issues as I do – like GMOs, GMO labeling and member, Amy receives a yearly honorarium from Monsanto. concerns about pesticide use and residues. L.E.A.D. has allowed me to engage in conversations with stakeholders covering different topics Tell us about your experience as a L.E.A.D. Network member. – from honey bee health to vegetable seed breeding. More importantly, it’s enabled me to talk about agriculture in a way that helps consumers L.E.A.D. has been incredibly rewarding. All members receive exposure to better understand the use of science and technology in our food system. experts in science and technology who give us great insights into issues related to modern agriculture. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 32 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO What is the L.E.A.D. Network’s impact on agriculture and society? All of us in the L.E.A.D. Network are engaging in more critical conversations with people about our food, thanks to what we’ve learned. I don’t see myself as a warrior or a fighter. Rather, I accept that people have different perspectives when it comes to food, and I’m proud to help people broaden their perspectives on complex issues. Amy Myrdal Miller, MS, RDN, FAND President, Farmer’s Daughter® Consulting Tell us about some of the events you attend as a member. One of my favorites is the Monsanto Vegetable Seed Field Days Immersion event. Hosted at the Monsanto vegetables facility in Woodland, California, it features experts from the produce How has your participation in L.E.A.D. impacted you? industry, a rapid-fire Q&A session with Monsanto executives, as well as field tours where we talk to passionate plant As a farmer’s daughter from North Dakota, I’ve been immersed breeders and taste their produce. At the 2015 event, there in discussions about farming my entire life. But, my participation was a diverse group including university researchers, leaders in the L.E.A.D. Network has allowed me to build my foundational from organizations like United Fresh Produce Association, knowledge and develop expertise that I can share more broadly. retail dietitians and their produce-buying partners. Today, I’m proud to be part of a family that relies on Additionally, all 15 L.E.A.D. members are asked to modern agriculture. My brothers grow crops from GMO host a “Dig-in Dialogue” event – an opportunity to seeds on 10,000 acres, and I see firsthand how GMO crops bring together food and agriculture industry experts are a wonderful option – they increase productivity and to discuss food issues in a safe environment. reduce reliance on pesticides and other crop inputs. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 33 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO REACHING OUT TO COMMUNITIES Having a positive impact in the communities where we work and live and on society at large are key priorities at Monsanto. Our support of education and community health and safety are investments in our collective futures. Staking the Future on STEM lifelong learning opportunities for all – Monsanto University Outreach. We reach students focuses on education in under-represented urban by participating in science conversations As technology increasingly becomes part of communities and rural communities where our at universities and partnering with student people’s daily lives, it’s more important than customers raise their children, both of which are groups. Monsanto and the Net Impact® ever for individuals to be equipped with science often under-represented and underserved in STEM student organization co-founded #Nourishing and math skills. We aim to partner and create disciplines. Every person relies on agriculture, 9B Solution Labs, which is designed to help tools for students that will encourage them to and without a STEM-educated workforce, students work side by side with food system be curious, think critically and ask questions in we will be challenged to sustain our planet experts and engage on critical issues and an effort to make evidence-based decisions. and feed our families. Some of the initiatives develop solutions that could change the world. We collaborate with partners to prepare the in which we’re currently involved include: Experts include academics, industry leaders, next generation of leaders by encouraging government agencies and NGO representatives. students to learn more about and pursue Feed, Nourish, Thrive Campaign. Developed careers in science, technology, engineering by the STEM Food and Ag Council, a project America’s Farmers. Sponsored by the and math (STEM) in the food and agricultural of STEMconnector®, of which Monsanto is a Monsanto Fund, the following America’s industries. Simply put, to meet the changing member, the campaign aims to increase the Farmers programs work to make a positive needs of our planet, STEM skills are essential. number of people working to feed the planet’s impact in rural America through the support growing population through STEM careers. The of communities, schools and youth. The Aligning with United Nations Sustainable campaign’s online platform connects users to STEM programs have awarded more than $29 Development Goal No. 4 – Ensure inclusive education resources and career opportunities. million across the United States since 2010. and equitable quality education and promote Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 34 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO AG LEAD ERS AME RICA’S FAR MER S GRO W OF SUP PO RTI NG TH E FUT UR E S CHO L A R S HI PS AWA R D E D THE AG INDUSTRY 2 0 15 $528,000 TO P 5 F I E L D S OF STU DY 124 35% AGRICULTURAL 24% AGRONOMY & 20% AGRICULTURAL 11% ANIMAL 9% AGRICULTURAL COLLEGES BUSINESS MGMT. CROP SCIENCE EDUCATION SCIENCE COMMUNICATIONS •• America’s Farmers Grow Rural Education •• America’s Farmers Grow Communities, to balanced meals. Thirty scholars have already encourages eligible farmers to nominate while not strictly an educational initiative, finished the program and nearly half of those their local public school districts to provides an opportunity for eligible farmers graduates are now working in the public sector. apply for $10,000 and $25,000 grants to to win a $2,500 donation directed to a Visit our website to learn more about MBBISP. enhance math and science education. In rural nonprofit of their choice. In 2015, the 2015, the Monsanto Fund awarded $2.3 Monsanto Fund awarded more than $3.3 Monsanto also continues to work with million to 164 rural public school districts. million to 1,323 counties across 40 states. organizations like the National FFA Organization and 4H. •• America’s Farmers Grow Ag Leaders, Monsanto Beachell-Borlaug International a 2014 pilot project that was Scholars Program (MBBISP). This global Collectively, these efforts to promote launched nationwide in 2015, is a program has helped more than 80 scholars STEM education are critically important. scholarship program that provides pursue careers in plant breeding and related A quarter of current food and agriculture students an opportunity to earn science fields focused on improving wheat professionals are age 55 or older, meaning $1,500 scholarships to help fund their and rice crops – the world’s largest food that workforce attrition will create additional education in an ag-related field. In crops. This is an example of STEM investment opportunities for young professionals to 2015, the Monsanto Fund awarded in action, empowering the next generation advance in their careers. This could include $528,000 to 352 deserving students. to make a real difference in ensuring access more than 1 million jobs in the agriculture and food industries over the next 10 years. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 35 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO and providing essential information to Taking a Global Approach to growers and community members to Community Health and Safety ensure victims can get help quickly to minimize the impact of snake bites. The health of the people in the communities where we operate is a high priority; they Latin America North. PREVENIMSS is are our employees, their families and our a governmental program oriented to neighbors. We invest in community health improve the health of the community. and safety initiatives on a global scale. From The program engages companies to organizing disease prevention seminars to provide education and prevent disease distributing first-aid kits, our sites implement through health fairs and other activities. vital programs to tackle pressing issues Monsanto Latin America North has impacting the well-being of our communities. implemented PREVENIMSS health fairs at a majority of our sites in the region, where we invite medical service Community Health providers to promote health topics to India. Venomous snake bites are one of the our employees and in the community. Community Safety most significant hazards on the farms and in Ukraine. Through our Grain Basket of Monsanto’s focus on safety extends the villages of rural India. Several years ago, the Future grant program, we provided beyond the job site. Our Off-the-Job Monsanto began providing anti-venom kits funding to Open Hearts NGO for the Safety (OTJS) efforts reached over 1.3 and training to our field teams, so they have construction of a training center for million people globally in fiscal year the resources to properly respond in the people with disabilities, which opened 2015 – a 27 percent increase from 2014. event of a snake bite incident. This program in June 2015. The facility is equipped This includes OTJS site and community has helped save at least 80 lives. Over the with an obstacle course and state-ofoutreach events impacting employees, last five years, the Monsanto India Human the-art exercise machines designed to families, communities and customers. Rights team has taken a systematic approach help people with disabilities overcome to its anti-venom program – identifying Our multiyear global Home Emergency everyday barriers. The center will also locations prone to snake bites and proactively Preparedness Initiative, for example, host workshops where disabled children supplying local doctors with anti-venom provides employees with safety resources and children from the community can kits, developing a tracking mechanism to and training on how to use them. These do arts and crafts projects together. ensure that kits are quickly replenished, resources can have a profound impact. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 36 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO In 2015, Monsanto employee Marissa and Indonesia. To promote her husband used the fire extinguisher and safety awareness in the Volunteering for the Greater safety training they received from Monsanto field and on the road, Good: Monsanto Together to contain an electrical fire in their home. our Indonesian DEKALB® In 2010, we launched the Monsanto growers were invited to take part in a Together Volunteer Program in the series of education seminars focused Americas, which not only encourages on road hazard recognition, safe driving our employees to volunteer for causes and safe use of pesticides. The initiative that matter to them, but also rewards reached more than 1,500 growers. them for their time and effort through Turkey. We partnered with service grants that support the the Ministry of Education organizations they support. In 2015, to provide in-school safety we expanded the program globally to training to children ages all of our regular full-time employees, 8 to 11. A variety of presentations, videos, accompanied by a newly designed booklets and cartoons were used to teach website available in five languages, as kids safety rules – from safe play and biking to well as a simplified service grant-vetting proper waste management and water safety. process for international nonprofits. Marissa Service grants range from $250 for We also built on our popular Administrative Assistant Growing Safely video individual volunteer efforts and up to series focused on safety $5,000 for team-based volunteer events. Other impactful examples of our OTJS in agriculture, addressing For every 20 hours of service an employee initiatives include: six new topics: child safety on the farm, farm volunteers at an eligible nonprofit, he or electrical, grain auger, power take off, farm she can earn $250 for that organization. India. We successfully emergency preparedness and tree stand engaged more than In calendar year 2015, more than 5,000 safety. The Growing Safely videos are hosted 200,000 growers, school employees volunteered more than 105,000 on our Off-the-Job Safety YouTube channel children and community hours across many countries. Since its launch, and America’s Farmers website for employees members in our OTJS activities, which the Monsanto Together Volunteer Program has and external audiences to share. They’ve covered farm safety, sustainability, emergency recorded more than 380,000 volunteer hours. collectively received more than 300,000 views. preparedness, health and sanitation. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 37 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO IMPROVING LIVES FOR OUR PEOPLE To ensure the success of our employees, we invest in world-class training and development, foster diversity and work to provide a healthy and safe work environment. Developing Our Employees Development, Performance and Rewards Monsanto’s Leadership Exchange •• Regional Leadership Exchange – (DPR). Under the 70/20/10 principle, the Program. Monsanto has built a program Developed for leaders of projects or teams most impactful development and growth that empowers selected employees to who already hold a formal leadership (70 percent) occurs in the context of an accelerate their professional development role and have demonstrated high levels individual’s performance in their current job while and helps the company identify and of potential and performance. This six20 percent impact is achieved through coaching nurture strong leadership candidates month program empowers participants to and 10 percent impact is achieved through at three key career milestones: discuss challenges and opportunities facing formal training. Monsanto is uniquely positioned Monsanto’s businesses within their region, to maximize the 70/20/10 principle through its •• Global Leadership Exchange – Created expand their business acumen and improve DPR process. Much of the development that for leaders who manage other leaders their ability to influence and lead effectively. needs to occur is built into the context of an and have demonstrated high levels of In 2015, 152 employees participated. individual’s daily work with support and coaching potential and performance. This six-month from their manager. The DPR process integrates program gives participants an opportunity •• Local Leadership Exchange – Designed an individual’s performance on the job and to engage in dialogue with executive for future leaders who are typically early professional development with financial rewards. team members about Monsanto’s global in their career but have already shown A significant portion of employee development businesses, expand their skills in business high potential. This nine-month program occurs on the job, with support and coaching planning processes and strategy, and gives participants a deeper understanding from the manager. Additionally, Monsanto enhance their capabilities as senior leaders. of Monsanto’s businesses and leadership provides excellent training opportunities. In 2015, 40 employees participated. expectations and helps to hone their Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 38 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO critical and strategic thinking skills. NON-MANAGERIAL MANAGERIAL In 2015, 114 employees participated. AV E R A G E H O U R S O F T R A I N I N G PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE People Leader Learning Series (PLLS). TOTAL 10 8 As part of our efforts to help employees bring out the best in each other, we created the P E R C E N TA G E O F E M P L O Y E E S Male 95 84 PLLS – a classroom training program that RECEIVING REGULAR focuses on enabling and further developing PERFORMANCE REVIEWS Female 93 100 leadership skills critical for managers. In 2015, 347 people completed a PLLS workshop. TOTAL 94 91 Business Forum Functional Training. P E R C E N TA G E O F E L I G I B L E Male 93 88 Monsanto has partnered with the Olin Business EMPLOYEES RECEIVING CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS Female 86 90 School at Washington University in St. Louis to deliver a series of hands-on classroom training TOTAL 91 89 sessions to prepare employees for the next step in their careers. Designed to cover both fundamental management theories and practical business case studies, the training offers two tracks focused on strategy and finance. location, this 55-week paid program gives •• Synapse – An online collaboration tool apprentices specialized mechanical and that connects employees at different sites Empowering Employees with Learning on-the-job training in preparation for in Asia Pacific, Brazil, China and North Opportunities. To support the growing needs a full-time position at Monsanto upon America, this digital networking system of our diverse workforce, we’ve invested in successful completion of the program. provides opportunities to seek input, share a number of specialized learning resources best practices or solve problems together. that allow our employees to take ownership •• English for Leaders Program – Monsanto of their professional development. offers the opportunity for employees •• Skillsoft – This online content portal hosts – for whom English is not their native a variety of courses, e-books, videos and •• Monsanto’s Apprenticeship Program – language – to improve their English skills more, giving global employees the power Designed primarily to promote skilled to help them in their current leadership to access professional development labor opportunities for women in the role and develop for future opportunities. content when it is convenient for them region around our Soda Springs, Idaho, and through their preferred device. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 39 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO •• Tuition Assistance – Eligible employees individuals are charged with providing strategic END OF CAREER SUPPORT can receive reimbursement for tuition direction around inclusion and diversity in a expenses as established by their region. way that promotes innovation, builds trust As part of our efforts to maintain sustainable growth, we In the United States, for example, and maintains our competitive advantage. announced plans in 2015 and early 2016 to restructure Monsanto will reimburse up to $7,500 our global operations, including an expected separation Sponsoring Diversity. To accelerate of approximately 3,600 employees over an 18 to 24 per calendar year for eligible full-time month period. For those in need of career transition employees or $3,750 per calendar year leadership opportunities at Monsanto, in assistance, we provide a number of regional programs for eligible part-time employees. 2015 we piloted a yearlong sponsorship and resources to facilitate continued employability. In the initiative, pairing 22 high-potential “protégés” United States, for example, separated employees receive: with an individual member of the MIDC. Protégés met with their assigned sponsors •• Enhanced severance •• Individualized Embracing the Power of payment job leads once a month for advanced mentoring Inclusion and Diversity while also participating in accelerated •• Extended benefits •• Access to trainings professional development sessions. and seminars that Honoring and embracing inclusion and diversity •• Unlimited access to help transitioning drives broad employee engagement, innovation a personal transition employees leverage Participants reported feeling more engaged, coach for six months their network, skillset and business success. We view diversity as the more visible and better positioned for future •• Personalized resume and professional collective makeup of a variety of attributes, roles within the organization. Six were placed and cover letter background backgrounds, cultures, identities and ideas that writing assistance on special project teams, four had their roles people bring with them – to the workplace expanded, two obtained new leadership and everywhere else. These may be informed roles, one was placed on an external board by but are not limited to race, color, religion, creating strategies for counteracting their of directors and one traveled internationally gender, age, national origin, disability, veteran effects in the workplace. Unconscious for greater exposure to senior leaders. status, gender identity, gender expression, bias is defined as attitudes that affect sexual orientation or any other characteristic The MIDC has plans to expand this sponsorship our understanding, actions and protected by applicable law. Our efforts foster initiative, connecting approximately 100 decisions of which we are unaware. an environment of openness and inclusion. high-potential diverse leaders to MAC sponsors from around the world. In 2015, we launched an unconscious Our mission to create an inclusive culture bias training program, a series of facestarts at the top. Our Management Advisory Tackling Unconscious Bias. As part to-face and virtual workshops designed Committee (MAC) Inclusion & Diversity Council of our efforts to foster an inclusive and to help leaders and employees identify (MIDC) is a cross-functional subset of our collaborative organization, we’ve focused on their own unconscious biases and offset top leaders from around the globe. These 22 raising awareness of unconscious biases and associated negative effects. Through Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 40 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO this initiative, we’ve trained more than Business Resource Networks. A key example MONSANTO SIGNS 1,000 leaders and employees, including of our culture of inclusion is the Business H R C E Q UA L I T Y P L E D G E our regional leadership teams in Africa, Resource Networks (BRNs) we support. Asia, Brazil, Canada and the United States. These employee-led groups enhance and In 2015, Monsanto signed the “Equality is Our diversify our company through memberBusiness” pledge launched by the Human Rights Plans are underway to expand the training Campaign to combat anti-lesbian, gay, bisexual focused initiatives including careers, growth and transgender legislation. The pledge reinforces program globally. We expect to engage an and progression and connecting with Monsanto’s support for inclusion and diversity for all. additional 4,000 employees worldwide. customers and communities. Approximately 15 percent of our global employee base •• St. Louis Women’s Network is a member of one of these employeeled groups. In 2015, our BRNs included: •• Young Professionals Network •• Access – Supports employees, their •• IamMonsanto (Iam) Networks – Where no family members and our customers with critical mass of a particular demographic visible and non-obvious disabilities. exists, these business resource networks leverage site-based representatives •• African-Americans in Monsanto who channel the impact of each of •• Encompass – Provides an environment the above networks into one group. of support, learning, sharing and communication for Monsanto’s lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees. Rewarding Great Work •• The Family Network – Provides important Monsanto provides employees with a resources for employees and their families comprehensive Total Rewards package and helps them balance their work including compensation, retirement benefits, contributions with family responsibilities. health care benefits and much more. •• Monsanto Asian Connection Compensation plans are aligned with local markets and are competitive and equitable. •• Monsanto Latin Network They include a common short-term incentive •• VanGuard – Focuses on bringing together plan for all non-sales direct employees; direct Juan Ferreria Monsanto employees who supported their management employees receive annual longCrop Protection and Seed Applied Solutions Lead country or state through military service. term incentive grants. Monsanto’s benefits are Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 41 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO designed to attract and retain the best employees. In the United States, we provide a suite of benefits to regular full-time and part-time Monsanto employees who work 20 hours per week or more. Individuals that are employed directly by Monsanto on a temporary basis may become eligible for medical plan benefits and paid holidays based upon the length of their employment and retirement benefits based on number of hours worked. In other countries in which Monsanto operates, employee classification, benefit plans and Great Place to Work Policies differ by country and location due to hiring practices, statutory requirements, market practice and cultural norms. T Y P I C A L T O TA L R E WA R D S C O M P O N E N T S P R O V I D E D B Y M O N S A N T O U.S. DIRECT REGULAR FULL-TIME AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES U.S. DIRECT MONSANTO DIRECT (NON-TEMPORARY) (working 20 or more hours/week) TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYEES Total Rewards Component Short-Term Incentive Plans Long-Term Incentive Plans (Management Only) Life/Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefits Dental Benefits Disability (Short-Term and Long-Term) Benefits Medical Benefits Retirement Plan (Defined Contribution or Defined Benefit) Great Place to Work Policies Adoption Assistance Flexible Work Arrangements Holidays Paid Leave (New Parent, Military, Bereavement, Others) Service Awards Tuition Reimbursement Assistance Vacation Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 42 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Employee Composition Data Fiscal Year 2015 Total Workforce. Total Number of Employees Total Workforce Broken Down by Employment Type. by Region. 457 22,532 2.0% 4,229 4,037 1,116 22,075 1,834 98.0% 11,316 Employees Full Time Part Time Europe/Africa North America Asia Note: We do not centrally track contract workers. Our Environmental, Safety Latin America North Latin America South & Health Group applies an algorithm to the total number of hours worked by contract workers to derive a Full Time Employee equivalent for OSHA reporting purposes in the United States. New Hires New Hires New Hires by Gender. by Age Group. by Region. 7 86 Overall Rate: < 1 Overall Rate: 0.4 402 337 Overall Rate: 1.5 Overall Rate: 1.8 583 794 Overall Rate: 2.6 Overall Rate: 3.5 76 Overall Rate: 0.3 1,074 705 784 144 Overall Rate: 3.1 Overall Rate: 4.8 Overall Rate: 3.5 Overall Rate: 0.6 Female Male Unspecified Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Europe/Africa North America Asia New Hires During the Reporting Period: 1,664 Latin America North Latin America South Overall Rate: Percentage of Total Workforce Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 43 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Employee Composition Data Fiscal Year 2015 Percentage of Employees Percentage of Employees Return to Work and Retention Rate After by Gender. in Minority Groups.* Parental Leave by Gender (United States). 31.7% 23.8% 96.1% 94.4% 7,137 68.3% 15,392 Female Male *United States only. Excludes Caucasian males and Caucasian females Female Male Number of Employees Leaving Number of Employees Leaving Number of Employees Leaving Employment by Gender. Employment by Age Group. Employment by Region. 412 371 250 496 Overall Rate: 1.8 Overall Rate: 1.6 Overall Rate: 1.1 640 Overall Rate: 2.2 Overall Rate: 2.8 127 Overall Rate: 0.6 1,317 965 1,049 244 Overall Rate: 4.3 Overall Rate: 5.9 Overall Rate: 4.7 Overall Rate: 1.1 Female Male Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Europe/Africa North America Asia Latin America North Latin America South Overall Rate: Percentage of Total Workforce Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 44 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S E V E R E I N J U R Y R AT E D O W N 3 9 P E R C E N T Promoting Employee Health, Safety and Well-Being A common measure of occupational health and safety is the Total Recordable Rate (TRR). But TRR is not an indication of severity. Since 2011, we have assessed the severity of recordable injuries and illnesses. As the graphs Our employees are our greatest assets, below indicate, our overall TRR has remained stable over the last several years but the severity rate has decreased and we place their health and safety by 45 percent since 2011, including a 39 percent drop in 2015. Because severity rate is a highly sensitive indicator, above everything else. To this end, we’ve one isolated severe injury and a few low-severity injuries and illnesses accounted for the increase in 2014. invested in a number of world-class health, safety and wellness initiatives. 1.30 Each of our facilities has had effective, siteT OTAL RECORDABLE RATE specific health and safety systems in place 1.00 1.17 for years. Approximately 95 percent of our 0.91 SEVERITY RATE workforce is represented on environment, 0.71 safety and health (ESH) committees. As we 0.70 evolve, we recognize the opportunity to 0.58 0.58 0.59 0.60 create more efficiency and consistency in our occupational health and safety programs. In 2015, we began laying the groundwork for a new ESH management system to better control risks, ensure compliance and leverage resources across our global operations. The 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 new system will be aligned with best practices established by groups such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Evaluating Injury Severity. Even with the best safeguards, systems and training in tracking the severity of all work-related injuries One area of our business where we saw an place, on-the-job injuries sometimes still to evaluate where we could have the most opportunity to make a real difference was field happen. We take every type of injury seriously positive impact. These metrics allow us to safety. We implemented several new solutions and create meaningful injury prevention focus our efforts on addressing the activities in 2015 to prevent injuries associated with the programs. In recent years, we’ve started that can lead to the most severe injuries. operation of field equipment. In Argentina, for Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 45 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO example, we equipped all of our detasseling Putting Safety First. All of our sites are machines with seat switches that automatically governed under our ESH policies, which S T E PAT H L O N turn off the machine once a worker rises encourage the active involvement and from the seat. This feature safeguards representation of employees through ESH In 2015, Monsanto India launched Stepathlon, a operators from injuries that might otherwise councils or committees. Where we have 12-month program that encouraged employees to walk at least 10,000 steps per day. Our employees really occur if the machinery is left running while formal occupational health and safety “stepped up” to the challenge. Ninety-four percent they tend to other tasks. Plans are already councils, our employees are represented of eligible employees registered for the Stepathlon underway to implement this and other and participate in creative problem solving and together surpassed the program’s goal, achieving an average of 11,318 steps per person per day. technologies globally to improve field safety. to further reduce the risk of injuries on the job. These employee-led councils increase We’re already seeing impressive results from engagement and ownership in the safety our field safety initiative. In 2015, we realized process. In addition, we have programs exposures to levels that are safe for a 39 percent reduction in our severity rate, and policies in place to provide recognition employees without donning protective gear. achieving our lowest severity rate score for outstanding safety performance. Our sites provide regular medical hazards since we began tracking this data in 2011. screenings to ensure that employees Preventing Occupational Diseases. are adequately protected. In 2015, our In certain areas of our business, employees efforts to reduce exposure to workplace can encounter hazards, such as noise, hazards allowed us to remove 300 workers dust and certain classes of chemicals, from the medical screening programs. MONSANTO S TA R P R O G R A M which could potentially impact their health. Our health and safety protocols Supporting Well-Being in the Workplace. ensure that employees are equipped In 2015, we conducted a global assessment We recognize health and safety performance at our sites to determine the reach of our employee with the Monsanto Star designation. To be considered with the proper protective gear. for a Monsanto Star rating, the location must undergo well-being programs. The assessment a rigorous third-party audit of its health and safety In 2015, we continued our efforts of revealed that while focus areas vary from programs, meet all of Monsanto’s health and safety engineering controls and job rotations, region to region, well-being initiatives criteria and have an accident rate that is less than half reached virtually all of our sites. In 2016, along with the elimination of potentially of the industry average. In fiscal year 2015, we awarded our Monsanto Star designation to 11 new sites, bringing hazardous chemicals where feasible, to we will focus on furthering strategic the total of Monsanto Star locations worldwide to 144. create working environments that reduce alignment of our well-being programming. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 46 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Tracking Health and H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y D ATA Safety Performance EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS NOT SUPERVISED SUPERVISED CONTRACTORS* BY MONSANTO EMPLOYEES Health and safety data are included for both INJURY AND INJURY AND employees and contract workers by region in the OCC DISEASES DAYS AWAY OCC DISEASES DAYS AWAY charts that follow. For injury data, minor injuries Total Recordable Lost Days Total Recordable Lost Days that require only on-site first-aid treatment By Region Rate (TRR) Rate (LDR) Rate (TRR) Rate (LDR) are not included in the reported rates. Asia Pacific (China & Taiwan, India, Asia Pacific) 0.49 2.00 0.00 0.00 The “Lost Days Rate’’ is based on calendar days and begins one day after the injury or illness occurred. Injury Rate (IR), Occupational Disease Rate (ODR), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) 1.06 9.38 0.24 1.94 Lost Days Rate (LDR) and Total Recordable Rate (TRR) are calculated using the following formula Latin America North 0.75 4.02 0.00 0.00 and are based on U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidance: Latin America South 0.55 6.74 0.10 0.74 IR = Total Number of Injuries / Total Hours Worked x 200,000 North America (Canada, Puerto Rico, United States) 1.31 5.51 0.51 9.54 ODR = Total Number of Occupational Disease Cases / Total Hours Worked x 200,000 By Gender** LDR = Total Number of Lost Days / Total Hours Worked x 200,000 Female 1.05 6.06 0.06 0.03 TRR = (Total Number of Injuries + Occupational Male 0.97 5.92 0.22 3.81 Diseases) / Total Hours Worked x 200,000 The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks at 40 hours per 100 employees. By using this factor, the resulting rates are related to the number of workers, rather than the number of hours. INJURY AND INJURY OCC DISEASES OCC DISEASES DAYS AWAY OCC = Occupational Injury OCC Disease Total Recordable Lost Days Totals Rate (IR) Rate (ODR) Rate (TRR) Rate (LDR) Employees and Supervised Contractors* (2015) 0.89 0.10 1.00 5.97 Contractors Not Supervised by 0.14 0.01 0.15 2.13 Monsanto Employees (2015) 2015 0.54 0.06 0.60 4.31 2014 0.50 0.08 0.59 6.76 * Contract workers supervised by Monsanto employees ** U.S. gender information for non-employees (contractors) is not reported to ensure compliance with data and labor regulations. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 47 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO F O R G I N G T H E W AY IN HUMAN RIGHTS Respecting and protecting the dignity of every person is a long-held commitment of Monsanto. To this end, we have policies and practices in place to ensure that the fundamental human rights of workers are upheld. In 2015, we strengthened our commitment with new programs and enhancements to improve working conditions and facilitate open communication with our workers. and development business functions to Our Human Rights Policy supports the rights complete a more in-depth computer-based of workers to associate freely and bargain training focused on four Policy elements collectively. In situations where these rights Our Human Rights Policy where field laborers may be particularly are restricted under law, we facilitate an open vulnerable to issues such as working hours, line of communication with management Our commitment to human rights is formalized compensation, discrimination, harassment and so workers can freely voice concerns. In in our Human Rights Policy. In some cases, violence. Including the new hire training, this excess of 15 percent of Monsanto’s regular our Policy is stronger than what is required represents 2,392 hours of human rights training employees are covered by a collective by law or what is customary in a specific completed by Monsanto employees in 2015. bargaining agreement. In 2015, we engaged in region of the world. Our Policy is informed three separate negotiations with labor union by the United Nations’ Universal Declaration We employ security professionals around the leaders. Each of the matters was short in of Human Rights and the International Labour world to safeguard our sites and our workers. duration and successfully reached solutions Organization’s Fundamental Principles and All of our security employees and individual acceptable to both Monsanto and the unions. Rights at Work, both of which are widely security contractors have been trained on our recognized international standards. Human Rights Policy. In certain areas of the world We view our seed supply and labor provider where we contract with security companies, our contracts as areas of significant investment In 2015, more than 1,900 new employees, Human Rights Champions (see Page 49) provide where human rights have the potential to representing 99 percent of new employees, training to groups of employees from these be impacted. In 2015 we had contracts with completed computer-based training on companies. In total, these efforts reached more 30,732 such entities, and 100 percent of the Monsanto’s Human Rights Policy. We also than 440 security officers worldwide in 2015. contracts contained human rights clauses. required all full-time employees in our research Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 48 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO in India as a result of inconsistencies with our CHAMPIONING Tracking Our Progress stated policies, including child labor, potential HUMAN RIGHTS forced labor and compensation (see Page Working with our Business Partners. We 50 for information on how we’re working Monsanto has established a global network of Human strive to identify and do business with partners to address human rights issues in India). Rights Champions to heighten awareness of human who share our commitment to human rights rights issues and resolve concerns swiftly in their respective regions. Our Champions play an integral and ethical business practices. For the business Ensuring our “House” is in Order. role in efforts to provide a healthy and safe workplace partners with whom we contract directly, their In our owned operations, we have several as they engage with field workers, conduct audits, contracts bind them to uphold the elements of coordinate human rights initiatives and implement methods for assessing human rights impacts. solutions to create better working conditions. our Human Rights Policy. We’re also phasing Our Human Rights Champions assess the in a purchasing system that asks all business operations in the geographies they cover, In 2015, our Human Rights Champions led the expansion partners to complete a questionnaire about of our mobile phone survey program, an initiative with priority on the highest risk countries, designed to solicit anonymous feedback from seasonal their employment practices and policies. and report and remedy any concerns. laborers about their working and living conditions. The insights from this program are making a positive impact. In certain countries, a significant number The Environmental Safety and Health of the partners with whom we work are Corporate Audit team also conducts human contracted indirectly, but the party that rights assessments when they visit highand contracts with those business partners is medium-risk country sites on a rotating basis obligated to cascade the contract language that may not have been recently assessed. to advance our standards and policy. The findings from these audits are tracked in our recently implemented management We also conduct periodic audits of our suppliers system to ensure more consistent reporting to ensure they are acting consistently with our and implementation of corrective measures The company took immediate action based on Human Rights Policy. In 2015, we conducted worker feedback, providing better information and actions across our global operations. regarding how compensation is calculated and more than 25,000 assessments of business making enhancements to worker housing. This partners globally. When violations of our In 2015, we audited 84 labor providers at our U.S. year, Monsanto expanded the mobile phone survey Policy are identified, our first choice is to work corn manufacturing and breeding sites. Together, program to reach more than 2,500 additional with our business partner to improve their workers in our row crops business. Once again, the these operations accounted for more than 6,700 company is implementing new improvements to practices in compliance with our standards. workers. This marked the second consecutive living and working conditions. It’s great to work for a Sometimes, however, business relationships year of audits at our U.S. manufacturing sites, and company that listens to feedback and takes action. need to be terminated. In 2015, we decided resulted in improved scores from the previous Héctor not to renew our contracts with one business year, despite more stringent requirements in the Monsanto Latin America South partner in Zambia, two in Argentina and 112 second year of the audit. The 2015 audits also Supply Chain Lead Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 49 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO identified several opportunities for improvement CONVENING THE SEED in both our manufacturing and breeding sites, Helping Eradicate Child Labor INDUSTRY IN INDIA TO ADDRESS CHILD LABOR and corrective actions are being instituted. The use of child labor is a systemic problem Where indigenous peoples live near or work in throughout India. Our Child Care Program In 2015, a study commissioned by the India Committee (CCP) Steering Committee oversees efforts of the Netherlands (ICN) reported that some Indian our facilities, we do our best to accommodate and multinational seed companies were putting any special needs they have. We did not discover to monitor our business partners’ fields in minimal to no effort into eliminating child labor in any significant issues involving the rights of India, remove any child laborers younger the fields of their growers. In response to this study, indigenous peoples in fiscal year 2015. than the legal age limit of 14 and encourage our CCP Steering Committee convened a group of nine seed companies and five NGOs to take a more parents to enroll these children in school. coordinated approach to eliminating child labor. The consultation led to new proposals to guide the One of the ways Monsanto minimizes industry on these issues, and plans are underway to Respecting Human Rights instances of child labor in India is through our expand the dialogue with additional stakeholders. in High-Risk Areas Model Village designation, a title awarded to communities with at least 50 farmers or 16 In 2015, our child labor monitoring program We conduct a global risk assessment of our production hectares that have had no child recorded 0.18 percent child labor in our business field operations every three years. In our most labor observed by the CCP monitoring during partners’ hybrid cotton seed fields in India. This recent assessment in 2014, we identified 10 the season. As an incentive and in recognition, amounted to 131 children in total. Our Social countries with the greatest human rights risks Monsanto provides in-kind donations to schools Mobilizers met with the families of these children and have concentrated our efforts on assessing in every Model Village. In 2015, 22 out of 31 and conducted follow-up visits at schools to and improving conditions in these areas. eligible villages earned Model Village status. record how many parents sent their children In the Ukraine, for example, we hired a third party back to school. Eight of the families refused Another way we work to eliminate child labor in to enroll their children in school in 2015. to audit our business partners operating within the India is through our Social Mobilizer program. country. Overall, the audit revealed most business Social Mobilizers are women trained in social In our business partners’ vegetable fields in partners followed our policy consistently. To work who we hire to follow up on reported India, four children were found working, and address some minor areas cited for improvement, instances of child labor and meet with farmers, one in our business partners’ corn fields. For we will communicate more information families, women’s groups, school officials and both of these crop areas, this results in a child and supply personal protective equipment local leaders to promote the benefits of sending labor percentage of less than 0.01 percent, an for contracted seed production growers to children to school rather than the fields. order of magnitude lower than for cotton. distribute to their workers in the region. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 50 52 M I T I G AT I N G A N D ADAPTING TO C L I M AT E C H A N G E 52 Fighting Climate Change in Our Own Backyard 53 Helping Others Adapt to and Mitigate Climate Change 55 Collaborating on Climate Action 56 Leading the Transition to a Low Carbon World 57 Applying Data Science to Feed a Growing Population 58 E N S U R I N G AC C E S S T O F R E S H WAT E R 58 Using Water More Efficiently 59 Mapping Water Risks Balancing agricultural and societal demands 60 Better Understanding the Relationship with environmental resources through solutions of Irrigation on Modern Hybrids that help farmers grow food more efficiently. 61 BIODIVERSITY: P RESERVING SUSTAINABLE LANDSCAP ES We only have one earth to provide for our needs today and tomorrow. So we’re focused on pursuing agricultural solutions that 61 Making the Connection: can produce what’s needed to feed a growing global population Agriculture and Biodiversity 64 Embracing Sustainable Landscapes while preserving our natural environment. This starts with 65 Exploring the Benefits of Healthy Soil identifying solutions that help us use resources more efficiently 66 Digging into Soil Health within our own facilities and out in the fields. We’re working to 67 Heightening Honey Bee Health adapt to and mitigate climate change by improving our operations 68 Supporting the Flight of the Monarch and collaborating with others. And we’re continuing to protect 68 Enabling Responsible Pest Control freshwater sources, preserve biodiversity and improve soil health. 70 Researching Natural Solutions for Plant Health and Pest Control 72 G U I D I N G A N D AU D I T I N G O U R E N V I R O N M E N TA L PERFORMANCE Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 51 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO M I T I G AT I N G AND ADAPTING T O C L I M AT E CHANGE Climate change is one of the biggest issues facing agriculture, as well as one of most pressing challenges facing humanity. As a company entirely devoted to agriculture, we are particularly attuned to the potential effects of climate change including drought, severe weather, rising sea levels, shifting pest DroughtGard™ Hybrids help farmers both INVESTING IN OPERATIONAL mitigate and adapt to climate change. GREENHOUSE GAS infestations, compromised harvests and flooding. REDUCTIONS While great strides have already been made to reduce the intensity of agriculture’s Monsanto is investing approximately $45 million to Fighting Climate Change improve our crop protection facilities and make them carbon footprint and help farmers adapt to in Our Own Backyard more efficient both in the United States and South a changing climate, agriculture still accounts America. This enables us to both increase the amount for approximately 13 percent of global In December 2015, we announced a commitment of product produced and reduce energy consumption greenhouse gas emissions. To feed a growing to make our footprint carbon neutral by 2021 by 200,000 gigajoules per year, the equivalent of 11,000 population in a changing climate, we must work metric tons of CO2e, about the same amount emitted through operational changes in combination collectively to do even more. We are actively by burning nearly 26,000 barrels of oil. The latest part with farmer programs and incentives. We will of the project was completed at our Sao Jose dos pursuing ways to mitigate and adapt to climate drive carbon neutral crop production in our seed Campos plant in Brazil where $6.6 million was spent change while helping farmers do the same. operations with the goal of eliminating our seed to improve the heat recovery flows and processes production carbon footprint altogether. We are in the plant to increase efficiency by 16 percent. We employ and promote practices such as exploring incentive concepts for commercial reduced tillage, cover crops and data-driven farmers who adopt these methods in exchange Carbon neutral nutrient management that help keep greenhouse for a portion of their carbon reduction value, operational gases from entering the atmosphere, and footprint which Monsanto would like to access to offset many of our products including Genuity® the remainder of our carbon footprint. by 2021 Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 52 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO GREENHOUSE GAS or cultivate and increasing the ability of These models to date are focused on the U.S. EMISSIONS INTENSITY the soil to store and maintain carbon. Corn Belt, where the most accurate data on D OW N 1 6 % I N F Y 1 5 I N Data analytics and precision agriculture crop yields, soil types, crop rotations and best OUR CROP PROTECTION O P E R AT I O N S techniques enable farmers to more precisely management practices are publicly available. apply fertilizer, use less fuel and water and The models indicate that carbon neutral maximize productivity from existing land. corn and soybean production, in the United In May 2015, we committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our crop protection operations by States alone, has the potential to reduce crop 22 percent (per pound of active ingredient) by 2020, Advancing Carbon Neutral Crop production emissions equivalent to 100 million relative to our baseline in 2010. This represents a Production. In December 2015, we metric tons of CO2e, which is equal to reducing cumulative greenhouse gas emissions reduction of 45 introduced the initial steps of a first-ofoil consumption by 233 million barrels per year. percent when compared to 2002. We targeted our crop its-kind program for carbon neutral crop protection operations sector because it is the largest production to help reduce the carbon contributor to our company’s carbon footprint. We made significant progress in fiscal year 2015, reducing footprint of growing crops. This program our emissions intensity 16 percent against the fiscal includes education and incentives for farmers year 2010 baseline, putting us 73 percent of the way to adopt practices that allow corn and to our goal. Incentives to farmers will help offset the soybeans to be grown in a way that decreases balance of our emissions that cannot be eliminated greenhouse gas emissions and builds soil through operational advancements. Additionally, we’ve established an internal carbon price, which will carbon in amounts equal to or greater than be used to evaluate our capital investment decisions the total amount emitted to grow and harvest in order to drive down greenhouse gas emissions. those crops. Widespread adoption of these practices, including the reduction of tillage and expansion of cover crops, could lead to Helping Others Adapt to and improved soil health and increased carbon Mitigate Climate Change storage, resulting in carbon neutral crop production on millions of acres of farmland. Monsanto develops highly productive crop varieties that enable farmers to produce With the help of external experts, Monsanto more crops from existing farmland while has developed carbon neutral crop production reducing emissions per acre of land. We models to share with broader agriculture Dr. Chuck Rice also provide weed control solutions that and climate modeling communities in the Distinguished Professor, Kansas State University reduce the need for tillage, thus decreasing hope that the crop production sector could and an author of the Intergovernmental Panel the number of times farmers need to plow have a positive impact on climate change. on Climate Change (IPCC) report Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 53 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO CARBON NEUTRAL CROP PRODUCTION BENEFITS DESCRIPTION Uses energy, fertilizer Data-Enabled Precision Agriculture and other inputs Using data science and information technology to make better informed decisions more efficiently about applying inputs like fertilizer, pesticides and irrigation water. Highly Productive Crops Crops that produce more grain and plant material while absorbing more carbon per acre of land. Absorbs more carbon Cover Crops Crops grown to provide cover to farmland and prevent soil erosion while absorbing carbon b  etween primary crop seasons. Biotech Plants Enables carbon neutral crop production by allowing weeds to be more easily controlled while reducing tillage. Enables carbon neutral practices and Improved Plant Breeding improves harvests Rapid development of advanced plant varieties, which enable better harvests and more plant productivity. This absorbs and stores more carbon per acre, while providing pest and drought tolerance. Returns Crop Residue carbon to soil Parts of the plant that are left on the field after harvest to return carbon to the soil w  hile enhancing soil quality. Cover Crops Crops grown to provide cover to farmland and prevent soil erosion while absorbing carbon b  etween primary crop seasons. Helps keep carbon stored in soil; Reduced Tillage fights erosion Tilling disturbs the soil and releases carbon in the soil to the atmosphere. Minimal or no tillage h  elps protect soil structure and keeps carbon in the soil. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 54 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Enhancing Nutrient Efficiency. •• The Water Efficient Maize for Africa project In partnership with Walmart, we’re engaging farmers, Collaborating on Climate Action is a multi-stakeholder partnership that aims consumers, supply chain partners and NGOs to to improve food security and livelihoods Monsanto is collaborating with a broad range find ways to manage nutrient applications more among smallholder farmers in Sub-Saharan of stakeholders to advance best practices, help efficiently and curb greenhouse gas emissions on Africa by developing hybrid maize (corn) seed farmers adapt to climate change and reduce 1 million acres of U.S. crop land by 2020. As part of that uses water more efficiently and resists the carbon footprint of agriculture. Here’s this initiative, we collaborated with GROWMARK to insect pests. (See related story on Page 27) an overview of a few of our partnerships: focus on working with individual farmers to develop •• The USDA Resilient Economic Agricultural customized nutrient action plans by using data •• The Climate Smart Agriculture Low Carbon Practices (REAP) initiative in conjunction with the science, in-field sensors and other tools. Currently, Technology Partnerships Initiative (LCTPi), Agriculture Technology Innovation Partnership 200,000 acres of farmland have been enrolled in year co-chaired by Monsanto, is a collaboration led Foundation (ATiP) is a multi-stakeholder one of the initiative, which promotes efficient and by the World Business Council on Sustainable partnership supported in part by Monsanto with innovative use of fertilizer. GROWMARK is a regional Development (WBCSD) working toward a low a goal of advancing resilience and economic agricultural supply cooperative serving farmers in carbon future. (See related article by WBCSD viability of healthy soils for land uses. more than 40 U.S. states and Ontario, Canada. President & CEO Peter Bakker on Page 56) •• One of our collaborations with the As an outgrowth of our commitment with •• The Soil Health Partnership is a joint effort University of Chicago is focused on Walmart, Monsanto has joined the Midwest of National Corn Growers Association quantifying the possible impacts of climate Row Crop Collaborative, a group of NGOs and (NCGA), The Walton Family Foundation change on seven different row crops. companies in the food value chain that have and Monsanto to work with growers to establish more than 100 test sites •• Collaborations with ICF International and made a CEO level commitment to collaborate to demonstrate the highest-impact AgSolver, Inc. aim to quantify the potential with more row crop farmers in Illinois, Iowa and cropping rotations and systems to aid in greenhouse gas emissions reductions possible Nebraska on sustainable agriculture practices. crop-based greenhouse gas emissions from various agricultural strategies. reductions. (See related story on Page 66) •• Brazilian Coalition on Climate, Forests and PLEDGING •• Conservation International is working with Agriculture is a collaboration through the ACTION Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Monsanto to develop the “Sustainable Agriculture Landscape” Program in Brazil Development (CEBDS), in partnership with In November 2015, Monsanto signed the White House and Indonesia, while helping farmers the Brazilian Coalition on Climate, Forests American Business Act on Climate Pledge, which grow more food on the same amount of and Agriculture to drive action and scale affirmed our commitment to climate action and our land. (See related article by Conservation for the deployment of technologies in support for a strong outcome from the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference International Indonesia Project sustainable land and forest management. in Paris (COP21) that took place in December 2015. Manager Fitri Hasibuan on Page 64) Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 55 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO LEADING THE led Low Carbon Technology Partnerships Initiative practices with farmers and other key stakeholders TRANSITION TO A (LCTPi) incorporates these three components. around the world. All farming scales and systems Bringing together over 140 companies and 50 have a key role to play, from the family farms that L OW C A R B O N WO R L D partners, LCTPi analyzes barriers and identifies account for 97 percent of the world’s agricultural solutions, financial requirements, policies and holdings supporting 2 billion people, to the By Peter Bakker, President & CEO, World Business public-private partnership opportunities to commercial agriculture value chain that accounts for Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) scale up low carbon technology solutions. more than 30 percent of global food production. On December 12, 2015, leaders and representatives Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) is one of the I am encouraged to see the remarkable progress from nearly 200 countries convened in Paris to nine focus areas identified by the LCTPi as being that Monsanto has made since they first joined sign an unprecedented agreement to combat critical to the 2°C pathway. It aims to provide the WBCSD following a conversation with their climate change. This is a crucial moment in food security for the world’s growing population CEO Hugh Grant. Monsanto’s contribution to the history that will define the pace of our inevitable while addressing the climate challenge. As promotion of carbon neutral crop production transition to a low carbon economy. We need a long-standing WBCSD member and one models is an inspiring example for other businesses. to massively transform our economies and of the co-chairs of the LCTPi’s CSA working The company’s leadership in the value chain will societies worldwide to stay under the 2°C group, Monsanto’s sustainable agriculture be essential in the sustainability journey and a temperature-rise threshold and achieve net zero expertise, thought leadership and farmer prerequisite for success of agriculture in the emissions in the second half of the century. relationships have been instrumental in shaping emerging low carbon world. As we now act upon The faster the transition, the greater the the vision and road put forward at COP21. the outcomes of COP21, business is leading the opportunity. Bold climate action is the only way transition to the new economy through innovative In short, CSA aims to make 50 percent more solutions to support governments around the world. to ensure sustainable profits, employment and food available and strengthen the climate prosperity for all. Forward-looking companies resilience of farming communities while reducing know this, and they are taking ambitious agricultural and land-use change emissions measures across their value chains for significant from commercial agriculture by at least 50 emissions reductions. Yet no company, or percent by 2030 and 65 percent by 2050. government, can tackle climate change alone. Getting there will not be easy. But through the We need leadership, action and unprecedented efforts of global companies such as Monsanto collaboration among all stakeholders – businesses, and their CSA counterparts, these goals are governments and society – to accelerate the achievable thanks to established collaborative transition to a low carbon economy. The WBCSDMonsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 56 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO must also address. Nitrogen fertilizers each zone. Plus, through the collection emit nitrous oxide, a potent greenhouse of their own performance data, farmers gas that can contribute to climate are able to compare results of different change. Additionally, nitrogen can seed systems and planting practices to sometimes be lost to waterways if determine the best fit for their land. applied just before a heavy rain. The Climate Corporation offers the Nitrogen Advisor digital tool, which helps farmers optimize the amount of nitrogen they use on their fields. This tool was recently enhanced to allow farmers to input information about different fertility management practices that they’ve used, which enables the tool to provide better Applying Data Science to predictions and recommendations. Feed a Growing Population Through a combination of these The Climate Corporation, a division of farm-specific inputs and detailed data Monsanto, offers farmers an integrated modeling, the tool informs farmers in solutions platform that leverages data science real time how much nitrogen to apply to and digital tools to aid farmers throughout the certain areas of their fields. Additionally, growing season with an eye toward enhanced the tool analyzes fields after the crop is productivity, efficiency and sustainability. harvested to identify areas where there is a surplus or deficit of nitrogen. One of the most costly inputs and important activities that farmers do every year is Other tools from The Climate Corporation manage nitrogen fertilizer applications. enable farmers to identify zones within Nitrogen helps farmers achieve better their fields that may require different harvests by adding a necessary nutrient management practices, carefully Sam Eathington to the soil. But the chemistry of nitrogen select the best seed for each field The Climate Corporation provides several challenges that farmers zone and plant the optimal density in Technology Lead Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 57 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO ENSURING ACCESS T O F R E S H W AT E R Water is a critical resource for all life. But, in many areas of the world, fresh water is becoming increasingly scarce due to increasing demand and the impacts of climate change. Because nearly 70 percent of all fresh water used by humans is used in agriculture, we’ve made a commitment to help farmers grow enough food while using water more efficiently. As the world’s population where drought conditions exist due to insufficient or irregular rainfall. We’re also Our seed production rises, it’s important to optimize our own irrigation water water use and provide farmers with researching and testing different irrigation application tools to do the same, while also helping methods to help farmers water their fields efficiency them adapt in times of water scarcity. more efficiently, and we’re identifying and increased to implementing creative ways to recycle and 73 percent In April 2014, we joined the UN Global reuse water throughout our operations in 2015. Compact CEO Water Mandate, a publicto reduce our reliance on fresh water. private initiative designed to assist organizations in the development, contract farms that grow seed for our implementation and disclosure of water Using Water More Efficiently company’s products. With an opportunity sustainability policies and practices. to save an estimated 30 to 80 billion Monsanto sits on the Mandate’s 2015-16 In 2014, Monsanto established a goal to gallons of water each year, we will share Steering Committee – the initiative’s main increase irrigation water application efficiency our learnings from pursuing this goal with governance entity charged with strategic, across our global seed production process our farmer customers so they too can administrative and financial arrangements. by 25 percent by 2020, compared to our make better use of this critical resource. 2010 baseline. This industry-first water use In concert with others, we’re developing efficiency commitment includes both our We’re pleased to report that we’ve made seed systems that can thrive in areas owned and leased operations, as well as the important strides toward our goal by Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 58 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO increasing our irrigation water application WAT E R R I S K M A P P I N G R E S U LT S efficiency by 9 percent in 2015, compared to our 2010 baseline. We can attribute much of this progress to the launch of a pilot program in 2015 using advanced irrigation NORTH AND CENTRAL AMERICA management techniques like satellite Total water withdraw: 370 million m3 Number of sites in high risk areas: 4 technology in Monsanto seed production Water withdraw in high risk areas: 0.3% locations in Argentina, Brazil, Chile and South EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA ASIA PACIFIC Africa. These locations are in addition to our Total water withdraw: 164 million m3 Number of sites in high risk areas: 3 Total water withdraw: 28 million m3 Number of sites in high risk areas: 4 Hawaii, India and Mexico operations, which Water withdraw in high risk areas: 0.07% Water withdraw in high risk areas: 0.07% implemented these methods the prior year. INDIA Total water withdraw: 25 million m3 Approximately 77 billion gallons of water were Number of sites in high risk areas: 1 Water withdraw in high risk areas: 0.001% managed through these innovative solutions. S OU T H AM E RICA Total water withdraw: 376 million m3 Number of sites in high risk areas: 2 We’re also working with farmers to help Water withdraw in high risk areas: 0.3% them use irrigation water more effectively. The USDA Agriculture Research Service, land grant university experts and Monsanto joined forces to develop a comprehensive irrigation G LOBAL T OTAL handbook, which addresses a wide variety of Total water withdraw: 963 million m3 Number of sites in high risk areas: 14 irrigation concepts and questions for farmers. Water withdraw in high risk areas: 0.3% m3 = cubic meter Mapping Water Risks Overall water risk identifies areas with higher exposure to water-related risks and is an aggregated measure of all selected indicators from WRI, including the physical quantity, quality and regulatory and reputational risk categories. Working in 57 countries, some of our facilities are located in water-stressed areas. To better understand how water availability might globe, including the areas where contracted (WRI), we were able to confirm which impact our operations and the surrounding growers produce seed for us. Using a sites were at the greatest potential risk. communities and landscapes, we mapped globally recognized water-risk assessment Risk is calculated based on 12 indicators water risks at all of our facilities across the tool from the World Resources Institute that evaluate three areas: quantity, quality Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 59 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO and regulatory and reputational risk. Through products in several ways, including PROTECTING this assessment, 14 facilities were determined production volume at harvest, insect S E N S I T I V E H A B I TAT S to be located in high risk areas, representing resistance, herbicide tolerance, grain less than 0.3 percent of our total water quality, plant health and stress tolerance. At our phosphate mining operations in southeastern withdrawal. Regional impacts are shown in Idaho, we are pursuing a multifaceted water protection To show the progress of hybrids over program that is aimed at protecting sensitive habitats the water risk map on the previous page. within the Upper Blackfoot River watershed and time, research trials were planted at the species like the Yellowstone Cutthroat Trout. We have Now that we have identified our high-risk Monsanto Learning Center at Gothenburg, implemented a state-of-the-art water management facilities, we’re taking a deeper look into Nebraska, to test the effects of drought on program at our existing mine, ensuring that impacted them, reviewing current plans, completed corn hybrids from the 1970s, 1990s and runoff does not reach surface waters or habitats. projects and future plans and projects to today. Three different types of irrigation We are performing extensive studies on the mitigate our water risks. The risk mapping levels were evaluated. Results from this environmental conditions of our former mines, with process will allow us to share best practices study indicate the modern-day corn seed – the goal of identifying and performing any remediation among our site teams and suppliers. Genuity® DroughtGard® Hybrids with VT that may be appropriate. Looking beyond our mining Double PRO®, RIB Complete® Corn Blend operations, we are a member in the Upper Blackfoot Over the past few years, we have done a lot Confluence, a partnership of industry and environmental – produced significantly more grain across nonprofits working together on regional projects to of work in Hawaii using recycled wastewater all water environments than the older enhance wildlife habitat along the Blackfoot River. from the local wastewater treatment plant for hybrids. In addition, significant root lodging irrigation and converting to drip irrigation for occurred in the older hybrids, which affected much of our fields. We’re looking to adopt a their harvest, while the modern-day hybrids WA S H similar process in Juana Diaz, Puerto Rico, had minimal root lodging. PLEDGE to reduce our reliance on fresh water there. The Learning Center is located on one In April 2014, Monsanto became the first agriculture of the most important water resources company to sign the WBCSD WASH Pledge. This Better Understanding the for agriculture in the United States, the formalized our commitment to ensure that all Ogallala Aquifer. Because half the land Monsanto employees and directly-supervised Relationship of Irrigation contractors in all locations have access to safe on Modern Hybrids there needs to be irrigated, while the water, sanitation and hygiene at the workplace. other half doesn’t, this location is ideal for Monsanto releases new corn hybrids annually studying water issues and management. In October 2015, we completed surveying all of our sites to identify any gaps associated with the that are incrementally better than previous WASH principles. We are developing and executing action plans that ensure full access to safe water, sanitation and hygiene across all our facilities. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 60 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO BIODIVERSITY: PRESERVING S U S TA I N A B L E LANDSCAPES All farms are part of a larger natural landscape. In order to thrive, farming depends heavily on the resources that come from a healthy ecosystem: fresh water, healthy soil, beneficial pollinators and a stable climate that’s conducive to crop growth. As the original stewards of the land, farmers understand this. At Monsanto, we the ecosystems responsible for providing food our organization and with key stakeholders, work to promote sustainable landscapes by and other essentials for life. The vitality of we continue to analyze and work to address enabling sustainable agriculture intensification, agriculture and of communities around the world where and how we intersect with biodiversity which is the ability to grow more food on less depends on healthy ecosystems that support including our existing products, new technological land in a way that protects the environment. biodiversity. According to the United Nations innovations, partnerships and operations. Our approach includes providing improved Convention on Biological Diversity, biological crop production systems, encouraging and diversity is defined as the variability among Some critics of modern agriculture challenge the enabling practices that use resources more living organisms from all sources including practice of growing a single crop on a large swath efficiently with less environmental impact terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems and the of land – which they refer to as monoculture and engaging in partnerships aimed at ecological complexes of which they are part. production. Their concern is that pests and preserving and restoring natural ecosystems disease to which that crop may be susceptible and improving lives in rural communities. Agriculture and biodiversity intersect and interact in could build up, spread rapidly and pose risks to the both positive and negative ways. Many people that entire harvest or require higher levels of pesticides work in agriculture recognize that crop production in an attempt to save that crop. In consultation Making the Connection: system changes need to evolve to effectively and engagement with a broad range of experts, Agriculture and Biodiversity steward biodiversity on a landscape level. As a we continually seek to better understand our provider of agriculture technology, products and role in the sustainable agriculture landscape to Earth is home to millions of species of plants, services, we acknowledge that we need to do help develop policies and best management animals and microorganisms that inhabit more to preserve and protect biodiversity. Within practices to address monoculture concerns. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 61 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO T H E S U S TA I N A B L E L A N D S C A P E Lands and forests provide homes for diverse plant, animal and insect species Adopting conservation Forests and riparian buffers tillage and planting cover protect fresh water by filtering crops between primary it and reducing sediment in growing seasons prevents rivers by holding onto soil thus Forests and crops absorb soil erosion, stores carbon in maintaining ample water levels carbon from the air and store the soil and contributes to soil health and biodiversity it in the soil, mitigating climate change and improving soil health Ag biologicals promote soil and plant health and fight pests Highly productive crops enable more food to be grown on less land, Nutrient management protects protecting forests and biodiversity against greenhouse gas emissions and loss of nutrients to waterways Pesticide stewardship reduces runoff and water pollution Clean water and ample Crop rotation river levels benefit farmers, safeguards soil health communities and aquatic life and biodiversity WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO According to Agricultural Ecosystems Facts WAY S T O C O N S E R V E A N D M A N A G E B I O D I V E R S I T Y A N D E C O S Y S T E M S E R V I C E S and Trends from the International Union for Conservation of Nature and WBCSD, agricultural producers can conserve and manage biodiversity and ecosystem services by ”producing more output with less land; establishing or maintaining wildlife habitats and diverse land cover on farms and using farm management systems and stewardship approaches that improve ecosystem health”. We are involved in multiple initiatives Produce more Establish or Establish or Use farm management designed to protect and improve biodiversity: output with maintain wildlife maintain diverse systems and stewardship less land habitats land cover on farms approaches that improve •• We’ve been working with Conservation ecosystem health International since 2008 to preserve and restore critical forests in Brazil and, since 2013, in Indonesia to develop the Sustainable Agriculture Landscape Program. Together, we’re and environmental impacts while •• We engage with the Earth Institute at also providing farmers with resources maintaining or improving the Columbia University, which brings together that help them grow more food on economic status for the soy farmer. people and tools needed to address some the same amount of land, reducing of the world’s most difficult problems, •• We’re members of the Brazilian the motivation to turn forests into from climate change and environmental Coalition on Climate, Forests and cropland. To learn more about this degradation, to poverty, disease and Agriculture, a multi-stakeholder program, see the story on Page 64. the sustainable use of resources. group that advances Brazil’s agenda •• We participate in the Round Table to promote conservation and •• We are involved in multiple initiatives to help on Responsible Soy, which aims sustainable use of forests, sustainable protect the health of beneficial species like to encourage responsible soybean agriculture and the mitigation of and honey bees and monarch butterflies (see production that reduces social adaptation to climate change. stories on Pages 67 and 68, respectively). Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 63 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO EMBRACING areas that are compromised. These efforts target S U S TA I N A B L E critical watersheds and degraded buffer zones – those spaces between the farmland and the forest. LANDSCAPES At the same time, we are helping smallholder farmers increase productivity on their existing By Fitri Hasibuan, Project Manager, land, rather than expanding their footprint. Conservation International Indonesia Our work with Monsanto has impacted more Conservation International partners with than 800 local people. This project increases their companies like Monsanto to implement skills with agriculture and conservation training, sustainable farming practices in areas of high improves their access to agricultural inputs and additional commodities well suited for the region, biodiversity. We began conversations with local resources, and increases their incomes as including coffee (a crop for which the company Monsanto in 2006, urging them to do more to their fields become more productive. We are seeing does not sell seeds). That demonstrated to protect the biodiversity in farming regions around corn productivity increase anywhere from 30 to me that Monsanto was in this for the greater the world. They accepted the challenge. 100 percent. Farmers have increased their income good, not just for the good of the company. I work on a sustainable agriculture project by more than 34 percent, while at the same time in Pakpak Bharat, North Sumatra, Indonesia, cutting agriculture expenses in half. All the while, We’re also working with Monsanto in Brazil to that aims to balance agriculture development more than 2,000 hectares of forest are protected. preserve and restore habitats in the Cerrado Plains and conservation of critical ecosystems. It is a With help from companies like Monsanto, we’re Region, working toward similar objectives. Monsanto mountainous region with dense forests and rivers, making the sustainable landscape model work. even produced a wonderful video on our work which villagers depend on for their livelihoods. together there to create a sustainable landscape. Part of our success is due to the open In 2013, we began a three-year, $1.2 million project communication and mutual trust between Both these projects are unique in the way they with Monsanto. In Indonesia, we’re improving Conservation International, Monsanto and the view farms and forests as one interdependent agricultural production, protecting biodiversity other stakeholders involved in this project. As an landscape. In the future, I believe we can and enhancing the livelihood of smallholder example, when we first started, Monsanto was expand this model and achieve even more. The farmers. This holistic approach is what we call looking primarily to improve corn productivity in Monsanto/Conservation International Sustainable maintaining a “sustainable agriculture landscape”. Pakpak Bharat. However, after we studied the local Agriculture Landscapes Partnership could offer landscape and farmers’ needs, we determined a replicable and scalable model for sustainable We engage local communities adjacent to critical that focusing just on corn was not ideal. We agriculture and conservation practices. forests to protect existing woodlands and reforest collaborated with Monsanto to incorporate Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 64 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Intelligent Landscape Design Project. Exploring the Benefits In 2015, Monsanto joined a five-year initiative of Healthy Soil led by the Department of Energy and USDA Agricultural Research Service that applies When it comes to delivering a robust harvest, data science modeling tools to local soil the soil beneath our feet plays an incredibly health data. This approach could give farmers important role. We can grow more food, the precision to target areas as small as 900 but we can’t grow more land. Healthy soil square feet with soil management practices. provides nutrients, retains moisture, stores carbon and helps protect fresh water. Sustainability Research Program. Formed in partnership with the Agronomic Soil is a complex ecosystem with a vast Science Foundation, this program funds world of microorganisms that make it new university research into the role cover possible for plants to grow. We’re all still crops play in soil health, crop productivity learning about soil and finding new ways to and sustainable agriculture practices. harness its power to grow strong and healthy H E A LT H Y S O I L B E N E F I T S Monsanto provides funds for seeds and plants. That’s why Monsanto has invested other inputs, as well as soil analysis of significantly in better understanding healthy all fields involved in the research. soils and the farming practices that promote them, both through our purchase of the Resilient Economic Agricultural Practices soil analysis business of Solum, Inc. in 2014, (REAP). Working with the Agricultural and through key research partnerships. Technology Innovation Partnership Foundation, Monsanto and five other One of the flagship research efforts we support Provides Retains organizations founded REAP to close a nutrients moisture is the Soil Health Partnership. Please read the critical funding gap in USDA soil research. article by its Director, Nick Goeser, on Page 66. REAP sustains long-term research on land management practices and soil In addition, Monsanto provides funding and health across the varied U.S. landscape. technical resources to other collaborations focused on soil health research. Stores Helps protect carbon fresh water Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 65 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO DIGGING COVER CROPS INTO SOIL H E A LT H HOW DO T HE Y WORK? Absorbs Rain Better KE Y B E NE F IT S By Nick Goeser, Ph.D., Director, Soil Health Partnership and Director of Soil Health and Combats Sustainability, National Corn Growers Association Soil Erosion We know that healthy soil can lead to Enriches better harvests and promote environmental Cover crops are planted after the harvest of a primary crop. Soil Quality stewardship. And we know that practices like optimizing nutrient application, planting cover crops and reducing tillage play an exciting. Today our network includes more I’m inspired by the interest people have shown important role in this. What we need to keep than 40 demonstration farms that collect data in our research. Hundreds of farmers, students exploring, though, is how to make these and serve as showcases for other farmers and others have attended our Soil Health and other farming practices work together to investigate innovative soil management Field Days throughout the Midwest. In fact, to create the best possible outcomes for practices. I am confident that we’ll reach 100 we estimate we doubled attendance this past farmers, society and the environment. farms by 2019, adding to the thousands of soil year at these important outreach efforts. These health data points we’ve already collected. events offer hands-on demonstrations, provide I like to rise early – and what gets me up in the information on soil health and point out local morning is my role as director of the Soil Health One of our partner farmers – Tim Smith – resources. The farmers I’ve met are eager to Partnership, an initiative of the National Corn recently received the White House Champions understand the variety of tools available to Growers Association supported by the Walton of Change award for “Sustainable and Climatethem and how soil health impacts their fields, Family Foundation and Monsanto with scientific Smart Agriculture”. He was recognized their livelihoods and the environment. advising from environmental groups, U.S. for implementing farming practices that Department of Agriculture’s Agriculture Research improve soil health and water quality, as well Our research and events will reach thousands Service and several university soil experts. as for teaching others what he’s learned, of farmers and their agronomic advisors in the a principle objective of this initiative. Tim’s coming years, influencing the way farms are What we’ve accomplished in the two years since success is just one concrete example of managed across the United States and beyond. our launch is quite encouraging – and very how our program is gaining momentum. And that’s definitely worth waking up for every day. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 66 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO •• Improving Honey Bee Nutrition – Our Heightening Honey Bee Health help organizing the HBHC’s Forage & Nutrition Working Group led to an important Honey bees help produce one in three bites dialogue with the president’s Pollinator of our food, but face many challenges that Health Task Force and the potential for have caused their populations to fluctuate. Honey bees collaboration on pollinator issues. help produce However, such fluctuations pose a threat to a nutritious, accessible food supply around •• Investing in Research and Development one in three the world. Scientists and researchers are (R&D) for Varroa Control – Since 2013, bites of our food. striving to better understand why this is Monsanto invested more than $4 million happening and have identified the parasitic in R&D related to varroa mites – the varroa mite as one of the major causes. single largest factor in the decline of Honey Bee Advisory Council. We formed We are working hard, alongside others, to honey bees. Monsanto also helped the Monsanto Honey Bee Advisory Council find solutions to this complex challenge. develop a guide to varroa management (HBAC) to engage outside experts for downloaded by more than 5,000 people guidance on our honey bee health research Honey Bee Health Coalition. As part from more than 100 countries. and programs. HBAC members include: of our Commitment to Action on honey •• Bee Understanding Project – Monsanto •• David Mendes, commercial beekeeper bee health that we made in conjunction provided initial funding to form the and past president of American with the Clinton Global Initiative in 2013, Bee Understanding Project, which lets Beekeeping Federation we continue to play an active role in beekeepers, growers, entomologists and the Honey Bee Health Coalition (HBHC) •• Gus Rouse, honey bee queen breeder crop advisors swap jobs to see honey convened by The Keystone Policy Center. and owner of Kona Queen Hawaii, Inc. bees from another expert’s perspective. In 2015, the HBHC built on the momentum Launched in early 2015, the project’s first job •• Larry Johnson, row crops farmer of its first full year and now represents swap is featured in a documentary video. and commercial beekeeper more than 30 members from nonprofits, •• Economic Empowerment of Beekeepers – •• Gene Robinson, Ph.D., University government, academia and business. The In July 2014, Monsanto sponsored of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Bee Healthy Roadmap, unveiled in 2014, a panel of female beekeepers at the guides how we can improve the health of •• Dennis vanEngelsdorp, PhD., Eastern Apicultural Society Conference. pollinators while still meeting the needs of Entomology, University of Maryland Soon after, we developed the Angels of farmers and preserving nature. Some of the Apiculture program to introduce young •• Pete Berthelsen, Director of Habitat recent progress made by the HBHC includes: women in Appalachia to beekeeping. Partnerships, Pheasants Forever Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 67 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO MONSANTO’S MONARCH GOALS Supporting the Flight of the Monarch C HALLENGES FAC I NG Of the thousands of species of butterflies, 71% MONARC H POPUL AT I ONS the monarch is the most iconic and widely of Goal recognizable. Every year, millions of monarch butterflies migrate across North America. But, 2015 2015 2016 BASELINE PROGRESS GOAL fewer monarchs are completing the journey. Decline in Climate Habitat We now know that reduction in milkweed Monsanto 50 70 Milkweed Change Loss Monarch habitat is one of the many factors limiting their Habitats recovery. Milkweed is the only habitat in which monarchs lay their eggs and caterpillars feed. Iowa Monarch Conservation Consortium, To address this issue, Monsanto is supporting Pheasants Forever, the University of Enabling Responsible Pest Control monarch research, education and habitat Guelph, and the University of Illinois at restoration to help find ways for both farmers There’s no single right way for every farmer Chicago Energy Resources Center. and monarchs to flourish. The cornerstone to protect their fields from weeds, insects of this support is a $3.6 million contribution In our own backyard, we’re establishing and diseases. And it wouldn’t be good for over three years to the National Fish and and expanding monarch habitats at 50 of farms, food or the environment to use any Wildlife Foundation’s Monarch Butterfly our facilities, including three of our learning one solution exclusively on its own or in Conservation Fund. This partnership funds centers, with another 20 planned. The excess. Monsanto is committed to developing habitat restoration, education, outreach learning center habitats will help support a diverse range of crop protection solutions, and milkweed seed production to benefit the outreach components of the plan. offering farmers more precise ways to apply monarch butterflies. In September 2015, the right protection in a more targeted way. Monsanto also encourages a diverse group of the Fund announced 23 grants to support public and private sector stakeholders to join In some cases, this means limiting traditional the restoration of up to 33,000 acres of the Keystone Policy Center Monarch Butterfly pesticide sprays. For example, farmers can plant monarch habitat in strategic migration areas. Collaborative – an effort to connect the seeds within a protective shell so they can spray We’ve also offered an additional $500,000 agriculture supply chain with conservationists, the surrounding fields less or not at all. Another in grants to support several other partners farmers, scientists and landscape professionals technology, which Monsanto is developing under and their initiatives, including the Keystone from across the country to coordinate the name BioDirect™, stimulates a natural process Policy Center Monarch Butterfly Collaborative, and scale solutions to the challenges that already exists within plant cells, so plants can University of Kansas’ Monarch Watch, the facing monarchs and pollinators. develop traits to defend themselves against pests. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 68 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO We offer farmers different tools so they can adapt MORE PRECISION FOR BETTER HARVESTS their approach accordingly, using only what’s necessary to give their crops the best chance of Glyphosate-based pesticides work best when they’re used in the right place, at the right time and in the survival. Modern tools powered by data science, right amounts. This precision helps farmers use resources more efficiently when growing safe, healthy food. like GPS guidance on sprayers and site-specific application methods, can also help farmers use pesticide more efficiently. We will continue to MORE THAN develop better ways to target protection even more narrowly, so farmers can protect their 95% WATER crops as safely and precisely as possible. These advances increasingly allow farmers R I G H T P L AC E R I G H T T I ME RI GHT AMOUNT to apply the right protection, in the right Modern tools like GPS guidance Pest and weed levels It doesn’t take much  amount, in the right place, at the right time. on sprayers and site-specific c  hange every season, pesticide to be effective. nozzles help farmers target so farmers adapt to use In fact, pesticide sprays  Weed Resistance. Weeds have been a primary pesticide applications. only what’s necessary. are more than 95% water. challenge for farmers since the dawn of agriculture, and resistance to various methods in the agricultural production cycle can delay Pending regulatory approval, we’re planning of crop protection has always been a part the onset of resistance and help control resistant to introduce new cropping systems for of that challenge. Today, herbicides play an weeds that may exist in a field. Furthermore, corn, soybeans and cotton that include important role in helping farmers control proper management of weeds requires that we seeds with biotech traits tolerant to two weeds, but if a weed control program is not develop and share best farming practices, such or three active herbicide ingredients in sufficiently diverse, there is potential for the as crop rotation, and that we use more advanced combination, including dicamba, glyphosate development of resistant populations that information tools to maximize efficiency. and glufosinate. This would allow farmers can lead to a decline in a single herbicide’s to have more flexibility in the herbicide effectiveness to control a weed population. We are putting forth a cost-effective system, under products they use, and help them manage the Roundup Ready PLUS® umbrella, that works resistant weed populations on their farm. While it’s impossible to prevent resistance across farms as well as various crops, geographies altogether, a systematic approach to durable and technologies to help manage pests. Roundup Learn more about glyphosate on our weed control in fields using multiple tools Ready PLUS® places an emphasis on using durable website, and read more about studies on can make it manageable. Following label herbicides, from Monsanto and other companies, the safety profile of glyphosate on Page 87. recommendations and the use of multiple to provide the best combinations to manage herbicides with diverse mechanisms of action tough weeds throughout the growing season. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 69 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO THE PLANT MICROBIOME Researching Natural Solutions for Plant Health and Pest Control Our Agricultural Biologicals platform includes the work we’re doing as part of the BioAg Alliance, which uses microbes to improve plant and soil health and protect against pests, and the research we’re conducting as part of our BioDirect™ technology product pipeline, which taps into natural processes for pest control. These products are designed to complement or replace other chemical options to help farmers improve their harvests while stewarding the environment. The BioAg Alliance. This unique partnership between Monsanto and Novozymes is focused PATHOG EN IC COM M EN S A L on research and development of products MIC ROB ES M ICROB ES based on beneficial microorganisms like Damage plants by Influence plants’ causing infection or ecosystems, which then bacteria and fungi to provide farmers with creating a harmful impact the microbes and sustainable agricultural solutions. Microbes environment the health of the plants can have a significant impact on plant and soil health, improving nutrient uptake, B EN EFIC IA L M ICROB ES Supply plants with beneficial nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorus • Enhance root promoting growth and increasing productivity. growth, giving plants a good start and physical support • Protect plants from disease and repel pests • Help plants tolerate conditions like heat, flooding and drought They may also protect against destructive insects and provide disease protection. Combining Novozymes’ industry leading expertise in the discovery, formulation and level of R&D to the development of new And, with our combined efforts, we are uniquely fermentation of microbes with Monsanto’s microbial products. The BioAg Alliance is positioned to be the leader for discovery, extensive field testing experience and focused on bringing solutions to meet the development, production and commercialization commercial network brings an unmatched agronomic needs of today and tomorrow. of microbial solutions in agriculture. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 70 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO The BioAg Alliance is currently running Today, the BioAg Alliance’s products the world’s largest microbial research are used on around 65 million acres, program to develop the next generation but Monsanto and Novozymes envision of these products. In 2015, the Alliance that its products will be used on 250 to tested more than 2,000 microbial strains 500 million acres globally by 2025. across 500,000 field trial plots in more than 50 locations in the United States. BioDirect™ Technology. Using Results from the U.S. field trial program our understanding of pest and plant showed that the top new microbes genomes, we’re able to use naturally increased corn yields by an average of occurring processes to specifically target four to five bushels per acre and soy yields pests that negatively impact crops. by an average of 1.5 bushels per acre. Our BioDirect™ technology uses a process called The BioAg Alliance expects to continue Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) interference, or RNAi, to testing thousands of strains across manage the production of a specific protein in its a broad range of environments in target. Occurring naturally in the environment, living thing on the planet. The accuracy of this extensive U.S. field trials in 2016. RNA is a fundamental building block of every approach means it can be very effective in small quantities, which significantly limits the likelihood of negatively affecting crops or wildlife. B I O A G A L L I A N C E U. S . F I E L D T R I A L P R O G R A M R E S U LT S Our BioDirect™ research focuses on key challenges farmers face today. One research project aims to control varroa mites and viruses that adversely affect honey bee health. Other projects could help safeguard crops from Colorado potato beetle infestations, improve plant health with protection from tospoviruses and help manage glyphosate-resistant weeds. Results from the U.S. field trial program showed Results from the U.S. field trial program showed Visit our website to learn more about that the top new microbes increased corn that the top new microbes increased soy our Ag Biologicals pipeline, including yields by an average of 4-5 bushels per acre yields by an average of 1.5 bushels per acre the BioAg Alliance and BioDirect™. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 71 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO GUIDING AND AUDITING OUR E N V I R O N M E N TA L PERFORMANCE Our Environmental Management Guidelines highlight our commitment to environmental management systems like ISO 14001. Notably, 100 percent of our global crop protection chemical production sites are externally validated through the ISO 14001 or RC14001® certification program. This requires formal We periodically audit all of our manufacturing We regularly report the progress of our processes in identification of environmental and research and development locations corporate audit program and completion impacts, routine internal auditing and to ensure compliance with ESH legal status of corrective action plans to the corrective actions, and management review. requirements as well as company ESH policies. highest levels of management and our All of our seed production locations have board of directors. We review our audit comprehensive environmental management Every audit, each of which is conducted findings collectively to identify opportunities systems, and several of them are also ISO by ESH professionals specifically trained for improvement, both at our sites regionally 14001 certified. These management systems on auditing, entails thousands of questions and globally. Beyond the corporate audit have been developed and implemented designed to identify findings. For every finding, program, sites conduct more frequent by teams of environmental professionals, a team of ESH professionals from the audited self-audits (with corrective action based at headquarters and at our global sites, site and headquarters develops a corrective tracking and reporting to management) who are focused on universal compliance action plan with an identified due date. This as part of their ESH management system. with legal requirements, company policy team drives the finding to closure. In addition This robust approach to ESH auditing and continuous improvement. to reviewing and overseeing the entire audit gives a high degree of assurance that process, upper management also commissions Monsanto’s operations comply with legal Monsanto’s auditing program is another an external review of our program to ensure requirements and company policy. important tool for driving environment, it incorporates industry best practices. safety and health (ESH) excellence. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 72 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO ENERGY USE AND EMISSIONS CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS COMPANY VEHICLES COMPANY TOTAL FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 Direct Energy Consumption (1000 GJ) Natural Gas and Other Gaseous Fuels *5,430 6,230 2,960 2,800 *8,390 9,030 Oil (including Diesel) 526 423 *1,050 891 1,760 2,210 3,330 3,530 Coal, Coke and other Solid Fuels 1,010 1,360 3.9 0.2 1,010 1,360 Waste Fuel 2,190 2,590 2,190 2,590 TOTAL *9,150 10,600 4,010 3,690 1,760 2,210 *14,900 16,500 Biomass Fuels Used in Direct Energy Generation 200 133 811 704 1,010 837 Biomass Fuels Shipped Off-Site for Energy Generation 1.4 1.6 3,120 1,990 3,130 1,990 Indirect Energy Consumption (1000 GJ) Purchased Electricity 6,940 6,910 1,850 1,880 *8,790 8,780 Imported Steam *1,980 2,070 7.1 *1,980 2,070 TOTAL *8,920 8,980 1,860 1,880 10,800 10,900 Consumed Primary Sources in Electricity Generation (percent of total Indirect Energy) •• Hydro, Biomass, Geothermal, Nuclear, Solar, Wind 50% 49% 35% 37% 46% 46% •• Natural Gas and other Gaseous Fuels 18% 18% 18% 19% 18% 18% •• Coal, Coke and other Solid Fuels 32% 31% 41% 38% 34% 33% •• Oil (including Diesel) 1% 1% 7% 6% 3% 3% Energy Consumption Summary (1000 GJ) Total Energy Consumption (Direct and Indirect) *18,100 19,600 *5,870 5,560 1,760 2,210 *25,700 27,400 KEY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL DATA TABLES GJ = gigajoules • MT = metric tons • ML = 1,000 cubic meters • m3 = cubic meters • CO2 = carbon dioxide • CO2 e = carbon dioxide equivalent • NOx = nitrous oxide PO4 = phosphate • SOx = sulfur oxide • VOC = volatile organic compound • POTW = Publicly Owned Treatment Works • = Not Applicable or Data Not Collected Reported data in the environmental tables are rounded to three significant digits or, for small values, presented as no less than one-tenth the indicator reporting unit. This approach enhances data usability while providing sufficient detail without becoming numerically cumbersome. *Fiscal year 2014 items noted were updated from what was previously reported to reflect corrections and/or changes to the data or calculation methodology. Energy and greenhouse gas intensity ratios using annual net revenue were up in fiscal year 2015 due to lower annual revenue when comparing fiscal year 2015 to fiscal year 2014. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 73 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO ENERGY USE AND EMISSIONS CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS COMPANY VEHICLES COMPANY TOTAL FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 Energy Consumption Outside the Organization Scope 3 (1000 GJ) Logistics and Business Travel 5,950 4,990 Contracted Land Fuel & Electricity *2,330 1,940 Biomass Fuels Used in Direct Energy Generation *1.6 1.6 Biomass Fuels Shipped Off-Site for Energy Generation *7.6 7.6 Energy Intensity (GJ per $1,000 Revenue) Total Direct and Indirect Energy Intensity (Scopes 1 & 2) *1.62 1.82 Total Direct GHG Emissions Scope 1 (1000 MT) Direct GHG Emissions (CO2e) *1,250 1,180 *240 219 118 148 *1,610 1,540 GHG Emissions from Biomass Fuels •• CO2e from Biomass Used (Consumed) On-Site 24.0 16.0 88.2 76.6 112 92.6 •• CO2e from Biomass Sold for Off-Site Energy Generation *0.2 0.2 *194 222 *194 222 Total Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 2 (1000 MT) Indirect GHG Emissions (CO2e) *959 964 *288 277 *1,250 1,240 Total Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (1000 MT) Total GHG Emissions (CO2e) (Scopes 1 & 2) *2,210 2,140 *527 496 118 148 *2,850 2,790 Other Indirect GHG Emissions Sources Scope 3 (1000 MT) Logistics and Business Travel 443 371 Contracted Land *203 162 GHG Emissions from Biomass Fuels •• CO2e from Biomass Used (consumed) On-Site *0.6 0.4 •• CO2e from Biomass Sold for Off-Site Energy Generation 0.5 0.6 Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 74 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO ENERGY USE AND EMISSIONS CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS COMPANY VEHICLES COMPANY TOTAL FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 GHG Emissions Intensity (MT per $1,000 Revenue) Total Direct and Indirect Emissions (CO2e) (Scopes 1 & 2) *0.180 0.186 Other Emissions (MT) Sulfur Oxide (SOx) Emissions, Combustion and Process 1,560 1,520 *43.0 38.2 1,610 1,560 Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) Emissions, Combustion and Process 3,110 3,280 653 693 3,770 3,970 Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions 92.8 93.0 0.9 93.7 93.0 Greenhouse Gas emissions (GHGs) are calculated using various standardized emissions calculation methodology and factors, including the World Resources Institute and World Business Council on Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol, USEPA GHG Reporting Program and Emission Factors, USEPA eGRID, IEA Country Specific factors and other site or case specific factors and calculations as reviewed by our third-party assurance auditors. WAT E R U S E CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS CONTRACTED LAND COMPANY TOTAL FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 Fresh Water Withdrawal (ML 1000 m3) Surface Water 2,300 2,020 *8,260 8,130 451,000 382,000 *460,000 391,000 Ground Water *19,100 19,000 *10,800 10,600 433,000 272,000 *463,000 301,000 Municipal Water 1,370 1,340 *6,810 6,000 37,800 23,000 *46,000 30,300 Collected Rainwater 110 87.2 *279 275 58.7 4.0 *448 366 Purchased Wastewater for Reuse (R1) 0.0 0.0 212 186 681 675 893 861 Purchased Bottled or Lab Water 0.7 0.6 3.2 3.6 0.9 0.8 4.8 5.1 TOTAL 22,900 22,500 26,400 25,200 921,000 676,000 970,000 724,000 Water Reuse and Recycling (ML 1000 m3) Volume of Condensate/Cooling Tower Water Recycled/Reused *345,000 334,000 31,800 2,820 *376,000 337,000 Volume of On-Site Process Wastewater Recycled/Reused *3,700 3,390 85.3 52.4 *3,790 3,450 TOTAL *348,000 337,000 31,900 2,870 *380,000 340,000 Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 75 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO WAT E R U S E CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS CONTRACTED LAND COMPANY TOTAL FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 Process Wastewater Discharged (ML 1000 m3) (Process wastewater only; does not include domestic sewage, per GRI Guidelines) Discharged to Off-Site Treatment (e.g. publicly owned treatment works) 635 720 469 409 1,100 1,130 Permitted Discharges to the Environment Subsurface (e.g. deepwell/leachfield) 1,980 2,020 *1,980 2,020 Permitted Discharges to the Environment Surface Water (e.g. river) 16,200 16,000 *259 255 16,500 16,300 TOTAL *18,900 18,800 *728 664 19,600 19,400 Process Wastewater Quality Data for Direct Surface Water Discharges (MT) •• Biological Oxygen Demand 54.0 52.3 54.0 52.3 •• Nitrate (as N) 53.8 55.5 53.8 55.5 •• Phosphates (as PO4 ) 217 216 217 216 •• Total Suspended Solids (TSS) 63.4 37.6 63.4 37.6 WA S T E CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS CONTRACTED LAND COMPANY TOTAL FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 FY’14 FY’15 Total Waste (MT) Energy recovery 203 608 36,200 7,520 1.2 1.2 36,400 8,120 Incineration 3,580 3,500 12,100 9,460 6.8 3.4 15,700 13,000 Landfill 8,600 7,060 21,000 17,600 966 460 30,500 25,100 Other 73.3 17.8 4,080 303 3,000 7,160 285 Reuse/Recycle/Composting 7,940 7,300 146,000 84,800 70,200 25,500 224,000 118,000 Total Hazardous Waste 2,680 2,930 8,260 6,320 10.8 7.1 10,900 9,250 Total Non-Hazardous Waste 17,700 15,600 211,000 113,000 74,200 26,000 303,000 155,000 TOTAL 20,400 18,500 219,000 120,000 74,200 26,000 314,000 164,000 Waste Shipped Off-Site or Composted The total waste shipped off-site or composted in fiscal year 2015 was 164,000 metric tons. The significant reduction in waste generation for the Seeds and Traits division and Contracted Growers/Land was mainly due to a lower production amount of seeds for fiscal year 2015 compared to fiscal year 2014 and the associated fewer acres that were planted. This resulted in an approximate 50 percent reduction in waste generation. It is expected that this trend will reverse next year with the current production plan for fiscal year 2016. Waste classified as hazardous was also reduced compared to fiscal year 2014. Hazardous waste was not exported or imported by Monsanto across country borders. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 76 78 O U R C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 78 Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee 79 Engaging with Shareowners 80 Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business 81 Political Contributions 81 Engaging with Our Neighbors 82 The Monsanto Fund 83 ADDRESSING CRITICAL ISSUES 83 Stewarding Product Safety 86 Driving Transparency in Academic Partnerships Placing high ethical standards, effective 86 Protecting Intellectual Property 87 Supporting the Science on Glyphosate corporate governance, responsible product 88 Pursuing Effective Regulatory Approval stewardship and transparent reporting at 88 Summarizing Our View the center of the way we operate our business. on Food Labeling 89 Succeeding in a As a global, publicly traded company, we hold ourselves Competitive Environment to the highest of standards. Our governance framework and policies serve as checks and balances as we set and 90 WORKING WITH O U R S U P P LY C H A I N pursue our goals, monitor our progress and continue to improve ourselves. We’re committed to being a force 91 Excelling in Trade Compliance for good in our work with individuals, organizations 91 Protecting Our Guests and communities and to have a positive impact on 91 Supporting Diverse Businesses society while returning value to our shareowners. 92 REPORTING OUR PROGRESS 92 Gathering Stakeholders’ Perspectives 94 Where Impacts Occur 97 Index and Tables Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 77 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO O U R C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Monsanto is committed to high ethical standards and the values of effective corporate governance. Corporate governance touches all aspects of our company and is an important part of both who we are and how we conduct ourselves every day. Our governance framework gives our highly experienced directors the structure necessary to provide appropriate oversight to the company. R E C E N T K E Y C O R P O R AT E directors, particularly its SCRC, which is charged with reviewing and monitoring the GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENTS This section focuses on the responsibilities company’s sustainability performance and and actions of the Sustainability and Corporate risks. In this capacity, the SCRC represents •• We added Patricia Verduin, Ph.D., to our Responsibility Committee (SCRC) of our board of board of directors, which is now composed and reports back to the full board of directors. directors and provides a high-level overview of of 23 percent female directors. our corporate governance structure, as well as key •• We adopted a proxy access bylaw amendment The experience and expertise of SCRC corporate governance activities undertaken since to enable eligible Monsanto shareowners to members span multiple industries and the beginning of 2015. Additional information have their own director nominee included in disciplines including food, energy, agriculture, the company’s proxy materials, along with can be found in the governance sections of government, academia, technology, candidates nominated by our board of directors. our 2015 Proxy Statement and website. Links As a result of the continued evolution of practice healthcare and consumer goods. These to specific information are included in the GRI regarding proxy access implementation, diverse backgrounds help ensure that the we amended the provision in a manner that G4 Index of this report, beginning on Page 97. committee has a comprehensive view of eliminates certain restrictions and conditions on the sustainability issues that impact our use of the provision by eligible shareowners. company, the environment, communities, •• We enhanced public disclosures regarding Sustainability and Corporate customers and other key stakeholders. political spending and lobbying activities. Responsibility Committee The SCRC reviews the company’s sustainability Central to Monsanto’s commitment to goals and reporting and meets periodically sustainability is oversight from our board of with stakeholders to hear external perspectives Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 78 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO and identify and investigate significant input from a farmer panel. The committee MONSANTO ADDS emerging issues. The committee members is also responsible for reviewing and SCIENTIST TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS also receive and discuss periodic reports on considering such topics as biotechnology our business conduct program, progress approvals and product launches, GMO related to our Human Rights Policy, our labeling and the company’s reputation. For Considering different perspectives is fundamental to good corporate decision making, which is why we charitable donations and commitments and more information, see the Sustainability and strive to ensure diversity in our board of directors. political contributions and lobbying activities. Corporate Responsibility Committee charter. In 2015, Patricia Verduin, Ph.D., joined the Monsanto The SCRC considers and approves funding board. Dr. Verduin serves on the Science and Technology for our corporate political activities and and Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Engaging with Shareowners Committees. As a scientist, she brings a wealth of appoints members of our senior management expertise to these roles. Since 2011, she has been the to our Good Government Fund Advisory We engage in dialogue with our major chief technology officer of Colgate-Palmolive Company. Panel to ensure that our corporate political shareowners throughout the year about Prior to joining Colgate, she was senior vice president spending consistently operates and complies and chief science officer for the Grocery Manufacturers various corporate governance topics, including with applicable laws and supports our Association, and senior vice president of product executive compensation and sustainability. quality and development at ConAgra Foods, Inc. overall goals and strategic objectives. We encourage shareowners to contact our board, independent lead director or The addition of Dr. Verduin follows the In fiscal year 2015, the SCRC met five election of Monsanto’s first international corporate secretary through our website times and reviewed and discussed many director, Marcos M. Lutz, in 2014. or regular mail at the following address: of the topics covered throughout this report and other Monsanto sustainability Monsanto communications. The committee approved c/o David F. Snively, Corporate Secretary this report, which included the sustainability (for our lead independent director use: materiality assessment conducted in fiscal year c/o Office of the Lead Director) 2015 and early fiscal year 2016. Some of the 800 North Lindbergh Boulevard, Mail Stop A3NA specific matters discussed by the SCRC in 2015 St. Louis, MO 63167 included climate action, consumer food and nutrition, human rights, biodiversity, external stakeholder engagement, collaboration and Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 79 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E AT A G L A N C E In 2015, we addressed a total of 393 inquiries, 265 of which were requests for guidance Board •• 12 out of 13 of our directors are independent. regarding compliance and business ethics, Independence •• Our CEO is the only management director. and 128 were comments about work environments, stewardship of corporate •• The board is composed of 10 men and three women, including one African-American member and one member from outside the United States. assets and observed behaviors that might •• The board is composed of three members between the ages of 30-55, be inconsistent with our policies or codes Board and 10 members over the age of 55. Composition of conduct. Of these inquiries, three were •• The board regularly assesses its performance through board and committee self-evaluation. •• The nominating and corporate governance committee leads the full board in allegations of discrimination. All three were considering board competencies and refreshment in light of company strategy. investigated, and none required intervention •• We have seven board committees – executive, audit and finance, nominating or further remediation. During the fiscal and corporate governance, people and compensation, restricted stock grant, year, eight allegations related to our Human Board science and technology, and sustainability and corporate responsibility. Committees •• With the exception of the executive committee (our chairman and CEO serves on this Rights Policy were made in categories committee) all other committees are composed entirely of independent directors. other than discrimination. Five of these were resolved, and three were found to •• Our chairman is CEO of our company. He interacts closely with our independent lead director. Leadership •• The independent board members elect our lead director annually. Among other duties, be unsubstantiated upon investigation. Structure our lead director chairs executive sessions of the independent directors to discuss Resolutions ranged from job reassignments certain matters without management present. to coaching and process remediation. •• Our full board is responsible for risk oversight and has designated committees to Risk have particular oversight of certain key risks. Our board oversees management as Our annual compliance certification provides Oversight management fulfills its responsibilities for the assessment and mitigation of risks an additional opportunity to ensure we are and for taking appropriate risks. in compliance with our policies and codes of conduct. In 2015, over 99 percent of our board-chartered global Business Conduct global employees completed the certification Driving Ethical Conduct Office (BCO), we implement ethics and process. We will ensure the remaining and Corporate Citizenship compliance initiatives and directives. As 1 percent completes the certification and Throughout Our Business allowed by local law, employees may submit will investigate any reports of potential questions or voice concerns to the BCO noncompliance with codes or policies. In Open communication with our employees previous years we have achieved 100 percent via an internal toll-free telephone number, and business partners is critical. We work completion and compliance, and it’s our an email address or through a third-party together to address difficult workplace intention to ensure that this is achieved. provider to ensure caller anonymity. situations and concerns. Through our Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 80 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Reaching Our Business Units. Preventing Corruption. Anti-corruption on the CPA-Zicklin Index. The 2015 ranking Uncompromising integrity is a process of policies and procedures have been recognizes our efforts to increase and clarify continuous improvement. While we’ve long communicated to all 13 members of our the information we share on the political collected enterprise-wide information on board of directors, 100 percent of our disclosures portion of our website. employee conduct, in 2015 we began issuing employees and 100 percent of our business business conduct management reports at partners with procurement origination or the individual business unit level. This will renewal in the last 24 months through our Engaging with Our Neighbors enable management to better understand Supplier Code of Conduct. Anti-corruption trends specific to their operations and training has been provided to 100 percent With more than 400 production, determine the need for employee training of our employees with decision authority. manufacturing, R&D and office facilities and policy or process modification or around the world, we are part of many local controls in time to incorporate responses cultures, communities and villages. Being a into the following year’s goal document Political Contributions good community citizen has always been and professional development process. a priority, and Monsanto has a long record Participating constructively and transparently of collaborating with our neighbors. Leading With Integrity. Ethical business in the political process is essential to our conduct is the responsibility of every company’s long-term success. We contribute We formally engage in some communities employee, and it is up to management to to U.S. political candidates and industry and through Community Advisory Panels (CAPs). lead by example. That’s why in 2015 we trade groups in a manner compliant with all CAPs include local residents and community developed a new training series aimed at applicable laws and reporting requirements. leaders who meet regularly with representatives emerging leaders within the company, but The Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility from our facility management team to discuss available to all employees. The Monsanto Committee of our board of directors Monsanto’s operations in the community, Ethical Leadership Professional Development oversees political contributions. In 2015, environmental concerns, safety, emergency Series is designed to promote a culture of the Center for Political Accountability (CPA), preparedness, community involvement and ethics and provide opportunities for career a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization that any other issues. Each group solicits feedback enhancement. We refreshed and deployed the brings transparency and accountability to and counsel from neighbors and works to anti-corruption training course for employees corporate political spending, ranked Monsanto build meaningful relationships within the who were identified as having the potential and several other companies number three communities surrounding our plants, helping to interact with government officials. out of a universe of 500 companies included us inform our operational decision making. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 81 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Formal CAPs have been established at and religion, to police and personal all our chemical manufacturing facilities safety and environmental conservation. and new groups are launched based on local stakeholder needs and interests. Moving forward, several regions have As of 2015, we have established incorporated community engagement roles CAPs in Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, within their facilities with the hopes of building Puerto Rico and the United States. even more meaningful relationships within the communities surrounding our plants. While CAPs work well in some areas, we want to make sure we are tailoring our engagement to meet the needs The Monsanto Fund of the local communities. That’s why in fiscal year 2015 we embarked As the philanthropic arm of our company, on an effort to assess our current the Monsanto Fund, a U.S.-based 501(c)(3) community efforts, explore the needs nonprofit funded by Monsanto, seeks to of the local communities and identify make a positive sustainable difference in how Monsanto can best support the the communities where we live and work region. In some regions, community around the world, with an emphasis on applied to the Monsanto Fund Matching representatives have requested that farming communities. We collaborate Gifts Program, the America’s Farmers Grow Monsanto host town hall listening locally to prioritize the most pressing Communities grant program, and any sessions or visit neighbors one on issues and implement lasting solutions. other donations by the Fund regardless of one through door-to-door contact. whether the Fund selects the donations As part of Monsanto’s commitment to or if donations are selected by others. As part of this assessment process, inclusion and diversity, the Fund maintains we identified best practices that a non-discrimination policy. In 2015, the Going forward, Monsanto Company will many of our facilities had already Fund determined that the non-discrimination apply similar standards to the Monsanto implemented, such as safety training, policy would apply to all donations in Together volunteer grant program and initiating community health programs the United States. Previously, the nonother similar initiatives. All giving through and engaging with many of their discrimination policy had applied only to corporate and local cost center budgets community members – from donations made directly by the Fund. Now, will require compliance with the standards those representing education the same non-discrimination policy will be of the non-discrimination policy. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 82 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO ADDRESSING CRITICAL ISSUES At Monsanto, we are dedicated to facing the tough issues head-on. Through our many stakeholder engagements, the development of our materiality assessment and the monitoring of what’s being said about the company in the media, we have developed an understanding of what society and key stakeholders want to know about Monsanto and its products and business practices. 2017, we expect that all of our operations ENSURING PROPER USE globally for biotechnology-derived plant 2016TUG U.S. TECHNOLOGY USE GUIDE AND IRM OVERVIEW OF TECHNOLOGIES products will be ETS-certified. We engage Stewarding Product Safety in product stewardship initiatives through Monsanto produces an annual Technology Use Guide organizations including the American Seed Trade (TUG) for more than 360,000 farmers, retailers and Monsanto is firmly committed to ensuring that other stakeholders. The TUG communicates important Association, CropLife International, EuropaBio, our products and technologies are safe and information regarding the appropriate and responsible and the International Seed Federation. use of Monsanto’s seed and trait technologies, covering environmentally responsible. Our dedication to a wide range of topics including product stewardship, product stewardship encompasses responsible Biotech and crop protection products are insect resistance management, integrated pest management of technologies and products management, weed management and coexistence. some of the most studied products in the across our seed, traits and crop protection It explains Monsanto’s technologies, how to use world. Before any of these products ever reach businesses from concept to discontinuation. them and how to ensure regulatory compliance. the market, they undergo an extensive and thorough process to ensure their safety and Product stewardship efforts at Monsanto are effectiveness. This starts in our own labs and supported by the industry wide Excellence facilities and ultimately involves years of review Through Stewardship (ETS) initiative. This by multiple regulatory agencies. Some of the program includes third-party auditing internal product stewardship processes we have of members’ biotechnology stewardship in place are outlined on the following page. policies and practices, including ours. By Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 83 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO LCStAMP. Our seed and crop protection development and commercialization and is HANDLING products are subject to our Life Cycle managed through rigorous internal policies, P E S T I C I D E WA S T E Stewardship Activities Management Process procedures, training and audits. The Trait (LCStAMP) to ensure their safety and Quality Program aims to ensure that our Monsanto participates in industry-led container integrity from gene discovery and plant customers experience consistent product management and disposal projects around the world, and in the CropLife International Obsolete Stocks development through seed production, performance globally with maximum benefit. project, which addresses pesticide waste in Africa. marketing, distribution and discontinuation. In 2015, 20 product and technology In 2015, a total of 488 corporate audits We also create our own initiatives when we identify an stewardship reviews were completed. across all functions were performed to unfulfilled need, like we found in Indonesia. All of our crop protection product packaging contains guidelines assess field trial compliance and trait for proper disposal of the containers after use. However, Field Trials. Field trials are an important quality with 96 percent closed satisfactorily for some farmers, leaving spent pesticide containers component of the development of all new seed and the remaining 4 percent on track to in the field is still a common practice. As part of our varieties. Testing GMO products in regulated be resolved through corrective action. commitment to product stewardship, Monsanto initiated pesticide waste collection programs. For instance, in field trials is vital to develop important While we believe that our compliance the first year of this effort in Indonesia, the program scientific information, assess the performance program is among the most comprehensive led to the proper recycling and disposal of over 1,100 of a new trait and generate the necessary and successful compliance programs containers. This initiative helps to ensure unneeded environmental safety data required by in the industry, we continually review pesticide doesn’t end up in the land or waterways. regulatory authorities that evaluate commercial and strengthen our practices. The program is also intended to further educate growers about the importance of proper waste disposal. product approvals. Monsanto implements field trial procedures that go beyond what Product Development. For a biotech seed is required to achieve the highest level of product, the research and development compliance and identify ongoing process process takes about 13 years and $136 takes about the same amount of time improvements. We have embraced preventive million, with more than a quarter of that cost and can cost more than $250 million. The auditing and self-reporting to encourage incurred as part of the regulatory testing process to gain approval for these types employees and cooperators to identify and and approval process. In fact, the longest of products includes rigorous regulatory immediately report potential incidents. phase of biotech product development reviews to ensure product safety and occurs during regulatory science and determine effective stewardship plans. For an Trait Quality Program. Monsanto’s Trait registration activities, which take more than overview of the regulatory oversight during Quality Program focuses on delivering the five years. The research and development these complex development processes, intended biotech trait at each phase of process for a new crop protection product see the diagram on the following page. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 84 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO R E G U L AT O R Y S T E P S F O R D E V E L O P I N G B I O T E C H A N D C R O P P R O T E C T I O N P R O D U C T S DISCOVERY PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 L AUNCH DISCONTINUATION Proof of Concept Early Development Advanced Development Pre-Launch Test for safety and effectiveness Identify one pesticide compound or biotech trait with commercial potential Test for allergens and toxicity (biotech seeds) Not required, but Monsanto internal process Generate safety data from multiple sources Submit to multiple regulatory agencies Address regulatory agencies’ questions Ongoing research and product monitoring Prepare technology use guides and labeling/packaging Re-register after defined period and provide additional safety data, as applicable Cooperate with others on product discontinuation For more information on specific initiatives, visit the product stewardship section of our website. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 85 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO H O W W E C O L L A B O R AT E W I T H A C A D E M I C S A N D U N I V E R S I T I E S Driving Transparency in Academic Partnerships Like many companies, Monsanto collaborates with university professors. A professor may be the world’s leading expert in a particular field, and we need their insight to help us address Exchange information Product testing  Invite academics to Seek advice on t he a tough problem or to verify our own work. t hrough academic and for review by conduct field trials safety and performance Sometimes we want an outside perspective on industry conferences regulatory agencies on our products of our products a product or idea on which we are working. No matter what the reason, these partnerships play an important role in our research and often produce outcomes that benefit society. Many products we use every day are the result of multi-stakeholder partnerships. Co-author Recruit the bestand Provide information Advise decision peer-reviewed research brightest towork and resources to makers on sound Acknowledging critical media coverage in academic journals in agriculture the general public agricultural policy concerning corporations paying academics for consulting work, we’ve made a stronger effort to describe our working relationships with academics to the public through our own Beyond the Rows blog and through guest The bottom line is that we don’t have all of products to market. In the United States, the right posts in third-party publications like Forbes. the answers or expertise. We rely on our of inventors to obtain patents on their inventions Like many companies, we sometimes fund a academic partnerships to help us bring the was viewed as so important that it was provided professor’s research program or help them best products and services to our customers. for in the U.S. Constitution. The patent laws are carry out public education and outreach, designed to create an incentive to develop new but Monsanto doesn’t offer professors direct and useful inventions. This is done by granting compensation. This is not unusual. Scientific Protecting Intellectual Property the inventor a limited-time right to own his or research at universities is very often funded her invention in exchange for the invention being by outside sources, including companies, Patents are an important part of how we can publicly described in such a way that others foundations and the government. continue to fund research and bring new can make and use it once the patent expires. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 86 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Like many companies, Monsanto has patents Through the continuous innovative cycle on the inventions that we create. We put these fueled in part by patents, we’re able to inventions into our products and services in order continue our work developing the next to bring new options and products to farmers. generation of new products to be used by farmers to ensure we can feed the world’s Many businesses, including Monsanto, have formal growing population for the long term. agreements with customers to ensure the best possible outcome for everyone. When farmers choose to purchase patented seeds we produce, Supporting the they agree by contract not to save seeds from the Science on Glyphosate crop produced at the end of the season. Almost all of our customers stick to their agreements, and they In March 2015, the International Agency for want us to make sure others are doing the same Research on Cancer (IARC) evaluated the – otherwise, it’s not a level playing field for them. potential carcinogenicity of several pesticides, including glyphosate, an active ingredient in Unfortunately, a very small number of our Regulatory agencies have reviewed all the key many popular herbicides, including Monsanto’s customers don’t abide by their agreements. studies examined by IARC – as well as many Roundup® family of herbicides. After the For instance, they might save seeds from crops more studies – and arrived at the overwhelming one week review, the IARC panel classified grown from the seeds they purchase from consensus that glyphosate poses no unreasonable glyphosate as a Category 2A hazard (“probably us. Not only does this violate their customer risks to humans or the environment when carcinogenic to humans”), a category in agreement, but these second-generation seeds used according to label instructions. which IARC recently included red meat. are less effective because they may not offer the same benefits as the first generation. Based on the overwhelming weight of evidence, Most recently, the European Food Safety Authority key regulatory agencies, as well as Monsanto, (EFSA) announced its conclusions that “glyphosate Very rarely, these situations end up in court. This is unlikely to pose a carcinogenic hazard to disagreed with IARC’s classification of glyphosate. is always a last resort for us and has affected humans and the evidence does not support a tiny percentage of our customers. On the Importantly, IARC overlooked decades of classification with regard to its carcinogenic rare occasion that these situations go to trial, thorough and science-based analysis by potential.” EFSA’s conclusion builds upon the we give the remainder of proceeds collected regulatory agencies around the world and science-based proposed re-evaluation decision from a judgment, after our costs are covered, to selectively interpreted data to arrive at its by the Canadian Pest Management Regulatory nonprofit youth leadership initiatives, so that the classification of glyphosate. No regulatory Agency from April 2015, which concluded that money is returned to the farming community. agency in the world considers glyphosate “the overall weight of evidence indicates that That’s also true with any out-of-court settlement. to be a carcinogen. glyphosate is unlikely to pose a human cancer risk.” Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 87 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO To better understand how IARC arrived at consumers understand the way regulators such an inconsistent conclusion, Monsanto do their assessments. There’s a significant Summarizing Our View asked a panel of 16 experts to review IARC’s gap in people’s knowledge about on Food Labeling assessment. The panel evaluated IARC’s science, safety and the benefits of all the Consumers are increasingly interested in process and also examined the larger data agriculture technologies that are used, agriculture and in understanding how food set evaluated by regulatory agencies. They whether it’s chemistry or biotech. is produced. As a company involved in concluded “none of the results from a very From a business perspective, it’s also one of the first steps of food production, large database, using different methodologies, crucial that regulatory systems are funded we are one of many stakeholders involved provides evidence of, or a potential appropriately so they can conduct their in the dialogue about labeling. mechanism for, human carcinogenesis.” thorough assessments in a timely fashion. Food production starts with a seed, and In Monsanto’s case, our product this is where much of Monsanto’s business introduction cycles are seasonal. We Pursuing Effective is focused. We produce a wide variety of get an opportunity to introduce a new Regulatory Approval seeds, including conventional and biotech or innovation to farmers only once a year. genetically modified organism (GMO) seeds for This content is adapted from an interview Timing is critical. If we receive required all types and sizes of farms around the world. by Bloomberg BNA with Dr. Phil Miller, approvals late, farmers may have to Monsanto’s Vice President, Global wait another whole year to get the As an agricultural company, we serve our Government and Regulatory Affairs. opportunity to leverage that innovation. farmer customers, who grow high-quality crops that contribute to a safe, healthful and What Monsanto looks for in regulations is sustainable food supply. We believe farmers effectiveness, predictability and robustness. and consumers should have a broad range That’s what gives consumers confidence in of product choices in the marketplace. the decisions that are made by regulators. Monsanto has had biotech products that On the topic of food labeling, we believe: have been well studied and understood for •• The safety of our products is our first priority, more than 20 years. There’s not been a single and multiple health societies, hundreds of incident of any health or environmental independent scientific experts and dozens risk associated with biotech products. of governments around the world have Dr. Phil Miller Both the agriculture industry and regulatory Vice President, Global Government determined that foods and ingredients bodies could be more effective at helping and Regulatory Affairs developed through biotechnology (or genetic modification [GM]) are safe. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 88 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO •• Each country establishes its own food strive to remain competitive. That come from major global agrichemical labeling laws. Within the United States, requires offering customers the solutions companies, smaller biotechnology research the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) they want and need at prices they can companies and institutions, state-funded has established clear guidance for the afford, while still earning a profit for the programs and academic institutions. In voluntary labeling of food products company. And it takes policies that support certain countries, we also compete with containing ingredients derived from genetic market success and fair competition. government-owned seed companies. modification; we support this approach. Critics of large businesses assert that such With thousands of seed products, hundreds •• We also support food companies’ choices competitive practices have an almost of companies and brands, dozens of traits to voluntarily label food products noting opposite effect. Many of them believe that and enormous plant genetic variations, certain attributes (e.g. organic) based on the leading agriculture companies, including row crop and vegetable farmers have a their customers’ preferences and provided Monsanto, have too much influence over wide range of solutions, products and the labeling is truthful and not misleading. the market and with policymakers, resulting price points from which to choose. •• We support a federal approach to food in fewer choices and higher prices. Of course, there are farmers whose access to labeling. A uniform, national standard is Our business has grown tremendously over even basic agronomic resources is significantly needed to provide consumers accurate the years, and we understand that the scale of compromised, especially in developing nations. and consistent information about their this success brings scrutiny. Our growth can be This presents a real challenge to food security food, without implying that ingredients attributed to many factors including an early around the globe as many of these farmers derived from GM crops are less nutritious investment in biotechnology, adding new struggle to feed their own families, let alone or less safe. This approach would eliminate approaches to historic breeding practices, sell their crops to earn income. We recognize confusion and address the uncertainty and a decision to broadly license the results this, and we’re working in collaboration that would be created by a patchwork of of those investments, including to our with farmers, NGOs, governments, banks state-by-state GMO food labeling laws. direct competitors, both large and small. and other organizations to help address See our website for more information and to this problem. We’re helping to bring new The reality is that agriculture remains a highly technologies and resources to farmers in watch a brief, informative video on this topic. competitive industry. In fact, competition in Africa and Asia and establish functioning the seeds sector has intensified. Monsanto markets, infrastructure and distribution competes with numerous large multinational mechanisms. For more information on these Succeeding in a seed companies globally and with efforts, see the Food and Nutrition Security Competitive Environment hundreds of smaller companies regionally. section of this report, starting on Page 27. Competition for the discovery of new traits In industries driven by innovation and technology based on biotechnology or genomics can like agriculture businesses must constantly Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 89 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO WORKING WITH O U R S U P P LY C H A I N Monsanto relies on a vast network of suppliers across 19 primary categories including services, equipment and raw materials, and our network of seed production partners. Procurement is committed to supporting a farmer’s ability to improve harvests while using fewer resources and improve lives by supporting purchasing approaches that promote AV E R A G E S U P P L I E R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S U R V E Y S C O R E B Y C AT E G O R Y B Y R E G I O N 2 0 1 5 environmental, ethical and social principles. Our Supplier Code of Conduct extends the 89% Global 83% 83% 86% 82% AVER AGE S URVE Y SCORE commitments found in our Code of Business Average 76% 78% Conduct to suppliers worldwide. All current and 75% 72% 69% Brazil new suppliers invited to engage in business with 65% 65%67% 58% 63% North Monsanto must complete a computer-based America profile that covers a range of sustainability 52% Europe, topics including ethics, environment, labor, Middle human rights and other social issues. Monsanto East, requires its suppliers to accept the importance Africa of their conformance with the Supplier Code Latin through the establishment of new contracts America and at the time of contract renewal. The Global Procurement section of our website provides prospective and existing suppliers Environmental Forced Labor and Protection of Corporate Ethics Discrimination Human Rights and Transparency easy access to information about what is expected of them, including access to the The chart shows the average scores of participating suppliers across categories by geographic region compared to the Supplier Code of Conduct in 29 languages. Global Average. Geographic regions that had five or more suppliers participate in the survey are included in this graph. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 90 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO In 2013, Monsanto Global Procurement formed Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) and the continuous improvement in our Contractor a Global Procurement Sustainability Network, Importer Self-Assessment (ISA) program. C-TPAT Guest Program Environmental Safety and led by representatives from each business region establishes measures to add security to trade Health (ESH) performance standards. By and developed a comprehensive five-year plan in order to safeguard the world’s industry from consistently excelling in this program, we not for addressing sustainability within our supplier terrorists, and the ISA program is an initiative of only provide a safe working environment, but base. One outcome of this plan is a standardized the U.S. Customs and Border Protection that also add value to our supplier companies, our sustainability risk assessment process that partners with importers who can demonstrate employees and the communities in which can be applied to our strategic suppliers. their readiness to manage and monitor their we operate. Our on-site suppliers in return trade compliance through self-assessment. gain the added value of a safer workforce. This process, launched in late 2014 and completed in 2015, weighed the economic, environmental and social profiles and behaviors Protecting Our Guests Supporting Diverse Businesses of key suppliers in order to evaluate these relationships and their contributions and risks Monsanto’s Contractor Guest Program has Monsanto is committed to promoting the related to Monsanto’s sustainability goals. worked for decades to provide a safe work growth of our minority-owned suppliers, Suppliers representing $959.5 million or 12 environment for everyone who works at or and we collaborate with diverse businesses percent of our global annual procurement visits our facilities. This program applies to all around the world to create a strong spend completed the first assessment in 2015. of our suppliers who work in our facilities and and resilient network of suppliers. Monsanto uses these comprehensive supplier campuses around the globe. The Contractor performance profiles to enhance supplier Guest Program is a formal system that identifies Our Supplier Diversity Mentorship Program is just relationship management efforts, assess potential risks for our suppliers who work onone example. In 2015, we held the first, highly opportunities and risks, and develop supplier site. It provides targeted safety guidelines to our recognized and publicized Monsanto Supplier specific plans that incorporate best practices. suppliers based on these risks in order to ensure Diversity Mentorship Program in the United proper safety oversight and safety auditing and States, designed to mentor diverse U.S.-based most importantly, personal safety. The program businesses that may or may not have supplier Excelling in Trade Compliance also includes a formal prequalification process contracts with us. We offered consultation for suppliers operating at site-specific, regional on various business topics and best practices Monsanto is committed to compliance with all and global levels to ensure that we maintain to help them build their own capacity, as well U.S. export and applicable non-U.S. export laws the safety of our workers and suppliers. as outlined how attendees can engage with and regulations that govern the transportation Monsanto to become part of our supplier of our products across international borders. We aspire to an injury-free and incidentnetwork. Plans are in place to expand this effort We are certified under several voluntary trade free work environment at all of our sites, in the United States and in select global regions. compliance programs, like Customs-Trade which is why it’s necessary to promote Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 91 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO REPORTING OUR PROGRESS This report does more than simply relay our commitment to sustainability. It highlights our challenges and opportunities. It sparks conversations that help us more acutely understand what matters to our company and shareowners, farmers, policymakers, communities and consumers. Those insights guide the content of this report, as well as inform where we may focus our future efforts. For us, sustainability reporting is a communications, the people and organizations touched by D R AW I N G B O U N D A R I E S engagement and strategic management tool. our business. This year, we worked with BSR, a global nonprofit business network The scope of information covered in this report varies Each year, we publish a sustainability report and a and sustainability consultancy, to conduct a based on the type of content provided. Footnotes to United Nations Global Compact Communication formal materiality assessment that engaged data tables designate the scope and reporting period covered by the applicable data. Unless otherwise noted, on Progress. This report is prepared in accordance many internal and external stakeholders. the information pertains to our global Seed and Traits with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Our approach is an evolution from our first and Crop Protection segments and corporate functions voluntary Sustainability Reporting Guidelines assessment completed in 2012 and builds on including consolidated subsidiaries, but excluding “Core” option and incorporates many aspects the updates we’ve made in recent years. joint ventures. Environmental, health and safety data of the “Comprehensive” option. For the first and human rights data are based on fiscal year 2015, Together with BSR, we explored a broad list which ran from September 1, 2014, to August 31, 2015. time, we are also reporting on how our efforts We do not distinguish between fiscal and calendar align with the United Nations Sustainable of issues and topics that could potentially years for anecdotal information, and as a result, some Development Goals, adopted in September 2015. impact the success of our business and information may be noted from other calendar years. might be important to external stakeholders. This list was generated from our collective Locations referenced throughout this report without a country name are within the United States. industry and sustainability knowledge, as Gathering Stakeholders’ well as the topics from our 2012 materiality Perspectives assessment. We grouped these issues into We seek a broad range of perspectives to five categories: employees, environment, learn more about what’s important to all of governance, responsible products and society. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 92 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO BSR interviewed 30 Monsanto employees M AT E R I A L I S S U E S M AT R I X from different areas of our business around the world and 20 external stakeholders. Climate Change Product Mitigation & Safety & They spoke with representatives from Adaptation Stewardship Innovative NGOs, academia, research institutions, Technologies & Products public health organizations, government, Land Use & Smallholder Deforestation Farmers Sustainable the food industry, consumers, community Chemistry neighbors and our farmer customers. Soil Global Hunger & Nutrition Health Security Business Practices & Competition A scoring system was applied to the results Biodiversity I MP ORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Water Consumption & Management of these interviews, which enabled us to plot the issues on a matrix that visually represents Business Ethics where each topic falls relative to its importance & Transparency to our company and our stakeholders. With the Human Rights Positive Patents & Plant Relationships matrix developed, BSR hosted an in-person Variety Rights with Local Communities Political GMO workshop and virtual review sessions to Spending Labeling & Society Regulatory gather feedback from key Monsanto leaders Approval Systems and identify any needed adjustments. Data Management & Access A materiality assessment is part science and Occupational Health, Safety & Wellness part art, requiring both subjective and objective inputs. Through this process, we found that the position of some issues on the materiality Responsible Marketing matrix have shifted since our 2012 assessment. Corporate Tax These changes can be attributed to using a Legacy Issues new materiality process, shifting business and Talent Management, Diversity & Benefits stakeholder priorities and perspectives, and the evolving conditions of our planet and society. Waste Board Management Diversity INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS SUCCESS Note: Issues that appear in the lower third segment of the Material Issues Matrix are not included in the tables in this report. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 93 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO FOOD/GRAIN Where Impacts Occur Issue INDUSTRY NGOs FARMERS ACADEMIA GOVERNMENT Product Safety and Stewardship A key principle of the GRI G4 Guidelines is to determine and report where a company’s Innovative Technologies and Products material issues impact the business, key Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation stakeholders and society at large. An impact can be positive or negative. The tables Sustainable Chemistry on the following pages summarize the Water Consumption and Management issues that both external stakeholders and Monsanto business regions identified as Business Practices and Competition most important. We also indicate where we Global Hunger and Nutrition Security believe these impacts occur relative to our business, suppliers, farmers and consumers. Business Ethics and Transparency Positive Relationships with Local Communities and Society Mapping External Stakeholder Views Regulatory Approval Systems on Material Sustainability Issues Serving Smallholder Farmers The table at the right maps the most Land Use and Deforestation important sustainability issues and topics Soil Health for Monsanto from an external stakeholder perspective. The green circles indicate Human Rights that the particular stakeholder viewed the Seed Patents and Plant Variety Rights material issue as high in importance. Talent Management, Diversity and Benefits GMO Labeling Biodiversity and Ecosystems Occupational Health, Safety and Wellness Data Management and Access Political Spending Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 94 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Mapping Monsanto Views on SOUTH NORTH AMERICA ASIA/ Issue AMERICA (U.S., Canada, Mexico) AFRICA EUROPE Material Sustainability Issues by Regions of the World Product Safety and Stewardship Innovative Technologies and Products The table at the right maps the most Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation important sustainability issues and topics for Monsanto from an internal perspective Sustainable Chemistry for each region of the world in which we Water Consumption and Management operate, as indicated by the green circles. Business Practices and Competition Global Hunger and Nutrition Security Business Ethics and Transparency Positive Relationships with Local Communities and Society Regulatory Approval Systems Serving Smallholder Farmers Land Use and Deforestation Soil Health Human Rights Seed Patents and Plant Variety Rights Talent Management, Diversity and Benefits GMO Labeling Biodiversity and Ecosystems Occupational Health, Safety and Wellness Data Management and Access Political Spending Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 95 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Mapping Where Sustainability Issue MONSANTO SUPPLIERS FARMERS CONSUMERS Impacts Occur Product Safety and Stewardship The table at the right maps where impacts occur along Monsanto’s business value Innovative Technologies and Products chain, as indicated by the green circles. Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Sustainable Chemistry Water Consumption and Management Business Practices and Competition Global Hunger and Nutrition Security Business Ethics and Transparency Positive Relationships with Local Communities and Society Regulatory Approval Systems Serving Smallholder Farmers Land Use and Deforestation Soil Health Human Rights Seed Patents and Plant Variety Rights Talent Management, Diversity and Benefits GMO Labeling Biodiversity and Ecosystems Occupational Health, Safety and Wellness Data Management and Access Political Spending Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 96 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Index and Tables GRI G4 Index G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION G4-1 CEO Letter, Page 3 CEO Letter, Page 3; Executive Summary, Pages 4-7; We Are Monsanto, Pages 13-22 (Agricultural Innovation: Our Approach to Sustainability); G4-2 Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Item 1, 1A, 7A Organizational Profile G4-3 Monsanto Company G4-4 We Are Monsanto, Pages 9-12 G4-5 St. Louis, Missouri, United States G4-6 We Are Monsanto, Page 10; Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Item 2, Note 25 G4-7 Certificate of Incorporation G4-8 We Are Monsanto, Pages 9-12; Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Item 1, Note 25 G4-9 We Are Monsanto, Page 9; People, Pages 43-44 (Employee Composition Data); Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Item 1 (Employee Relations), Item 8 G4-10 People, Pages 43-44 (Employee Composition Data); Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Item 1 (Employee Relations), Item 8 G4-11 People, Page 48 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) G4-12 Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) G4-13 People, Page 40 (End of Career Support); People, Pages 49-50 (Tracking Our Progress); Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Note 5 G4-14 Company, Pages 83-86 (Stewarding Product Safety) G4-15 We Are Monsanto, Page 22 (Working Collaboratively and Transparently) G4-16 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 All entities included in our Consolidated Financial Statements are covered in this report. Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Exhibit 21 G4-18 Company, Pages 92-96 (Reporting Our Progress) G4-19 We Are Monsanto, Pages 18-21 Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 97 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION G4-20 People, Pages 43-44 (Employee Composition Data), 47 (Health and Safety Data); G4-21 Planet, Pages 72-76 (Environmental Data); Company, Pages 92-96 (Reporting Our Progress) Some 2014 environmental data was updated due to changes in calculations. See Planet, Page 73 (Environmental Data). The 2014 Total G4-22 Recordable Rate (TRR) for our APAC region was listed incorrectly as zero, but the two sets of data that comprise TRR were reported correctly. G4-23 Report scope and aspect boundaries remain the same as 2014. Stakeholder Engagement We Are Monsanto, Page 22 (Working Collaboratively and Transparently); G4-24 Company, Page 79 (Our Corporate Governance Framework), 92-96 (Reporting Our Progress) G4-25 We Are Monsanto, Page 22 (Working Collaboratively and Transparently); Company, Pages 92-96 (Reporting Our Progress) G4-26 G4-27 We Are Monsanto, Page 23 (Inviting Conversation); Company, Pages 92-96 (Reporting Our Progress); Also discussed throughout this report. Report Profile G4-28 Fiscal year 2015; See also Page 92 (Drawing Boundaries) G4-29 Fiscal Year 2014 G4-30 We plan to report on our sustainability commitments annually on a fiscal year basis. G4-31 tami.j.craig.schilling@monsanto.com This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 “Core” option and contains many elements of the “Comprehensive” G4-32 option. We have sought and received external assurance from Bureau Veritas for our key data-driven environmental indicators G4-33 and for the section of the report entitled Working with Our Supply Chain. See Assurance Letters on Pages 111-116. Governance G4-34 We Are Monsanto, Page 14 (Governing and Managing Our Sustainability Commitment); G4-35 Company, Pages 78-80 (Our Corporate Governance Framework); Website: Corporate Governance G4-36 G4-37 Company, Page 79 (Engaging with Shareowners) G4-38 Company, Page 80 (Corporate Governance at a Glance); Website: Corporate Governance Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 98 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION G4-39 2015 Proxy Statement, Page 25 G4-40 2015 Proxy Statement, Page 23 G4-41 2015 Proxy Statement, Pages 32-34 We Are Monsanto, Pages 13-14 (Agricultural Innovation: Our Approach to Sustainability); G4-42 Company, Pages 78-80 (Our Corporate Governance Framework); Website: Corporate Governance G4-43 Company, Pages 78-80 (Our Corporate Governance Framework); 2015 Proxy Statement, Pages 27, 29 G4-44 Company, Pages 78-80 (Our Corporate Governance Framework); 2015 Proxy Statement, Pages 27-28 G4-45 We Are Monsanto, Pages 13-14 (Agricultural Innovation: Our Approach to Sustainability); Company, Pages 78-80 G4-46 (Our Corporate Governance Framework); 2015 Proxy Statement, Pages 29-31; Website: Corporate Governance G4-47 Company, Page 79 (Our Corporate Governance Framework); Website: Corporate Governance G4-48 The Board of Directors Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee Company, Page 79 (Our Corporate Governance Framework), 80-81 (Driving Ethical Conduct G4-49 and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business); 2015 Proxy Statement, Page 31 We have various ways of gathering concerns across company functions and regions of the world including: customer product inquiries, employee and contractor inquiries, consumer online contacts via monsanto.com, discover.monsanto.com, G4-50 and world areas websites. Each concern has an established process and business owner for addressing the situation. Summary reports for each area flow to regional, functional or executive leaders. G4-51 G4-52 2015 Proxy Statement, Pages 8-9, 36-40 G4-53 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Website: Code of Ethics; Website: Our Pledge G4-57 Company, Pages 80-81 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) G4-58 Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 99 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Item 8 G4-EC2 Planet, Pages 52-57 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change) G4-EC3 Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Note 16 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Monsanto supports a variety of infrastructure investments through its philanthropic arm, the Monsanto Fund, a U.S.-based G4-EC7 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization funded by Monsanto. For more information, see the Monsanto Fund Report. People, Pages 27-29 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security), 29-30 (Grow Asia: Improving Farmer Livelihoods), 30-31 (Providing G4-EC8 Information and Training to Smallholder Farmers), 34-35 (Staking the Future on STEM); Planet, Page 64 (Embracing Sustainable Landscapes) Category: Environmental Aspect: Energy/Greenhouse Gas Emissions (All indicators highlighted in green are externally assured) G4-EN3 G4-EN4 G4-EN5 G4-EN15 Planet, Pages 73-75 (Environmental Data Energy Use and Emissions) G4-EN16 G4-EN17 G4-EN18 G4-EN21 G4-EN6 (Partially reported) Planet, Pages 52-53 (Fighting Climate Change in Our Own Backyard) G4-EN19 G4-EN7 We Are Monsanto, Pages 11-12 (Our Products); Planet, Pages 52-57 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change) Aspect: Water (All indicators highlighted in green are externally assured) G4-EN8 Planet, Pages 75-76 (Environmental Data Water Use) G4-EN10 G4-EN22 G4-EN9 (Partially reported) Planet, Pages 58-60 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water) Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 100 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Biodiversity We Are Monsanto, Page 25 (Earning Recognition); Planet, Page 60 (Protecting Sensitive Habitats). We continue analyzing our G4-EN11 operations that are near or adjacent to areas of high biodiversity to ensure our operations do not affect sensitive habitat. G4-EN12 (Partially reported) Planet, Pages 61-63 (Biodiversity: Preserving Sustainable Landscapes) G4-EN13 Planet, Pages 65-71 (Biodiversity: Preserving Sustainable Landscapes) Aspect: Effluents & Waste G4-EN23 Planet, Page 76 (Environmental Data Waste) G4-EN25 G4-EN24 In fiscal year 2015 there were no accidental, episodic spills or releases from our facilities that were significant enough (externally assured) to be reported to one or more governmental agencies. Across the globe, Monsanto complies with a diverse set of regulatory programs designed to protect water bodies and related habitats and routinely audits against these requirements. Beyond these audits, Monsanto regularly performs G4-EN26 self-assessments of all of our chemical manufacturing operations to confirm that we are not causing adverse impacts to groundwater or neighboring water resources. See also: Planet, Pages 58-60 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water) Aspect: Products & Services G4-EN27 Planet, Pages 51-71 Monsanto partners in agricultural container recycling programs globally, but does not currently collect this information centrally. In 2015, we estimate that approximately 92 percent of our U.S. crop protection product packaging was either refillable or recycled. With more than 85 G4-EN28 percent of our products sold in refillable containers and the other 15 percent in single-use plastic jugs, as part of the Ag Container Recycling Council (ACRC) initiative, we are diligently working to reduce product packaging waste. See also: Planet, Page 84 (Handling Pesticide Waste). Aspect: Compliance P4 Production, L.L.C., a wholly owned subsidiary of Monsanto Company, reached an agreement with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to resolve a dispute regarding the methodology for calculating, quantifying and reporting air emissions from the company’s phosphate ore processing plant in Soda Springs, Idaho. Under the terms of the agreement, P4 paid a civil penalty of $600,000. The dispute G4-EN29 focused strictly on reporting quantities and methods. There was no allegation of an exceedance of Idaho Air Toxics Standards or National (externally assured) Ambient Air Quality Standards or contribution to any known air-quality related health concerns in the Soda Springs air shed. Monsanto regularly and routinely collects compliance information regarding its global operations. We did not identify any other material fines or nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. See also: Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Item 3, Note 24 Aspect: Transport G4-EN30 Planet, Pages 73-75 (Environmental Data Energy Use and Emissions) Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 101 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Overall G4-EN31 (Partially reported) Planet, Page 52 (Investing in Operational Greenhouse Gas Reductions) Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) G4-EN33 Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms We do not have a single formal mechanism in place to respond to all grievances Monsanto might receive regarding environmental G4-EN34 issues. Rather, we respond on a case-by-case basis, working with relevant company functions and involving upper-level management as appropriate. Typically, this work involves our Environmental, Safety and Health organization or our Regulatory organization. Category: Social Subcategory: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 People, Pages 43-44 (Employee Composition Data) G4-LA2 People, Pages 41-42 (Rewarding Great Work) G4-LA3 People, Page 44 (Employee Composition Data) Aspect: Labor/Management Relations (Partially reported) We comply with the notification periods required in the regions of the world where we work. When an area has no specified G4-LA4 notification policy, we build our communication timeline in a way that accounts for the needs of our employees and their circumstances. Where collective bargaining agreements are in place, Monsanto follows the notification guidelines established in these agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health & Safety G4-LA5 People, Page 45 (Promoting Employee Health, Safety and Well-Being) People, Page 47 (Tracking Health and Safety Performance). G4-LA6 Note: We do not track absentee rates. In fiscal year 2015 there were no work-related fatalities. G4-LA7 People, Page 46 (Promoting Employee Health, Safety and Well-Being/Preventing Occupational Diseases) Aspect: Training & Education G4-LA9 People, Pages 38-40 (Developing Our Employees); Our tracking methodology for employee training hours was revised in fiscal year 2015. G4-LA10 People, Pages 38-40 (Developing Our Employees) G4-LA11 Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 102 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Diversity & Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 People, Pages 43-44 (Employee Composition Data); Company, Page 80 (Corporate Governance at a Glance) Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) G4-LA15 People, Pages 49-50 (Tracking Our Progress); Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Company, Pages 80-81 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) Subcategory: Human Rights Aspect: Investment G4-HR1 People, Page 48 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) G4-HR2 People, Page 48 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Company, Page 80 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 People, Pages 48-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) Aspect: Child Labor People, Pages 49-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights), 50 (Helping Eradicate Child Labor); G4-HR5 Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 People, Pages 49-50 (Tracking Our Progress); Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) Aspect: Security Practices G4-HR7 People, Page 48 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 People, Pages 49-50 (Tracking Our Progress) Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 103 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Assessment G4-HR9 People, Pages 48-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) G4-HR11 People, Pages 48-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Company, Pages 80-81 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) Subcategory: Society Aspect: Local Communities G4-SO1 Company, Pages 81-82 (Engaging with Our Neighbors) (Partially reported) Monsanto locations include administrative and sales offices, manufacturing plants, seed production facilities, research centers and learning centers located in mainly rural communities around the world. Information about specific operations is not reported due to security reasons. We employ a variety of measures to keep employees, visitors and communities safe including process safety management, pollution prevention, community awareness and emergency response planning. While Monsanto manages the following areas to mitigate and minimize the local impact of its operations on local communities and neighbors, each site type deals with a different set of potential community impacts. •• All sites have the potential to affect a community via fire, traffic, waste disposal and water consumption. •• Seed production, crop protection and research operations could impact a community through air emissions, noise, hazardous material release, light pollution and more. G4-SO2 Qualified audit teams conduct oversight compliance audits with attention to environmental, industrial hygiene, safety and property protection and occupational medicine at each Monsanto facility on a rotation with staff responsible for ongoing management of environmental, health and safety conditions. All of our sites have off-site consequence analysis for all highly hazardous materials (HHM) handled, including all credible scenarios (wind directions, etc.) to ensure proper community notification systems exist as needed; plant emergency response is sufficient; and drills with local authorities. Our global Crop Protection chemical production sites follow local Responsible Care programs and have externally validated environmental (ISO 14001 or RC14001®) management systems in place. See also: Planet, Page 72 (Guiding and Auditing Our Environmental Performance) Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 104 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 (Partially reported) Company, Pages 80-81 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) GR-SO4 Company, Pages 80-81 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) Aspect: Public Policy G4-SO6 Company, Page 81 (Political Contributions); Website: Political Disclosures Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K, Note 24 Aspect: Compliance Monsanto regularly and routinely collects compliance information regarding its global operations. We did not G4-SO8 identify any material fines or nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations, other than the penalties noted in G4-EN29 and G4-PR9. See also: Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Item 3, Note 24 Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) G4-SO10 People, Pages 48-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society We do not have a single formal mechanism in place to respond to all grievances Monsanto might receive regarding impacts on society. Rather, we respond to grievances on a case-by-case basis, working with relevant company functions and involving upper-level management as appropriate. G4-SO11 We address general concerns, for example those regarding our history, business and product lines, through various outreach programs, including our website and social media. We address more local concerns with outreach by our local and regional management and relevant personnel. Subcategory: Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Company, Pages 83-85 (Stewarding Product Safety), 87-88 (Supporting the Science on Glyphosate); G4-PR1 Website: Product Stewardship; Website: Safety and Technical Information Monsanto regularly and routinely collects compliance information regarding its global operations. We did not identify G4-PR2 any material incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle. See also: Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Item 3, Note 24 Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 105 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Product and Services Labeling •• Sourcing of components of the product or service: no •• Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact: yes G4-PR3 •• Safe use of the product: yes •• Disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts: yes Our crop and vegetable seeds and crop protection products are covered by and assessed for compliance with the procedures identified above. Monsanto regularly and routinely collects compliance information regarding its global operations. We did not identify any material G4-PR4 incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. See also: Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Item 3, Note 24 Based on a large survey of our farmer customers across a wide range of countries executed each year, both large and small acre farmers who raise G4-PR5 row crops and vegetables report the following: high marks to our seed brand performance, strong satisfaction for biotech trait seed performance and a growing number respond that they would be willing to recommend Monsanto’s products to a friend. Aspect: Marketing Communications We Are Monsanto, Page 22 (Working Collaboratively and Transparently), 23 (Inviting Conversation); Company, Pages 83-85 G4-PR6 (Stewarding Product Safety), 87-88 (Supporting the Science on Glyphosate), 88-89 (Summarizing Our View on Food Labeling); Website: Safety and Technical Information; Website: Labeling Food and Ingredients Developed from GM Seed Monsanto regularly and routinely collects compliance information regarding its global operations. We did not identify any material incidents of G4-PR7 noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. See also: Monsanto 2015 Form 10-K: Item 3, Note 24 Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Monsanto did not experience breaches of customer privacy or loss of customer data in fiscal year 2015. Aspect: Compliance Under a settlement agreement, Monsanto paid a civil penalty of $81,200 to resolve alleged violations of the United States Department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service biotechnology regulations (7 CFR part 340). The investigation is now closed. We G4-PR9 did not identify any other material fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. See also: https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/biotechnology/sa_compliance_and_inspections/ct_compliance_history Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 106 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO D I S C L O S U R E S O N M A N A G E M E N T A P P R O A C H O F M AT E R I A L I S S U E S See Pages 18-21 for definitions of each material issue listed below. LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Planet, Pages 68-69 (Enabling Responsible Pest Control), 70-71 (Researching Natural Solutions for Plant Health and Pest Control); Company, Product Safety & Stewardship Pages 83-85 (Stewarding Product Safety), 87-88 (Supporting the Science on Glyphosate), 88-89 (Summarizing Our View on Food Labeling) We Are Monsanto, Pages 11-12 (Our Products); Planet, Pages 52-56 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change), 57 (Applying Data Science to Innovative Technologies and Products Feed a Growing Population), 68-69 (Enabling Responsible Pest Control), 70-71 (Researching Natural Solutions for Plant Health and Pest Control) Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Planet, Pages 52-57 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change) Sustainable Chemistry Planet, Pages 68-69 (Enabling Responsible Pest Control), 70-71 (Researching Natural Solutions for Plant Health and Pest Control) Water Consumption and Management Planet, Pages 58-60 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water) Company, Page 86 (Driving Transparency in Academic Partnerships ), 86-87 (Protecting Intellectual Property), Business Practices and Competition 88 (Pursuing Effective Regulatory Approval), 89 (Succeeding in a Competitive Environment) Global Hunger and Nutrition Security People, Pages 27-33 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security) We Are Monsanto, Page 22 (Working Collaboratively and Transparently), 23 (Inviting Conversation); Company, Pages 78-80 (Our Corporate Governance Business Ethics and Transparency Framework), 80-81 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business), 86 (Driving Transparency in Academic Partnerships) Positive Relationships with People, Pages 34-37 (Reaching Out to Communities); Company, Pages 81-82 (Engaging with Our Neighbors), 91 (Protecting Our Guests) Local Communities and Society Regulatory Approval Systems Company, Pages 83-85 (Stewarding Product Safety), 88 (Pursuing Effective Regulatory Approval) Serving Smallholder Farmers People, Pages 27-31 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security) Land Use and Deforestation Planet, Pages 61-63 (Making the Connection: Agriculture and Biodiversity), 64 (Embracing Sustainable Landscapes) Soil Health Planet, Page 65 (Exploring the Benefits of Healthy Soil), 66 (Digging Into Soil Health) Human Rights People, Pages 48-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) Seed Patents and Plant Variety Rights Company, Pages 86-87 (Protecting Intellectual Property) Talent Management, Diversity and Benefits People, Pages 38-42 (Improving Lives for Our People) GMO Labeling Company, Pages 88-89 (Summarizing Our View on Food Labeling); Website: Labeling Food and Ingredients Developed from GM Seed Biodiversity and Ecosystems Planet, Pages 61-71 (Biodiversity: Preserving Sustainable Landscapes) Occupational Health, Safety and Wellness People, Pages 45-47 (Promoting Employee Health, Safety and Well-Being) Data Management and Access The Climate Corporation Website: Guiding Principles on Data and Privacy Political Spending Company, Page 81 (Political Contributions); Website: Political Disclosures Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 107 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO UN Global Compact Index THE TEN PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection 1 of internationally proclaimed human rights. People, Pages 48-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) Businesses should make sure that they are 2 not complicit in human rights abuses. People, Pages 48-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of 3 association and the effective recognition People, Pages 48-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) of the right to collective bargaining. Businesses should uphold the elimination of 4 all forms of forced and compulsory labour. People, Pages 48-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) Businesses should uphold the People, Pages 48-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights), 50 (Helping Eradicate Child Labor); 5 effective abolition of child labour. Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) Businesses should uphold the elimination of People, Pages 40-41 (Embracing the Power of Inclusion and Diversity); Company, Page 80 (Corporate Governance at a Glance); 6 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Company, Pages 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) Environment Businesses should support a precautionary 7 approach to environmental challenges. Planet, Pages 52-57 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change); Company, Pages 83-85 (Stewarding Product Safety) Businesses should undertake initiatives to Planet, Pages 52-57 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change), 58-60 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water), 61-71 (Biodiversity: Preserving 8 promote greater environmental responsibility. Sustainable Landscapes), 72 (Guiding and Auditing Our Environmental Performance); Company, Pages 83-85 (Stewarding Product Safety) Businesses should encourage the development and We Are Monsanto, Pages 11-12 (Our Products); People, Pages 27-31 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security); 9 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Planet, Pages 52-57 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change), 70-71 (Researching Natural Solutions for Plant Health and Pest Control) Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in 10 all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Company, Pages 80-81 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 108 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO United Nations Sustainable Development Goals GOAL LOCATION/DESCRIPTION No poverty – end poverty in all 1 its forms everywhere. People, Pages 27-31 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security) Zero hunger – end hunger, achieve food We Are Monsanto, Pages 11-12 (Our Products), 13-14 (Agricultural Innovation: Our Approach to Sustainability), 2 security and improved nutrition and 15-17 (Goals and Progress); People, Pages 27-31 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security) promote sustainable agriculture. Good health and well-being – ensure healthy People, Pages 27-31 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security), 36-37 (Taking a Global Approach to Community Health and Safety), 3 lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. 45-47 (Promoting Employee Health, Safety and Well-Being) Quality education – ensure inclusive and People, Pages 30-31 (Providing Information and Training to Smallholder Farmers), 34-35 (Staking the Future on STEM), 4 equitable quality education and promote 38-40 (Developing Our Employees) lifelong learning opportunities for all. Gender equality – achieve gender equality 5 and empower all women and girls. People, Pages 40-41 (Embracing the Power of Inclusion and Diversity); Company, Page 80 (Corporate Governance at a Glance) Clean water and sanitation – ensure 6 availability and sustainable management Planet, Pages 59-60 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water) of water and sanitation for all. Affordable and clean energy – ensure 7 access to affordable, reliable, sustainable Planet, Pages 52-57 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change) and modern energy for all. Decent work and economic growth – promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable People, Pages 27-31 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security), 38-40 (Developing Our Employees), 8 economic growth, full and productive 40-41 (Embracing the Power of Inclusion and Diversity), 41-42 (Rewarding Great Work), 48-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) employment and decent work for all. Industry, innovation and infrastructure – build People, Pages 27-31 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security); Company, Page 89 (Succeeding in a Competitive Environment), 9 resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and 90-91 (Working with Our Supply Chain) sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 109 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO GOAL LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Reduced inequalities – reduce 10 inequality within and among countries. People, Pages 27-31 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security), 36-37 (Taking a Global Approach to Community Health and Safety) Sustainable cities and communities – People, Pages 27-31 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security), 36-37 (Taking a Global Approach to Community Health and Safety), 11 make cities and human settlements 37 (Volunteering for the Greater Good: Monsanto Together) inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Responsible consumption and production – We Are Monsanto, Pages 11-12 (Our Products); Planet, Pages 52-57 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change), 12 ensure sustainable consumption 58-59 (Using Water More Efficiently), 65 (Exploring the Benefits of Healthy Soil), 68-69 (Enabling Responsible Pest Control), and production patterns. 70 (Researching Natural Solutions for Plant Health and Pest Control); Company, Pages 83-85 (Stewarding Product Safety) Climate action – take urgent action to We Are Monsanto, Page 12 (Data Science), 13-14 (Agricultural Innovation: Our Approach to Sustainability); 13 combat climate change and its impacts. Planet, Pages 52-56 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change), 57 (Applying Data Science to Feed a Growing Population) Life below water – conserve and sustainably Planet, Pages 68-69 (Enabling Responsible Pest Control), 70 (Researching Natural Solutions for Plant Health and Pest Control); 14 use the oceans, seas and marine resources Company, Pages 83-85 (Stewarding Product Safety) for sustainable development. Life on land – protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, 15 sustainably manage forests, combat Planet, Pages 61-71 (Biodiversity: Preserving Sustainable Landscapes) desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. Peace, justice and strong institutions – promote peaceful and inclusive societies for 16 sustainable development, provide access to People, Pages 40-41 (Embracing the Power of Inclusion and Diversity), 48-50 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. Partnerships for the goals – strengthen the We Are Monsanto, Page 22 (Working Collaboratively and Transparently); Planet, Page 55 (Collaborating on Climate Action), 17 means of implementation and revitalize the 56 (Leading the Transition to a Low Carbon World); Company, Page 92 (Gathering Stakeholders’ Perspectives) global partnership for sustainable development. Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 110 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 111 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 112 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 113 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 114 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 115 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 116 Trademarks and service marks owned by Monsanto Company and its subsidiaries are indicated throughout this report. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. © 2016 Monsanto Company
