01 Sobre About the Report 1 Relevant Aspects Message from the CEO Sector Context Profile About Copel Governance Sustainability Management Performance in Capitals Human Capital Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital Infrastructure Capital Financial Capital Social Audit GRI Content Index Assurance Report Annex ABOUT THE REPORT 01 Sobre About the Report The Copel Sustainability Report is published annually and is intended to provide this report. G4-18 transparent accountability to all its audiences, as well as to present the main About the In order to improve the management processes and support decisionReport 3 social, environmental, and economic impacts caused by its operations. This making, the main events that can impact the Company’s businesses were Relevant edition includes information about management and performance for the Aspects mapped, considering a senior management position, the risk factors year 2015 from January 1 to December 31 in the areas of operation of Copel Message from presented in the 20F Form and the internal controls defined by the corporate the CEO Holding, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries: Copel Geração e Transmissão integrity area in conjunction with the areas involved. As a result, the aspects Sector S.A., Copel Distribuição S.A., Copel Telecomunicações S.A., Copel Renováveis Context covered in this report that were considered to be material for the success of S.A., and Copel Comercialização S.A., except when stated otherwise. Profile the Company in the short-, medium-, and long-term were reviewed, adjusted G4-17, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30z About Copel and defined. G4-18 Governance The reporting methodology follows the G4 version of the Global Reporting Sustainability Management The report also follows the guidelines set forth by IBASE (Brazilian Social Initiative (GRI), and the “core” option of adherence, and covers the set of indicators Performance in Capitals Audit Institute of Social and Economic Analysis), the Brazilian Accounting of the electric utilities sector disclosures. All indicators disclosed are listed in the Human Standards (NBC T15), the regulation of Abrasca Award for Annual Report, Content Index, with indication of an independent external assurance by KPMG. Capital Progress Communication in terms of commitments assumed with the Global G4-18, G4-32, G4-33 Intellectual Compact, and of the International Financial Accounting Standards (IFRS), Capital considered in the information from the financial statements. G4-15 Social and This edition contains an important change which is the application of Relationship Capital the integrated reporting structure recommended by the International The report is composed of two parts. The first part provides an overview of Natural Capital Integrated Reporting Council IIRC, which seeks to improve communication our business model, the risks to which we are exposed, and main impacts Infrastructure of material aspects for sustainability in the Copel businesses to their Capital we cause to the environment and to the audiences with which we interact stakeholders and to demonstrate the Company’s value generation capability. Financial Capital through our operations. The second part demonstrates the context and G4-18, G4-22, G4-23 Social Audit performance of each of our capitals, providing details about relevant aspects GRI Content Index of our business and our capacity to generate value. To this end, an engagement process was conducted with the Executive Board, the Assurance business and corporate risk areas, seeking to establish the main impacts and risks Report inherent to the Copel business model. The results of this process are reflected in Annex Section “Main Social and Environmental Impacts” and has guided the content of 01 Sobre About the Report Relevant Aspects A review of the aspects deemed material and strategic consider the following: G4-18 About the Aspects determined in 2014 by stakeholders and senior management during the engagement process; G4-24 Report 4 Relevant Revalidation in 2015 through a media survey and references of corporate sustainability Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE BM&FBOVESPA), the Dow Jones Aspects Sustainability Index (DJSI), the Global Compact, and Ethos Indicators for Sustainable and Responsible Business Models; Message from the CEO In 2016, the results of the business model analysis and mapping of the main associated impacts and risks. Sector Context Processes and results to define material and strategic aspects Profile G4-23 Learn about other results About Copel obtained by Copel available Environmental impacts of Stakeholder online: G4-25, G4-26 Governance Structure Risks 20F the value chain opinions Administration and Financial Sustainability Management Statements selection criteria of relevant/strategic aspects Performance in Capitals 20F Report Human Social and Relationship ANEEL’s Social and Capital Supplier Relationship with Relationship with Clients and management Communities Environmental Reports Capital Consumers Scope of aspects Intellectual revised based on Copel’s materiality process Capital business risks/ impacts Social and Relationship Natural and Operational Impacts on Capital Climate Infrastructure excellence and change Ecosystems Capital Eco efficiency Natural Capital Infrastructure For questions, suggestions or Capital Human Governance, ethics Occupational details about the content of Financial Capital Capital and compliance Health and Safety Training and Availability of the this report, Copel provides a Social Audit Workforce Intellectual communication channel Talk GRI Content Index Capital to Us Sustainability. G4-31 Assurance Economic Access to Report Financial and Financial financial Energy Regulatory Capital Performance capital planning Matters Annex previous New previous adjusted element element element 01 Sobre About the Report Material and strategic aspects, material topics and relevant indicators G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-27 Material and strategic aspect Material topic / boundary Relevant indicators Scope **changes in rates G4-2 regulatory bodies, clients, and consumers Regulatory issues *changes in regulation (ex.: Resulting from the water shortage) G4-2 regulatory bodies, clients, and consumers About the Report 5 *valuation, retention and training of employees with critical Training and Availability of Workforce LA1, LA2, LA9, LA10, LA11, EU14, EU15 employees and contractors knowledge for Copel's businesses Relevant *quality and delivery terms (materials/services) contractors Aspects Supplier Management *procurement practices and supplier appraisal, and legal EC9, LA14, LA15, EN32, EN33, HR10, HR11, Message from all stakeholders compliance SO9, SO10 the CEO **projection of demand EU10 all stakeholders Sector **availability and reliability EU6 all stakeholders Context Energy Planning **buy-sell strategy G4-2 regulatory bodies Profile **renewable sources EU1, EU2 all stakeholders About Copel **nontechnical losses EU12 regulatory bodies Governance *default EU27 clients and consumers Sustainability Management Relationships with Clients and *dynamics of the free consumers market EU3 regulatory bodies, clients, and consumers Consumers Performance in Capitals *quality of services provided EU8, EU12, EU28, EU29, EU30 clients, and consumers, regulatory bodies *level of satisfaction PR5, SO11 clients and consumers Human Capital **energy efficiency EU7 all stakeholders Intellectual *labor compliance HR1 all stakeholders Capital *environmental compliance EN29 all stakeholders Social and Governance, Ethics, and Compliance *security data all stakeholders Relationship Capital *legal actions SO7, SO8, PR9 all stakeholders *ethics, Code of Conduct SO3, SO4, SO5, SO6, HR1, HR8 all stakeholders Natural Capital *contribution to the national GHG emissions EN15-18 all stakeholders Infrastructure Climate Change Capital *carbon market mechanisms EN19, EC2 all stakeholders **energy EN3 all stakeholders Financial Capital Operational Excellence and Eco*air emissions EN21 all stakeholders Social Audit efficiency *hazardous waste EN23 all stakeholders GRI Content Index *effluents EN8, EN9, EN22 all stakeholders Assurance Relationship with Communities *impact and development of local communities EC7, SO1, SO2, EU19, EU20, EU22 all stakeholders Report Occupational Health and Safety *compliance with applicable health and safety standards LA6, EU18, EU24, EU25, employees, contractors, and regulatory bodies Annex Impacts upon the Ecosystem *impacts on the ecosystem EN11, EN12, EN13, EU13 all stakeholders Access to Financial Capital *Indebtedness and investment program EC7 clients and consumers all stakeholders, more specifically Economic-Financial Performance **cost to acquire energy G4-9 governments and partners Limits: * All business units ** Holding and energy-related 01 Sobre Message from the CEO Message from the CEO G4-1, G4-2 About the Report 6 The Brazilian economy was put through a tough test in 2015. For the electric sector, a critical component of Relevant the production chain, it was no different, having to face specific difficulties in the regulatory, economic and Aspects environmental scenarios that are being slowly and gradually overcome. Nevertheless, amidst this adversity, Copel Message from the CEO managed to create sustainable growth opportunities that only the more complex crisis can provide. The fast and Sector agile response to challenges in many of our areas of operation allowed us to record significant results, such as R$ Context 1.3 billion in net profit for the period. Profile About Copel In a year in which governance for the country and companies alike was constantly on the news, and transparency Governance became a daily exercise for many institutions, Copel intensified its actions in this sense, aiming to make its Sustainability Management operations even more transparent, and dedicating special attention to people management. Proof of this was the Performance in Capitals creation of the Corporate Integrity department, reporting directly to the president’s office, and which seeks to Human Capital coordinate activities associated with compliance, corporate risk management, and internal controls. Commitment Intellectual to fight corruption is in line with the corporate values and culture, and meets the expectations of stakeholders. Capital Social and The Innovation Coordination department was also created to promote technological development and innovation Relationship Capital to stimulate generation and renewal of products, services, and processes. Natural Capital Infrastructure In terms of engagement and promotion of transparency in employee relations, the Anima Program is underway seeking to implement actions to value employees, in Capital addition to promoting improvement of internal processes and communications at all levels. Financial Capital Social Audit Concurrently, we are developing a program to train leaders, in line with these common values and objectives. All of these initiatives are seeds for a variety of corporate GRI Content Index projects, which design and develop the Copel of the future. Assurance Report Annex The year 2015 was also highlighted by the successful strategy to diversify our power generation complex, with beginning of operations of 15 wind farms in the Northeast, totaling 330.5 MW of installed capacity by the end of the year. Our windfarms, together with the preponderance of the hydroelectric plants, currently account for 93% of energy from renewable sources. By 2019, we are already committed to completing 13 new wind farms, representing an investment of R$ 1.9 billion. 01 Sobre Message from the CEO In the area of energy distribution, Copel was evaluated by its clients, for the fourth time in five years, as the best in Brazil according to the 2015 ABRADEE survey, conducted by the Brazilian Association of Electricity Distribution Companies. These awards, plus the extension of our distribution concession for an additional 30 years, are a result of the seriousness of our work, and drives us forward in the quest to constantly improve all our activities. About the Report 7 In a severe environmental scenario that requires strict financial management, we are aware of the difficulties to present less frequent and short-term power outages. To Relevant this end, we have increased, year upon year, the amount of resources geared toward new technologies in this sense. The expansion of our intelligent network program Aspects and the launch of the program Mais Clic Rural, which will allocate R$ 500 million to modernization of rural networks in the next three years, are proof of this guideline. Message from the CEO It was also with emphasis on high technology that Copel Telecomunicações took fiber optics to 399 cities in the state of Paraná, two cities in Santa Catarina, one in Sector Context Mato Grosso, and four in São Paulo. The high demand for broadband services proves the quality of the interaction with the World Wide Web desired by our clients, Profile who now have access to connectivity standards comparable to those of more developed nations. About Copel Governance Aware of the current debate about the implications of climate change, in the first half of 2015, Copel joined the platform EPC Empresas pelo Clima (Companies for Sustainability Management Climate), which aims to facilitate the transition of the Company towards a low-carbon economy. Thereby, we have reaffirmed our commitment to seek solutions for Performance in Capitals problems arising out of climate change and their implications to our business. Human Capital We have also reaffirmed our commitment to the initiative of the United Nations’ Global Compact. In 2015, we confirmed our presence in the São Paulo Stock Exchange’s Intellectual Capital corporate sustainability Index (ISE-Bovespa) and joined the Morgan Stanley Capital International’s Sustainability Index (MSCI), which awards companies with excellent Social and performance in the social, environmental, and corporate governance areas. For us, obtaining the MSCI seal represents another benchmark in Copel’s path toward Relationship sustainability. Capital Natural Capital At Companhia Paranaense de Energia, sustainability is not simply a way of doing things, but rather a future vision that the Company intends to take to the 10 Brazilian Infrastructure Capital states where it operates. This report provides in details these and other projects that Copel developed last year, aiming to perpetuate our activities. Financial Capital Social Audit GRI Content Index Enjoy your reading. Assurance Report Annex LUIZ FERNANDO LEONE VIANNA CEO 01 Sobre SECTOR Context Sector Context G4-2 The macro economic crisis that hit the country in 2015 also affected the entire addition to the reduction and load, which allowed for closing the year with About the Report 8 electricity sector. Load in the National Interconnected System (SIN) reached 62,000 reservoirs near 100% capacity. Relevant MWm in the year, representing a decrease of 0.66% compared with 2014. Aspects Another consequence of the water crisis was the intense use of thermal Message from The peak was registered in January, when high temperatures and rates drove electric plants throughout the entire first half of 2015. During the second half the CEO energy consumption. Nevertheless, the load dropped throughout the year, with of the year, these plants continued supplying, with fuel costs (CVU, Brazilian Sector acronym for Variable Unit Cost) in excess of R$ 600/MWh, despite the most Context the smallest rates recorded between April and August, period when moderate expensive plants having been shut down for the second half of the year. Profile temperatures typically result in reduced use of air conditioning, with a direct impact About Copel upon energy consumption. Another relevant point was the increase in the cost of With the water crisis, distributors were left with the challenge to address Governance energy, both for captive rates and spot market prices (transactions in which the cash flow imbalance caused by the rate deficit, and receive loan from the Sustainability Management delivery of product acquired is immediate and payment is cash). ACR Account (Regulated Reduction Environment) of R$ 21 billion, to be paid Performance in Capitals The economic downturn had a direct impact upon the energy market, as a result of (with the corresponding restatement, fees and interest) in 60 months, and Human Capital the drop of the average income of the population, which, along with increased rates, the power generation companies retained losses in billions. Rate increases, Intellectual implied in a reduction in residential consumption. Historically, growth in electric resulting from the need to reflect the cost of power generation, given the lack Capital power demand is observed in years of recession, since the number of families and of rainfall and the consequent increase in the use of thermal electric energy, Social and Relationship households to shelter these families grows. But the economy behaved so poorly led to a major retraction in energy consumption, implying in even greater Capital that domestic consumption of energy dropped 2.2% between November 2014 reduction in hydroelectric power generation. GSF closed the year 2015 at Natural Capital and November 2015, representing the worst performance in 12 years. According approximately 0.85, which is 15% below the physical guarantee; a rate Infrastructure that could have caused bankruptcy of some power generation companies. Capital to Empresa de Pesquisas Energéticas (EPE), energy demanded by the industries This situation resulted in a 42% increase in rates. Financial Capital dropped by 8.9% between November 2014 and November 2015. Social Audit The water crisis also contributed to reducing the level of the reservoirs in the four Already greatly affected by the problem that occurred in 2014, generating GRI Content Index subsystems in the country. Rainfall levels and flow are the main contributors to companies of the MRE worked preventively and defensively, filing legal actions Assurance Report this decrease; however, these levels would be even lower in parts of the regions in an attempt to limit the effect of the low GSF. Soon the number of legal actions Annex if the economic activity were normal and energy consumption had been higher in reached several tens, resulting in injunctions exempting power generation 2015. The Southern subsystem had the most comfortable scenario, especially in companies, in total or in most part, of the effects of the GSF. the second half of the year, given the abundant rainfall throughout the period, in 01 Sobre Sector Context Provisional Measure (MP) 688/2015, which transfers the risk of water shortage in economy, which goes beyond the use of renewable sources of energy and hydroelectric power generation to end consumers and extends the agreement of includes the adoption of efficient technologies and production processes the plants or their concessions to offset losses in 2015 with smaller generation, that have reduced impact upon the environment. closes the legal issue in the sector. This condition is valid for both generating About the Report 9 companies that deliver the energy produced in the regulated market (distributors) Brazil’s Energy Matrix Relevant and those that supply the free market (industrial consumers). Aspects Message from Signing the agreement requires: solving the GSF impasse, enabling the renewal the CEO 61% 6% of power generation concessions, and ensuring future investments. The proposed Sector agreement foresees hiring new volumes of energy by the owners of the plants, and 7% Context 61% the extension of the term of the concession agreements to a maximum of 15 years. 9% 1% Profile About Copel 6% With the rules of the fourth rate review cycle, the pressure for higher rates this 17% Governance year was reduced. The process involved three phases of debates, one public 0% Sustainability Management consultation, and two Public Hearing phases, and throughout the process, more Performance in Capitals Water Biomass Wind Fossil Import Nuclear Solar than 100 contributions of representatives from consumers, market analysts, farm Human Source: Aneel Capital consultants, researchers, and representatives of the power distribution companies Intellectual were received. One of the rules allows for the recognition, in the rates, of the Capital For the electric sector, the challenge will be enormous, since the Brazilian remuneration for investments made through loans in the Energy Development Social and energy matrix predominantly uses sources with low carbon emission and, Account (CDE), geared toward the program Luz para Todos (Light for All). Another Relationship in recent years, has significantly expanded emissions of greenhouse gases Capital decision that helped reduce the weight of readjustments was the increase in given to need to continuously operate thermoelectric plants to offset the Natural Capital productivity gains to be considered in the so-called Fator X; a rate that is applied low level of reservoirs in the hydroelectric plants. Consequently, even with Infrastructure to reduce the impact of the IGP-M index on the rates. Capital all thermal electric generation, in 2014 production of electricity represented Financial Capital only 4.5% of Brazilian emissions of greenhouse gases. Comparatively, in the In the environmental area, COP21 gathered national goals in an effort to keep Social Audit global scenario, the electricity sector accounts for 31.3% of emissions, and temperature increase below 1.5° C. In terms of the Brazilian commitment, the GRI Content Index the Brazilian energy matrix for 4.5% should be reason of pride, although country presented its absolute goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for 2030, Assurance there are aspects that can be improved. Report 43% lower than 2005. Specifically for the electric sector, the goal is for 23% of the national electricity matrix to come from non-fossil sources, excluding hydroelectric Annex generation (currently this number is at 23.3%). Another measure planned in Brazilian goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is to achieve a 10% gain in efficiency in the electric sector. Achieving these goals will require investments in a low-carbon 01 Sobre SECTOR Context Context – Operation of Brazilian electricity sector Who are the major players on the market of electric Players power in Brazil. How energy supply works About the Captive consumers buy energy from the distribution concessionaires to which they are connected. Report 10 CNPE Regulated market Each consumer unit pays only a monthly electricity bill. Rates are regulated by the Government, and the price is the result of a mix of long-term contracts. National Relevant Level of concession, regulation, supervision, Policy And Aspects Energy Council Message from Cash Flow Government the CEO fees and taxes Only one electricity bill Sector CMSE MME EPE Remuneration Remuneration Context Monitoring Ministry of Energy according to auction for transmission Revenue from distribution service planning and monitoring Committee of the Mines and Research contract services Profile Quota A Quota B Electric Sector Energy Company Energy Flow Purchase of electricity Operating costs About Copel Transmission Transmission Depreciation quota Generation Distribution Consumer ONS Fees and taxes Return on investment Governance ANEEL ONS Controls power Destination: generation generation, Destination: Sustainability Management National defines Indicates the transmission distribution Contracting Electric prices amount of energy and government Energy Auction MME defines price cap Total electricity bill = Quota A + Quota B Performance in Capitals Agency for power ANEEL promotes auctions Mechanisms supply CCE operationalizes Human Capital Intellectual Level of services Capital ONS CCEE National Operator Electric Power Free consumers buy energy directly from generators or distributors through bilateral agreements Social and and agents of the Electric Marketing Chamber with freely negotiated conditions, such as price, time, volume, etc. Each consumer unit pays the Free Market Relationship System local utility a bill referring to distribution services (regulated rate) and one or more bills related to purchase of electricity (negotiated price agreement). Capital Natural Capital CNPE: Defines the country’s energy policy with the purpose of ensuring Government Infrastructure stability in energy supply. Cash Flow MME: Responsible for planning, management and development of Fees and taxes Distributor invoice + Generator invoice Capital possibility 1 the legislation for the sector, as well as for supervision and control of remuneration Remuneration for Financial Capital execution of policies geared toward the country’s energy development. for transmission distribution services services EPE: Plans expansion of generation and transmission, for the MME, Social Audit and provides technical support for auctions. Energy GRI Content Index CMSE: Supervises the continuity and reliability of electricity Flow Consumer supply. Generation Transmission Distribution Free or special Assurance ANEEL: Regulates and supervises generation, transmission, distribution Report and marketing of electricity. It defines the transport and consumption Energy rates and ensures economic and financial balance of the concessions. Flow Annex possibility 2 ONS: Controls the operation of the National Interconnected System (SIN) so as to optimize energy resources. Cash Flow CCEE: Manages transactions of the energy market and conducts the Marketer official auctions. Agreements to supply power via marketer 02 PERFIL About the Report Relevant Aspects Message from the CEO Sector Context Profile 11 About Copel Governance Sustainability Management Performance in Capitals Human Capital Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital Infrastructure Capital Financial Capital Social Audit GRI Content Index Assurance Report Annex 02 PERFIL About Copel About Copel Copel’s business model Copel Companhia Paranaense de Energia is currently the largest company in the state of About the Paraná. The Company operates in the generation, Develops studies, builds Develops, builds and operates transmission Report and operates generation transmission, distribution, marketing of energy, and plants to produce energy towers to transport energy from the plant where it Relevant in the telecommunications sector. G4-3, G4-4 from different sources: Aspects was generated to the • Thermoelectric plant distribution substation Provides, operates and where it will be forwarded maintains the infrastructure Message from • Hydroelectric plant Founded 61 years ago, with headquarters in the city • Wind farm to end consumers. and provides related services the CEO to customers. of Curitiba, PR, the Company operates in 10 Brazilian Sector states through a structure composed of an own power Context generation complex of power plants, transmission Profile 12 lines, substations, and distribution network, in addition Generation Transmission Distribution Consumer About Copel to the operation of a telecommunications fiber optic Governance system, with interests in sanitation and gas sectors. Sustainability Management G4-5, G4-6 Auctions Performance in Capitals Copel is a corporation, established in the form Human Capital of a quasi-public company and controlled by the Main electricity sales channel from One of the main channels through which the Distribution Unit (DIS) purchases Intellectual Government of the State of Paraná, with shares traded the generation unit (GeT). energy, including from the Generation and Transmission unit (GeT). Capital at the São Paulo stock exchange (BM&FBOVESPA), and Social and in the stock exchanges in New York and Madrid. G4-7 Relationship Currently, auctions held in the regulated market are an important sales channel for the energy from Capital Strategic Reference our generation units, and the only one through which our distribution unit acquires energy to resell to Natural Capital G4-56 captive consumers. Our generation unit only sells energy to our distribution unit through auctions in the Infrastructure Capital Copel has assumptions and guidelines set forth in its regulated market. Our distribution unit, as well as other Brazilian distribution companies, is also obliged strategic reference, which guides management and Financial Capital to acquire energy from the Itaipu Binacional hydroelectric plant which has joint ownership between Brazil all actions, and internal and external decisions of the Social Audit and Paraguay, in amounts established by the Brazilian government based on our prorated share of the Company. GRI Content Index Brazilian energy market. Assurance Supply energy and solutions for sustainable development. Report Mission Operations in the free market can occur through Copel Geração e Transmissão, or through the recently Annex Become a benchmark in the areas where it created wholly-owned subsidiary Copel Comercialização, whose goal is to reinforce Copel’s positioning operates, sustainably generating value. Vision in this market, allowing for greater agility and flexibility in marketing energy. The subsidiary will operate Ethics Health and safety in a segment with large growth potential, capable of marketing conventional and incentivized energy. Respect to people Responsibility Dedication Innovation G4-13 Values Transparency 02 PERFIL Shareholding Structure Shareholding Structure G4-17 ORGANIZATION CHART SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE / POSITION ON DECEMBER 31, 2015 About the Report Paraná State BNDESPAR Custódia em Bolsa (free float) Eletrobras Other Shareholders Relevant Aspects 58.63% Voting Share 26.41% Voting Share 13.71% Voting Share 1.06% Voting Share 0.19% Voting Share 31.07% Total 23.96% Total 44.19% Total 0.56% Total 0.22% Total Message from BM&FBOVESPA the CEO 12.91% Voting Share 30.60% Total Sector NYSE Context 0.80% 13.56% Voting Share Total Profile 13 LATIBEX About Copel 0.00% Voting Share 0.03% Total Governance Sustainability Management Performance in Capitals Human (1) Copel Geração e Transmissão s.a. (1) Copel Distribuição s.a. (1) Copel Telecomunicações S.A (1) Copel Renováveis s.a. (1) Copel Comercialização s.a. (a) Capital 100% Total 100% Total 100% Total 100% Total 100% Intellectual (4) Marumbi Transmissoras de (1) Brisa Potiguar s.a. 100.0% (4) Dominó Holdings s.a. Capital Emergência s.a. (80%) 49.0% Total (2) UEG Araucária ltda. (60%) Social and (4) Costa Oeste Transmissora (3) Carbocampel s.a. (49%) Relationship (1) Nova Eurus IV Energias Renováveis s.a. (100%) (1) Cutia Empreendimentos de Energia s.a. (51%) Eólicos SPE s.a. (100%) Capital (3) Copel Amec s/c ltda (5) Consórcio Energético Cruzeiro do Sul (51%) (1) Nova Asa Branca I Energias Renováveis s.a. (100%) (em liquidação) (48%) São Bento do Norte I s.a. (99.9%) Natural Capital (4) Mata de Santa Genebra Transmissão s.a. (50.1%) São Bento do Norte II s.a. (99.9%) (3) Sercomtel s.a. (4) Guaraciaba Transmissora de Energia (1) Nova Asa Branca II Energias Renováveis s.a. (100%) Telecomunicações (45%) (TP SUL) S.A. (49%) São Bento do Norte III s.a. (99.9%) Infrastructure (4) Matrinchã Transmissora de Energia (1) Nova Asa Branca III Energias Renováveis s.a. (100%) (3) Escolectric ltda. (40%) Capital São Miguel I s.a. (99.9%) (1) Wholly-owned subsidiary (TP NORTE) S.A. (49%) (3) Foz do Chopim Energética ltda. (35.8%) São Miguel II s.a. (99.9%) (2) Affiliates (4) Integração Maranhense Trans. (1) Santa Maria Energias Renováveis s.a. (100%) (3) Related companies (3) Dois Saltos Empreend. de Geração Financial Capital de Energia s.a. (49%) São Miguel III s.a. (99.9%) (4) Jointly-owned Energia Elétrica ltda. (30%) (4) Caiuá Transmissora de Energia s.a. (49%) (1) Santa Helena Energias Renováveis s.a. (100%) (5) Consortia Usina de Energia Eólica (6) Consortia for investment (3) Dona Francisca Energética s.a. (23%) Social Audit (4) Cantareira Transmissora de Energia S.A. (49%) Cutia S.A. (100%) (1) Ventos de Santo Uriel s.a. (100%) Usina de Energia Eólica (7) Without investments realized (2) UEG Araucária ltda. (20%) (5) Consórcio São Jerônimo (41.2%) Guajiru S.A. (100%) GRI Content Index Note: Copel also has 0.82% of the (3) Companhia de Saneamento do Parana (4) Paranaiba Transmissora de Energia s.a. (24.5%) (1) São Bento Energia. (100%) Usina de Energia Eólica total capital of Investco S/A (Lajeado SANEPAR (7.6%) (4) Transmissora Sul Brasileira de Energia s.a. (20%) Jangada S.A. (100%) Assurance Hydroelectric Plant). (7) Parana Gás Exploração e Produção s.a. (30%) GE Olho D’água s.a. (100%) Usina de Energia Eólica Report (6) Consórcio Tapajós (11.1%) (a) on February 3, 2016, Copel GE Boa Vista s.a. (100%) Maria Helena S.A. (100%) (2) Elejor Centrais Elétricas do Participações S.A. was named Copel (6) Consórcio Baixo Iguaçu (30%) Usina de Energia Eólica Rio Jordão s.a. (70%) GE Farol s.a. (100%) Potiguar S.A. (100%) Comercialização S.A.. (2) Companhia Paranaense de Gás Compagas (51%) Annex GE São Bento do Norte s.a. (100%) Usina de Energia Eólica Esperança do Nordeste S.A. (100%) (2) Voltalia São Miguel do Gostoso Usina de Energia Eólica Participações s.a. (49%) Paraiso dos Ventos do Nordeste S.A. (100%) 02 PERFIL About Copel The presence of Copel in Brazilian states Market share in 2015 G4-8, G4-9 G4-8 Southern Main products (%) Brazil Paraná Goiás Region About the Power generation (1) 3.5 21.3 (2) (3) 53.5 (2) (3) Report Maranhão Rio Relevant Electric power transmission (4) 1.8 8.8 28.5 Grande do Aspects Norte Distribution of electricity (5) 6.0 (6) 34.0 (6) 96.9 (7) Message from Gas distribution (8) 3.5 40 100.0 the CEO Sector Source: Administration Report Context (1) Installed capacity. Copel’s interest in plants and wind farms not (5) Share in serving the captive/free market 14 included (2) The Itaipu hydroelectric plant not included (6) Source: Empresa de Pesquisa Energética – EPE Profile (7) Estimated data (3) Does not include the plants in the Paranapanema River (8) The volume distributed in Paraná, with thermoelectric, considered About Copel (4) The market refers to Allowed Annual Revenue RAP Bahia Governance Sustainability Management Mato Grosso Performance in Capitals Minas Gerais Human Capital Intellectual Capital Santa Catarina São Paulo Strategic objectives Social and Relationship Corporate Guidelines Guidelines for the Businesses Capital Natural Capital Expand businesses profitably and sustainably Infrastructure Electric Sector Maintain concessions; Paraná Copel Geração e Transmissão S.A. Increase share of alternative Capital Rio Grande do Sul Copel Distribuição S.A. renewable sources Copel Renováveis S.A. Financial Capital Invest in innovation, Social Audit modernization of assets, Electric, Telecommunications, Sanitation, and people management and Gas Sectors Maximize profitability of GRI Content Index assets in society. Copel Comercialização S.A HYDROELECTRIC PLANT SUBSTATION TRANSMISSION LINE Assurance Report Telecommunications Sector Expand the client base and offer high value-added Maintain excellence in Copel Telecomunicações S.A services Annex costs, processes, and WIND FARM DISTRIBUTION LINE FIBER OPTIC NETWORK quality 02 PERFIL About Copel Risk factor Internal risk factors: G4-2 Operations The chart below summarizes the main industry risks that could affect our businesses 5. Uncertainties in projections for energy demand can adversely impact and those considered in our strategic planning. More details about these risks are About the the businesses. Report available in the 20-F Report. Relevant 6. Legal actions that can have a material adverse effect upon our businesses Aspects Main risks to Copel’s businesses if the outcome is unfavorable to us. Message from the CEO 1 2 3 4 External Risks 7. Security breach of information, employee errors, conduct deviations Sector can harm our business and reputation. Context Internal Risks ] Operation Market Expansion 8A. Contractors involved in the operation may not be in compliance with the Profile 15 About Copel 7 8A 9 10 11 12 8B law and with our ethical values. 5 6 Governance Consumer market Sustainability Management External risk fators: 9. Certain consumers in our area of concession may suspend the Performance in Capitals acquisition of energy from our distribution unit. Human 1. Political, economic, and regulatory conditions, which include a series of topics, Capital such as economic development of the country, changes in rate policies, regulations, 10. Part of our operating revenue comes from Free Consumers, who may Intellectual and changes in the concession regime, taxation, and cases of corruption seek other suppliers of energy once their supply agreements expire. Capital Social and and unlawful conduct. 11. Default resulting from difficulty in receiving amounts billed to our clients. Relationship Capital 2. Fluctuations in the currency rate comparing the Brazilian Real with foreign Expansion Natural Capital currencies can increase the cost of servicing our debt in foreign currency and the 12. Limited access to capital as a result of certain limits defined by the National Infrastructure acquisition of electricity from Itaipu, as well as creating additional inflation pressure Capital Monetary Council and by Brazil’s Central Bank concerning the level of credit that can limit access to international markets. Fluctuations that can have an adverse Financial Capital that financial institutions can offer to companies in the public sector. effect on our net profit and cash flow can also result in uncertainties in the Brazilian Social Audit economy and the Brazilian real estate market. 8B. Contractors involved in the construction and expansion of projects GRI Content Index may not be in compliance with the legislation and with our ethical Assurance 3. Negative performance of economies in other countries, especially in Report developing nations, can adversely affect foreign investments in Brazil and values, delivering materials and services below the expected quality and Annex the economic growth of the country. beyond the schedule foreseen in our planning. 4. Changes in the rainfall regime. The government can adopt measures for the preservation of water/energy that are unfavorable to the businesses. 02 PERFIL About Copel Main social and environmental impacts of our businesses Social and environmental impacts: G4-2, G4-EC8, G4-SO2 • Significant increase in collection of state and municipal It is in Copel’s mission to serve society, providing infrastructure, energy, and technology necessary taxes, such as Services Taxes (ISS), charged on civil for people’s lives, and available for their development. Some of Copel’s operations, presented below, About the construction work, in the cities where the works are Report generate relevant impacts to the community where they are located and to society as a whole. conducted. During the operation of the projects, the Relevant collection of other municipal taxes is increased, and an Aspects increase in the share of state taxes, such as ICMS. Message from the CEO Main social and environmental impacts of Copel’s businesses • Displacement of households impacted by the works Sector Context Burning of fossil Multiple use Removal of native Urban visual and loss of the use of land. fuels of water (local communities) vegetation in case of new projects impacts Profile 16 • Both the construction and operation of Company assets About Copel Water withdrawal Flooding of areas No significant can impact the health and safety of stakeholders, or those Governance for cooling and displacement impacts processes, with of communities in located in the area of impact. Sustainability Management return to the the case of new Performance in Capitals source projects • Installation and operation of projects can affect the Human economic production of local communities, resulting Capital in loss of local ties or increased demand upon public Intellectual Capital services. In this case, each project implements specific Social and Thermoelectric Hydroelectric Renewable Transmission Distribution and Power Plants Plants Energy Sources TELECOM programs to minimize and mitigate these impacts. Relationship Capital Environmental impact: Natural Capital Infrastructure Emission of Recovery and IncomeRecovery and Urban • Both the construction and operation of Copel’s assets Capital Greenhouse protection of generating protection of afforestation Gases (GHG) and native vegetation projects in local native vegetation can alter ecosystems, especially in terms of the natural Financial Capital air pollutants through communities compensation (lease) conditions of water resources and vegetation in the flood Social Audit programs and the basin, in the case of hydroelectric plants. Generation of GRI Content Index like Hazardous Waste Assurance • The installation and operation of projects can generate Report a series of emissions and waste. Among the main impacts Annex Tax generation in municipalities Local development programs of this type are air emissions and generation of hazardous where the Company has operations waste, all of which are subject to legislation and control by regulatory agencies. 02 PERFIL Governance Governance About the Report Copel’s governance model is based on transparency, conformity, and corporate Relevant Aspects social responsibility, pursuant to best practices proposed by the Brazilian Institute Message from of Corporate Governance (IBGC). the CEO Sector There are four principles that guide corporate governance at Copel: Transparency, Context Equity, Accountability, and Corporate Responsibility. Based on these principles, Copel Profile 17 developed a Governance Policy, which establishes the standard and best practices in About Copel terms of corporate governance to be adopted at Copel and in its subsidiaries. Governance Sustainability Management For the Company’s operations to be permanently guided by morally sound Performance in Capitals principles, all those working in its name are governed by a code of conduct Human Capital developed according to Copel’s values, the principles of the Global Compact, Intellectual and Corporate Governance. G4-41 Capital Social and Relationship Both the Governance Policy and the Code of Conduct are approved by the Capital Company’s highest governance body the Board of Directors. Natural Capital Infrastructure Capital Learn about the governance practices and policies that guide the Company’s Financial Capital businesses: Social Audit Corporate Governance Policy GRI Content Index Governance Practices Assurance Report Annex 02 PERFIL Governance Copel’s Governance Structure G4-34, G4-38 General Shareholders' Meeting • Deﬁnes the business guidelines and make strategic decisions. • Members: shareholders eligible to vote (ordinary shares), About the which gather in forum annually or extraordinarily, Report whenever necessary. Relevant Board of Directors Fiscal Council Aspects • Permanent organ that reviews and advises the ﬁnancial • Deliberates and deﬁnes the overall direction of the business. statements and supervises the actions of the managers. Message from • Members: 9 (7 being independent). the CEO Executive Board • Members: 5 eﬀective and 5 substitutes. • Mandate: 2 years after the election in Assembly. • Mandate: 1 year. Sector • Has executive functions and applies the Company's strategy. Context • Members: CEO, 4 directors and 1 adjunct director. • Mandate: 3 years after election by the Board of Directors. Profile 18 About Copel Audit Committee Ethical Guidance Committee • Monitors, reviews, supervises, accompanies and makes Governance recommendations on the Company's activities. • Ensures the fulﬁllment of the code of conduct. • Members: 3 independents and members Presidency • Members: 12 (with 11 employees and one representative Sustainability Management of the board of directors. of civil society). Supported by CADAM (Committee to Analyze Complaints of Moral Harassment). Performance in Capitals • Mandate: 2 years. Human Capital Intellectual Corporate Risk Management Committee Capital • Advises the Audit Committee in the deﬁnition Social and of guidelines and strategies for the Company's Relationship risk management. Capital • Members: 11 employees (Holding and wholly-owned subsidiaries). Natural Capital • Mandate: 2 years. Infrastructure Holding Capital Financial Capital Committee Disclosure Department of Finance Corporate Social Audit of Relevant Acts and Investor Relations Management Department and Facts GRI Content Index • Supports the Department Assurance of Investor Relations in the practice Department of Business Report of Disclosure Policy. Institutional Relations Development Department • Members: 15. Annex Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries COPEL GERAÇÃO E COPEL DISTRIBUIÇÃO S.A. COPEL TELECOMUNICAÇÕES S.A. COPEL RENOVÁVEIS S.A. COPEL COMERCIALIZAÇÃO S.A. TRANSMISSÃO S.A. 02 PERFIL Governance Composition of the Board of Directors and its supporting committees d. Cannot be spouses or direct family members, in-laws or in affinity, up to G4-38, G4-39 a second degree to the person qualified under item “a” above; • CEO (government independent): Fernando Xavier Ferreira e. Cannot be members of the Board of Directors in a situation of conflict of • Executive Secretary (government): Luiz Fernando Leone Vianna About the interest, or potential conflict of interest, which affects their independence. • Advisor (government independent): Mauro Ricardo Machado Costa Report • Advisor (government independent): José Richa Filho Relevant The Board of Directors holds four planned meetings besides the extraordinary Aspects • Advisor (BNDES independent): Henrique Amarante Costa Pinto meetings (an average of eight meetings per year). G4-47 Message from • Advisor (BNDES independent): Maurício Borges Lemos the CEO • Advisor (government independent): Carlos Homero Giacomini The résumés of the members of the Board of Directors and of the Audit Sector Committee are available on the Governance Map. Context • Advisor (minority independent): Marlos Gaio • Advisor (elected by employees): Hélio Marques da Silva Profile 19 About Copel • IPO in 1994 at BM&FBOVESPA, and currently its shares are listed Audit Committee Governance in Level I in Corporate Governance, which indicates adoption of • President: Carlos Homero Giacomini Sustainability Management practices that favor transparency and access to information by • Member: José Richa Filho investors. G4-7 Performance in Capitals • Member: Mauro Ricardo Machado Costa Human Capital • In 1997, it was the first Company in the Brazilian electric sector Copel’s Board of Directors is composed of seven independent members as foreseen Intellectual to have its shares traded in the New York Stock .Exchange (NYSE) Capital in rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act. G4-40 and in 2002, in the Madrid stock exchange (Latibex). Social and Relationship These members: • In 2015, the Company remained listed in the Corporate Sustainability Capital Index (ISE). Natural Capital a. Must be independent technically, economically, and from shareholders Infrastructure (especially subordination) and from the Company (pursuant to the terms of the • In 2015, the Company also entered the Sustainability Index of Capital Independence Analysis of the members of the Board of Directors); Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI). Financial Capital Social Audit b. Cannot accept payment for consulting, advisory, or compensation fees by the Company; Remuneration and Self-Assessment GRI Content Index c. Cannot have, in the past 12 months, held executive director positions at the Assurance Copel’s Administrators and Fiscal Advisors have their remuneration defined Report Company, or in any of its subsidiaries, affiliates or related companies, technical during the General Assembly Meeting, which takes into account the Annex person in charge, directors, managers, supervisors, or any other member, with remuneration of the previous period and the corresponding monetary managerial position, of the team involved in the independent audit work for the restatement. In 2015, the global remuneration for the Executive Board, for Company or its subsidiaries, affiliates, or related companies, or shareholders the Board of Directors, and for the Fiscal Council totaled R$ 9.7 million. who, directly or indirectly, hold more than 10% of the Company’s voting share; G4-51, G4-52 02 PERFIL Governance Code of Conduct You The self-assessment for the Board of Directors, the Executive Board and the Audit Committee is conducted Corporate risk management COE annually at the Company. The objective is to seek continuous improvement of each individual. Advisors About the and Directors answer any specific questionnaire for each department. Based on the analysis of the results, Report strengths and weaknesses are indicated and proposals are made for improvement. G4-43, G4-44 Relevant Reporting Ombudsman’s Office Channels Aspects Practices on Integrity Dialogue Message from the CEO Copel advocates for ethical conduct and transparent operations, establishing guidelines and principles Sector Legal that are reflected in its corporate policies. In this sense, in 2014 the Company adhered to the Initiative for Audit Department Context Governments Against Corruption, reassuring its commitment with transparency and fight against corruption, CADAM Profile 20 aiming to promote sustainability, ethical conduct and best corporate governance practices. About Copel Governance Aiming to expand the communication of Compliance concepts, the Copel Compliance Portal was created Sustainability Management In addition to communication and training, the operating and made available to internal and external audiences. The portal presents mechanisms adopted by the Performance in Capitals processes are submitted to annual assessment for risks Company to guide the transparency and ethical conduct in all its activities. G4-56 Human associated with errors or fraud that could interfere in the Capital Integrity practices are sponsored by the Company’s senior management and are in line with the public results of financial statements, and internal controls are Intellectual established and submitted to tests by the Internal Audit Capital commitment to fight corruption. Seeking to enforce the Compliance practices and intensify initiatives and the Independent Auditor, with the results being Social and geared toward risk management and internal controls, the Corporate Integrity Coordination was Relationship reported to senior management. G4-SO3 Capital created; a body hierarchically associated with the president’s office, and which is responsible for Natural Capital coordinating the implementation of the Corporate Integrity Program throughout the Company. The Company also adopts as a practice, issuance, by Infrastructure Fighting corruption process managers, of “Internal Control Certificates”, Capital Financial Capital which is a document that formalizes notifications of The Company repudiates corruption in all its forms, and offers guidance on how to fight it. Aiming to expand Social Audit noncompliance detected, committing to developing the communication of concepts and guidelines about fighting corruption, as well as the Company values, GRI Content Index action plans to regularize such noncompliance. Through which are included in the Code of Conduct, distance learning training courses started to be developed, Assurance the adoption of this portfolio of initiatives intended Report offering the opportunity of taking knowledge to all employees. In order to expand dissemination of to consolidate integrity practices and fight against Annex these concepts, in 2015, all employees were informed of the release of the Portal Copel Compliance. corruption, two cases of corruption were identified The portal presents the mechanisms adopted by the Company which are aimed at strengthening ethical which resulted in termination. G4-SO5 values, transparency and compliance with laws and regulations. Initially, 63 employees were trained in topics such as fraud investigations, compliance and anti-corruption legislation. G4-SO4 02 PERFIL Governance Confidential Communication Channel This channel is intended to receive reports and claims associated with noncompliance with standards and laws, especially those associated with fraud or irregularities involving Code of Business Conduct financial, audit, or accounting issues. The channel ensures protection, confidentiality of the G4-56, G4-57 About the person making the report and an answer to the claim. It is available 24 x 7 through a tollReport free number: 0800 643 5665. The Code of Conduct was developed taking into account Copel’s values, Relevant Ombudsman’s Office Aspects the principles of the Global Compact, and the principles of Corporate There are two channels open to all audiences, both internal and external, to receive Message from Governance. It is a guiding instrument for the acts of all those who perform suggestions, complaints and reports, which are available on business days, from 8 AM to 6 the CEO PM, via toll-free number. activities in the name of the Company, and establishes ethical parameters Sector Context for the conduct of employees, managers, members of the board, interns, The Ombudsman’s Office for Copel Distribuição is available through the phone number services providers, and contractors. The code defines a set of concepts that 0800 647 0606 and also through the e-mail ouvidoria@copel.com. Additionally, it is Profile 21 prepared to receive complaints personally or through mail sent to the address Rua About Copel address integrity, conformity, transparency, health and safety, social and Professor Brasilio Ovidio da Costa, 1703, district of Santa Quitéria, zip code: 80310-130, in Curitiba, PR. Governance environmental responsibility, respect, and relationship with the various Sustainability Management segments of the environment in which the Company operates. The Ombudsman’s Office for Copel Telecomunicações is available through the toll-free Performance in Capitals number 0800 649 3949 or the e-mail ouvidoriatelecom@copel.com, and is prepared to In 2015 the Code of Conduct was revised and submitted to an open receive complaints personally or via mail sent to the address Rua Emiliano Perneta, 756, Human district of Batel, zip code: 80420-080, in Curitiba, PR. Capital consultation process with internal audiences and society at large. After Intellectual consolidation of proposals for improvement, the code was approved by Committee to Analyze Complaints of Moral Harassment (CADAM) Capital the Executive Board and Board of Directors. Committee to address and support all employees victim of moral harassment in the Social and workplace. The information is confidential and both the person reporting and the person Relationship reported have the preservation of their identity guaranteed. E-mail: cadam@copel.com Capital Company employees receive a printed version of the Code of Conduct Natural Capital and acknowledge the commitments with its provisions. Contractors and Ethical Guidance Council (COE) COE evaluates and issues guidance in processes associated with ethical conduct Infrastructure suppliers are guided through the Supplier’s Manual and a specific clause in within the Company and has up to 90 days to provide a final solution. E-mail: conselho. Capital agreements. etica@copel.com Financial Capital Social Audit The Code of Conduct is available to all stakeholders at the Compliance Portal. GRI Content Index Channels of complaint Assurance In addition to these channels, Copel is open to receive requests for information, services, Report G4-57, G4-58 criticism or suggestions for improvement, guidance and grievances from its stakeholders Annex In order to gather opinions, criticism, complaints, claims, and personal through various Service Channels. consultation, Copel provides a communication channel, presented below, which, in addition to fighting fraud and corruption, expands the organization’s relationship with stakeholders. 02 PERFIL Governance Risk management G4-2 Copel’s Integrated Corporate Risk Management covers all corporate areas, its The Audit Committee is an advisory body to be Board of Directors, About the wholly-owned and controlled subsidiaries, jointly held affiliated companies, and that acts independently in a consulting and permanent manner, and is Report establishes the formation of a Corporate Risk Management Committee, which responsible for the revision and supervision of the process to present Relevant reports to the Audit Committee. accounting and financial reports; for the internal control processes and risk Aspects management; and for the activities of internal auditors and independent Message from The guidelines adopted are based on renowned structures and standards, such the CEO external auditors. The committee convenes ordinarily, at least six times as the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Sector throughout the year, according to a preestablished agenda; however it can Context (COSO) and ISO 31000, and whose purpose is to maximize economic, social convene extraordinarily. If necessary, the committee can meet with any Profile 22 and environmental value to stakeholders and ensure compliance with laws and members of the Executive Board, of the Independent Audit, the Internal About Copel regulations in force. Audit, or of the Fiscal Council. Governance Sustainability Management Given the intrinsic uncertainty to risks and the nature of the sector where the Performance in Capitals Company operates, the risk management model adopts parameters for appetite Human for risk, considers the likelihood of occurrence of events and the impacts on the Capital financial and operating areas, and to the image of the Company, and foresees tools Intellectual Capital for treatment and mitigation of such risks. The risk management adopted by the Social and Company considers legal, regulatory, social and environmental, and reputation Relationship aspects, among others, and serves as a base for decision-making processes and Capital operating activities, taking into account the following risk profiles: strategic, Natural Capital operational, disclosure, and compliance. G4-14 Infrastructure Capital Corporate Risk Management Committee Financial Capital G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-49 Social Audit GRI Content Index The Company has in place a Corporate Risk Management Committee, responsible Assurance for the development and monitoring of risk management policies and for advising Report the Audit Committee in order to ensure good management of resources and Annex protection and valuation of Company assets. This collegiate body has an annual agenda of ordinary meetings, and may convene extraordinarily whenever necessary. 02 PERFIL Sustainability Management business areas, aiming to align the understanding of sustainability as a form Sustainability Management to generate financial, reputational, and competitive value. Thus, Copel fine tuned its Materiality Matrix and adopted a new reporting format based on Committed to sustainable development, Copel, in addition to providing energy the structure of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). About the solutions to telecommunications for the entire population of the state of Paraná, Report promotes economic growth with social and environmental responsibility. Copel was chosen, in November 2015, to remain among the group of most Relevant Aspects sustainable companies in the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA), Learn about our Sustainability Policy. Message from in the 2015/2016 portfolio. Copel’s shares have integrated the Corporate the CEO Challenges in terms of sustainability are included in the Company’s strategic Sustainability Index (ISE), since it was created in 2005. We were present in Sector reference through its mission, vision, values, and strategic guidelines, in the 10 of the 11 editions of this index. Context sustainability policies and in corporate governance. Additionally, these challenges Profile 23 Also in 2015, the Company was included in the sustainability Index from About Copel cascade into the strategic objectives “Sustainably Maximize Company Value” and Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI), a global leader in the Governance “Improve Performance in Sustainability”. composition of financial indices that serve as reference for investors. Sustainability Management Copel’s Corporate Sustainability Coordination Office defines Company’s The MSCI ESG seal is awarded to companies that show excellent Performance in Capitals policies and guidelines. Its objetives include conducting corporate issues performance in the social, environmental and corporate governance Human Capital related to sustainability, continuous performance improvement, strategic areas. Copel obtained the highest score in 25 of the 28 indicators Intellectual communication with stakeholders and management of related topics and analyzed, which include, for example, control of carbon emissions and Capital indicators. This office reports to the Executive Board and to the Board of disclosure of administrative and financial management information. Social and Directors on strategic issues to corporate sustainability, in order to deliberate Relationship Capital Voluntary commitments and approve the relevant decisions. G4-35, G4-36, G4-45 G4-15, G4-16 Natural Capital Copel adopts the main market practices in order to: Infrastructure Throughout its history, Copel has assumed several voluntary commitments: Capital Financial Capital • Guide and assess its performance, as well as compare its practices with global Global Compact and national benchmarks: questionnaire from RobecoSAM (Dow Jones Sustainability Social Audit A signatory of the Global Compact of the United Nations since 2000, GRI Content Index Index DJSI), Ethos Indicators for Sustainable and Responsible Business Models, Copel supports the principles proposed by this initiative, based on three and the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE BM&FBOVESPA). Assurance main aspects: Report • Report its performance and engage its audiences: Global Reporting Initiative • Constant improvement in the management systems and corporate policies; Annex (GRI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and Global Greenhouse Gas Protocol • Support to the creation, implementation and improvement of public policies; (GHG). • Consolidation of partnerships with other companies, institutions or organizations in projects that may provide social and environmental gains. In 2015, Copel intensified its efforts to improve engagement of leadership and 02 PERFIL Sustainability Management Corporate Contribution for the Promotion of a Green and Inclusive Economy to raise awareness and involve employees in the promotion of equal rights, opportunities and recognition of everyone, with special attention to Copel assumed the commitment in 2012 at Rio+20. It is the public commitment of vulnerable groups subject to discrimination based on gender, race, color, companies signatory to the Global Compact with the adoption of initiatives toward a physical disability, sexual orientation, age, and religion. About the more inclusive economy, which contributes to facing major challenges in sustainability Report in Brazil and worldwide. Prevention of Moral and Sexual Harassment Relevant Aspects Statement of Cultural Action for Governments in the Fight Against Corruption Copel recognizes health and safety at the workplace as a fundamental Message from human right, valuing life and respecting physical and moral integrity of the CEO Copel adhered to the statement in 2014, reaffirming its commitment to transparency people, seeking to create a gratifying and conducive work environment to Sector and the fight against corruption, expressing its support to the Post-2015 Context generate productivity. Development Agenda, in an effort to promote sustainability, ethical conduct, and Profile 24 best practices in corporate governance. Respect for Free Association and the Right to Collective Bargaining About Copel Governance Corporate Pact for Integrity and Fight against Corruption Copel guarantees the principles of freedom of association, for individuals and Sustainability Management collectively, pursuant to article 8 of the 1988 Constitution, and Convention No. The Company became a signatory in 2015. Its principles are based on the Charter Performance in Capitals 87, of the International Labor Organization ILO. of Principles of Social Responsibility, on the United Nations Convention against Human Corruption, on the 10th principle of the Global Compact, and on the OCDE Capital Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) guidelines. Intellectual Capital Copel Corporate University (UniCopel) became, in 2014, the first of its kind in Social and Eradication of Child Labor, Forced or Bonded Labor Brazil to adhere to the PRME, a program by the United Nations that promotes Relationship training of leaders toward responsible management of businesses. Capital In alignment with the principles of the Global Compact and the Objectives for Natural Capital Sustainable Development ODS, Copel commits to implementing tools to bar Agenda for Climate Change Infrastructure hiring products and services from suppliers who use child, forced or compulsory Capital Aware of the effects that climate change can have on power generation, labor in its value chain. Financial Capital transmission and distribution, Copel created, in 2011, a Climate Change Social Audit Sexual Exploitation of Children and Adolescents agenda in order to establish commitments and guidelines to be adopted in GRI Content Index the Company’s planning and operations in order to contribute to sustainable The Company promotes actions to raise awareness among employees, suppliers, Assurance development. Report and clients against the sexual exploitation of children and further disseminates this Annex commitment in its Supplier Manual and through specific clauses in its agreements. Learn more about the commitments assumed on the Sustainability page – Voluntary Commitments. Fight against Discrimination and Valuation of Diversity The Company created the Permanent Committee on Diversity, whose goals are 03 Desempenho em Capitais About the Report Relevant Aspects Message from the CEO Sector Context Profile About Copel Governance Sustainability Management Performance in Capitals Human 25 Capital Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital Infrastructure Capital Financial Capital Social Audit GRI Content Index Assurance Report Annex 03 Desempenho em Capitais About the Report Relevant Aspects Message from the CEO Sector Context Profile About Copel Governance Sustainability Management Performance in Capitals 26 Performance in Capitals Human Capital Intellectual Capital Under capitals, we present our capability of generating value for Social and stakeholders in the short-, medium-, and long-term. Relationship Capital Natural Capital “Capitals are stocks of value that increased, decreased or transformed through the Infrastructure activities and outputs of the organization. For example, an organization’s financial Capital capital is increased when it makes a profit, and the quality of its human capitalFinancial is Capital improved when employees become better trained.” Social Audit GRI Content Index IIRC Framework Assurance Report Annex 03 HUMAN Desempenho em Capitais CAPITAL Important information about personnel and their Human Capital performance Copel’s Staff Copel’s employees represent one of the Company’s success variables. It is the employees who G4-9, G4-10 ensure that corporate objectives are fulfilled. The main objectives and focus of Human Capital About the management are geared toward professional development and training in line with business Report priorities, improving management practices of knowledge, culture, and health and safety. Relevant 78% 22% Aspects Management of human Capital Message from the CEO A critical part of the Company’s strategy and its sustainable development, Copel’s employees are Sector Context 6,719 men 1,909 women formed by 8,628 direct employees, whose profile is detailed in the G4-10 indicator in the Content Profile 8,628 employees More than half (51%) are Index. Additionally, another 6,457 contractors provide services to the Company in activities such people under the age of 30. About Copel New hires in 2015 as: client services, construction of transmission lines, networks and substations, connections, G4-LA1 Employee turnover rate is Governance 2.42%. disconnections and re-connections, reading of meters in low tension, maintenance of electric Sustainability Management system, green areas and buildings, private security, and maintenance, among others. G4-9 64% 36% Performance in Capitals The Company’s relationship with these professionals is based on respect for the Consolidation Human 27 Capital of Labor Laws (CLT), in the fundamental conventions set forth by the International Labor Intellectual Capital Organization (ILO), and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And the behavior expected Social and 144 men 81 women by the Company from this audience is defined through the Code of Conduct, and the Manual Relationship 225 employees for Copel Personnel. Capital Natural Capital 1,290 (15%) employees will be eligible for retirement within the Copel’s Career and Salary Plan was adjusted in 2015, after approval from the Executive Board and Infrastructure Capital next five years. Of these, 153 are managers. In the next 10 years, from the committee for Public Companies and Remuneration Policy, an entity created in January Financial Capital 2,222 employees will be eligible for retirement. G4-EU15 2015 by the government of the state of Paraná. The purpose of the adjustment was to align salary Social Audit standards to the market, aiming to provide all Copel employees with opportunities to advance in GRI Content Index their careers. The Plan initially prioritizes horizontal movements, based on individual merits, and 100% of the employees are covered by collective bargaining Assurance subsequently vertical movements, pursuant to standard and transparent criteria. agreements. G4-11 Report Annex The new Repositioning Program was developed in 2015, and announced in March 2016. The program was created to value and promote human capital within the Company, as well as to In 2015, Copel invested R$ 8.79 million in training and development, provide equal opportunities to employees, and transparency in the people movement process. that is 39% more than in 2014. G4-EC1 G4-DMA-EU14 03 HUMAN Desempenho CAPITALem Capitais In terms of the new actions for people management, the focus at Copel is to achieve satisfaction, appreciation, and quality of life for employees through the assessment and implementation of projects Chat with such as: home office, family day, recovery of the pre-retirement program, and especially, preparation About the Report and development of leaders and ample communication of these actions among employees. Additionally, Relevant another point is the improvement of internal processes for the Company to manage its resources in a Aspects more optimized and effective manner. These initiatives seek to align people with the quest for results Message from in order to ensure Copel’s continuity and sustainability. the CEO Sector Benefits Context A commitment assumed by the president upon taking G4-EC1 Profile office, people management is a priority at Copel’s About Copel strategic plan. For CEO Luiz Fernando Leone Vianna, it is Copel offers a package of benefits in addition to those required by law, and in-line with those of the Governance important to appreciate those who build the Company best companies. Benefits are rights of all employees, regardless of work hours. In 2015, to show to Sustainability Management on a daily basis. employee staff the set of financial and nonfinancial benefits and remuneration, the Company launched Performance in Capitals the Balanço de Benefícios da Copel – BBC (Balance of Copel’s Benefits), which presents the annual This appreciation involves the consolidation of the Human 28 amounts received by employees. [More information in the indicator G4-LA2 in the Content Index]. Capital career and salary plan, the Programa Nossa Energia Intellectual (Our Energy Program), and the investment of a crucial Professional development Capital aspect for Copel’s evolution: management of different Social and Relationship Training and retention of employees in critical positions, if not prioritized by management, can become Capital generations of employees. Pursuant to this guideline, a risk factor for sustainability in the medium-term. In order to mitigate this risk, Copel invests in training Natural Capital the Anima Program was created in order to implement and development of its employees, so as to always rely on qualified and experienced professionals, Infrastructure actions geared toward appreciation of the Company’s Capital allowing everyone to achieve their potential in an environment that is conducive to advancement in Human Capital. Financial Capital their career and abilities. G4-DMA-EU14 Social Audit Also the listening process was improved through the GRI Content Index creation of the “Bate-Papo com o Vianna” (Chat with Assurance Vianna), a channel to establish a one-on-one dialogue Report between the CEO and employees. The idea is to have a Annex candid, open conversation about any topics raised by participants (suggestions, questions and concerns). 03 HUMAN DesempenhoCAPITALem Capitais Copel has a Performance Management Program, called Nossa Energia, which is Copel constantly trains its staff, prioritizing those activities that require formed by two pillars: Organizational Competency and Results. This program specific and specialized abilities. These initiatives vary between basic supports functional promotions, meritocracy, functional suitability, conferences, training, intended for certain positions, to graduate courses at specialization training, scholarship for graduate courses, foreign languages, among others. and doctorate levels. About the Report Initiated in 2013, the program evolved according to Copel’s Management Performance. These initiatives are organized into corporate programs (education Relevant Aspects The idea is that, at each cycle, the program provides lessons learned and improvements initiatives for the entire Company), basic training (intended for basic Message from to ensure greater adherence to the Company’s culture and status. In 2015, approximately training for the performance of functions), mandatory training (courses the CEO 99% of the employees received their performance assessment. G4-LA11 geared toward certain activities), national and international short-term Sector Context Training and capacity building professional enhancement training courses that provide opportunity for G4-LA10, G4-DMA-EU14 Profile participation in events (seminars, lectures, workshops, congresses, etc.), About Copel concerning aspects associated with the business, allowing for sharing Copel has a Corporate University (UniCopel) and training departments in its main Governance of experiences, and the communication of studies and research. wholly-owned subsidiaries, which are responsible for training of the Company’s Sustainability Management entire workforce. In 2015, R$ 8.79 million were invested in training and personal Performance in Capitals The basic training courses are geared toward preparing an employee for a development. In all, a total of 2,021 training events were held, with 24,298 new activity, covering both new and veteran employees, differentiated Human 29 Capital participants, totaling 328,196 hours of training, representing an average of 38 hours based on the employee’s career. Among these basic training courses, we Intellectual of training per employee. G4-LA9 Capital highlight FBED Distribution Electricians Training Program. In this course, a Social and Ever since the Company adhered to the Principles of Responsible Management recently hired employee receives the initial training necessary to adequately Relationship perform the job: “Operate as an electrician in Copel’s distribution network”. Capital Education PRME in 2014, UniCopel has developed educational actions based on the This course has a total class time of 200 hours. The course covers, among Natural Capital principles of this initiative. In 2015, Copel trained 62 members of senior management other topics, health and safety at work, basic concepts of electricity, Infrastructure through an education program conducted by one of the main consulting companies Capital in executive management and education in Brazil. theoretical and practical activities in construction, maintenance, and Financial Capital operation of distribution networks, in addition to the normative courses Social Audit Employees who form the Permanent Committee for the Integrated Corporate NR 10 Safety in Electrical Installations and Services , and NR 35 Working GRI Content Index Planning and Corporate Performance Management, as well as all Human Resources in Heights. Assurance managers at Copel, also participated, establishing a commitment to continuously Report seek improvements in personnel management. Other Company managers took Copel has in place the program “Education Allowance”, which reimburses Annex an in-company short-duration course geared toward the development and the employee the equivalent to 70% of tuition for graduation and postimprovement of competencies. 03 Desempenho HUMAN CAPITAL em Capitais graduation courses, up to a cap of R$ 770.00. The program aims to contribute with growth and development of employees, promoting self-development as a form of Talent Pool improving Copel’s performance. In 2015, the program benefited 1,009 employees, reimbursing a total of R$ 3.8 million. Copel Distribuição has in place a program called Talent Pool. This program About the Report contributes to enssure availability of specialized labor by identifying and Relevant Copel fully pays postgraduate courses, for both lato sensu and stricto sensu, developing employees with potential to eventually hold leadership positions. Aspects through internal processes. This credit can be renewed after a grace period, In 2015, a total of 336 potential leaders were identified, and may assume job Message from provided the second postgraduate course is in the interest of the Company. In positions at different levels in the Company. the CEO 2015, a total of 32 employees were taking postgraduate courses funded by the Sector Context Company. Individual Development Plan Profile About Copel Copel also has a Foreign Language Program, extended to employees who need The way that Copel Telecomunicações found to prepare its professionals for the Governance another language in order to perform their duties. Within this program, the Company challenges of its business was the identification of the necessary competencies Sustainability Management reimburses part of the cost of the course in consideration to the employee achieving for the role, within its processes, and establish individual performance goals Performance in Capitals performance and learning goals. based on these competencies. The Individual Development Plan is a tool to Human 30 help managers develop the strategic plan and corresponding management Capital Copel offers a Pre-Retirement Program (PPA – Programa Pré-Aposentadoria), which commitments, in addition to contributing to the development of professionals Intellectual Capital includes lectures and activities for employees eligible to retire and their partners, by offering a comprehensive vision of their training needs. Social and aiming to guide them on this new stage of life. In the last years, PPA’s events Relationship covered topics such as Behavior, Quality of Life, Physical and Mental Health, Social Capital INOV+GeT Security and Financial Planning. In addition, employees had the opportunity to Natural Capital participate in workshops sponsored by the Copel Foundation of Social Security on Infrastructure Another form of enssuring specialization of professionals is through Capital pension plans and received retirement planning advices. dissemination and sharing of experiences, and to this end, Copel Geração e Financial Capital Transmissão promotes sharing of knowledge among its various departments Social Audit In 2015 Copel, in partnership with Copel Foundation, initiated the redesign of the through technical meetings. And, launched in 2015, the INOV+GeT sought to GRI Content Index Pre-Retirement Program so that in 2016 the program be extended to all employees, disseminate proposals for new ideas aiming to improve processes at Copel Assurance starting from the integration phase until retirement. Report Geração e Transmissão. Annex 03 HUMAN Desempenho CAPITALem Capitais Health and Safety in question. Control of the minimum mandatory training for working with electricity is conducted with a proprietary application that contains information about employees of contractors and of Since it develops activities associated with risk factors, the agreements. Copel relies on an Occupational Safety Policy. The area About the of Occupational Health and Safety Management (HSE) at Preserving Life Program (PPV): establishes field inspection of the technical and safety procedures Report Copel is responsible for the identification of these risks and during the execution of activities, pursuant standards of the HSE area, where a technician from the Relevant Aspects definition of preventive actions allowing for tasks to be occupational safety area, or from departments monitors the teams and issues reports with scores for Message from completed safely. faults encountered. In 2015, a total of 6,025 inspections were conducted in the fields involving own the CEO employees and 6,392 contractors, totaling 12,417. Sector The Company also has a specific manual for contractors, Context included in every services agreement, and conducts At Copel Distribuição, compliance with legal requirements by contractors is monitored through the Profile onboarding lectures for every new agreement, in order to PPV. Given the high employee turnover rate at contractors, and the characteristics of the agreements, About Copel complement this effort. More details on G4-EU18 indicator are there is no specific manner to determine the percentage of contractors trained; however, the Governance available in the Content Index. Company adopts as a rule to provide onboarding training on safety to all contractors. Sustainability Management National Week for Safety with Electricity Performance in Capitals Capacity-building and training: programs such as Human 31 Training of Field Inspectors, and Training for the Use of For a whole week, Copel volunteers conduct a series of visits (households, work sites, cooperatives, schools, Capital Preliminary Risk Assessment, are offered to employees. among others) throughout Paraná, offering guidance to the population about the safe use of electricity. Under Intellectual Capital These courses aim to establish active prevention in the coordination of the Brazilian Association of Electricity Distributors (ABRADEE), the campaign promotes Social and order to identify and block occupational diseases and lectures, distributes information and guidance material to prevent accidents with electrical shock in Brazil, Relationship Capital accidents. operating in six main fronts: civil construction, rural areas, trimming of trees, theft of electricity, installation of Natural Capital antennas, and care with kites. Promotion of health: Copel has in place an occupational Infrastructure Capital health service that offers employees, through the Copel Performance of the business segments in terms of Health and Safety G4-LA6 Financial Capital Foundation, a health plan to conduct diagnostic exams Social Audit 2014 2015 for diseases that can affect capacity and productivity at Health and Safety Category DIS GeT CTE DIS GeT CTE HOL REN PAR GRI Content Index work. Employees 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 Fatalities Assurance Contractors 5 1 NA 4 2 0 0 0 0 Report Training and integration: all field activities are Absenteeism rate Employees 2.74 1.44 1.41 2.48 1.36 1.65 NA NA NA Annex Employees 7.35 2.95 2.35 5.92 4.01 0 0 13.09 0 conducted by contractors who have participated in Lost Time Injury Rate Contractors 3.74 11.31 NA 5.59 15.41 2.26 0 0 0 the Occupational Health and Safety Integration, and Employees 587 32 927.05 185 2,468 0 0 13.09 0 Severity Index Contractors 3,603 4,560 NA 3,181 3,338 101.06 0 0 0 the exhibit about Risk Assessment for the activities NA = Not Available 03 Intellectual Desempenho emCapitalCapitais Intellectual Capital G4-DMA-EU8 Copel is recognized as one of the companies that invests most on new technologies In 2015 , Copel Telecom sponsored the Startup Weekend, one of major About the in the electric sector. In 2015, the Company created an area exclusively dedicated Report to this topic. The area of Innovation Coordination will manage the resources for technology and entrepreneurship events in the world. Known as the Relevant the Research and Development program from the National Electric Energy Agency craziest 54 hours in life of any entrepreneur, Startup Weekend brings Aspects (ANEEL), regulated by the agency, and that today totals more than R$ 120 million of together professionals who meet on a Friday night with ideas and end up Message from the CEO the Company in projects. Reporting directly to the president of the Company, the on Sunday with business models. This meeting has already taken place Sector new area will be in charge of promoting technological development and innovation in over 600 cities around the world, in more than 100 countries, and is run Context in all areas of the Company, generating new products, services, and processes, or locally by volunteers. Profile renewing them. About Copel Research & Development Governance Among the responsibilities of the innovation coordination are the reformulation of G4-DMA-EU8 Sustainability Management policies and strategies for new technological developments; governance of research, Performance in Capitals Through its R&D program, Copel promotes the engagement of the scientific development and innovation; management of the innovative project portfolio; community and interaction with research institutions. In 2015, Copel invested Human 32 Capital establishment of new technological partnerships; management of multidisciplinary R$ 28.6 million, approximately 12 million more than in 2014. Intellectual human resources; open innovation and generation of new innovating businesses. Capital The R&D projects conducted by the Company provide opportunities for Social and Relationship Starting in 2016, the Company will add an R$ 19 million per year to the portfolio in order to researchers to improve their professional and academic training, and Capital leverage new investments and partnerships to conduct the projects. institutions to advance their technology through laboratory facilities. Natural Capital The results seek the evolution of research and scientific knowledge on Infrastructure In order to leverage the preparation and Capital important aspects of the electrical sector, which ultimately reflect upon development of research, development, and Financial Capital social development, benefits, and improvement in the quality of life for innovation projects R&D+I, Copel authorized Social Audit society as a whole. the employees involved in these projects to work GRI Content Index overtime up to a limit of 20 hours per month, Assurance respecting the limits of total hours foreseen in Report the project and according to norms defined by Annex the National Electric Energy Agency (ANEEL). 03 Intellectual Desempenho emCapital Capitais Investments in R&D Website and presence on social networks Resources invested in technological and scientific research and development R&D (in R$) We have diversified our channels, expanded our By topic of research DIS GeT presence, and today we are on social networks: About the EE Energy Efficiency 35,064.00 Report FA Alternative sources for power generation 450,131.02 1,409,433.20 YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Relevant MA Environment 709,133.79 1,796,429.74 Instagram. We speak, listen, and above all, open a Aspects OP Operation of the Electric Power Systems 1,608,373.99 4,340,972.50 space where we can talk with our clients. More than MF Metering, billing, and fighting commercial losses 1,696,205.97 Message from PL Planning the Electric Power Systems 638,610.20 1,299,700.86 simply clients, conscious and informed citizens the CEO QC Quality and Reliability of Electric Power Services 333,970.59 about our products and how to make the best use of Sector SC Supervision, Control, and Protection of Electric Power Systems 4,573,375.29 2,281,212.63 Context SE Safety 1,920,721.90 2,587,047.83 it. From the series of inspirational videos “Atreva-se Profile OU Other 1,239,109.14 975,152.89 a Mudar seu Mundo” (Dare to Change Your World) Management Project 2014/2015 714,896.28 About Copel which tells a little of the life of our employees Total 13,550,557.58 15,058,984.24 Governance engaged in volunteer work, to the daily services, Sustainability Management Brand and business hours, on Twitter and Facebook, Performance in Capitals with 95% services in less than 20 minutes after Copel participates in the lives of 10 million people on a daily basis. At home, at work, contacting. We maintain two dedicated teams Human 33 Capital in schools, and on social networks. A company that evolved, understands, serves and that are alert to everything involving our brand, Intellectual Capital is present also on the Internet. We are not simply providers of two essential services our services, and our operation in the 10 states Social and such as energy and Internet connections, we turn our strategy on social networks into where we operate. Information and services are Relationship a link to take educational content to children, information about the efficient use of Capital also available through our website, which in 2015 energy, and tips about consumption and safety involving our product. Natural Capital recorded 33,772,650 visits to the home page. Infrastructure Capital The largest company in the state of Paraná The soundness of the brand on social networks Financial Capital monitored via a SCUP tool gives us the reach of Copel leads the ranking of the largest companies in the state of Paraná, according to the “500 Maiores Social Audit Copel’s presence: there are approximately 3,000 do Sul Grandes&Líderes”, published by the economics and business magazine Amanhã, in partnership GRI Content Index comments per month, of which 13.05% are negative, with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). The ranking is prepared based on an exclusive indicator created Assurance 12.51% are positive, and 74.43% are neutral. In Report by PwC and Amanhã, called Valor Ponderado de Grandeza (VPG) (Weighted Size Value), which assigns the overall assessment, the brand has an 87% Annex weights to financial statement information about net equity (50%), net revenue (40%) and profit or loss positivity. (10%). In the ranking of the Southern region, Copel is the fourth largest company, and ranks first in the energy sector. In all, the state of Paraná has 182 companies among the 500 largest companies in Brazil’s southern region. 03 Social Desempenho and Relationship em Capitais Capital Social and Relationship Capital Our Suplliers G4-12 The continuous success of Copel’s business model depends on various audiences Copel’s Suppliers with which the Company interacts shareholders, clients and consumers, suppliers, • generators and marketers of About the electricity government, and communities. Our competitive advantage stems from the quality Report Companies that make projects, • suppliers of materials and Relevant of the relationship and reputation built with these audiences. provide consulting services equipment Aspects and work in power plant and Copel Distribuição’s client profile transmission line projects. Message from • services providers G4-EU3 the CEO Government Sector Context 1% Public Lighting Profile Public Service About Copel Own Consumption Governance 0% Consumer Sustainability Management Generation Transmission Distribution 80% 9% 8% 2% 1% Performance in Capitals + 4,4 million clients Human 34 Capital Supply energy to clients Intellectual Capital The Best Distributor in Latin Suppliers of fiber 3% 3% optic network 4% America and Caribbean (Silver Social and 27% equipment and Relationship category) CIER Award Telecom 9% materials. Capital The Best Distributor of Brazil Natural Capital according to its clients Abradee Infrastructure Award in the “Customer Evaluation” Capital 2% Breakdown of expenditures with Copel’s suppliers Financial Capital G4-EC9 Social Audit Client satisfaction level obtained 29% GRI Content Index 23% through ABRADEE ISQP survey G4-PR5 Expenditure with Expenditure with Local Operation % Suppliers Suppliers Assurance • Residential Group B: 88.6% Distribution 1,486,519,377.86 820,129,012.96 55% Report Residential Government • Non Residential Group B: 86.5% Generation and Transmission 4,020,519,256.40 3,104,319,514.03 77% Industrial Public Lighting • Large Clients (Group A) 78.6% Holding 41,345,832.15 33,907,389.15 82% Annex Commercial Public Service Telecommunications 158,098,571.23 84,128,056.18 53% Rural Own Consumption Total 5,706,483,037.64 4,042,483,972.32 71% Copel is ISQP benchmark in 2015 03 Social Desempenho and Relationship em Capitais Capital Relationships with Clients and Consumers Focusing on the high levels of satisfaction, Copel’s main G4-PR5 actions referred to network maintenance to ensure the Copel’s relationship with its clients in all segments is grounded on the search for excellence in services. quality and continuity of supply, investments to develop new relationship channels, in addition to improvement in About the The Company monitors the Satisfaction Survey from ANEEL and also conducts its own survey, hired Report the existing channels, both through training of attendants through the Brazilian Association of Electric Power Distributors (ABRADEE). These surveys allow for a Relevant and in the required technological evolution of each of the Aspects comparative study with other distributors and are conducted with three client groups: Group B of urban relationship channels. Message from residential clients, Group B of industrial and commercial clients (trade and services), and Group A. the CEO Throughout 2015, new service solutions were implemented: Sector Context Surveys conducted by ABRADEE generate the ISPQ, a Brazilian acronym for Satisfaction Index for • Copel com Você: personal service in small cities in Profile Perceived Quality. The results cover five aspects: Supply of energy, information and communication, energy bill, client services, and Company image. partnership with local trade establishments. About Copel Governance • Creation of ISO Comercial: ISO certification for the Copel also conducts a satisfaction survey with its rural clients, since they are not included in any of the commercial process involving more than 3,400 people Sustainability Management aforementioned scopes. throughout the state of Paraná. Performance in Capitals Human 35 • Portal Imobiliário: exclusive service channel for real Capital estate agencies. Intellectual Capital G4-PR5 • Copel Mobile: inclusion of new functionalities and Social and LEVEL OF SATISFACTION ASSESSMENT OF COPEL DISTRIBUIÇÃO Relationship service channel for smartphones and tablets. Capital 2013 2014 2015 Natural Capital Measured by ABRADEE, this index Low tension residential 89.4 89.3 88.6 • Duplicate of the bill at the branches: implementation measures electric power distribution Infrastructure ISQP – Satisfaction Index companies in the perception of consumers in five aspects: Supply of energy, Low tension nonresidential 88.6 85.6 86.5 of a password system exclusively to request a duplicate Capital for Perceived Quality information and communication, energy bill, client services, and Company image. High tension 87.6 86.3 78.6 of the bill, in order to reduce service time at branches Financial Capital Low tension residential 64.1 63.5 60.6 and service centers. Social Audit Measured by ABRADEE through the ISC – Consumer Satisfaction weighted results in the areas of quality Low tension nonresidential 66.5 69.0 63.1 GRI Content Index Index and price. • Training: focus on services with large numbers of High tension 66.7 58.6 * Assurance nonconformities in order to remediate the problems Report Measured based on a survey by ANEEL, conducted since 2000, of residential reported. Annex IASC – ANEEL Consumer consumers in order to evaluate the level of residential consumer satisfaction with the 61.97 75.24 60.26 Satisfaction Index services provided by electric power distributors. Not Not Rural Client Satisfaction Survey 77.89 conducted conducted *There was no sufficient data for ISC estimation for High Tension group. 03 Social Desempenho and Relationship em Capitais Capital Complaints The main differentiating factor between Copel Telecomunicações and competitors is that it is the only one on the market to offer services with 100% The distribution business follows two indicators for analysis: Equivalent Frequency optic fiber technology, the best technology available for the transmission of of Complaints (FER, in the Brazilian acronym), which maps the number of wellAbout the images, data and voice, with the least signal attenuation and interference, founded complaints for each 1,000 consumer units, and the Equivalent Duration Report ensuring a service with greater availability, quality and speed in transmission. of Complaints (DER), which establishes an average response time for well-founde Relevant Aspects complaints in hours. G4-SO11 The level of client satisfaction with the services received at the call center Message from was 96.2% in 2014, and 90.19% in 2015. G4-PR5 the CEO Complaints received FER DER Sector 2013 14,163 10.33 273.02 Acess to Energy Context G4-EC8, G4-EU23 2014 11,077 7.64 120.82 Profile 2015 17,592* 7.21 126.89 About Copel Energy rates represent a direct impact upon the economy for consumers, Governance regardless of the rate category. Differentiated rates for certain class of *In 2015, a total of 17,592 complaints and grievances were handled, in addition to 243 grievances recorded in 2014. Sustainability Management consumers yield direct and indirect positive financial impact. Performance in Capitals In this business area, the quality of the service channels and the standardization Copel, in line with public policies, in performing its social role in partnership Human 36 of procedures associated with receiving and handling complaints, certified by ISO Capital with the federal, state, and municipal governments and associated Intellectual 9000, are also monitored. Capital agencies, promotes various integrated programs to make energy available Social and to everyone. Relationship Another initiative is the annual survey of Satisfaction of Complaining Client, which Capital measures the ease of contact, the clarity of the information provided, the friendly The Social Rate for Electricity (TSEE) offers discounts for electricity Natural Capital attitude of the service, the observance of the schedule to respond, and the meeting consumption of up to a limit of 220 kWh to families registered in the Federal Infrastructure of expectations in terms of the response to the complaint. Capital Government’s Social Program Registry, provided other provisions set forth Financial Capital in ANEEL Resolution 414/2010 are met, thereby resulting in savings for Compensation for consumers Social Audit consumers. GRI Content Index In case of disturbances in the electric system that caused damage to equipment, assets, Assurance products, animals and people, Copel ensurers consumers their right to compensation. Pursuant to a request from ANEEL, at the end of 2015, Copel, as well as Report With preestablished procedures and deadlines, a consumer records his/her request the other energy utilities throughout the country, reregistered consumers Annex and receives compensation for their goods when failure in the electric supply system benefiting from TSEE. There are a total of 406,000 consumer units is confirmed. This is a way of ensuring to clients the quality of the energy supplied, the associated with the TSEE and, after validation, 242,000 units remain with safety and reliability of the services offered by the Company. the regularized benefit. 03 Social Desempenho and Relationship em Capitais Capital were held, 50,000 energy diagnostics, replacement of 150,000 incandescent The Fraternal Light Program (Programa Luz Fraterna), of the state of Paraná pays lightbulbs for more efficient ones (florescent and LED), replacement of the bills for consumers registered at the TSEE, provided that consumption does 12,000 refrigerators for the ones with the Procel energy savings seal, and not exceed 120 kWh in an initiative that represents a positive financial impact 10,000 conventional electric showerheads for showers that use a heat About the Report for low-income consumers, who are exempt from expenses for electricity. In 2015, recovery system. These actions seek to engage the community in the area Relevant the state government paid a total of nearly R$ 36.6 million, benefiting an average of concession with actions to conserve natural resources, especially energy. Aspects 136,000 families per month. Message from Copel Distribuição also conducts annual public calls for energy efficiency the CEO The Nighttime Irrigation Rate Program and the Nighttime Rural Rate Program projects, where consumers can present proposals for energy efficiency Sector Context promote the increase in agricultural productivity through a discount of 60% projects to be financed with resources from PEE. Consumers from the Profile to 70% in the energy rate used for production, in the period between 9:30 PM industrial, residential (condos), trade and services, public authorities, or About Copel and 6 AM. Lower amounts on the energy bill directly reflect upon a reduction in rural, public services, and public lighting sectors can participate. In 2015, Governance production costs allowing for an increase in income of rural producers. In 2015, R$ 12 million were allocated, and 11 proposals were approved, totaling R$ Sustainability Management approximately 4,100 farmers benefited from the Nighttime Irrigation Rate and 11.97 million. Performance in Capitals 9,794 rural consumers benefited from the Nighttime Rural Rate Program. Also in 2015, the first edition of the “Copel Lar Eficiente” (“Copel Efficient Human 37 Capital Eficient use of energy Home”) project was held to benefit residential consumers. Through this Intellectual G4-DMA-EU7 Capital project, held in partnership with Lojas Colombo, winner of the bidding Social and process, a 45% bonus was granted for the replacement of old appliances Relationship The Energy Efficiency Program (PEE) promotes efficient use of energy through the (refrigerators or freezers), for more efficient ones. Capital application of financial resources set forth through Law No. 9,991/2000, and ANEEL Natural Capital Normative Resolution No. 556/2013. Through the PEE, Copel Distribuição carries Additionally, 18,000 efficient lightbulb kits were made available at a cost of Infrastructure out the project “Copel in the Community”, which aims to develop initiatives for Capital R$ 1.00 each. Each kit contains five light bulbs (four fluorescent lightbulbs low-income consumers who benefit from the Social Rate for Electric Power (TSEE). Financial Capital and one LED lightbulb), to replace the same number of incandescent bulbs. This project includes lectures about safe and efficient consumption of electricity, Social Audit energy diagnostics, and replacement of incandescent lightbulbs for more efficient GRI Content Index ones, to all beneficiaries. Assurance Report Energy Efficiency 2015 2014 2013 Annex Energy Saved (MWh/yr) 34,464.92 10,476.88 30,618.57 Based on the results of the energy diagnostics, a selection of consumers is made Peak Demand Reduction (kW) 15,714.41 3,112.76 14,064.10 to replace refrigerators and showerheads for more efficient equipment. At the end of the most recent edition of the project (Copel in the Community 4), 500 lectures 03 Social Desempenho and Relationship em Capitais Capital Suppliers Management From a corporate sustainability standpoint, best practices among companies depend works and services. Noncompliance generates suspension of the agreement on the adoption of social and environmental criteria in procurement, as well as an and inability to participate in new bidding processes for the Company for a About the effective work to develop suppliers, especially small and midsized suppliers. period of two years. Report Relevant Critical suppliers Aspects Copel has maintained, since 2005, a permanent working group to technically support Message from the implementation of strategies and initiatives that allow for improvement in the Copel considers suppliers to be critical when their supplies represent a the CEO supply-chain management. significant risk for the business in terms of the following aspects: legal, Sector Context financial, environmental, occupational health and safety, safety of the Profile This alignment can be perceived from the selection of suppliers, monitoring and population, image of the Company, perception by client and society, and of About Copel renewal of contracts, and requires that all members of the supply chain respect the processes involved. Governance human rights, the environment and fair labor relations, and promote corporate ethics Sustainability Management and transparency. The methodology adopted by Copel to identify these services focuses on Performance in Capitals the assessment of the three sustainability pillars: economic, environmental, Qualification and selection and social. Each of these dimensions, as well as the scope, receives a score Human 38 Capital G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-HR1, G4-HR10 referring to the likelihood and severity of the occurrence. Intellectual Capital As a quasi-public Corporation, Copel is subject to Law No. 8,666/93 and Paraná Social and In 2015, contract and fiscal managers were trained on the topic of Relationship State Law No. 15,608/2007, which restrict selection actions. Nevertheless, the Capital Management for Sustainability in the Supply Chain, empowering them Company adopts as its main criteria in selecting suppliers the compliance with Natural Capital for the process to evaluate and monitor suppliers. labor, human rights, fiscal, and environmental legislation. The criteria is defined Infrastructure Capital in the call for bid, contract provisions, supplier registration manuals, technical The goal to map Critical Suppliers for Copel Geração and Copel Financial Capital standards and manuals permanently available online to interested parties. Telecomunicações in 2015 was not totally reached, since the need to review Social Audit the methodology and to make relevant adjustments for these businesses Hiring and monitoring GRI Content Index was noted. Based on the revised methodology, the goal to identify the G4-EN33, G4-LA15, G4-HR11, G4-SO9, G4-SO10 Assurance group of critical suppliers is expected for 2016 for the Generation, Report Issues related to social and environmental aspects, human and labor rights, are Telecommunications, and Holding businesses. Given the change in Annex addressed by Copel during the onboarding process, conducted with each new methodology, the group of suppliers of the Distribution unit will also be supplier, and covered through specific clauses in the purchase agreements for reassessed. 03 Social Desempenho and Relationship em Capitais Capital Training and engagement Relashionship with Communities In 2015, five meetings dedicated to Copel suppliers were held in order to The existence of a solid basic services infrastructure, such as energy and address sustainability in the supply chain. The aspects were chosen through telecommunications, leverages the social and economic development of the About the a formal survey with suppliers, resulting in the following events: regions. This infrastructure favors the appearance or expansion of industrial Report and business centers, and consequently expands the supply of jobs and taxes, Relevant Aspects • Management for sustainability indicators, assessment, and resulting in benefits and services for the population, thereby contributing to Message from monitoring of corporate sustainability aspects (ISE, ETHOS, GRI) – in improvement in satisfaction and strengthening the relationship of trust. the CEO Cascavel and Curitiba; Sector Management of impacts Context Profile • Appreciative dialogue “Structuring of COPEL’S Sympathetic Value Assessments of impacts upon communities are conducted in studies carried About Copel Network” and “Climate change and GHG accounting” – in Curitiba; out during the environmental licensing of each project. These impact Governance assessments are measured according to the characteristics of the location Sustainability Management • Sustainability platforms and incorporation of sustainability aspects and project. Through the implementation of environmental programs, Performance in Capitals into business strategies October 2, 2015 VI COPEL SEMINAR ON negative impacts are mitigated, and positive impacts are strengthened, SUSTAINABILITY: The Company and its role for a sustainable Human 39 jointly developed with the communities affected, municipal authorities and Capital world Curitiba, PR; local leaders. Intellectual Capital The Colíder hydroelectric plant, which is being installed in the state of Social and • Processes for assessment, selection and identification of risks in Relationship suppliers based on social and environmental criteria – in Curitiba; Mato Grosso, has a website for the community to access all reports produced Capital by these programs, containing information associated with the project, in Natural Capital • In addition to dedicated events, suppliers were invited to participate in addition to acting as an open communication channel with the community. Infrastructure Capital the Copel Seminar on Sustainability, promoted annually by the Company, G4-SO2 Financial Capital where suppliers are awarded for outstanding labor, environmental, and Social Audit Cases of displacement are evaluated through a Social and Environmental human rights practices through the Susie Pontarolli Award. GRI Content Index Registry. Whenever a situation of social vulnerability is identified, Copel Assurance provides a family resettlement process and social compensation for Learn more about the Sustainability Seminar on the Company’s website. Report damages for the installation of projects. Social Compensation consists Annex in enabling the affected family to be relocated to an area that is similar to or better than the previous area, and to recover the economic status they had prior to the development. Additionally, properties undergoing condemnation are compensated. G4-DMA-EU20 03 Social Desempenhoand Relationship em Capitais Capital Impact generated by new projects in 2015 LT 500 kV Araraquara Taubaté G4-EU22 Copel is currently working on the installation of a 356 km transmission line, Colíder compensation for 75 people, R$ 3,813,172.50 impacting 28 cities in the state of São Paulo. As a measure to mitigate social About the Hydroelectric and economic impacts, the Company conducts, among other measures, Report Plant / TL Physical displacement of 9 people Exclusive a Social Compensation Program that offers support for relocation and Relevant Assis Substation R$ 7.6 million in taxes generated for municipalities affected Aspects compensatory measures associated with the loss of economic activity Message from by the non-landowner population affected by the right of way of the TL. the CEO Governador Ney Braga Hydroelectric Plant Additionally, regular visits are carried out in the communities affected and Sector a transparent communication channel with the Company is established. Context In 2015, Copel initiated the monitoring process for the organization of associations Profile Four additional programs intended for local communities are ongoing. in the Resettlement Communities of Segredo I, II, III and IV. This work partially About Copel Distribution Networks addresses the conditions set forth for the renewal of the environmental license for Governance the GNB hydroelectric plant. The population resettled will be monitored through Sustainability Management The most significant social and environmental impact of the distribution this process by social and environmental analysts from different areas. Performance in Capitals network (low tension and 13.8 and 34.5 kV) are accidents with third parties, management of vegetation under the power lines, and interference with Human 40 The hydroelectric plants of Governador Ney Braga and Governador Bento Munhoz Capital the urban landscape. In order to mitigate these impacts, Copel adopts da Rocha Netto, also have visitation structures and communication of best social Intellectual alternative technologies for the networks, such as the protected compact Capital and environmental practices. Every year they receive thousands of visitors, such as network, standalone secondary network, standalone network, underground Social and the Regional Iguaçu Museum, and the Visitor Center of Faxinal Botanical Gardens, Relationship network, and the Urban Forests Program. Capital which are installed in the Residential Villages of the Plants. Natural Capital Wind Power Generation Transmission Lines Infrastructure Capital For construction of wind power generation projects, significant direct and Installation of transmission lines has impacts on the communities where Copel Financial Capital indirect negative impacts upon biodiversity are reduction in species of operates. Properties and residents are affected by loss of land and production, Social Audit flora, and risks of accidents with birds, which are mitigated through the established via right of ways, as well as the modifications in the natural landscape GRI Content Index implementation of environmental programs. of the location. Mitigation of impacts is achieved through a compensatory Assurance Report remuneration to landowners for their losses. Investments in local development Annex In 2015, Copel invested in infrastructure and services to generate benefits in the communities where it operates. These investments totaled R$ 5.9 million and are 03 Social Desempenho and Relationship em Capitais Capital listed on the specific indicator G4-EC7 of the GRI Content Index. Indigenous communities The initiatives for education on sustainability can be found in G4-HR8 the sustainability section of the Copel website, which also offers educational and informative material, such as primers, educational In order to arrive at the Indigenous communities located in the environmental conservation About the games, and several publications that address issues associated with Report units or other areas where the implementation of a power distribution network is not viable, efficient and safe use of electricity, issues on citizenship, human rights, Relevant Copel developed projects that involve new power connections, efficient use of electricity, Aspects and protection of the environment. installation of solar panels in villages located on the coast, and new power connections Message from for inland communities. In recent years, the Company has allocated more than R$ 6 million Other questions can be answered through the Fale Conosco (Talk to Us) the CEO for projects developed in 28 Indigenous areas in the state of Paraná. In 2015, a total of Sustainability, a direct channel established by Copel with the population Sector Context 669 Indigenous consumer units were registered under the Electric Power Social Rate Low of Paraná. Profile Income, and no cases of violation of the rights of Indigenous peoples were recorded. About Copel Social Investments through Fiscal Incentives Education for Sustainability G4-EC1, G4-EC7 Governance Sustainability Management The project called Iluminando Gerações (Illuminating Generations) aims to conduct Copel supports and participates in several initiatives with government Performance in Capitals iinformative and preventive lectures for fourth graders in public schools, geared agencies and other institutions, aiming to promote the sustainable Human 41 toward conscientious and safe use of electricity, use of natural resources (energy development of the regions where it operates. Selection of the initiatives Capital and water), and proper disposal of waste. In order to reinforce the information followed the companies strategic references, commitments assumed with Intellectual Capital provided during the lectures, kits were delivered to students, teachers and school the Global Compact, and the state of Paraná’s government policy. Social and staff, containing: 2 primers, one about care in using electricity and the use of Relationship Capital natural resources, and the other called “Desafio elétrico” (Electrical challenge). Copel’s investment in 2015, arising out of fiscal waiver, total R$ 16.1 million. Natural Capital The initiatives include the areas of education, culture, sports, and health. In 2015, the program Iluminando Gerações offered guidance on efficient and safe use Infrastructure Capital of energy, and on sustainability to more than 50,000 students in the state of Paraná. % Investment by area in 2015 Financial Capital Area of Investment Amount Copel Seminar on Sustainability Social Audit Culture Rouanet Law R$ 7.6 million 47% GRI Content Index In 2015, Copel held the sixth edition of the Copel Seminar on Sustainability. Assurance Education and social FIA R$ 1.8 million 23% Through lectures, workshops and a trade show, the Company gave visibility to best initiatives Elderly Act R$ 1.8 million Report sustainability practices in companies, industries, universities, and public agencies. Sports Incentive Act R$ 1.8 Annex Sports million 11% Held in the Oscar Niemeyer Museum, in Curitiba, the theme of the event was “The PRONON R$ 1.7 million Health 19% Company and Its Role in a Sustainable World”, with a focus on climate change, PRONAS/PCD R$ 1.4 million Sustainable Development Objectives (ODS), and ethics. 03 Social Desempenho and Relationship em Capitais Capital Other social initiatives The Iguaçu Regional Museum located on the banks of the largest river of Paraná, in the south-central region of the State, completed 15 years of Since July 1, 2015, clients who opt for receiving their bill via e-mail participate in careful work aimed at guarding and conserving the elements which help the Sympathetic Invoice Project. For each invoice sent by e-mail, Copel donates tell the history of the region. Maintained by Copel, the Museum is located About the Report R$ 1.00 to APAE institutions in the state of Paraná. next to HPP Governor Ney Braga. Its mission is to: Relevant Aspects Copel, through the project Cobrança de Valores de Terceiros CVT, collects • Educate for sustainability through the guard and enhancement of cultural Message from contributions via electricity bills, for participating philanthropic entities. The and environmental memory of Paraná; the CEO amounts to be included must have a written authorization from the client. Limits Sector Context for donations are a minimum of R$ 1.00 and maximum R$ 150.00. In 2015, a total • Raise awareness for the preservation of biodiversity and all forms of life; Profile of 186,000 donators collected a monthly average of R$ 1.5 million, distributed About Copel among 108 philanthropic institutions. • Inform and educate about the repopulation of the Iguaçu ichthyofauna and Governance care for the environment , responsible electricity generation and environmental Sustainability Management The project Projeto Mais que Energia (More Than Energy) was created in 2014 with commitment. Performance in Capitals the purpose of implementing, expanding, and consolidating social projects and investment programs for the community. In the first project, the funds originated Human 42 Capital from the Corporate Social Investment (ISE) line, of BNDES, totaling R$750,000 Intellectual In 2015, the Museum attended 12,719 visitors, providing guided scheduled Capital and support institutions and schools for the deaf and/or deaf and blind. For this and spontaneous visits, as well as visits and Museu Itinerante visits. Social and first project, three institutions were chosen. The project is under a bidding phase Relationship to procure the engineering projects. Capital Since its inauguration, in December 2000, it was responsible for educational Natural Capital The program Corporate Volunteering activities and monitoring of more than 300,000 people who learn about Infrastructure Capital EletriCidadania allows employees to use up Copel’s environment-related activities. Financial Capital to four hours per month of their work time to Social Audit carry out voluntary and spontaneous community GRI Content Index work, which goes beyond simple charity, taking Assurance sustainable development to society in all its Report aspects, whether cultural, educational, or Annex professional. In 2015, a total of 1,513 hours of volunteer work was done. 03 Natural Desempenho Capital em Capitais Natural Capital Additionally, the committee defines strategies to disseminate the Climate Change Agenda, and participates and contributes in debates related to Climate Change climate change in foreign entities. G4-EC2 About the Inventory of Greenhouse Gases Report Issues related to this topic and the impact upon Copel’s businesses are guided by Relevant the Climate Change Agenda. The Company’s senior management incorporated Since 2009, Copel has been preparing its inventory to quantify the emission of Aspects commitments in its planning of corporate activities and initiatives. To this end, greenhouse gases pursuant to the methodology set forth by the Brazilian GHG Message from a Corporate Climate Change Management Program was established, headed by a Protocol program. In 2015, emissions from Copel Holding and its wholly-owned the CEO management committee represented by employees from every department and subsidiaries were considered. The results can be seen in the table below. Sector Context subsidiary. G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN19 Profile About Copel The Climate Change Agenda aims to define Copel’s positioning on this topic, By type of gas (tCO2e) Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 CO2 227,380.32 448,062.03 879.57 Governance develop mechanisms that allow for the identification of opportunities and risks CH4 136.18 0.00 86.08 Sustainability Management associated with the businesses, in addition to promoting innovation in technology N2O 1,199.11 0.00 8.64 Performance in Capitals and processes to drive reduction in greenhouse gas GHG emissions. 43 HFCs 1,017.78 0.00 0.00 Human SF6 1,785.76 0.00 0.00 Capital The committee monitors those commitments approved by senior management, Total 231,519.15 448,062.03 974.29 Intellectual validates strategic documents related to climate change, assesses risks and Biogenic CO2 (t) 1,805.44 0.00 0.00 Capital opportunities, fosters initiatives that contribute to mitigation of greenhouse gases, Social and Relationship and drives actions to adjust its businesses to the climate change scenario. Scope 1 considered own sources of emissions from stationary and mobile Capital combustion, fugitive emissions, and industrial effluents. There was a 20% Natural Capital As a member of the Theme Group on Energy and Climate of the Brazilian Network, increase in emissions when compared with the previous year. This increase was Infrastructure from the Global Compact, Copel contributes to the production of the Compact Capital the result of the annual energy production at the Figueira Thermoelectric Plant journal: Clima (Climate), a publication intended for recent debates concerning the Financial Capital (in 2014, the plant reduced production because of a corrective maintenance challenges associated with climate change. operation). Additionally, other sources such as mobile combustion and waste Social Audit contributed, to a lesser portion, with increase in emissions. GRI Content Index The purpose of this material is to raise awareness and mobilize the private initiative Assurance Report to comply with the rules defined in the 21st climate conference (COP21) held in Paris Scope 2 considered emissions from consumption and loss of energy. There was Annex in December 2015. a reduction in emissions as a result of the grid emission factor, in other words, there was a reduction in consumption of energy from thermoelectric plants. Commitments approved by the Management Committee associated with climate change can be seen at Copel’s website. Scope 3 emissions considered only air travel. 03 Natural Desempenho Capital em Capitais The inventory was assured by an external entity and subsequently will be Modernization of the Figueira Thermoelectric Plant: The Company initiated the published in the public records of the Brazilian GHG Protocol program, modernization work in 2015, aiming to increase efficiency and reduce emission of gases and the climate change forum in the state of Paraná. and particulate matter resulting from the burning of coal. The plant has an installed capacity of 20 MW, and the modernization process should be completed by September About the Research and Development to Adjust Companies to Climate Change Report 2016, representing investments of R$ 55.6 million made up to December 31, 2015. and Carbon Market Relevant Eco-efficiency Aspects In 2015, Copel joined the Companies for the Climate (Empresas pelo Clima Message from the CEO EPC) platform, an initiative of the Center for Sustainability Studies (GVces) of Conscious consumption is part of Copel’s everyday Sector the Getúlio Vargas Foundation that promotes and debates practical solutions life. For this reason, the Eco-Efficiency Program was Context for environmental problems, seeks new management models and reduction created aiming to reduce consumption of natural Profile of GHG emissions, in addition to participation in the creation of new public resources, reduce costs and raise awareness among About Copel policies. In order to incorporate assessment concepts of the lifecycle in employees concerning the environment, and Governance businesses, the foundation initiated a pilot project in the Greenhouse Gas concerns with future generations. Sustainability Management Emissions category, in the construction of its wind farms, which will allow Performance in Capitals The working group, established since 2014, coordinates and monitors the activities for calculation of the carbon footprint during the construction and initial of this corporate program, working in the following aspects: water, energy, paper, Human 44 Capital operations of the wind farm. This project should be completed in 2016. mobility, and fuels. Intellectual Capital Aiming to adjust its businesses to the climate change scenario, Copel is In 2015, initiatives were carried out to reduce water and energy consumption in Social and developing a research project to evaluate the impact of climate change Relationship Copel’s largest administration buildings. Concerning water consumption, a 5% Capital upon high-voltage distribution lines located in the Northern region of the reduction was achieved compared with the baseline year of 2014. The goal for 2016 Natural Capital state of Paraná. The project uses as a reference the maximum estimated is to maintain a 5% reduction compared with 2015. In terms of energy consumption, Infrastructure temperatures up to the year 2040 to evaluate the effects upon the materials Capital the goal to reduce consumption by 10% was not reached. The goal was reviewed of the distribution line. The project will allow for a review of the technical Financial Capital in order to reduce by 10% energy consumption by 2019. To this end, investments in characteristics of the project, avoiding system overload and minimizing Social Audit energy efficiency are being planned. shutdowns. GRI Content Index Furthermore, throughout the year, several awareness campaigns were conducted Assurance Within the EPC platform, Copel works together with two other companies Report providing information to the workforce. For the coming years, the program will continue for this adjustment study, strengthening the low carbon economy, and Annex working to reduce consumption of inputs and natural resources. Specific actions are the Emissions Trading System, which simulates the GHG emissions model already planned to reduce consumption of paper and improve employee mobility. “cap-and-trade”, representing the first initiative of this nature in Brazil. Learn more: 03 Natural Desempenho Capitalem Capitais Mobility Fuel Consumption G4-EN3 In order to reduce fuel consumption and promote the use of more sustainable Below are the amounts corresponding to fuel consumption for the Company. means of transportation, bicycling activities were promoted in 2015. The first About the of these activities had the participation of the CEO and one of the Company’s Report Type of Fuel Unit Consumption directors. Along a 90-km route, a group of employees rode between two Relevant Coal (Figueira plant) GJ 2,079,460.80 Aspects of Copel’s largest plants. In the second event, to celebrate the World Car Diesel** GJ 173,968.26 Message from Free Day, a group of employees from Curitiba gathered to ride their bikes the CEO LPG*** GJ 123.04 together to work. Ethanol GJ 5,506.37 Sector Context Gasoline GJ 47,316.70 Profile CNG GJ 1.68 Power Bike About Copel Aviation gasoline GJ 2,826.79 Total GJ 2,309,203.64 Governance Launched on the World Car Free Day, this initiative allows for lending a power Sustainability Management bike to employees for their commute from home to the office, for example. * Coal is used for energy generation by one of the power plants. ** Diesel used for transportation and for emergency power generators Performance in Capitals *** LPG consumed by fork-lifts and kitchens The idea was so well received that five additional power bikes are planned Ethanol, gasoline, GNV and aviation gasoline are used by own fleets Human 45 Capital for 2016. Intellectual Water Consumption Capital G4-EN8, G4-EN9 Social and Relationship Energy Consumption Capital G4-EN3 In 2015, Copel’s total water consumption in the administration units located in Natural Capital the state of Parana was 133,134 m³. Copel’s total energy consumption in 2015 was 854,013.6 GJ, considering the Infrastructure Capital scopes for Generation, Transmission, Distribution, Telecom, and Holding. Source of water Administrative consumption M³ Financial Capital Underground sources 24,193.00 The table below shows the electricity consumption for Copel in 2015. Rainfall sources 138.00 Social Audit Municipal supply 108,803.00 GRI Content Index Electricity consumption (MWh) Assurance Self-generated Report Purchased electricity electricity In 2015, a total of 107,606,193 m³ of water from ground sources was Annex Copel Distribuição S.A. 23,416 0 withdrawn, which was used for cooling at the plants. The volume of Copel Telecomunicação S.A. 527 0 water returned to the body of water is practically the same as the volume Holding 56 0 Copel Geração e Transmissão S.A. 8,494 204,734 withdrawn, since only an immaterial volume was lost through evaporation, Total 32,492 204,734 and was not considered as water consumed by the Company. 03 Natural Desempenho Capital em Capitais Waste recyclable waste from the administration (State Decree No. 4,167/2009). G4-EN23 The program is conducted in partnership with associations and material recycling cooperatives and aims to contribute with income generation and Copel adopts certain criteria to manage waste generated in its activities pursuant to improve working conditions for pickers. About the the standards and policies in force. In 2015, the Company sent to a final destination Report 26,556 tons of waste, 31,430 light bulbs, 27,688 crossbars, and 318,136 m of poles, in In 2015, this partnership resulted in the final destination of 102 tons of Relevant addition to a variety of materials and equipment. Reuse and recycling of this waste, recyclable waste. In the city of Curitiba alone, this represented revenue in Aspects conducted through a disposal process, generated revenue of approximately R$ 10 excess of R$ 24,000 for the waste pickers associations. The goal for Copel Message from the CEO million. by October 2016 is to send to recycling, via the selective waste collection Sector program, administration waste generated by 65% of the employees. Context Waste Unit Amount Revenue (R$) Ash Tons 20,924 Waste Unit Amount Profile Metal Tons 5.2 Electronics and lighting Tons 89 90,085 About Copel Paper Tons 81.9 Miscellaneous equipment Unit 4,488 676,375 Governance Plastic Tons 13.6 Isolators Tons 736 25,340 Glass Tons 1.5 Sustainability Management Total Tons 102.2 Fluorescent lamps Unit 31,430 Performance in Capitals Insulating Mineral Oil Tons 89 Ecosystems Human 46 Capital Tires Unit 917 11,346 G4-EN12 Contaminated waste Tons 107 Intellectual Capital Acid-lead battery scrap Tons 34 70,010 The implementation and operation of projects cause direct and indirect Social and Meters Tons 88 224,875 negative impacts upon wildlife and flora located in the area of influence. Relationship Capital Crossbars Unit 27,688 91,682 Environmental studies developed before the installation phase assess and Natural Capital Miscellaneous materials Tons 4,489 7,375,292 classify these impacts, aiming to propose the social and environmental Poles m 318,136 616,897 Infrastructure programs necessary to mitigate the negative impacts and to strengthen Capital Transformators un 8,445 868,668 the positive impacts. Financial Capital Social Audit For 2016, Copel has the following goals: For the construction of hydroelectric generation projects, the significant GRI Content Index direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity are: • 90% of the industrial waste from Distribution sent for reuse or recycling; Assurance Report • 70% of the industrial waste from Copel Geração e Transmissão sent for reuse or • Reduction in the number of important species in the local ecosystem, Annex recycling; resulting from suppression of vegetation in the flood basin; • 50% of the ash generated in the Figueira thermoelectric plant sent for recycling. • Conversion of the habitats, resulting from the river dam for the creation Copel maintains a Sympathetic Selective Waste Collection program to dispose of of the reservoir. 03 Natural Desempenho Capital em Capitais • Changes in ecological processes outside the natural variation range: as a result Valuation of Ecosystem Services of the river dam for the creation of the reservoir. About the In 2015, Copel adhered to the Corporate Initiative in Ecosystem Service Report In order to mitigate the impacts caused by the hydroelectric generation Trends (TeSE), of the FGVCenter of Studies in Sustainability (GVces), aiming Relevant Aspects projects, vegetation suppression programs are implemented, monitoring and to incorporate these concepts into its businesses. In 2015, the initiative Message from rescuing wildlife and flora species, recovering of permanent preservation areas, identified the main ecosystem services associated with its businesses and is the CEO replacement of forests, monitoring and recovery of archaeological heritage, developing a pilot project to value ecosystem services in the riparian forests Sector among others. at the Governador Bento Munhoz hydroelectric plan. Context Profile For the construction of wind power generation projects, the significant direct and G4-EN13, G4-EU13 About Copel indirect negative impacts upon biodiversity are the reduction in species of flora, In 2015, Copel held in the state of Paraná environmental compensation Governance and risks of accidents with birds, which are mitigated through the implementation through donation of seedlings to be planted by third parties. Throughout the Sustainability Management of environmental programs. same period, 8,894 native forests seedlings and 671 urban forest seedlings Performance in Capitals were supplied, as environmental compensation for felling of vegetation in Human 47 For the construction of transmission and distribution projects, the significant Capital distribution lines. direct and indirect negative impacts on biodiversity are: reduction in species of Intellectual Capital the flora, resulting from suppression of vegetation in the right of way. Mitigation In other environmental initiatives conducted by Company employees, Social and 200 native forest seedlings and 275 tree seedlings were planted in the Relationship of these impacts begins during the planning and licensing phases of the project, state of Paraná. For environmental compensation of the transmission Capital through detailed and multidisciplinary studies of alternative routes with minimal lines, 41,714 native seedlings were supplied and planted in 21.57 ha of Natural Capital impact, prioritizing the use of areas previously altered where environmental and third-party areas. Infrastructure social fragility is smaller. For those locations where it is imperative for the route to Capital cross given areas where vegetation is more preserved, towers are heightened in Financial Capital In the state of Rio Grande do Norte, 3 ha of forests were planted as order to preserve the areas located in the right of way of the lines. Environmental Social Audit environmental compensation for the suppression of vegetation for the programs implemented include forest recovery, preservation of slopes in areas GRI Content Index construction of the GE Farol wind farm. For the other wind farms implemented with fragile soil and water springs; recovery of wildlife and flora, among others. Assurance in that state, compensation was financial. Report Annex 03 Natural Desempenho Capital em Capitais Since 2012, Copel has maintained an agreement with IAP Instituto Ambiental and produced are the Jundiá (Rhamdia quelen), Lambari (Deuterodon) and do Paraná (Paraná Environmental Institute), where third-party service centers are the Surubim-do-iguaçu (Steindachneridion melanodermatum). offered to work exclusively in the production of native forest seedlings used in the In 2015, a total of 139,000 fish were released, and this number represents restoration of Permanent Preservation Areas, Legal Forest Reserves, and Forest About the the number of fish produced in the Company’s fish station. In 2016, the goal Report Recovery Areas in the state of Paraná. is to produce and release 87,600 fish in the reservoirs of the Copel plants. Relevant Aspects To offset the impact of its projects upon biodiversity, Copel acquired and transferred Copel’s repopulation initiatives are reflecting an increase in the population Message from to environmental agencies the following conservation units: the CEO of the Surubim-do-iguaçu an endangered species. • Rio dos Touros Ecologic Station (Governador Ney Braga hydroelectric plant), Sector Context created in 2011, covering 1,231 hectares, in the city of Reserva do Iguaçu, PR; Urban Forest Program Profile • Tia Chica Ecologic Station (Derivação do Rio Jordão hydroelectric plant), covering About Copel Since 2007, Copel has supported municipal governments 423 hectares, in the city of Pinhão,PR; Governance in planning afforestation of public roads, contributing to Sustainability Management • Rio Guarani Stae Park (Governador José Richa hydroelectric plant), created in the environmental improvement and reduction of energy Performance in Capitals 2000, covering 2,322 hectares, in the city of Três Barras do Paraná, PR; supply interruptions caused by the conflict between trees and electrical systems. Human 48 Capital • Lago Azul State Park (Mourão hydroelectric plant), created in 1997, covering Intellectual 1,749 hectares, in the city of Campo Mourão and Luiziana, PR. An initiative of this program is the production of seedlings in the Company’s Capital own forestry gardens, which, in addition to catering to the interested Social and All Protected Areas created by Copel have similar or higher biodiversity Relationship municipalities, addresses compensatory measures. Through this program, Capital characteristics than the locations affected through installations of projects subject 35,000 seedlings have been planted in afforestation of public roads. Natural Capital to compensation. Infrastructure Before 2014, supply of municipalities was done through agreements. Capital Initiatives for Preservation of Biodiversity Difficulties in management and execution of activities justified suspension Financial Capital Ichthyofauna of initiatives and the need to assess new forms of operating in partnership Social Audit Copel monitors the ichthyofauna in all its reservoirs and promotes the free population with municipalities to replace trees and plant new trees that were compatible GRI Content Index of fish in the Iguaçu River basin, which is the main river in the state of Paraná. with the electric systems. Assurance Report Since 1992, the Company has maintained an Ichthyofauna study station located The program was reformulated in 2015, improving the form of transfer of Annex in the reservoir of the Governador Ney Braga Hydroelectric plant. In the station, seedlings suitable for urban areas and changing the target set in 2014. The studies of the behavior of the ichthyofauna are conducted in order to select the most new procedure for supplying seedlings was launched during Arbor Day suitable native species for reproduction and repopulation. The main species studied 03 Natural Desempenho Capital em Capitais (September 21), with procedures initiated with the supply of seedlings in 2016. The Management of the Reservoirs goal is to supply 12,000 seedlings to at least 25 municipalities through initiatives to be developed and produce 70,000 native plants suited to urban forestry. In the reservoirs and surrounding areas, Copel monitors possible environmental interventions and acts pursuant to specific initiatives to About the The Company also promotes professionalization of the afforestation team by address irregularities found in terms of release of effluents, stability of the Report holding courses on training and qualification of managers and municipal workers in slopes, use and occupation of Permanent Protection Areas, illegal hunting Relevant Aspects the state of Paraná. Since 2014, Copel has trained municipal workers and managers, and fishing, among others. Message from and the goal is to complete this work in 2016. the CEO In order to help in the preservation process, as well as other areas of Sector Also this year, project GeoPoda was initiated with the creation of an application environmental interest, the Company has in place an agreement with Context intended to make a systemic control of trimming of trees in the collection, execution the Environmental Police Battalion of the state of Paraná. Additionally, Profile and inspection phases, gathering information on 89,033 trees in 80 feeders in the the Company actively participates in the Watershed Committees and the About Copel municipalities of Londrina, Cambé and Ibiporã. National and State Water Resource Council, and monitors, in real-time, Governance the status of the water in the rivers where the Company has reservoirs, in Sustainability Management Riparian Woods Program addition to monitoring the quality of water. Performance in Capitals Copel promotes reforestation and fencing of Human 49 Monitoring water quality Capital Permanent Protection Areas (APPs, in the Brazilian Intellectual acronym) in own and third-party areas, aiming to recover Capital Copel’s main impact on water resources is the modification of their natural degraded areas and/or avoid degradation, contributing to improvement in the Social and conditions and the vegetation in the flood basin during construction of Relationship quality of the water in reservoirs, inhibiting soil erosion processes and conserving hydroelectric plants. For this reason, the Company works in managing social Capital biodiversity. Seedlings used in reforestation are produced in the Company’s forestry and environmental impact of its projects, from construction up to the operation Natural Capital nurseries. phase, conducting studies, mitigating impacts and risks, and addressing the Infrastructure Capital applicable environmental legislation. Financial Capital In 2015, a total of 108,606 seedlings of native species were planted, exceeding the goal for 2014, replanting 56.16 ha of forests, and fencing 7.63 km. Social Audit On a quarterly basis, the Company collects and analyzes samples of water from GRI Content Index the reservoirs in order to monitor the quality. A total of 25 physical-chemical Seedling production for the Riperian Woods Program and the Urban Forest Assurance and biological parameters are monitored. Report programs totaled 240,410 seedlings, of which 212,373 were native species for the Annex reforestation of the APP (Riperian Woods) and 28,037 for urban forests, reaching Copel also monitors the quality of water of the river before the beginning of 65% of the goal established given contractual difficulties. For 2016, the goal is to the construction of a new project. This monitoring includes, in addition to the produce 213,600 native seedlings for the Riperian Woods Program. parameters already monitored, analysis of sediments and pesticides. 03 Infrastructure Desempenho em Capitais capital Infrastructure Capital Expansion of generation through renewable sources G4-13 Assets for energy generation and planning G4-DMA-EU6 Copel started the operation of own wind farms in the Northeast of the About the country, and closed the year with 330.5 MW of installed capacity in 15 wind Report Copel operates 30 own plants and participates in six other plants, including farms in three different complexes. By 2019, the goal is to achieve 663.6 Relevant 22 hydroelectric, 12 wind farms, and 2 thermoelectric plants, with total MW capacity in five complexes, which is sufficient to supply a city with Aspects installed capacity of 5,630.2 MW, and average Physical Guarantee of 2,622 a population of 8 million, or equivalent to the population of the state of Message from MW. In 2015, net energy production was 25,659 GWh. G4-EU1, G4-EU2 the CEO Pará. The five complexes will house 28 wind farms, in all, representing an Sector investment of R$ 4 billion. Context In order to comply with important strategic and sustainability guidelines Profile established for the generation business, our main purpose is to increase At the end of 2015, Copel announced investments of R$ 2 billion for the About Copel the share of renewable alternative sources of energy in the energy matrix implementation of 13 wind farms in the state of Rio Grande do Norte. At Governance in a profitable and sustainable manner. the event, an agreement with the Company WEG was signed in the amount Sustainability Management of R$ 1.4 billion to supply 149 aerogenerators for the wind parks. Today, Copel is building 19 plants that will add 789.8 MW capacity and Performance in Capitals average 385.6 MW of Physical Guarantee to the Company’s generating Renewal of concessions Human 50 Capital complex. To this end, the Company had already invested R$ 2.3 billion by Concessions for Generation Intellectual the end of 2015 (of which, R$ 1.9 billion in 2014), of which R$ 2.2 billion in Capital own plants and in consortium, and R$ 83.0 million in capital investment in Social and For concessions for generation, a thirty-year extension was granted. Relationship companies in which Copel has interest. Capital Extension was offered to the concessionaire, and adhesion depended, in addition to accepting the anticipation of the original term for the Natural Capital Evolution of the generating complex with gradual beginning of concession, acceptance of the following terms: (i) Remuneration per rate Infrastructure operations of the plants under construction can be represented as Capital calculated by ANEEL for each hydroelectric plant; (ii) Allocation of physical follows: Financial Capital guarantee quotas for energy and power of the hydroelectric plants to the Generation Complex By Source Evolution of the generation complex Social Audit concessionaire and grantor of SIN’s electric power distribution services, to GRI Content Index 19% 21% 20% 12% 14% be defined by the regulatory agency, as regulation of the granting power; 6% 5% 3% Assurance and (iii) adoption of service quality standards determined by ANEEL. Report Annex Copel Geração e Transmissão, after learning the terms for renewal, made 83% all possible analysis and concluded that it was not feasible to renew, at 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 the time, the concessions for generation in four of its maturing concession Thermoelectric Wind farms Hydroelectric Plants Plants 03 Infrastructure Desempenho em Capitais capital for plants between 2014 and 2015: Rio dos Patos with 1.8 MW installed capacity, the regulation for compensation for investments not yet amortized and/or Governador Pedro Viriato Parigot de Souza plant, with 260 MW, Mourão with 8.2 depreciated on May 31, 2000, that were called RBSE and RPC. MW, and Chopim I with 1.8 MW. On March 30, 2015, Copel Geração e Transmissão submitted to ANEEL a About the Subsequently, Provisional Measure No. 688/2015, among other topics, altered the Report technical opinion for the assessment for reimbursement of these investments, conditions for renewal of concession of these plants, which have become object Relevant which is pending validation by the agency for subsequent payment by the Aspects of a bidding process disputed through higher stock bonus to be offered by the Ministry of Mines and Energy MME. Message from concession-holder vis à vis the smallest revenue required. As such, on November the CEO 25, 2015, bidding process No. 12/2015 was held, through which the Mourão and Concessions for Distribution Sector Governador Pedro Viriato Parigot de Souza plants were offered. After the bidding Context On June 2, 2015, Decree No. 8,461 was published, which regulated the extension Profile process, Copel Geração e Transmissão was declared winner of Lot B1, through which of concessions for distribution of electricity as provisions of article 7 of Law About Copel the Governador Pedro Viriato Parigot de Souza hydroelectric plant was offered, No. 12,783, of November 1, 2013. Through this decree, the MME could extend Governance thereby renovating the concession of the plant for an additional 30 years. For the concessions for distribution of electricity for 30 years, aiming to address the Sustainability Management Mourão plant, Copel Geração e Transmissão did not submit a proposal. following criteria: Performance in Capitals Considering the Chopim I, after termination of the concession, the plant became Human 51 I – Efficiency in terms of quality of services provided; Capital registered under Copel Geração e Transmissão, pursuant to Law No. 12,783/2013. II – Efficiency in terms of economic-financial management; Intellectual Rio dos Patos, is under a quota regime, introduced through the same law. Capital III – Operating and economic rationality; and Social and Concession for Transmission IV – Rate affordability. Relationship Capital For concessions for transmission, a thirty-year extension was established. On November 9, 2015, by order of the Ministry of Mines and Energy, the Natural Capital Extension was offered to the concessionaire, and adhesion depended, in addition request for extension was granted, and in the beginning of December 2015, Infrastructure Capital to accepting the anticipation of the original term for concession, acceptance of the fifth contract amendment was executed, formalizing the extension of the Financial Capital the following terms: (i) Revenue established pursuant to criteria defined by ANEEL; Concession Agreement for Distribution of Electricity Services No. 46/1999, Social Audit and (ii) acceptance of service quality standards defined by ANEEL. up to the end of July 7, 2045. GRI Content Index Copel Geração e Transmissão, after learning the conditions for renewal, made The fifth contract amendment imposes conditions associated with service Assurance Report the necessary analysis and assessments, opting for renewal of the transmission quality indicators and economics-financial sustainability, which will be Annex agreements. Nevertheless, the extension failed to consider a series of investments supported through an investment program focusing on automation and made by the concessionaires and that were not reimbursed by the granting power. new technologies, for the full application of rate adjustments approved Consequently, in 2013, Normative Resolution No. 589 was published, establishing by ANEEL, and for implementation of a corporate governance structure to 03 Infrastructure Desempenho em Capitais capital be defined by the regulatory agency, ensuring protection and individualization of Distribution Lines Extension (km) Copel Distribuição. 13.8 kV 103,488 34.5 kV 83,347 69 kV 695.3 The Company reiterates its commitment to economic sustainability of the About the 138 kV 5,867 Report concession and to the continuous investments supported by cost control 230 kV 130 Relevant management, maximization of productivity, and improvement of operational Total 193,527 Aspects efficiency. Message from Transmission and distribution assets Efficiency in supply: management of quality and loss of energy the CEO G4-EU2 Sector Energy sold (GWh) Quality and supply, measured through performance indicator of distributors Context 24,208 -0.7% 24,043 in terms of continuity of services provided, known as DEC (Equivalent Profile 2,381 2,371 2,252 2,256 Duration of Interruption by Consumer Unit) and FEC (Equivalent Frequency About Copel of Interruption by Consumer Unit) showed improvement in 2015 compared Governance 5,470 5,530 with the previous year, as a result of enhancement of periodic maintenance, Sustainability Management 6,838 6,929 Performance in Capitals preventive inspections, performance and expansion of work. G4-EU28, G4-EU29 Human 52 7,267 6,957 Capital The goals for the concession agreement for 2016 are: 13.61 (*hours and Intellectual 2014 2015 hundreds of hours) for DEC and 9.24 (interruptions) for FEC. Capital Supply quality indicators Residential Industrial Commercial Rural Other Social and 14.01 Relationship 13.67 2013 Capital Extension of transmission and distribution lines 11.62 2014 Natural Capital G4-EU4 2015 Infrastructure Capital Transmission 8.92 8.06 8.33 Financial Capital The Company operates 3,772.1 km of transmission lines and 38 substations of the Social Audit basic network with transformation potential of approximately 14,102 MVA. GRI Content Index Assurance Distribution Report 2:08 2:03 1:49 Annex Copel’s distribution line has 193,527 kilometers, and in all, it serves more than 4.4 million consumers, in 394 cities in the state of Paraná and one municipality in DEC (hours)* FEC (interruptions) Average waiting time (hours) Santa Catarina. 03 Infrastructure Desempenho em Capitais capital Nevertheless, Copel seeks more challenging goals, establishing 12.25 for DEC and In generation activities, the indicator on average availability of the plants is 8.00 for FEC, in 2016. monitored. The indicator measures the number of hours of interrupted generation. G4-EU30 Loss of energy is inherent to the nature of electricity transformation, transmission, Average availability factor 2013 2014 2015 About the and distribution processes. In 2015, overall losses on distribution technical, nonReport Total number of hours of planned interruption 51,915 71,967.37 42,265 technical and of basic network represented 9.6% of the energy injected into the Relevant Total number of hours of forced interruption 29,596 36,226.2 36,048 Aspects distribution system. This percentage represented a 0.2 percentage point reduction Own hydroelectric plants 0.94 0.94 0.90 Message from when compared with the previous year. the CEO Hydroelectric plants with Copel's Shareholding Interest 0.88 0.95 0.96 Sector Technical losses, on this same base, registered a reduction of 0.1 p.p. and nonThermoelectric plants 0.78 0.64 0.78 Context technical losses decreased by approximately 0.3 p.p. in 2015. Thermoelectric plants with Copel's Shareholding Interest 0.94 0.93 0.89 Profile About Copel Copel Distribuição maintained a program to fight nontechnical losses, which Advances in operational excellence at Copel Distribuição Governance contributed to the reduction of this indicator. Sustainability Management Group A Telemetry Performance in Capitals The transmission operation, on the other hand, can register losses in the interconnected system, which are proportionately divided between generators and In 2015, Copel expanded telemetry to consumers of group A. In 2015 there Human 53 Capital distributors, and determined by the Electric Power Marketing Chamber (Câmara were more than 13,000 telemetry points, corresponding to 92% of this type Intellectual de Comercialização de Energia Elétrica CCEE). of consumer. Capital Social and G4-EU12 Relationship Billing data is obtained automatically, without the need to employ the person Capital Types of losses 2013 2014 2015 to read meters. This improves the quality of the process, eliminates error Natural Capital Overall Loss Distribution (%) 9.9 9.8 9.6 and adds value, with data availability for internal processes, and via the Infrastructure Overall Loss Transmission (%) 1.7 1.7 1.8 Internet, to clients. Capital Technical Loss Transmission (%) 1.7 1.7 1.8 Financial Capital Technical Loss Distribution (%) 6.6 6.2 6.1 This system is also capable of monitoring use of energy, issuing alarms when Social Audit Non-Technical Loss Distribution (%) 1.6 1.9 1.6 abnormal situations occur, detecting problems and irregular procedures in GRI Content Index Compared with previous years, losses on the basic network changed, and totals metering, and reducing commercial losses for Copel. Assurance Report suffered losses observed in the basic network of the national interconnected system, Smart Grid Paraná project Annex 50% prorated to generators and 50% to load agents, where Copel Distribuição has a defined portion given its share of the market. A change in this loss influences Copel is developing a Smart Grid pilot project in Curitiba called Smart Grid overall losses. Paraná, cconceived to improve the quality of services and the Company’s 03 Infrastructure Desempenho em Capitais capital service capability in the electric system and in telecommunications. The project will Program Mais Clic Rural enable the complete automation of the electric network to: G4-EC1 Copel will invest R$ 500 million by 2018 in the largest rural electrification • Avoid human interference to isolate sections without power and rely on automatic project ever developed in the state of Paraná. Launched at the end of 2015, About the reconfiguration of the system after interruption in supply; Report Mais Clic Rural will expand and modernize the electric network in the rural • Measure energy, water, and gas in an integrated and automated manner, reducing Relevant area to transform the quality of energy supply to rural consumers, focusing Aspects operating costs that affect the rates for these services; on agricultural activities in important production processes. Practically every Message from rural region in the state will be served; however the largest volume will be the CEO • Carry out tests for building automation and integration to smart grids for power invested in the Southwestern and Central-southern region of the state. Sector supply stations for cars, bicycles and electric buses; Context • Promote distributed micro generation for solar and wind sources. Profile The program will supply rural producers with electricity with quality About Copel equivalent to large urban centers. To this end, Copel will implement smart The implementation the Company’s smart grid is part of the Smart Energy Paraná Governance grid technology in rural areas. Approximately 3,000 km of new networks will program, created in 2013 by the state government to encourage distributed Sustainability Management be built, with nearly 30 substations and close to 3,500 automatic re-closers. generation through renewable sources. Currently, the project is undergoing a Performance in Capitals The work proceeds in two fronts: improvement in infrastructure to increase technical assessment phase, seeking to refine solutions implemented during the the quality of energy supply, and automation technologies to reestablish the Human 54 Capital pilot project and the assessment of more suitable business models for its largesystem with greater agility in case of power outage. In all, Mais Clic Rural Intellectual scale dissemination. Capital will directly benefit 70,000 producers in the state. The main beneficiaries are Social and Project Paraná Smart Grid installed 2,000 telemetry points throughout the Curitiba tobacco growers, poultry, pig and milk producers in the state, agro-industrial Relationship niches that are more sensitive to the quality of power supply. Nevertheless, it Capital urban area, and 1,000 points in the rural area of Colombo and Bocaiúva do Sul in is expected that investments in the network wil indirectly benefit 2.4 million Natural Capital order to test the technology. Reading is done every hour allowing for detection of people in the rural and urban areas. Infrastructure problems, power outages, and reading without physical displacement. Capital Financial Capital Social Audit GRI Content Index Assurance Report Annex 03 Financial DesempenhoCapital em Capitais Financial Capital G4-EC1 0.09 Net Operating Revenue 0.2 About the In 2015, the Net Operating Revenue exceeded the mark 0.5 Report of R$ 14.7 billion, with additional R$ 809.6 million, Relevant 0.9 Aspects representing a 5.8% increase compared with 2014. This 2015 1.2 Message from variation is mainly due to an increase of R$ 1,375.8 the CEO 2.4 million in Revenue from Energy Supply, resulting Sector 3.7 Context from the Extraordinary Rate Review (which occurred in 5.8 Profile March 2015, and readjustment in June 2015) offsetting a About Copel reduction of 0.7% in the captive market; (ii) reduction of 0.07 Governance R$ 663.4 million in Electric Energy Supply, mainly due Sustainability Management to the variation in the Settlement Price Difference PLD, 0.1 Performance in Capitals and decrease in dispatch of energy from the Araucária 0.4 plant; (iii) increase of R$ 151 million in Revenue from 1.0 Human 55 Capital Network Availability, arising above all from rate 2014 1.3 Intellectual Capital readjustment occurred in June 2015; (IV) reduction by R$ 2.2 Social and 82.7 million in Revenue from Construction (revenue 4.4 Relationship associated with construction services or improvement in Capital 4.4 infrastructure used to provide distribution, transmission Natural Capital of energy and gas services); (v) increase by R$ 44.5 Infrastructure 0 2 4 6 8 Capital million in Telecommunication Revenue, mainly due to Financial Capital the increase in number of clients, from 27,614 to 47,987 Other Operating Revenues Revenue from Construction Social Audit in 2015; (vi) increase by R$ 135.1 million in Revenue GRI Content Index from Distribution of Piped Gas, due to the increase Revenue from Network Telecommunication Revenue Assurance Availability (TUSD/TUST) in the volume of gas distribution to the industrial, coReport generation, and residential segments. Revenue from Distribution of Piped Gas Annex Electric Energy Supply Result of sectorial financial assets and Revenue from Energy Supply liabilities 03 Financial DesempenhoCapital em Capitais 2015 2014 Government Operating Costs and Expenses 2.8% Shareholders 7.4% 9.6% The Company had an increase of R$ 560.5 million in 2015, representing an increase 7.9% 7.4% Retained of 4.6% mainly due to an addition of R$ 952.3 million in Electric Power Purchased 9.3% 9.1% Third Parties About the for Resale, an increase of R$ 534.9 million in Charges for the Use of the Network, Personnel Report an increase of R$ 116 million in Personnel and Administration, and a reduction of 15.5% Relevant 74.1% 58.4% Aspects R$ 992.9 million in Provisions and Reversals. Message from Net Profit and EBITDA (EBITDA) the CEO Provisions and Reversals Sector Context In 2015, net profit assigned to shareholders of the holding was R$ 1,192.7 million, Starting in June 2015, Copel GeT stopped provisioning credit for doubtful Profile 1.1% less than the amount obtained in the previous period of R$ 1,206 million. The debtors for the difference between the sales price of energy negotiated About Copel Company’s EBITDA in 2015 was R$ 2,585.2 million, representing an increase of R$ in the CCEARs of the Colíder hydroelectric plant and the PLD, considering Governance 228.2 million compared with 2014. This 9.7% increase is mainly due to the increase the assumption of 150 days of exclusive responsibility associated with Sustainability Management in net revenue in 2015, of R$ 809.6 million. delay in delivering the Colíder hydroelectric plant into operation (used to Performance in Capitals Evolution of net profit test impairment in 2014). The balance provisioned until June 2015 is of R$ Human 56 Capital 119.7 million. The Company is awaiting definition from ANEEL concerning 1,336 2.5 Intellectual 1,266 30 2.3 3 1,101 275 1.8 the request to review the schedule for the beginning of commercial Capital 25 2.5 178 402 24.6 operations of the plant for a possible reversal of this provision. More Social and 20 19.9 2 Relationship 15 16.8 1.5 details available in Balance Sheets (p. 3-4). Capital 923 1,061 864 10 1 Natural Capital 5 0.5 Reassessment of Hydrological Risk 0 0 G4-EC2 Infrastructure 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Capital 9M 4T EBITDA EBITDA Financial Capital At the end of December 2015, Copel Geração e Transmissão and Centrais Margin Elétricas do Rio Jordão filed a request to reassess the hydrological risk in the Social Audit Value Added ACR of the Mauá, Foz do Areia, Santa Clara and Fundão plants. According to GRI Content Index G4-EC1 the request, and given its retroactivity, the subsidiaries managed to partially Assurance Report In the 2015 period, Copel recorded R$ 14,456.4 million in Total Value Added, a total recover the cost with GSF in the year at R$ 33.55 per average megawatt for Annex 83.9% higher than the previous year. This variation is mainly due to the aggregate the SP100 class product referring to the risk premium they hired. increase of Copel’s supply rate in 2015 of 51.69%, composed of RTE and RTA. The This reassessment allows for a reversal of R$ 135 million in costs with full statement can be seen in Financial Statements (p.10). purchase of energy. 03 Financial Desempenho Capital em Capitais Investments For calculation purposes, consumers are considered in default in case of a debit past due for more than 15 days up to 360 days, in compliance with In 2015, Copel’s investments totaled R$ 2,364.7 million. For 2016, the Company the term of the due date notice (ANEEL Resolution No. 414/2010), and intends to carry out investments of approximately R$ 3,149.8 million approved by recognition of loss of past due debits is excluded. About the the 151st ordinary meaning of CAD. Report In December 2015, default of consumers of Copel Distribuição totalled Relevant Evolution of investments by Copel Aspects R$ 272.8 million, which is equivalent to 1.81% of its revenue. Companies (R$ million) Invested in 2015 Invested in 2014 Variation % 2015-2014 Budget 2016 Message from Generation and Transmission 1,373.3 1,316.3 4.3 1,695.1 the CEO Distribution 656.4 857.7 (23.5) 570.0 Liquidity and capital resources Sector Telecommunications 105.4 107.5 (2.0) 146.0 Context Wind Farm Projects (1) 229.3 176.0 30.3 714.8 The Company finances liquidity and the need for capital with resources Profile Other (2) 0.3 11.5 (97.5) 23.9 from operations and external financing, aiming to expand and modernize About Copel Total 2,364.7 2,469.0 (4.2) 3,149.8 businesses associated with generation, transmission, and distribution of Governance (1) Includes Brisa Potiguar, Cutia Empreendimentos Eólicos, São Bento Energia and Voltália. electricity, as well as telecommunications. It is important to note that the Sustainability Management (2) Includes Holding, Copel Renováveis, among others. Company seeks to invest in shareholding interest using financing lines Performance in Capitals Investment program (R$ million) available in the market and in line with the Company’s capital structure, Human 57 Capital in terms of financial leveraging considering the return of the projects. We Intellectual point out that our perspectives for financing, as well as cash availability, Capital will be sufficient to meet the needs of the Company’s investment plan. For Social and detailed information, see Explanatory Note EN (Nota Explicativa – NE) 5 Relationship Capital 1,903 1,777 2,469 2,365 3,150 and 6, of the Financial Statement (p.31-32). Natural Capital Infrastructure 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Forecast) Indebtedness Capital Financial Capital Consumer Default Copel’s level of indebtedness is in line with the Company’s capital structure, Social Audit in terms of financial leveraging considering the return of the projects, as GRI Content Index Starting in the 2003 accounting period, Copel Distribuição began calculating the well as the expansion established in the Company’s strategic planning. Assurance default rate for supply of electricity, using the following calculation methodology: Additionally, indebtedness meets the criteria and performance indicators Report required by the institutions in the financial market, as well as by the Banco Annex Default (%) = ∑ past due debts > 15 days ≤ 360 days Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social BNDES. For detailed information, see Explanatory Note EN (Nota Explicativa – NE) 22, of the ∑ billing in the 12 month period Financial Statement (p.65). 03 Financial Desempenho Capital em Capitais are used to acquire energy from the Distributor as well as tax and financial planning. The system introduced a significant improvement to techniques and consequently to the level of assertiveness in preparing market forecast using Net debt* /EBITDA analysis of temporal series, neural networks, fuzzy logic, and classic methods of About the Report Covenant of 3.5 forecast, sending the results of energy projections and demand by class, level of Net debt/EBITDA 2.8 Relevant tension, and rate position, for a ten-year horizon, and with varied frequencies. Aspects 2.4 Message from Another important objective achieved through this project was the integration the CEO of several forecasts prepared for different objectives, both for those already Sector 1.4 Context mentioned above and for planning of operations and expansion of the Company and also of the electric sector (ONS, EPE), eliminating duplicity Profile 0.7 About Copel of data and reducing risk of discrepant information. In addition to greater assertiveness of projects, SPIM provided greater agility, safety and reliability Governance 1,014 2,545 5,517 6,961 data and processes, thereby contributing to the optimization of time and Sustainability Management 2012 2013 2014 2015 Performance in Capitals smaller disbursements. Net Net debt/ Human 58 Capital debt EBITDA Intellectual Capital *Considers guarantees and warranties Social and Relationship Capital Copel’s level of indebtedness, measured through the index that represents the Natural Capital ratio between net debt and EBITDA, has grown in recent years, reaching the mark Infrastructure Capital of 2.8 at the end of 2015. Despite the growth, the indicator is still distant from our Financial Capital covenants, which is the ratio of 3.5. Social Audit Indebtedness is intrinsically associated with the Company’s solid investment GRI Content Index program in recent years. Assurance Report Annex Energy Planning The R&D project Integrated Market Forecast System SPIM was developed together with Lactec aiming to mitigate risks arising from energy market forecasts, as they 04 Social Audit ANNUAL SOCIAL AUDIT On December 31 2015 and 2014 (Amounts expressed in R$ thousand, except when stated otherwise) 2015 2014 1 CALCULATION BASE About the NE 31 Net revenue (NR) 14,728,131 13,918,517 Report G4-EC1 2 INTERNAL SOCIAL INDICATORS % about NR % about NR NE 32.2 Management remuneration 19,194 0.1 16,066 0.1 Relevant Aspects Employee remuneration 842,948 5.7 754,218 5.4 Food and meals (meal allowances and others) 119,410 0.8 105,425 0.8 Message from Mandatory payroll taxes and benefits 271,224 1.8 247,826 1.8 the CEO Pension Plan 68,090 0.5 66,972 0.5 Sector Health (assistance plan) 205,291 1.4 153,539 1.1 Context Training and professional development 10,600 0.1 8,056 0.1 Profile NE 32.2 Profit sharing 78,462 0.5 92,657 0.7 About Copel Employee compensation and severance pay 6,905 0.0 6,588 0.0 (1) Other benefits 16,118 0.1 15,177 0.1 Governance Total 1,638,242 11.1 1,466,524 10.5 Sustainability Management 3 EXTERNAL SOCIAL INDICATORS % about NR % about NR Performance in Capitals Culture 7,568 0.1 13,016 0.1 Health and sanitation 3,121 0.0 4,421 0.0 Human Capital Sports 1,801 0.0 3,130 0.0 Other Intellectual 128,231 0.9 108,310 0.8 Research & Development 66,361 0.5 51,581 0.4 Capital Energy Efficiency Program 38,666 0.3 15,856 0.1 Morar Bem Program 12,769 0.1 19,692 0.1 Social and Nighttime Rate Program 3,833 0.0 4,665 0.0 Relationship 6,602 0.0 16,516 0.1 Other Capital Total contributions to society 140,721 1.0 128,877 0.9 Natural Capital Taxes (excluding payroll taxes) 10,495,595 71.3 4,394,165 31.6 Total 10,636,316 72.2 4,523,042 32.5 Infrastructure Capital 4 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS % about NR % about NR Financial Capital Investments related to the company’s operations 490,621 3.3 333,021 2.4 Investments in programs and/or external projects 856 0.0 0.0 Social Audit GRI Content Index 60 Total 491,477 3.3 333,873 2.4 (2) Number of environmental sanctions 1 2 Assurance G4-EN29 Amount of environmental sanctions (R$ thousand) 132 1,600 Report Annex In terms of defining annual targets for reduction of waste generation and of general 2015 2016 consumption during production/operation, as well as for increase of efficiency of natural (x) doesn’t have targets ( ) doesn’t have targets resources use, the company: ( ) meets 0-50% ( ) meets 0-50% ( ) meets 51-75% ( ) meets 51-75% ( ) meets 76-100% (x) meets 76-100% 04 Social Audit G4-LA12 5 WORKFORCE INDICATORS (including subsidiaries) Number of employees at the end of the year 8,813 8,777 Number of hires during the year 234 235 Employee schooling Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Higher and postgraduate 4,282 2,993 1,289 3,849 2,684 1,165 About the Total Secondary 4,343 3,673 670 4,802 4,044 758 Total Primary 188 181 7 126 124 2 Report Relevant Employee Age Group Aspects (3) Under 18 Message from From 18 to 30 (exclusive) 1,100 1,331 From 30 to 60 (exclusive) 4,257 4,159 the CEO From 45 to 60 (exclusive) 3,371 3,232 60 or older (exclusive) 85 55 Sector Women working in the company 1,966 1,927 Context % of women in management positions: Profile In relation to the total number of women 5.4 5.3 In relation to the total number of managers 19.9 20.6 About Copel Blacks working in the company 981 1,002 Governance % of blacks in management positions: Sustainability Management In relation to the total number of blacks 3.3 2.7 In relation to the total number of managers 6.0 5.4 Performance in Capitals Employees with special needs 207 195 Human Capital Dependents 15,580 16,256 Intellectual (4) Outsourced 6,457 5,895 Capital (5) Apprentice(s) 252 177 Social and (5) Intern(s) 333 313 Relationship Capital Number of labor suits in course at the end of the year 4,795 4,867 Natural Capital Number of labor suits terminated in the period 1,011 552 Infrastructure 6 RELEVANT INFORMATION ON CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Capital (6) Ratio of highest to lowest remuneration in the company 19 19 Financial Capital Total number of work-related accidents 254 263 (includes accidents involving contractors) Social Audit Total number of consumer complaints and grievances: to company 43,360 34,106 GRI Content Index 61 at PROCON (Consumer Protection Agency) in court 558 515 Assurance 2,649 2,680 Report % of complaints addressed or solved: to company 99.3% 100.0% Annex at PROCON (Consumer Protection Agency) 100.0% 97.5% in court 17.1% 17.2% 04 Social Audit 2015 Metas 2016 About the Report The company’s social and environmental projects were defined by: Board and management Board and management Relevant Work place safety and sanitary standards were defined by: All + Cipa (Internal Commission for the All + Cipa (Internal Commission for the Aspects Prevention of Accidents) Prevention of Accidents) Regarding freedom of association, right to collective bargaining and internal worker Message from Encourages and will follow ILO Encourages and will follow ILO representation, the company: the CEO Private pension plan covers: All All Sector Profit sharing program covers: All All Context In selecting suppliers, the same ethical, social responsibility and environmental standards Are required Are required Profile adopted by the company: Regarding employee participation in volunteer work, the company: organizes and encourages organizes and encourages About Copel Governance G4-EC1 7 GENERATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF WEALTH 2015 2014 Sustainability Management Total value added for distribution 14,456,447 7,860,056 Performance in Capitals Distribution of Value Added: 9.1% Third parties 7.9% Personnel 9.3% 15.5% Human 58.4% Capital Government 74.1% 4.9% Shareholders 2.8% 11.8% Retained 5.9% Intellectual Capital 8 OTHER INFORMATION Social and • After 2010, the Instituto Brasileiro de Análises Sociais e Econômicas Ibase has no longer prescribed its standard model for Social Audit, understanding that this tool and methodology are already broadly disseminated among Relationship companies, consulting companies and institutes that promote corporate social responsibility in Brazil. For this reason, Copel, which had been using this model since 1999, decided, based on Ibase recommendation, to improve its Social Audit Statement, addressing information requested in NBCT 15 with a view to ensuring transparency. Capital • The explanatory notes ENs are an integral part of the Financial Statements and contain additional social and environmental information not covered in this Social Audit Natural Capital • This Social Audit contains data related to Copel holding, wholly-owned subsidiaries, associated companies and consortiums due to the consolidation of their results with Copel’s, unless indicated otherwise. Infrastructure (1) The item Other Benefits is composed of: Complementary Illness Assistance, Extended Maternity Assistance, Insurance, Surplus Transport Allowance and Assistance for Permanent Injury, Accidental Death, Daycare Assistance, Capital Education, Culture and Occupational Health and Safety Assistance. (2) This information refers to social and environmental fines and notifications for Copel holding and its wholly-owned subsidiaries: Copel Distribuição S.A., Copel Geração e Transmissão S.A, Copel Telecomunicações S.A., Copel Financial Capital Comercilização S.A. and Copel Renováveis S.A. The original amounts are disclosed; these may be altered in accordance with the administrative defense presented to the environmental body. Amounts related to Terms of Commitment TCs and Terms of Conduct Adjustment TACs are classified as external social or environmental, depending on the specific nature of each. Social Audit (3) Refer to the apprentice program in conflict with the law, which was terminated in 2014. (4) This number corresponds to the total number of contractors hired in the year regardless of the number of hours worked. It does not represent the number of outsourced work positions. Neither does it cover the contractors engaged in the implementation of the work of Copel Geração e Transmissão and subsidiaries (Plants, Transmission Lines and Substations) or those engaged in the expansion of the Copel Telecom system. GRI Content Index 62 (5) Not part of the staff. Assurance Report Annex 05 Content Index Content Index G4-32 The following table presents the indicators of the GRI guidelines reported in this publication and the identification of their location About the throughout the contents of the Report or their direct response. Report Relevant Indicator Details or reference page Global Compact Aspects Strategy and Analysis Message from G4-1 Message from the president 6 All the CEO G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 6, 8, 15, 16, 22 Sector Organizational Profile Context G4-3 Name of the organization 12 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 12 Profile G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 12 About Copel G4-6 Countries where the organization has significant operations or those that 12 Governance are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 12, 19 Sustainability Management G4-8 Markets served 14 Performance in Capitals G4-9 Size of the organization 14, 27 G4-10 Labour force profile 27 6 Human Capital By Category Female Male Total By Career Female Male Total Intellectual Advisor 3 34 37 Total 0 136 136 Capital Director 0 23 23 Operational Employee 0 135 135 Social and *Employee 1,805 6,303 8,108 Manager 0 1 1 Relationship *Manager 104 416 520 Total 136 1,937 2,073 Capital Technical Prof. High Intern 187 136 323 Employee 135 1,910 2,045 Natural Capital School Degree Manager 1 27 28 *Direct employees Infrastructure Total 1,377 3,554 4,931 Capital Work hours/day Female Male Total Prof. High School Employee 1,339 3,468 4,807 Degree Financial Capital 4 hours 34 45 79 Manager 38 86 124 6 hours 363 418 781 Total 396 1,092 1,488 Social Audit Prof. University 8 hours 1,512 6,256 7,768 Employee 331 790 1,121 Degree GRI Content Index Grand Total 1,909 6,719 8,628 Manager 65 302 367 Grand Total 1,909 6,719 8,628 Assurance Report 64 By Region Female Male Total South 1,903 6,648 8,551 Annex Southeast 0 9 9 Midwest 6 57 63 Northeast 0 5 5 Total number of employees 1,909 6,719 8,628 05 Content Index G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 27 1,2,3 G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 34 All G4-13 Significant changes regarding size, structure, ownership, and supply 12, 50 chain G4-14 Description of how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 22 by the organization About the G4-15 Externally developed social charters, principles, or other initiatives 3, 23, 79 All Report G4-16 Memberships of associations and organizations 23, 79 All Relevant Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Aspects G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements and entities not covered by the report 3, 13 Message from the CEO G4-18 Process for defining the report content 3, 4 G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 5 Sector G4-20 Aspect boundary, within the organization, of each material aspect 5 Context G4-21 Aspect boundary, outside the organization, of each material aspect 5 Profile G4-22 Restatements of the information are provided throughout the report, 3, Restatements of the information are provided throughout the report, together with the context of the change. About Copel together with the context of the change G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and 3,4 Governance aspect boundaries Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability Management G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 4, 5 All Performance in Capitals G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom the 4 company engages Human G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 4 Capital G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised during the engagement, 5 Intellectual by stakeholder group Capital Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 3 Social and Relationship G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 3 Capital G4-30 Reporting cycle 3 Natural Capital G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 4 G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option and location of the GRI Content Index 3, 64 Infrastructure Capital G4-33 Policy and current practices with regard to seeking external assurance 3, 76 10 for the report Financial Capital Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 18 Social Audit G4-35 Process for delegating authority from the highest governance body for 23 GRI Content Index economic, environmental, and social topics G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental 23 All Assurance Report 65 and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body Annex G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest The company has several structures for dialogue and for meeting the demands of its stakeholders, as shown in subsection Integrity All governance body on economic, environmental and social topics Practices. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 18, 19 G4-39 Chair of the highest governance body 19 G4-40 Selection criteria and nomination processes for the highest governance 19 body and its committees 05 Content Index G4-41 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 17 10 G4-42 Roles of the highest governance body and senior executives in the deThe Assembled Board has executive functions and implements the Company's strategy. The Board of Directors determines and sets the All velopment of policies and goals to manage impacts overall direction of the business. G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s 20 All collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4-44 Process for delegating authority from the highest governance body for 20 All About the economic, environmental, and social topics Report G4-45 Responsibility for the implementation of economic, environmental and 22, 23 social policies Relevant G4-46 Role of governance in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s Aspects 22 risk management processes for economic, environmental and social aspects G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of impacts, risks, Message from 19, 22 the CEO and opportunities On March 15, 2016, the Board of Directors approved the integrated reporting structure applied to Copel’s 2015 Sustainability Report and its G4-48 Formal approval of the organization’s sustainability report strategic and material aspects, which should be the focus of the company’s management and communication with its stakeholders. Sector Context G4-49 Process used for communicating critical concerns to the highest 22 10 governance body Profile 19 G4-51 Relation between the remuneration and the performance of the organization The remuneration of directors and audit committee members is made up only by honorary payments, not linked to the achievement of About Copel any goals or variable compensation or performance indicators. G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 19 Governance G4-53 Stakeholders’ views regarding remuneration, including the results of Sustainability Management Stakeholders do not participate in the company’s remuneration process. votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable G4-54 Ratio between the highest salary and the overall average of the The remuneration of the highest paid individual is 7 times higher than the average for all employees. The calculation considers all items of Performance in Capitals organization the compensation, except the 13th salary. G4-55 Ratio between the increase in the highest salary and the average inThe increase in total annual remuneration of the highest-paid individual equals one time the average percentage increase of the total Human crease of the organization annual remuneration of other employees. Capital Ethics and Integrity Intellectual G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 12, 20, 21 All Capital G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior 21 10 Social and Relationship G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, Capital 21 10 such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Natural Capital economic aspects Infrastructure Indicator Details or reference page Global Compact Capital Economic Performance Financial Capital G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 27, 28, 41, 54, 55, 56, 60, 62 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 Social Audit G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 43, 56 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 organization’s activities due to climate change GRI Content Index Market Presence Variation of the lowest wage and the minimum wage: 2.19 Variation of the lowest wage and the minimum wage Male: 2.02 Assurance Report 66 G4-EC5 Ratio of the lowest wage compared to the local minimum wage 1, 2, 6 Variation of the lowest wage and the minimum wage Female: 2.19 National minimum wage on 12/31/2015: R$ 788.00 Annex Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 41 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 provided 05 Content Index Activities Description of the investment Current and expected impacts Type of investment Sport and leisure options; Park with an extension of 4 km, covering a large portion Boost to tourism in the municipality; of the coast of the city of União da Vitória, in the Park lighting, improving security in the region; Investments totaled R$ 2,935,314.31; Implementation of Parque Linear Caminhos do Iguaçu Environmental Protection Area (APP) of the reservoir of the Prevention of irregular occupations in floodable areas of Contributions of the municipality, in environmental located in União da Vitória, State of Paraná. GBM Hydroelectric Plant. It has 3 sports courts, 1 skate park, the Environmental Protection Area (APP). education and maintenance of the park. 1 motocross track and 1 lookout point. Investments in a landscaping team and maintenance of green areas; About the Technical support to municipal administrations in the A specialized company was contracted to assist the municiThe municipalities were better prepared to host the projReport area of influence of the Colíder Hydroelectric Plant in the Total Invested (R$): 190,613.08 palities in all stages of mobilization, training, dissemination, ect, through stimulus to the institutionalization of planning preparation and/or implementation Services agreement. Relevant diagnosis, and drafts of bills. structures and territorial management. of their Participatory Master Plans. Aspects Meetings for the development of fishing activities; Action Reconfiguration and stimuli to the development Plan for the Development of Tourism; household production Message from Monitoring and promotion of local economic activities, from of sustainable economic activities, contributing to included in the municipalities of the area of influence of Total Invested (R$): 351,812.80 the start of construction of the Colíder Hydroelectric Plant strengthening the municipalities and reducing the risks of the CEO the Colíder Hydroelectric Plant, and Training Workshops Services agreements. up to a few years after completion. economic downturn at the end of the construction work of in production management, processing, and marketing the Colíder Hydroelectric Plant. processes. Sector Boats, trucks, motorcycles, furniture, rechargeable Context Epidemiological surveillance and monitoring in the area of Prevention of outbreaks of the disease during construction flashlights, printers, digital cameras, GPS, software licenses, influence of the Colíder, Hydroelectric Plant in accordance of the project and permanent strengthening of with the guidelines of the Ministry of Health. An action and Entomological materials were transferred. Ambulances, environmental surveillance and epidemiological conditions Total Invested (R$): 1,223,921.65 Profile office supplies, computer equipment, laboratory equipment Terms of Donation plan for controlling this disease was agreed upon with local of the municipalities in the area of influence of the project, and supplies, and logistical support services are also authorities. foreseen. since it is a malaria-endemic region. About Copel Investments by the municipality were: Governance NOVA CANAÃ DO NORTE: 2 ambulances; ITAÚBA: 1 van adapted for transportation of patients; Social Projects BNDES Colíder Hydroelectric PlantSocial CLÁUDIA: X-ray equipment and Processor, 2 playgrounds Coordination with the local public authorities that drive Sustainability Management demands submitted by the municipal managers that were public policies and projects to serve the various segments Total Invested (R$): 1,207,274.10 for 2 municipal daycares, 1 Ambulance, and 1 minibus approved by Copel’s Board of Directors. of the local community. Performance in Capitals COLÍDER: 46 air conditioners for cooling of 12 municipal schools; Construction of the headquarters of the Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS); Human Capital G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 16, 36 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 Procurement Practices Intellectual Capital G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers 34 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 Social and Environmental Aspect Relationship Energy Capital G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 45 7, 8 Natural Capital Water Infrastructure G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 45 7, 8 Capital 45 Financial Capital G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water In the production process for energy generation, there is no significant variation between the volume of water withdrawn and the volume 8 of water returned to the source; therefore, this amount was not considered as consumption. Social Audit Biodiversity GRI Content Index G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Copel, including assets of Copel GeT and Copel DIS, has 8,208.4 km of transmission lines with voltages ranging from 69 to 500kV. Of this total, only 82.146 km reach Full Protection conservation units, according to the National System of Protected Areas (SNUC), only 0.96% – of its total 8 Assurance Report 67 extension. Annex 46 In 2015, eight preliminary environmental studies were carried out and their Simplified Environmental Reports -RAS were prepared, for the G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services following projects: Substation Douradina; Substation Bela Vista; Substation Colombo; Substation Rio Branco do Sul; TL Joaquim Távora; on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 8 TL ATM RBS; Substation Catanduvas kV; TL Cafelândia. These studies did not identify relevant impacts on biodiversity, considering the protected areas magnitude of the projects and their locations. 05 Content Index G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 47 8 Rio dos Touros Ecological Station is classified as Full Protection and is aimed at preserving nature and conducting scientific research. It was created on June 5, 2001 through State Decree No. 4,229/2001, for environmental compensation of the Governador Ney Braga Hydroelectric Plant. The predominant vegetation cover is the Araucaria Moist Forest. It has an area of 1,231.06 hectares and is located on the right bank of the reservoir of the Governador Ney Braga Hydroelectric Plant (Salto Segredo), municipality of Reserva do Iguaçu, State of Paraná. Tia Chica Ecological Station will be classified as Full Protection, aiming at the preservation of nature and scientific research. It has an area of 423.12 ha and is located in the backwater of the reservoir of the Derivação Hydroelectric Plant in the Jordão River, municipality of Pinhão, State of Paraná. The area declared of Public Utility for condemnation purposes has not yet been declared as a Conservation Unit, and the process is ongoing. About the Report Guarani River State Park is classified as Full Protection and aims at preserving natural ecosystems of ecological significance and scenic beauty. It began to be studied by Copel in 1997, as a result of the implementation of the Governador José Richa Hydroelectric Plant. The predominant forest formations are the Semi-deciduous Seasonal Forest and the Araucaria Moist Forest. It has an area of 2,322.00 ha and is located on the right bank of the reservoir of the Hydroelectric Plant. Governador José Richa (Salto Caxias), municipality of Três Barras do Paraná, State of Paraná. Relevant Aspects Lago Azul State Park is classified as Full Protection and aims at preserving natural ecosystems of ecological significance and scenic beauty. It has an area of 1,749.00 hectares and is located in the Semi-deciduous Seasonal Forest and the Araucaria Moist Forest, compensating the areas affected by the reservoir and vicinity of the Mourão Hydroelectric Plant, municipality of Campo Mourão and Luiziana, State of Paraná. Report the status of the area: It was created through State Decree No. 3,256/1997. Message from the CEO Copel has had an agreement with the IAP Environmental Institute of Paraná since 2012, through which it provides outsourced job positions exclusively for the production of native forest seedlings used in the restoration of Permanent Preservation Areas, Legal Forest Reserves and Forest Replacement Areas. In addition, part of the seedlings grown in Copel’s Forest Plantations are donated and used for forest restoration in the State. Source: Copel contracts and http://www.bioclima.pr.gov.br/ Sector modules/noticias/article.php?storyid=41 Context All of these Protected Areas created by Copel present biodiversity characteristics similar or superior to the affected locations for installation of the projects compensated. Only areas with clear environmental interest in order to represent the original forest formations are accepted create Protected Areas. More information in Protected Areas on the website. Profile About Copel ENDANGERED SPECIES Governance G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and in other conservation lists CRITICALLY endangered VULNERABLE NEAR THREATENED LEAST CONCERN 8 Sustainability Management with habitats in areas affected by operations of the organization endangered Performance in Capitals 2 12 34 11 28 Human Capital Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 43 7, 8 Intellectual G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the acquisition of Capital 43 7, 8 energy (Scope 2) Social and G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 43 7, 8 Relationship G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Intensity of emissions (ton of CO2 eq scope 1 and 2) by Net Operating Revenue reached in R$ thousand: 0.045 Capital G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 43 7, 8, 9 Natural Capital G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Copel doesn’t operate production, import or export of SDO. 7, 8 Infrastructure Capital Air emissions 2015 Financial Capital NOx 583 SOx 4,797 Social Audit G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) 0 7, 8 GRI Content Index Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 0.42 Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP) 0 Assurance Report 68 Particulate Matter (PM) 229 Annex Effluents and Waste In 2015, Copel’s administrative facilities, in the State of Paraná, discharged 106,507.2 m³ of sanitary wastewater* in public collection G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination networks or in controlled septic tanks. 8 *Generation of sanitary wastewater calculated according to NBR 7,229, coefficient of return water sewer = 0.8. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 46 8 05 Content Index Compliance 60 Significant fines 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonMonetary value of significant fines (R$) 25,000 0 132,000 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and 8 About the regulations Number of non-monetary sanctions 1 0 1 Report In 2015, there was a non-monetary sanction, with the legal nature of suspension of activities (infraction 013510/15 ICMBio) which, in turn, has been restored. Also in 2015, a Public Civil Action was filed by the Non-Governmental Organization M.A.E Relevant against Copel Distribuição S.A., whose application includes compensation for damage and materials, totaling the amount of R$ Aspects 1,058,897.10. Suppliers Message from G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental the CEO 38 8 criteria G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in Sector 38 8 the supply chain and actions taken Context Social Aspect Profile Labor practices and decent work About Copel Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 27 6 Governance 28 Sustainability Management Copel offers a package of benefits that contribute to the well-being of all employees: Food Aid, Snack Aid, Daycare Assistance, Extended Maternity Leave, Extended Paternity Leave, Profit Sharing, Advance of the 13th Salary, Education Aid, Foreign Language Training, G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Advance on Vacation Bonus, Vacation Allowance, Flexibility, Assistance to People with Disabilities, Professional Rehabilitation and 1, 2, 6 Performance in Capitals temporary or part-time employees Readjustment Program, Award for Traffic Safety, Complementing Disability Insurance, Chemical Dependency Program, Vaccination. Quality of Life Benefits Internal Games, SESI Games, Pre Retirement program, Health and Energy Facilities, Copel Choir Human Benefits provided through the Copel Foundation Private Pension Plan, Annuity Plan, Pro-Health III, Loans Capital G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave In 2015, 117 employees took maternity leave (return rate 98.29%) and 283 – paternity leave (return rate 100%). 6 Intellectual Occupational Health and Safety Capital G4-LA6 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 31 and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities Social and Training and Education Relationship Capital G4-LA9 Average number of training hours per year by employee 29 6 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Natural Capital the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career 29 6 endings Infrastructure G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Capital 29 6 development reviews, by gender and by employee category Financial Capital Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Social Audit 61 by employee category according to gender, age group, minority group 6 More information is described in G4-10 indicator of index. membership, and other indicators of diversity GRI Content Index Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices 38 1, 2, 7, 8 Assurance Report 69 criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices Annex 38 1, 2, 7, 8 in the supply chain and actions taken 05 Content Index Human Resources Investments G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent 38 2 human rights screening. Indigenous Rights About the G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Indigenous Report 41 1 people and actions taken Relevant Supplier Human Rights Assessment Aspects G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights 38 1, 2 criteria Message from G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the 38 1, 2 the CEO supply chain and actions taken Sociedade Sector Context Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with local community engagement, impact Profile 100% of operations 1, 2, 7, 8 assessments, and local development programs About Copel G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on 16, 39 1, 2, 7, 8 local communities Governance Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related Sustainability Management 20 10 to corruption and the significant risks identified Performance in Capitals G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and 20 10 procedures Human 20 One of the confirmed cases of corruption is related to obtaining own financial benefits and benefits of third parties. Another case Capital G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 10 occurred in São José dos Pinhais with employees charging clients undue amounts. Both cases resulted in employment termination. Intellectual Public Policies Capital G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ Given its quasi-public nature, the Company is legally prohibited to making this type of contribution. 10 Social and beneficiary Relationship Anti-competitive Behavior Capital G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Copel does not have pending or closed lawsuits regarding unfair competition and violation of antitrust laws and of the regulation of and monopoly practices and their outcomes monopoly in which the Organization has been identified as a participant. Natural Capital Compliance Infrastructure 2013 2014 2015 Capital G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Total monetary value of significant fines (R$) 8,683,432 7,634,638 4,750,816 Financial Capital sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Number non-monetary sanctions 1 0 1 Social Audit Proceeding instituted through mechanisms of arbitration 0 0 0 GRI Content Index Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 38 1, 2, 7, 8, 10 Assurance Report 70 G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the 38 1, 2, 7, 8, 10 Annex supply chain and actions taken Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Related to Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances related to impacts on society filed, addressed, 36 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 05 Content Index Responsibility for Product Product and Service Labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 34, 35, 36 Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and In 2015, there was no case of non-compliance associated with quality in Tele Service (INS, Iab and ICO Indices), Quality in Distribution of About the regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Services DIC, FIC, and DIMIC or Supply Voltage Levels. Report SECTOR DISCLOSURES Relevant Indicator Details or reference page Global Compact Aspects Organizational Profile Message from EU1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and regulatory the CEO 50 regime EU2 Net energy output, by primary energy source and regulatory regime 50, 52 Sector EU3 Number of residential, industrial, and trade accounts 34 Context EU4 Extension of transmission and distribution lines, aerial and underground, 52 Profile broken down by regulatory system Management of Demand for Electric Power About Copel 37 Governance The distribution utilities developed and implemented a campaign aiming to clarify for consumers of their concession areas about how the G4-DMA EU7 Management programs for demand, including residential, trade, mechanism for fare flags works and raise awareness about the efficient use of electricity. institutional, and industrial (former EU7). Sustainability Management The campaign aimed to reach the largest audience possible, throughout the country. To this end, videos, spots, and advertisements were produced to be aired on TV, radio, Internet and print media, with simple and educational explanations. Performance in Capitals Research & Development G4-DMA EU8 R&D activity and expenditure aimed at providing more reliable 32 1, 7, 8 Human electricity and promoting sustainable development (former EU8). Capital Availability and Reliability Intellectual G4-DMA EU6 Management approach to ensure shortand long-term Capital 50 electricity availability and reliability (former EU6). The Operation and Maintenance (O&M) processes for Generation have a management model supported by Reliability techniques. The Operation and Maintenance Based on Reliability (O&MBC) is a structured process that aims, through Social and the analysis of cause and effect, to define the ideal policies for failure management to prevent or limit the consequences of functional failures and their relationships (health, environment, safety and costs), when applied to any physical Relationship asset, considering their operational context. Capital The guarantee of reliability and availability of electricity in Copel’s Distribution system is a complex system that involves planning of networks in the medium and long term as well as several short-term actions, called Operation for Distribution Networks. Natural Capital Planning of distribution networks is analyzed through medium-and long-term studies, involving mainly three sub-processes by voltage class: Low Voltage Distribution System, in the 220/127V and 254/127V voltages, Medium Voltage Infrastructure Distribution System, in the 13.8kV and 34.5kV voltages, and High Voltage Distribution System, in the 69kV, 88kV, and 138kV voltages; Capital For low-voltage circuits, the network designer uses, among others, peak data (demand) and consumer capacity. Financial Capital For medium-voltage systems, planning uses customer consumption and demand data, market growth data (provided by the energy market studies area of DIS) as well as data from metering in substations. Social Audit For high-voltage systems, planning uses customer consumption and demand data, market growth data (provided by the energy market studies area of DIS), data from metering in substations, and data provided by the agencies of the electricity sector, the ONS (Electric System National Operator) and the EPE (Energy Research Company). Several studies are conducted and developed in conjunction with these agencies. GRI Content Index The networks are simulated considering the rate of natural increase in a particular region and systemic construction works are planned to meet consumer demand for energy. The operation of distribution networks works to ensure reliability and availability of electricity in the short term, using computerized systems and professionals to ensure availability of the electrical system, coordinate reconnection, and Assurance Report 71 optimize service and maintenance teams. Annex 05 Content Index G4-EU10 Planned capacity in MW, including energy purchased and reserve Copel does not perform a comparison between the planned capacity with the projection of demand, because the planning expansion of margins for each regulatory regime broken down by both sources of energy generation is carried out by the Energy Research Company (EPE), considering the entire load of the and building capacity; planning of future investments, including agreements National Interconnected System (SIN) signed by the plant. System Efficiency About the Average Generation Efficiency 2013 2014 2015 Report Figueira Thermal Plant Fuel: coal Relevant 16.64 16.64 16.64 Installed power: 20MW Aspects G4-EU11 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and Efficiency – PCI base by regulatory regime Message from Araucária Thermal Plant Fuel: natural gas the CEO 52.52 52.41 54.43 Installed power: 475MW (combined cycle) Efficiency – PCI base Sector Context G4-EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy 53 Profile About Copel Biodiversity 47 Governance Management of the compensation areas of the main projects being installed by Copel GeT (Colíder Hydroelectric Plant and TLARA TAU) does not allow for presentation of consolidated data on their compensation areas, since they are still undergoing a Sustainability Management G4-EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the negotiation and/or execution process. Over 2016 these areas will be recorded, and may be presented in the next report. 7, 8 affected areas Area of the habitat (km2): 0.03 Main species preserved/protected: Avifauna: mainly the rufous-bellied thrush and Jurema (native plant) Performance in Capitals Habitat classification: Forest and caatinga biome Human Labor Practices and Employment Capital G4-DMA EU14 Programs and processes that ensure the availability of skilled 27, 28, 29 1, 2, 5 labor (former EU14). Intellectual 27 Capital Considered a new rule to retirement, in which the numbers 85 and 95 represent the sum of the age of the person and their time of contribution to the INSS (National Social Security Institute). 85 for women, and 95 for men. These number increase over time, Social and taking into account the life expectancy of Brazilians. 85/95 will be valid until 2018. Then it will increase until 2027, when it will be 90/100. Relationship Capital Period Male Female Up to Dec. 30/2018 95 85 Natural Capital G4-EU15 Percentage of employees with a right to retirement in the next 5 to 10 From Dec. 31/2018 to Dec. 30/2020 96 86 Infrastructure 1, 2, 5 years, broken down by functional category and region Capital From Dec. 31/2020 to Dec. 30/2022 97 87 From Dec. 31/2022 to Dec. 30/2024 98 88 Financial Capital From Dec. 31/2024 to Dec. 30/2026 99 89 Social Audit From Dec. 31/2026 onwards 100 90 GRI Content Index Assurance Report 72 Annex 05 Content Index Distribution – estimated number of days worked by contractor and subcontractor in: 2014 2015 Construction activities 767520 777504 Operation activities 0 0 G4-EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in Maintenance activities 625248 672672 About the construction, operation and maintenance activities. Business Distribution of information: Report Activities associated with: cleaning and maintenance of offices and power-generating plants, maintenance of green areas, clearing under transmission lines and right of ways, travel, masonry, apprentice, service in canteens/kitchens, geoprocessed registration, specialized consulting, Relevant courier, messenger, SW development, typing, development of projects, submission of notice of disconnection, gymnastics, meter reading, consumer connection, disconnection and reconnection, cleaning and maintenance of green areas, maintenance of lines and networks, carpentry, Aspects engineering works, trimming of trees, reception services, clearing of right of ways, general services, technical support, computer service, telephony, telecommunications, training, surveillance. Message from the CEO 31 In 2015, a total of 5,955 (i.e. 100% of) contractors and subcontractors were trained on health and safety. EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have At Copel Generation and Transmission, there were 3,291 people trained. Due to the high turnover of contracted employees and due to the 1, 2, 5 Sector undergone relevant health and safety training characteristics of the contracts (eg. by demand), it is not possible to estimate the proportion of trained contractors. The Company adopts as Context a rule the achievement of security integration training for all its contractors. Local Communities Profile G4-DMA EU19 Stakeholder participation in the decision making processes About Copel related to energy planning and infrastructure development (former EU19). Governance Participation of stakeholders occurs in various ways, according to the phase of each project. Details of the main parties involved can be found below: Copel Holding: Copel Distribuição is a wholly owned subsidiary of Copel Holding. All investment decisions are on the agenda of and approved by the Holding. Sustainability Management Government of the State of Paraná: The government has controlling interest of the common shares and retains administrative control of Copel Holding, and is therefore involved in all strategic decisions of Copel Distribuição. Ministry of Mines and Energy: The Ministry operates directly and indirectly (through its related companies detailed below) in the decision-making process of long-term investments. Performance in Capitals ANEEL: The National Electric Energy Agency agency linked to the MME, aims to standardize and monitor all services rendered by Copel Distribuição. Its role is to adjust and reconcile the interests of society as a whole and of the energy distribution companies. Human EPE Energy Research Company: agency linked to the MME. Aims to plan transmission networks, aligning with the Distribution needs. ONS Electric System National Operator: agency linked to the MME. Aims to operate the interconnected system and point out problems and solutions of the Distribution networks. Capital Consumer Council: Represents the various classes of consumers of electricity in all levels of planning strategic, tactical and operational. Organized civil society: Is represented by governmental and non-governmental bodies for discussions about infrastructure developments, such as State Prosecution Office, representations or organized unions; Intellectual Municipal Administrations: the city halls are also significant stakeholders in all decision-making processes of infrastructure projects; Capital Environmental agencies and intervenors: Are responsible for the examination and approval of environmental and archaeological licensing of major infrastructure works of Copel DIS. Among them, we can highlight IAP, IPHAN, SMMA Curitiba, and ICMBio. During the implementation phase of infrastructure projects, the procedures described below are adopted for all Generation and Transmission projects. Social and During implementation of new infrastructure, the community is consulted through public hearings directly conducted by the licensing body, and indirectly through permits/licenses/no reservations issued by municipalities, environmental Relationship agencies, etc. Capital During implementation, all those affected are involved by the social and environmental programs established during the licensing process. Changes in the business plan are submitted to the departments responsible for approval. With respect to the implementation phase, the community is involved as the social and environmental licensing process occurs, and deviations in the business plan are escalated to higher hierarchical levels, for decision-making, as soon as they are detected. Natural Capital During implementation of the infrastructure projects, the social communication plan is developed and channels are provided, as defined in the social and environmental licensing. DDN – Business Development Department is responsible for the analysis of business opportunities and approves together with the Executive Board and the Board of Directors, responsible for approving strategic decisions. Infrastructure The acquisitions of assets and the development of projects for participation in auctions follow the company’s strategic alignment. Capital In the case of acquisitions of assets, finalizing the acquisition of any asset requires approval of regulatory agencies, such as ANEEL The National Electric Energy Agency, CADE Administrative Council for Economic Defense, and Financing Agencies., in addition to the necessary internal approval (Executive Board and Board of Directors), and the entire process is monitored by the Court of Auditors of the State. Financial Capital In the case of preparation of projects to participate in energy auctions, several agencies participate in the process, being the environmental agency (IAP / Departments of the Environment / IBAMA) as a licensing agency and several others as intervening agencies (FUNAI, Fundação Palmares, Agência Nacional de Águas ANA, INCRA, IPHAN, Instituto das Águas do Paraná); Federal and State prosecutors, Local Universities and Municipal and State governments also participate in the process. Social Audit The areas coordinating and executing the project are structured to provide information and details on all resources involved and ensure participation of stakeholders, including those vulnerable, following the environmental legislation, the needs for public hearings in licensing processes, informative technical meetings and obtaining consent of the municipalities and intervening agencies. GRI Content Index This detailing allows for decision-making on the implementation or not of the business, considering the social and environmental viability, availability of environmental resources and legal consents for the projects. In the case of acquisition of assets, prior to implementing the business, it is necessary to obtain approval from the Board of Directors (internal approvals), as well as external approval (ANEEL, CADE, Funders). The development of projects for subsequent participation in auctions, such as hydroelectric, thermal and wind power projects, undergoes an environmental licensing phase, since participation in auctions requires a preliminary environmental license. In these cases, another list of stakeholders is part of the process, in view of the implementation of public hearings and/or informative technical meetings with the participation of the government, society and other Assurance Report 73 stakeholders, in accordance with current legislation and criteria of the environmental licensing agencies. In the case of environmental licensing processes, the environmental agency may request consultations to society and other stakeholders as early as the issue phase of the terms of reference for the preparation of studies. In most Annex processes, the first contact with society and other stakeholders occurs during the implementation process of environmental studies, through informative technical meetings, which aim to bring to the attention of society the development of studies and gather information for analysis of the possible impacts of projects and propose mitigating measures (in the case of negative impacts). G4-DMA EU20 Approach to managing the impacts of displacement (former EU20). 39 G4-EU22 Identify the number of people physically or economically displaced by large projects, broken down by type of project (ex: expansion of the plant, 40 new facilities, new transmission lines). 05 Content Index Provision of Information G4-DMA EU24 Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers to accessing and safely using electricity and 1, 2, 8 customer support services (former EU24). Copel provides several customer service channels to facilitate access to its products and services. Seeking to facilitate low-literacy consumers access to information and services provided, Copel participates in integrated actions carried out by the Departments of State and Municipalities; in these events Copel provides guidance to the public in an educational manner, through the use of games and the Energy Efficiency VAN, regarding the conscious and safe use of About the electricity, in addition to on-site customer service to the population, in order to facilitate access to services and answer questions. Some examples of practices that occurred in 2015: Report • UPS Cidadania (in Curitiba, in the districts of Parolim, CIC, Tatuquara); • Prefeitura no Bairro (Municipality of Colombo); Relevant • Paraná Cidadão (in the Municipality of Almirante Tamandaré); Aspects • Minha Casa Minha Vida (in the Municipality of Araucária). Copel has several Indigenous communities in its concession area and assures this group the right to a differentiated rate benefit provided for in the TSEE (Social Electricity Rate). In 2015, a total of 669 consumer units of Indigenous people were included in the Social Electricity Rate Low Income. Seeking to facilitate access to electricity, Copel developed the service project with photovoltaic energy, produced by panels that generate electricity from solar radiation, taking Message from energy to the Indigenous lands of Sambaquí, Cerco Grande, Cotinga, and Shangri-lá. the CEO Special needs Copel offers blind consumers the possibility to receive their energy bills in Braille. The request can be made directly in the agencies and personalized service stations or via 0800 51 00 116. Currently, about 100 bills are issued monthly. Sector Copel Distribuição has 81.7% of agencies and customer service stations architecturally adapted for people with disabilities. Copel’s website is adapted for access to people with visual impairment. Context Additionally, Copel provides a customer service channel to the community (Ombudsman’s Office) which works toward preservation of values such as transparency, equality and fairness in addressing issues that involve all stakeholders in the company’s businesses. Access is facilitated via website, toll-free and on-site. Profile Consumer Health and Safety About Copel Accidents and fatalities 2013 2014 2015 Governance G4-EU25 Number of accidents and fatalities for users of the service involving Number of accidents for users of the service 27 31 29 company assets, including decisions and legal agreements, in addition to Sustainability Management Number of fatalities for users of the service 10 8 13 court cases pending relating to diseases. Number of cases related to health and safety, including diseases and members of the Performance in Capitals 0 0 3 audiences affected in trials and potential risks associated Human Acess Capital G4-EU23 Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve or maintain access to electricity and customer support services, as 36, 79 1, 2, 7 Intellectual well as to is safe use Capital G4-EU26 Percentage of the population not served in areas with regulated Copel serves 100% of the population in its concession area. There are requests for new connections that will be attended to within the distribution or service regulatory time limits. Social and Relationship Capital Number of consumer units disconnected by time between disconnection and payment 2015 agreement Natural Capital Less than 48 hours 232,716 Infrastructure Between 48 hours and one week 41,852 Capital Between one week and one month 54,293 Between one month and one year 51,069 Financial Capital G4-EU27 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken down by duration of disconnection and by regulatory regime Over one year 0 Social Audit Number of consumer units disconnected by total time between payment agreement 2015 GRI Content Index Less than 24 hours 268,742 Between 24 hours and 48 hours 11,702 Assurance Report 74 Between 48 hours and 72 hours 17,004 Over 7 days 34,250 Annex G4-EU28 Frequency of interruptions in power supply (FEC). 52 G4-EU29 Average duration of interruptions in energy supply (DEC). 52 G4-EU30 Average plant availability, broken down by energy source and regu53 latory system 06 Assurance Report About the Report Relevant Aspects Message from the CEO Sector Context Profile About Copel Governance Sustainability Management Performance in Capitals Human Capital Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital Infrastructure Capital Financial Capital Social Audit GRI Content Index Assurance Report Annex 76 06 Assurance Report About the Report Relevant Aspects Message from the CEO Sector Context Profile About Copel Governance Sustainability Management Performance in Capitals Human Capital Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital Infrastructure Capital Financial Capital Social Audit GRI Content Index Assurance Report Annex 77 07 ANNEX Annex Incorporation of the Global Compact Principles G4-15, G4-16, EU23 The Company ratifies its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and presents below its Communication on Progress (COP), in which it specifies the About the initiatives developed to implement the Global Compact principles in its operations. Throughout the publication of which this annex is a part, we also present the Report results of these initiatives and the progress of its commitments throughout 2014, which can be found in the GRI indicators reported by Copel. Relevant Aspects Principles of the Global Compact Message from RESPECT and support the SUPPORT freedom of ERADICATE effectively all ASSUME a responsible and ENCOURAGE the development and the CEO internationally recognized human association and recognize forms of child labor from proactive preventive approach to dissemination of environmentally rights in its area of influence the right to collective its production chain environmental challenges responsible technologies bargaining Sector Context Profile ENSURE the company’s nonELIMINATE all forms of forced STIMULATE practices DEVELOP initiatives and FIGHT corruption in all its participation in violation of or compulsory labor that eliminate any kind of practices to promote and forms, including extortion and About Copel human rights discrimination in employment disseminate social and bribery environmental responsibility Governance Sustainability Management Performance in Capitals PROJECTS / PROGRAMS / MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS / Date PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT PARTICIPATIONS AND POLICIES Start / End Human Policies and Management Systems Capital Adherence to voluntary commitments in an effort to promote sustainability, ethical conduct and best practices in corporate Intellectual Various / governance: Global Compact, Call to Action Statement for Governments in Fighting Corruption, Business Pact for Integrity 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Undetermined Capital and Against Corruption and Principles for Sustainable Executive Education (PRME). Corporate contribution to Promotion of Green and Inclusive Economy: Actions for a more inclusive economy, which 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 2012 / Social and contributes to tacking the major challenges in sustainability. Undetermined Relationship Management for Sustainability in the Supply Chain: Aims to contribute to the development of suppliers, establishing 2008 / Capital parameters linked to sustainability, proposing actions that promote and strengthen best practices throughout the supply chain. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Undetermined Our Energy Program associates new opportunities in terms of career development, remuneration, and personal development 2013 / Natural Capital with performance. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Undetermined Infrastructure 2003 / Ethical Guidance Council – analyzes and provides guidance on processes related to ethical conduct in the Company. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Undetermined Capital Committee for the Analysis of Reports on Psychological Harassment aims to assess reports on psychological harassment in 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 2009 / Financial Capital labor relations within the Company. Undetermined Diversity Program: Implementation of the Action Plan and certification for the 5th Edition of the Pro-gender and Race Equity 2007 / Social Audit Program of the Department of Policies for Women. 1 2 3 4 5 6 2017 GRI Content Index Internal Social and Environmental Committees – CISAS: Act as multipliers of sustainability concepts, enabling the 2014 / identification of problem situations in the social and environmental aspect, strengthening the relationship with stakeholders. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Undetermined Assurance Copel's Corporate University – UniCopel: Implementation of Educational Planning and management of the Leadership 2012 / Report Development Programs, Postgraduate, Master's and Doctoral degrees, and Languages. 1 2 7 8 9 10 Undetermined Corporate Management Program on Climate Change: Aims to discuss and deliberate actions associated with the study of the 1 2 7 8 9 2011 / Annex effects of climate change, implementation of Copel's Climate Change policy, and voluntary commitments undertaken. Undetermined Support to Public Policies and Management Improvement 79 2000 / Participation in the Brazilian Global Compact Committee. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Undetermined 07 ANNEX Participation in organizations in the electrical industry that discuss and promote energy efficiency and environmental improvements: Brazilian Assoc. of Electric Utilities, Energy Planning Company, Independent Energy Producers Assoc., the Environmental Committee of Cigrè, Brazilian Assoc. of Power Generation Companies, Brazilian Assoc. of Power Distribution 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Various / Undetermined Companies, Brazilian Assoc. of Large Power Transmission Companies, Brazilian Com. of Large Dams, Regional Council of Engineering, Architecture and Agronomy of the State of Paraná, FUNCOGE. Participation in associations that discuss and promote environmental improvements: Agenda 21 Forum of the State of Paraná, Federation of industries of Paraná, Interinstitutional Committee for Environmental Education of the Environmental Education About the Program, Watershed Committee of the State of Paraná, the Environmental Committee of Cigrè, Regional Council of Engineering, 7 8 9 Various / Undetermined Architecture and Agronomy of the State of Paraná, Waste and Citizenship Forum Pr, Climate Change Forum of the State of Report Paraná, Environmental Committees of the Public Prosecutor’s Office Pr. Relevant Participation in the Corporate Citizenship Council of the State of Paraná CPCE, for joint promotion of social responsibility in 2005 / the State of Paraná. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Undetermined Aspects Voluntary participation in the Competitive Paraná Movement and in examining panels of awards: Nacional da Qualidade, 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 2000 / Message from MPE Brasil, and Paranaense da Qualidade em Gestão. Undetermined the CEO Integrated Management of Water and Soil Copel, Sanepar, and of State Departments, to create synergy of actions carried 2010 / out, in its field of activity, in the context of watersheds, with the purpose of improving the quality and availability of water by 1 2 7 8 9 Undetermined Sector perfecting the use, management, and proper conservation of soil, water, and forests. Context A founding member of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program: Copel conducts and publishes annually the accounting report of 2008 / 1 2 7 8 9 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Undetermined Profile Programs, Projects, and Social and Environmental Actions About Copel Program to collect donations to charities and social service institutions, non-profit and of collective interest, through the energy 1999 / bill. To apply, the entity must be welfare-oriented or be of collective interest, nonprofit, and submit the required documentation. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Undetermined Governance Annual donation, through tax incentives, to Fund for the Rights of Children and Adolescents – FIA, Rouanet Act, Elderly Act, 2006 / Incentive to Sports Act, PRONON, PRONAS 1 2 5 Undetermined Sustainability Management Corporate Volunteer Program EletriCidadania: the program allows employees to use up to 4 hours/month for performing 2001 / volunteer work. 1 2 4 5 7 8 Undetermined Performance in Capitals Program Cultivating Energy: Aims to implement community gardens in the buffer areas of Copel's power networks, in partner1 7 8 9 2009 / Human ship with municipal administrations and associations of residents. Undetermined Capital Corporate Accessibility Program: Aims to make the company rigorously adapted in terms of accessibility issues, implementation 2007 / of technological resources, and provision of training and educational campaigns, so that audiences with specific accessibility 1 2 6 Intellectual Undetermined needs have full access to its facilities, information, and services. Capital Eco-Efficiency Program – ECOPEL: Aims to concentrate the various eco-efficiency initiatives developed by Copel into one pro2014 / Social and gram that operates as a hub, interconnecting them, strengthening them, empowering them, and enabling new forms of opera7 8 9 Undetermined tion. Relationship Education for Sustainability Program: aims to train and develop professionals, formal and informal leaders of Copel, in sustain2011/ Capital ability-related issues. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Undetermined Natural Capital Copel's Seminar on Social and Environmental Best Practices the initiative aims to promote projects and social and environ2009/ mental practices. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Undetermined Infrastructure Susie Pontarolli Sustainability Award aims to recognize and support initiatives aimed at contributing to the promotion of 2012 / Capital sustainable development and quality of life. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Undetermined Luz Fraterna Program: Program of the Government of the State of Paraná that makes payment of consumer bills registered in 2003 / Financial Capital the Social Electricity Rate, provided that consumption does not exceed 120 kWh. 1 2 4 5 10 Undetermined Universalization of energy Program Light for All : Since its inception, the program has benefited more than 400,000 people Social Audit 2004 / in Paraná, through the connection of approximately 80,000 rural households, surpassing the goal initially established. The fifth 1 2 4 5 10 and last phase of the Program ended in December 2014, totaling more than R$ 500 million invested. 2014 GRI Content Index Program Live Well Paraná: in partnership with the Housing Company of Paraná Cohapar housing program for families with 2003/ Assurance monthly income of up to six national minimum wages. 1 2 4 5 10 Undetermined Report Rural Nighttime Rate Program: incentive to increased agricultural production, to poultry and pig farmers, through discount pric2007 / es for consumer units classified as rural, served in low voltage. 1 2 4 5 8 Undetermined Annex Nighttime Irrigation Program: incentive to use irrigation to increase agricultural and poultry production and improve quality of 2003 / 1 2 8 80 life in rural areas. Subsidized rates and equipment to rural consumers. Undetermined Paraná in Action: program promoted by the Special Department for Community Relations, with the objective of offering free 2003/ services that promote citizenship and social inclusion. Copel participates by providing customer service and guidelines for safe 1 2 4 5 6 10 Undetermined and efficient use of electricity. Paraná Digital Program: digital inclusion in public education, through connection of State schools to the Internet. In partnership 2003 / with the State Government / SEED, we take the Internet to schools, with priority to locations with low HDI. Today, there 2,210 1 2 4 5 6 10 Undetermined State schools served by Paraná Digital. 07 ANNEX Paraná Connected Program: the initiative foresees fiber optic internet access at affordable prices and speed of 1 Mbps, and intercon2003 / nects public buildings to Copel’s fiber optics, allowing for greater speed and reliability of browsing to government agencies. 1 2 4 5 6 10 Undetermined State Broadband Plan PEBL: aims to disseminate affordable Internet access to all municipalities of Paraná sell communication 2010 / services to providers and municipalities that join the plan and that, on the other hand assume the commitment of providing 1 2 4 5 6 10 Undetermined affordable Internet service. Social Electricity Rate: Established through Law No 10,438/2002, discounts are offered on electricity consumption up to 220 kWh, to families registered in the Single Register of Social Programs from the Federal Government, provided the other criteria 1 2 4 5 10 2002 / About the Undetermined laid out in ANEEL Resolution No. 414/2010 are observed. Report More than Energy Project: Implementation, expansion and consolidation of social investment projects and programs for the 2014 / community. In 2015, the funds were geared toward supporting institutions and schools that assist the deaf and/or deaf and blind. 1 2 7 8 9 Undetermined Relevant Aspects Smart Grid Project: Installation of 2,000 telemetry points in the urban area of Curitiba and 1,000 points in the rural area of 2015 / Colombo and Bocaiúva do Sul; reading is carried out every hour enabling error detection, power outage, and reading for billing 1 2 7 8 9 without traveling. Undetermined Message from Project Illuminating Generations: Lectures to fourth-grade students from public schools, of informative and preventive nature 1970 / the CEO regarding the conscious and safe use of electricity, use of natural resources (energy and water) and correct disposal of waste. 1 2 7 8 9 Undetermined Sector Program + Clic Rural: Improving the quality of electric power supply in rural areas, with a focus on farming activities integrated 2015 / Context with productive processes sensitive to interruptions. 1 2 7 8 9 Undetermined Sympathetic Bill: Incentive to customers who opt for receiving the bill by email; at each registration, Copel donates R$ 1.00 to 1 2 7 8 9 2015 / Profile the APAE institutions in the State of Paraná . Indeterminado 2015 / About Copel PrevenCão: Awareness of the population about the importance of caring for pets to prevent accidents. 1 2 7 8 9 Undetermined Governance Energy Efficiency Program: Geared toward the efficient use of electricity in residential, industrial, trade, and public schools 2000 / installations located in Copel’s concession area. 1 2 7 8 9 Undetermined Sustainability Management Program for Integrated Actions for Development and Citizenship UPS Citizenship: Integrated actions for urban development and social promotion, and recovery of citizenship are carried out in the areas of installation of the Safe Paraná units 1 2 7 8 9 2013 / Performance in Capitals (UPS). The initiative is developed in partnership with agencies and entities of the Federal, State, and Municipal administration, Undetermined and civil society, contributing to improving public safety and local social and economic development. Human Program for Monitoring and Repopulation of Fish Fauna Aims to monitor and repopulate the Company’s reservoirs and the 7 8 9 1993 / Capital rivers where Copel’s projects have some influence. Undetermined 2006 / Intellectual Corporate Waste Management Program: Aims to reduce, reuse, measure, and monitor the solid waste generated by the Company. 7 8 9 Undetermined Capital Riparian Woods Program: Aims to recover natural environments surrounding the reservoirs of Plants and other areas of interest 2006 / to the Company. 7 8 9 Undetermined Social and Relationship Experimental Station for Ichthyological Studies: Study and reproduce species suitable for repopulation of rivers and reservoirs 1992 / 7 8 9 Capital in Paraná. Undetermined Control of invasive and/or exotic species: Monitoring and control of invasive and/or exotic species of wildlife and flora. 7 8 9 2000 / Natural Capital Undetermined 1999 / Infrastructure Recovery of degraded areas: Monitoring and recovery of degraded areas. 7 8 9 Undetermined Capital 1973 / Forest Gardens: Its objective is the production of seedlings suitable for use by other Company programs. 7 8 9 Undetermined Financial Capital Botanical Garden: aims at conservation and research of plant species and housing collections of exotic ornamental plants. 7 8 9 2010 / Social Audit Undetermined Corporate Management Program on Climate Change: Aims to develop strategies, propose goals and corporate indicators to 2007 / GRI Content Index address the commitments of Copel’s Climate Change Agenda. 7 8 9 Undetermined Iguaçu Regional Museum: Presents the social, cultural and environmental characteristics of the populations who have occupied Assurance 2000 / Report the banks of the Iguaçu River. It holds the collection from the Archaeological Salvage programs and from the Cultural and 7 8 9 Undetermined Scientific Exploitation Memory of Flora and Wildlife in the implementation of the Ney Braga Hydroelectric Plant. Urban Forests Program: Assists municipalities in adjusting afforestation in order to have peaceful coexistence between trees 2008 / Annex and power distribution networks. 7 8 9 Undetermined Learn more at: www.unglobalcompact.org. 81
