Making things better Pentland Group Corporate Responsibility review 2015 Contents Introduction 1 Explaining who we are and what corporate responsibility means to us 02 Sustainable products 2 Reducing the impact of our products across our supply chain 18 Ethical trade 3 Conducting business ethically and fairly, respecting everyone involved in making our products 34 Operations 4 Reducing any harmful impacts of our business operations and creating a great place to work 46 5 Charity and community Contributing positively to the communities in which we operate 56 UN Global Compact: Ten Principles 6 Reporting in line with the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles 65 Pentland Brands 1 Introduction Who we are and what corporate responsibility means to us 01 02 Pentland Brands Pentland Brands 2015 Highlights This page summarises some of the year’s key achievements. Sustainable products Ethical trade Operations Charity and community 1/3 We reduced We started supporting g r eenhouse g a s emissions b y berghaus’ Autumn / 7% w inte r 2 0 1 6 r a nge Pentland is a th r ee ne w will have MadeKind swing tags – they let the ch a r it y p a r tne r s f oun d ing membe r o f A C T consumer know that products have been designed for the next three years, voted for by with sustainability in mind an industry body focused on paying living wages year on year Pentland Brands employees 90% 29 87 % 100% r e d uction in z e r o of lacoste’s & to l e r a nce issues We used berghaus’ leather te a ms p a r ticip a te d compared with 2014 1 0 0 % r ene w a b l e ene r g y in gi v e b a c k d a y came from Leather Working Group medal-rated tanneries at Pentland Brands sites across the UK – a day of volunteering in the community 23,203 675 workers at supp l ie r f a cto r ies We sent B e r gh a us We d on a te d su r p l us in Southeast Asia are covered z e r o w a ste p r o d ucts to 6 7 5 ch a r ities was the first British brand to sign up to bluesign®, a system that aims to eliminate harmful by the Better Work programme to landfill at Pentland Brands HQ, the Glover through our partnership chemicals from the supply chain Distribution Centre and Berghaus HQ with In Kind Direct 46% 88% mit r e of our spend is with o f ou r emp l o y ees We were awarded a launched the Promax ball, made v en d o r s w e h a v e said Pentland Brands is a S i l v e r Q u a l it y M a r k with recycled plastic w o r k e d w ith f o r mo r e Great Place to Work® th a n 1 0 y e a r s for Payroll Giving 03 04 Introduction Introduction 1.1 Continuously evolving What do we mean when we our approach talk about sustainability? For us, sustainability is about avoiding damage to the natural world and human communities. If the planet and its people suffer, our business suffers too. So we aim to grow in a way that respects nature and society. Building a sustainable A note from our Chairman I’m pleased to share that we’re making We launched the Pentland great progress and we’re continuing to build Centre for Sustainability in business has never been sustainability into the way we source, design, Business at Lancaster University more important. It’s also Our journey in 2015 manufacture and sell our products. This research unit brings together the the right thing to do, and The context for corporate responsibility best minds in science and business to We are proud that Berghaus extended its explore sustainable our stakeholders expect it. changed considerably in 2015 and the ways of working. ColourKind range, which is made using 89% UN Climate Change Conference, COP21, less water and 62% fewer CO2 emissions. It focuses on six areas: agreed to limit the rise in global temperatures The brand also offers a repair service, to help to less than two degrees centigrade. • Ethical supply chains people enjoy their products for longer. (See • Food, energy and water issues page 32 for more.) • Ecosystems risk Building a sustainable business has never • Sustainable lifestyles and cities been more important. It’s also the right thing • Sustainable soils and land use Our partnerships with universities went from to do, and our stakeholders expect it. • Scaling up business solutions strength to strength. In 2015, we launched They demand consistently high standards, the Pentland Centre for Sustainability in and are increasingly concerned with the We partnered with UCL to fund Business at Lancaster University. This impacts we have across the whole supply a Public Policy Scholarship new research centre explores robust and chain – from the raw materials we use to We’ve had an ethical trade team for nearly As our journey continues, I’m delighted to responsible business models. We’ll look consumer products we sell. 20 years. But today’s challenges cannot be renew our commitment to the UN Global We launched the Pentland carefully at what it discovers and evolve our Scholarship with UCL, offering a fully approach accordingly. We also continued to tackled by one organisation alone. That’s why, Compact, its Ten Principles and the new funded Global Public Policy masters This year we have aligned our strategy with in 2015, we joined the ACT collaboration. This Sustainable Development Goals. to students from the southern work on human rights with the UCL School the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. collective of governments, unions and suppliers hemisphere to study at UCL, NYU of Public Policy. and Pentland. We’ve also set out aspirations across our lobbies for living wages to be paid in the apparel They will guide us through exciting times. four focus areas, and highlighted key and footwear supply chain. (More about this A key area for Pentland is our ethical supply achievements to date. and our other partnerships on page 16.) R. Stephen Rubin Reporting in line with the UN chain. This is highly relevant, given how Chairman Global Compact Ten Principles much footwear and apparel is made in the developing world. Pentland was an early Nearer home, it’s great to know that Pentland Pentland Group If you want to see how our activities mover here. Brands was ranked the eighth best large UK align with the UN Global Compact, company to work for by the Great Place to see page 65. Work® Institute. The organisation subsequently recognised us as the 18th best large workplace in Europe. 05 06 Introduction Introduction 1.2 Who we are We’re in business to Pentland Group plc pentland brands About this report build great brands and This report provides an overview make great products for A family business of activities that relate to Pentland people to love, generation Group plc and its three Pentland Group plc is a family-owned, global after generation. management company. We have wholesale business areas. * * and retail businesses across many different It focuses especially on Pentland products and countries. * Brands – as this is where we have most opportunity to influence As a family business with family values, * Footwear Licensee positive change across the honesty, fairness, respect and hard work supply chain. JD Sports Fashion run through everything we do. plc, of which we own 58%, also J D S ports F as h ion plc has a large footprint. You can Our three divisions find more information about its activities in its combined annual Pentland Brands report. We refer to its report throughout this review. Our brand management division, Pentland Brands, is made up of 13 world-class sports, We consider the impact of these outdoor and fashion brands. brands in terms of how products are sourced, designed, manufactured, JD Sports Fashion plc distributed, used and disposed Our retail division comprises JD Sports I n v estments and of. We understand that it is Fashion plc, one of Europe’s leading retailers trading subsidiaries impossible to directly control of aspirational branded sportswear, fashion everything, so this report includes wear and outdoor clothing and equipment. many examples of how we’ve We hold a 58% share in the company, which worked with suppliers, customers has approximately 1,000 outlets. and consumers to make progress, using information obtained mainly Investments from Pentland Brands. We also invest in other businesses across L eft a variety of industries. D etail from our h istory wall 07 08 Introduction Pentland Brands 1.3 Why corporate responsibility matters In 2015 ‘Earth O v e r shoot Meanwhile, the planet’s popu l a tion 1 9 in people are continues to grow un d e r nou r ishe d D ay ’ came on 1 3 A ugust ( earlier t h an e v er before ) meaning the world consumed a year’s from seven billion in 2011 to a projected worth of renewable natural resources The social and environmental Our business depends on natural resources such as water, energy, leather, rubber and Operating our business responsibly and sustainably means we can reduce the impact 9.5 bi l l ion and 1/5 of adults will be 8 2050 2025 in just cotton to produce and transport our products. of regulation, enhance our reputation, remain a context we operate months BY obes E by Increasing population and consumption levels Great Place to Work®, improve how consumers in is always changing. are driving up competition for these vital see our brands, and continue to deliver a natural resources. Without them, we simply financial return on investment. cannot sustain our business. SOURCE: Global Footprint Network SOURCE: The United Nations SOURCE: UN World Food Programme & Lancet Medical Journal (respectively) I n just 45 years 12 % of the world In response to these challenges, the UN has established between 1990 and 2035 1 7 S ust a in a b l e De v e l opment Goals It expects member states to meet these goals over the next 15 years w o r l d ene r g y consumption still live in is expected to have e x t r eme d oub l e d po v e r t y We have identified those where we can make the biggest contribution, and we’re using SOURCE: BP Global Energy Outlook SOURCE: World Bank these to shape our future strategy 09 10 Introduction Pentland Brands 1.4 Considering our impact from beginning to end Raw materials Materials Manufacture and chemicals and components and assembly I mportant issues I mportant issues I mportant issues Long-term security of raw material supply, farmer Worker wellbeing, harmful substances, local Long-term working relationships, worker wellbeing, Our environmental livelihoods and wellbeing, local environmental environmental impact, energy use and greenhouse environmental impact and harmful substances impacts, harmful substances, energy use and gas emissions and social footprint greenhouse gas emissions goes beyond our own E x ample acti v ities E x ample acti v ities E x ample acti v ities activities. From growing • Berghaus uses 100% ‘Responsible Down Standard • Lacoste and Berghaus source 90% of leather from • 111 factory audits carried out to make sure the cotton and rearing cattle Certified’ down Leather Working Group medal-rated tanneries factories are meeting ethical trading standards to reducing landfill, there • A number of Speedo swimming products – including its Pinnacle water shorts – are made using • Berghaus’ ColourKind range uses new dyeing techniques to reduce water and greenhouse gases • 23,203 workers in Vietnam, Cambodia and Indonesia are now covered by the Better Work programme to are many ways that we recycled polyester empower workers and improve working conditions can make our supply chain more sustainable. Brand management Retail Consumer use operations and end of use I mportant issues I mportant issues I mportant issues Sustainable design principles, efficient use of resources, Efficient use of resources, energy and greenhouse gas Product quality and longevity, waste going to landfill energy and greenhouse gas emissions and providing a emissions, providing a great place to work and helping and efficient use of resources great place to work consumers to support sustainability E x ample acti v ities E x ample acti v ities E x ample acti v ities • We use 100% renewable energy across our UK sites • JD stores’ bags are made from 33% recycled • We donated surplus stock that would previously • We were ranked eighth best large-sized company in material and contain a special ‘oxo-biodegradable have gone to landfill to 675 charities the Great Place to Work® index 2015 additive’, which means they decompose fully in a • Berghaus provides a lifetime guarantee repair service • We launched three new global charity partnerships relatively short time 11 12 Introduction 1.5 Our strategy Sustainable Ethical trade Operations Charity and We have four pillars Management and governance products community that guide our efforts Our standards and policies guide the way to make our business we work. They also provide a template for more sustainable. They our employees and suppliers. They include W e will continue W e will continue W e will continue W e will continue to reduce t h e to conduct business to reduce any h armful to contribute make sure we go beyond guidance on how to do business ethically impact of our et h ically and fairly impacts of our positi v ely to t h e with integrity and with respect for our the boundaries of our stakeholders, and include our standards products across wit h respect for business operations communities in our supply c h ain e v eryone in v olv ed and create a great w h ic h we operate business and contribute on anti-bribery. in ma k ing our place to wor k to the UN Sustainable products We require all Group companies for which we Development Goals. hold 50% or more of the share capital to align with these policies and procedures. Our central CR team sets standards, monitors focus areas focus area S focus area S focus area S compliance and drives our strategic approach. It is supported by CR specialists in our business units and brands. We all learn from each other by sharing information. Responsible sourcing Protecting workers’ rights Reducing our impact Global charity and product design on climate change partnerships Every year, our brands measure their CR Living wages performance using our Corporate Responsibility Chemical management Using resources Volunteering and giving Scorecard. It ensures their activities are in line All new starters receive training that sets out responsibly and efficiently back to local communities with good practice. our CR priorities and shows what we expect Anti-modern slavery of people and suppliers. In 2016 we plan to Consumer engagement launch specific training reflecting new legislation Attracting and keeping Product donations Monitoring and improving to help to continue to identify and prevent the best people Traceability factory standards modern slavery. Product end-of-life 13 14 Introduction Introduction Pentland Brands 1.6 Partnerships UCL ACT Living Wages Oeko-tex® We started working with UCL to offer a Action, Collaboration, Transformation Oeko-tex® is an auditing and testing system Global Public Policy masters scholarship. (ACT) brings together brands and retailers, for detecting harmful chemicals in the and collaborations The programme offers talented young professionals from the southern hemisphere a chance to study at two of the world’s top manufacturers and trade unions to address the issue of living wages in the textile and garment supply chain. We were a founding supply chain. All Speedo swimwear abides by the Oeko-tex® 100 standard. (See more on page 26.) universities – with teaching split between member. ACT launched in Cambodia UCL and NYU – as well as an internship in 2015, and its members, met with the with Pentland. (See page 54 for more.) Cambodian Government and other key Better Work stakeholders including trade unions, This scheme aims to achieve lasting suppliers, and the ILO, to discuss how improvements to working conditions while The Pentland Centre for industry-wide collective bargaining could be creating a more profitable business model Sustainability in Business applied to Cambodia’s garment industry. for factories. In 2015, we collaborated with Working with industry In 2015, we launched the Pentland Centre Better Work in nine factories, across groups, academic with Lancaster University. The centre tasks Vietnam, Cambodia and Indonesia. Responsible Down Standard institutions and businesses and academics to find practical (See more on page 41.) solutions to real-world problems. This body defines a standard that non-governmental companies can use to certify that the organisations means we down in their products has been sourced WFSGI The Sustainable Apparel Coalition are aware of best practice responsibly. In 2015, we designed our The World Federation of the Sporting This is an industry alliance that focuses Berghaus Autumn / Winter 2016 collection Goods Industry (WFSGI) is an independent and we can make positive which will use 100% RDS certified down. on sustainable products in the apparel, non-profit association, representing the change happen at scale. footwear and home textile industries. In (See page 21 for more.) global sporting goods industry. It helps 2015, some of our brands started to use the industry work together to promote their Higg Index ‘brand module’ tools to responsible business practices and encourage AFIRM Group find ways to improve. This included piloting more people to become involved in sport. the ‘rapid design module’ to assess the AFIRM exists to reduce the use and impact Pentland Group Chairman Stephen Rubin environmental footprint of three high-profile of harmful substances in the apparel and is Honorary President of the WFSGI and footwear styles. footwear supply chain. In 2015, AFIRM Pentland Brands’ Chairman Andy Rubin members produced an AFIRM restricted is European Vice President and an active substance list (RSL) that has been board member. The Ethical Trade Initiative requested by the supply chain. We often The Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI) is an share factories with other brands, so having a single RSL makes it easier to monitor SGFI and ETI alliance of companies, trade unions and voluntary organisations collaborating to restricted substances. We worked with the Sports Goods improve the lives of workers. We were a Foundation of India (SGFI) and the Ethical founding member. Trade Initiative’s Delhi Office to set up bluesign® system localised community centre working for The bluesign® system aims to eliminate homeworkers in northern India. This has The Leather Working Group dangerous chemicals from supply chains. It given homeworkers more opportunity to The Leather Working Group (LWG) aims checks for environmentally friendly and safe formalise their terms of employment and to promote sustainable business practices production standards. In 2015, Berghaus provided safe and local places for them to in the leather industry. In 2015 we grew the became the first British brand to join the obtain regular work. volumes of LWG certified leather sourced bluesign® system. (See page 26 for more.) for our Lacoste and Berghaus footwear. (See page 19 for more.) 15 16 Pentland Brands Sustainable 2 products We will continue to reduce any harmful impact of our products across our supply chain 17 18 Sustainable products Pentland Brands 2.1 Responsible sourcing and product design Sourcing the materials We’ve teamed up with the 90% we use for our Leather Working Group products responsibly In 2015 of and sustainably. Why? lacoste ’ s & berg h aus ’ Leather is a critical material for shoe manufacture. We want to be sure that we’re L eat h er sourcing it responsibly and that tanneries provide a safe working environment that minimises harm to local environments was from L W G and workers go l d , si l v e r & bronze What have we achieved? medal rated P R O D U C E R S Pentland is a member of the Leather Working Group (LWG), an independent organisation that audits environmental standards in tanneries. o v er 50% of Lacoste’s leather was sourced from G O L D medal rated tanneries t h e h ig h est en v i r onment a l pe r f o r m a nce rating possible under this standard 19 20 Sustainable products Sustainable products We source Responsible Down Standard certified down w h ere does rds certified down come from ? Why? Down is unrivalled at producing warm, collector INDUSTRIAL lightweight outdoor clothing. But some D O W N C Hai N D O W N C Hai N production methods present animal welfare risks. What have we achieved? In early 2015, Berghaus, our primary user Households and small farms raise ducks of down, started working with the Responsible Industrial farms raise ducks and geese for personal consumption or and geese for their meat Down Standard (RDS). The Autumn / Winter sale in the local market 2016 range was made using 100% RDS certified down. RDS independently verifies that the down is traceable from the product in the shops back through to the hatching farms and that all feathers are collected as a by-product of the Collectors travel through from town to Farms deliver birds to the meat industry. They also check that animal town and collect the down and feathers slaughterhouse on trucks welfare has been respected, with no live that have been saved plucking and no force feeding, such as that We started mapping our rubber which often happens in foie gras production. and cotton supply chains Why? We use rubber to make durable shoe soles and Larger collectors pool the down and Slaughterhouses process the inners for balls. As global demand rises, we feathers from the smaller collectors birds for meat and feathers must continue to understand where our rubber comes from and how it has been produced. Around 90% of the world’s 100 million cotton farmers are in developing countries. Sourcing cotton in the right way can improve farmers’ health and livelihoods. Processors clean and sort based on quality and down / feather type. What have we achieved? The certified down is selected and used in the manufacture of our Berghaus product range In 2016, we will start to map our rubber and cotton supply chains, so we can understand the ultimate source. We also plan to develop a responsible materials sourcing standard. 21 22 Sustainable products Sustainable products B erg h aus partners h ip Berghaus partnered with Gore-tex® to extend its ColourKind range, which uses dyeing techniques that save on water and energy This process means we have water sa v ings OF We’re designing products with We’re reducing, reusing and 89% What have we achieved? Expanding our ColourKind range opposite page sustainability in mind recycling our packaging speedo pinnacle Berghaus partnered with Gore-Tex® to extend water s h orts made Our brands follow the ‘reduce, reuse, recycle’ using recycled its ColourKind range, which uses dyeing polyester principle where possible. In 2015, they took Why? techniques that save on water and energy. In Why? steps towards either reducing their packaging, fact, textile processing for ColourKind styles abo v e left and a significant reusing materials or recycling materials. As demand for our products increases, uses 89% less water, 63% fewer chemicals Packaging keeps products safe, stops 3 d printed soles reduction in pollutants we must produce them sustainably over and 62% less CO2 than traditional techniques. them getting damaged and catches the eye For example, Canterbury replaced the boxes which includes: the long term. of consumers. But it uses paper, cardboard it uses to transport protective wear with ziplock abo v e rig h t The range should save more than five million and plastic. Recycling prevents waste from our new speedo bags. Mitre made its e-commerce packaging goggle bo x es tonnes of water and 14.3 million tonnes of CO2. going to landfill. And using less packaging What have we achieved? 100% biodegradable. reduction can save us money. 62% in CO 2 Using recycled materials Making savings with 3D design and Meanwhile, Speedo redesigned its goggle rapid prototyping boxes – which represent 70% of its packaging A number of our brands use recycled materials. weight. In 2015, Speedo sold eight million pairs Several of our brands are exploring 3D design In 2015, we started to make our Mitre Promax of goggles. The new box is 100% recyclable, reduction and printing to make footwear and equipment ball with recycled plastic. It now uses less and all cardboard is from certified sources that 63% in more efficiently. This reduces how many chemic a l s energy to make and produces 47% fewer use sustainably managed forests. samples we need to manufacture and send. greenhouse gases. In 2015, we used the technology for Lacoste Speedo uses recycled materials too. In 2015, outsole design and development. One of reduction a number of swimming products – including 67% in COD* these Pinnacle water shorts – were made the designs we used this for was the iconic L12.12 shoe. We used 3D design and rapid using recycled polyester. prototyping to get the outsole construction right *Chemical oxygen demand – used to measure organic pollutants in waste water before the product went to the factory. 23 24 Sustainable products Sustainable products 2.2 Chemical management B erg h aus is t h e first B ritis h brand to join t h e bluesign ® system In 2015, Berghaus became the first British clothing brand to join the bluesign® system. It is designed to reduce harmful substances in the supply chain, by working with chemical suppliers, textile mills and component suppliers as well as with brands. Committing to removing We aim to eliminate We update it regularly to reflect changes in regulation and industry best practice. For harmful substances from harmful substances example, in 2015 we tested for the presence of our supply chain. Chrome VI in leather, following new legislation. Why? S peedo is accredited by O e k o te x ® AFIRM exists to reduce the use and impact All Speedo swimwear is accredited to the Oeko-tex® 100 standard. Currently, 20% of global industrial water of harmful substances in the apparel and So every product is designed, developed and delivered meeting strict pollution comes from the treatment and dyeing footwear supply chain. In 2015, AFIRM industry guidelines. of textiles. When we manage chemical use, we members produced an AFIRM restricted help protect consumers, factory workers and substance list (RSL) that has been requested communities living near factories. by the supply chain. We often share factories with other brands, so having a single RSL What have we achieved? makes it easier to monitor restricted substances. We plan to adopt this industry RSL from 2016. We give brands and suppliers the guidance Each season, our brands review their product M itre aims to be sol v ent free by 2 0 1 7 and systems they need to avoid the use of potentially harmful chemicals in manufacturing. ranges and identify the materials that might Mitre is aiming to switch solvent-based glues for water-based ones This includes our Restricted Substances List contain potentially harmful substances. We then across its entire range by 2017. It’s also using volatile organic compound(RSL), which details chemicals prohibited ask our factories to test those materials, and free inks on the Hyperseam ball range. These products are safer for sometimes test them again once the products factory workers and better for the environment. This includes the Delta either by law or our own policy. Hyperseam – the English Football League’s official match ball. have been delivered to us. Our quarterly Restricted Substances Network brings our brands together to discuss current issues and hear from experts. T esting J D suppliers All JD’s material, component and product suppliers must take part in compliance and testing programmes. JD also does its own due diligence testing. It has been developing a chemical compliance monitoring programme, which will begin in June 2016 with its top 10 suppliers in China and India. See the JD Sports Fashion annual report for more. 25 26 Sustainable products Sustainable products 2.3 Consumer W e pro v ide engagement recycled and decomposable plastic bags at J D 35% Helping consumers We’re helping consumers to use products with less harmful Around 35% of to understand the B erg h aus M ade k ind J D S ports bags environmental and impact on the environment credentials are high quality drawstring social impacts of the duffle bags, which customers products they buy, Why? tend to keep and reuse and use their products Consumers are increasingly interested in how more sustainably. the things they buy affect the environment. Some 64% of millennials would rather wear a socially conscious brand than a luxury brand. We make them from What have we achieved? 33% M ade using Berghaus’ consumers are especially interested colour k ind fabric recycled material in environmental issues. In 2015, Berghaus using a special launched its MadeKind consumer swing tag, ‘oxo-biodegradable additive’, which helps shoppers identify products that which means they decompose fully in a relatively short time have a smaller environmental footprint. The C ontains 5 0 % or more tag will be attached to products with at least recycled fabric one of the listed features opposite. M ade using more t h an 9 0 % bluesign ® appro v ed fabrics AROUND 60% of all JD plastic bags are made from C ertified wit h opposite page t h e R esponsible biodegradable D own S tandard material O ne t h ird of t h e berg h aus autumn winter 2 0 1 6 apparel range will h a v e t h e M adeKind label 27 28 Sustainable products Pentland Brands 2.4 Traceability We’ve mapped our major We’re taking even more steps to material and component understand where our products supply chains to tier two. come from Why? Knowing where our products originate gives us more control. If an issue occurs, we can identify the root cause and remedy it. Similarly, if we have a positive story to tell, we can attribute it to a particular range or product. What have we achieved? Tier one We have full visibility of our tier one suppliers (i.e. those that assemble our final products). In most cases they source materials and components directly. Tier two Tier three / four We have direct relationships with specialist We work with partners to trace the materials suppliers such as Gore-Tex®. We’ve mapped and chemicals used by these suppliers. For our major material and component supply example, tanneries that have gold medal chains to tier two. Looking ahead, we’ll use Leather Working Group standards can provide a product life-cycle management tool and a traceability by ensuring hides are marked with chemical testing management system to an identifying stamp at source. (See page 19 for give us a fuller picture. more information on the Leather Working Group.) 29 30 Sustainable products Pentland Brands 2.5 Product end-of-life In 2015, Mitre continued We gave products a second Donating surplus stock to people in need to investigate the lease of life We aim to avoid sending samples and feasibility of recycling surplus stock to landfill. It’s why we work with some of the materials in Why? organisations such as In Kind Direct and Africa Shoes. In 2015, 675 charities benefited from its footballs. Finding the best ways to reuse, recycle or donations from In Kind Direct. (See page 64 extend the life of our products is very important. for more.) It could make production more efficient, less reliant on raw materials and more sustainable over the long-term. And it will reduce landfill. What have we achieved? Closing the loop In 2015, Mitre looked into recycling the materials in its footballs with the Centre for Sustainable Manufacturing and Recycling Technologies. The results showed we could economically recycle and reuse latex bladders if it was on a very large scale. Reviving the spirit of the Rugby World Cup The Berghaus lifetime guarantee After the Rugby World Cup, Canterbury’s Brisbane office decided to donate old rugby Berghaus provides customers with advice on flags to Reverse Garbage QLD. This local how to keep technical kit performing better for ‘not-for-profit’ collects high quality industrial longer. It will replace or repair a product free of discards and sells them at low cost to the public, charge if it has a construction or quality issue. so they are not wasted. 31 32 Pentland Brands 3 Ethical trade We will continue to conduct business ethically and fairly with respect for everyone involved in making our products 33 34 Ethical trade Pentland Brands 3.1 Protecting workers’ rights Fostering long term We build long-term relationships relationships with with our suppliers proportion of our suppliers and working spend by factory with them to improve Why? relations h ip lengt h workers’ rights. It creates mutual benefits. Factories benefit from having a secure customer. It helps them to achieve higher production standards and conduct business in a way that’s consistent with our values. What have we achieved? We’ve worked with over half of our suppliers for five years, and a fifth for more than 10 years. Almost half of our spend is with factories we’ve worked with for over 10 years. less t h an 5 years 26% 5 – 9 years 27% 1 0 – 1 9 years 33% more t h an 2 0 years 14% 35 36 Pentland Brands pentland brands sourcing countries In 2015, approximately We’re committed to protecting Our standards 50,350 people benefited supply chain workers’ rights We expect all Pentland Brands’ manufacturers to from better working comply with our Code of Employment Standards conditions as a result Why? for Suppliers. This adheres to the ETI Base F actory count and spend in country teams * of improvement Code and International Labour Organization About 75 million people are employed in conventions, as well as regional legislation. programmes. textiles, clothing and footwear. Almost three count r y f a cto r y count spen d count r y f a cto r y count spen d count r y in count r y te a ms quarters of garment workers are female and We reviewed and updated our Code in 2014. Belgium 1 <1% 10 Pakistan 5 2% China 84 most live in developing countries. It requires manufacturers to ensure: Bosnia-Herz. 1 <1% 11 Portugal 3 2% 6 India 10 The jobs tend to be low-skilled and relatively • Living wages are paid Bulgaria 1 <1% 12 Romania 2 <1% 7 Indonesia 13 poorly paid. That’s why we partner with • Working hours are not excessive suppliers to continuously improve working • Working conditions are safe and hygienic Cambodia 4 1% 13 Sri Lanka 2 1% 16 Thailand 21 conditions and respect for workers’ rights. • Child labour is not used China 65 35% 14 Taiwan 5 <1% 19 Vietnam 37 • Employment is freely chosen • No discrimination is practised 6 India 16 6% 15 Thailand 8 25% * Our people on the ground working with, and in, our factories • There is no harsh or inhumane treatment 7 Indonesia 7 6% 16 Turkey 1 <1% • Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are respected 8 Japan 2 <1% 17 United Kingdom 6 <1% • Regular employment is provided 9 18 New Zealand 1 <1% Vietnam 19 20% • There is no unauthorised subcontracting 37 38 Pentland Brands Ethical trade F actory re v iew process B rea k down of v isits per country How do we categorise breaches We have a series of policies and processes to help us of our Code of Employment monitor and improve conditions at our factories. Standards for suppliers? CHINA 58% Zero tolerance An issue that has an unacceptable impact on worker rights or conditions. It could lead us to suspend or even end a supplier relationship if they do not immediately S t a r ting a r e l a tionship engage in sustainable improvement. J apan <1% Critical They must be approved An issue of serious concern that could turn We carry out a social audit We conducted 26 initial before our brands can place of new factories. audits in 2015. E urope 3% into a zero tolerance issue. any orders with them. sout h east asia new z ealand 23% <1% Minor Less significant breaches. Alone, they can be M onito r ing st a n d a r d s sout h asia 15% quickly tackled. But in clusters they can identify a need for improved management practices. Performance in 2015 We regularly re-audit In 2015, we made 51 factory every factory. visits as part of this process. F actory A ssessments by type • Zero tolerance issues reduced 87% on the previous year • Critical issues reduced 2% on the previous year ongoing • Minor issues increased 26% on the I M p r o v ing st a n d a r d s 40% re v iews previous year In the financial year 2015/16, JD Sports Fashion’s critical issues reduced to zero and If we find areas for improvement, we major and minor issues reduced by half. (To follow up make recommendations, agree an action plan We regularly invite an independent local find out more about ethical trade at JD, see audits 26% and follow up to check on progress. We encourage interviewer to join our visits and speak directly its Annual Report.) manufacturers to include workers in the process with factory employees about working conditions. and to consult them on the changes. In 2015, 59% of our factory visits included Since late 2013, we have been using the Fair In 2015, our in-house teams made 34 factory visits worker interviews and 12% of our visits had an Factories Clearinghouse (FFC) to store our to check up on improvement progress, understand independent local interviewer. factory assessment data. The system allows our the root causes and gauge the impact on workers. initial audits global teams to access and upload information ot h er 14% at any time, share our data with other brands, 20% assess risk and provide the right data to deliver effective improvement programmes. 39 40 Ethical trade Pentland Brands Working with Better Work We’re building stronger our partners h ip We partner with the Better Work programme, relationships with our licensees wit h better worK an International Labour Organization and International Finance Corporation initiative. Why? It makes ethical trade assessments and runs programmes to make sure factories Self-evidently, it’s harder to monitor standards We collaborated with meet labour standards. Better Work in in our licensees’ supply chains than in our own. Sometimes our licensees don’t have our In 2015: resources – their own ethical sourcing teams, • We collaborated with Better Work in for example. nine factories across Vietnam, Cambodia 9 factories and Indonesia • We estimate Better Work made a positive What are we doing? impact on over 23,203 workers in our across supply base We help licensees understand our expectations and adopt systems to monitor their supply Vietnam , Improving our assessment and chain standards. We’ve developed a labelling C ambodia and I ndonesia improvement processes system that provides transparency and security on licensee manufacturing factories, and We’ll keep refining our methods so we can discourages unauthorised sub-contracting. focus on the biggest risks. This will include developing a new assessment tool in 2016, Encouraging licensees to buy their products which we’ll use to classify all existing and new from suppliers that we use directly is another supplier relationships. way of improving control of factory standards. At Mitre, we are encouraging licensees to buy We’ll also include more worker interviews, so into core ranges supplied from their direct we can hear their needs and aspirations, and supply chain. check their experience at work matches the conditions observed during the audit. What’s next? We want to make our employee training We estimate that even better, with emphasis on improving the We know we can do more. We’ll work even Better Work made a capability of our in-country supply chain teams closer with our employees who manage in identifying risks and supporting factory licensees, so they can accurately explain our positi v e impact improvement programmes. standards and priorities – particularly around on over modern slavery. Using a new risk assessment 23,203 tool, we’ll be able to focus efforts on the supply chains which are highest risk. wor k ers We’ll also introduce production inspections in our supply base to check that products are made only in approved factories. Through this, we’ll better understand the challenges for each licensee, and work with their sourcing and supply teams to make improvements. 41 42 Ethical trade Ethical trade The UK Modern Slavery Act We welcome the new UK law that commits every company with £36 million or more in turnover to report on how it combats modern slavery in their supply chains. Pentland will produce its first statement in 2016. What is a living wage? We’re launching a new strategy We are starting to look deeper into our We support living wages ACT aims to improve wages by establishing abo v e and opposite supplier’s recruitment processes, interview collective bargaining in key garment and textile on modern slavery factory wor k ers It’s generally defined as a wage that in s h en z en greater numbers of those workers at risk and sourcing countries, supported by world-class covers basic needs and provides continue to be diligent in identification and Why? manufacturing standards and responsible some discretionary income. Defining a living wage exactly is challenging. Why? remediation. We are also developing specialist purchasing practices. We want our suppliers’ factories to provide It varies by region and by individual modern slavery modules to incorporate into our The United Nations reports that 27 million to rewarding employment. This includes paying situation – if a worker has a large existing training programme. In September, we were part of a delegation dependent family, for example. 30 million people are being forced into labour workers a fair wage, which is at least enough that put ACT’s case to the Cambodian – through violence, intimidation or more subtle to cover basic needs and provide some Our annual Modern Slavery reports will provide government. We also met leading civil society means, such as the need to repay a debt. They discretionary income. It’s complex, and not more detail on our diligence and include data organisations to gain insight into Cambodia’s are among the world’s most vulnerable people. something we can achieve alone. on any discoveries within our supply chains. social, economic and political challenges. What’s our approach? Having cross-industry standards and practices What have we achieved? is crucial. In February 2016, we held an event Human trafficking and modern slavery are at our London HQ – facilitated by labour rights In 2015, we were a founding member of ACT criminal acts that can be sophisticated and Consultancy Vérité – and attended by leading (Action, Collaboration, Transformation). It’s the difficult to detect. We are in the process textile, garment and retail brands. Attendees first initiative on living wages to bring together of widening and deepening the scope of discussed how to pool resources to develop international brands, retailers, manufacturers our existing supply chain monitoring to be common approaches. and trade unions. increasingly diligent and capable in detection. 43 44 Pentland Brands 4 Operations We will continue to reduce any harmful impact of our business operations and create a great place to work 45 46 Operations Operations 4.1 Reducing our impact on climate change bron z e energy award In 2015, our London HQ received a Mayor of London’s B usiness E nergy C h allenge bronze award In 2015, we reduced our We’re lowering our energy use group CO2 emissions by and emissions pentland group 7% compared with the C O 2 emissions previous reporting period. Why? It recognised our Preventing and adapting to climate change is a global challenge. For Pentland, extreme C O 2 emissions ( t o n n e s ) weather events could disrupt our business reduction in energy use and supply chain. Last year, the UN Climate 50,000 between 2010 and 2014 Change Conference, COP21, reached an international climate deal. This means companies can expect more regulation. 40,000 What have we achieved? 100% 30,000 All of our UK sites run on In 2015, we reduced our group CO2 emissions by 7% compared with the previous reporting 20,000 period – from 42,234 tonnes to 39,294 tonnes renewable energy – despite growing our sales. 10,000 Towards the end of 2015, we put in place schemes to reduce our energy use further. 0 We replaced the main boilers at our London We will keep searching for ways to save HQ, which should reduce gas use by 40%. energy. For example, we’re looking to make additions to our motion-sensitive lighting We also upgraded our surveillance systems to 2013 46,251 tonnes controls, which operate based on natural light use infrared night vision, so we can switch off levels and occupancy of the space. We’ve run 2014 42,234 tonnes external lighting at night. trials in offices and distribution centres, and 2015 39,294 tonnes have seen great results. JD Sports Fashion’s retail stores represent most of our environmental footprint. You can find out more about how they saved energy and greenhouse gas emissions in its Annual Report. 47 48 Operations Pentland Brands Taking action on energy and the environment Our Energy and Environment Committee includes representatives from each of our UK facilities. It meets quarterly to share best practice and collaborate on efficiency projects. In 2015, Canterbury created its own Energy and Environment Committee. It also worked with two of its supplier factories in China to establish energy saving controls. In 2015, Lacoste Chaussures UK asked all staff to make pledges to save carbon emissions. Over half took part, making 277 pledges which were estimated to save over 7,300 kg of CO2 – the equivalent of 15 flights from London to New York. “We wanted to enhance the culture by engaging the whole business and ensuring sustainability is at the forefront of decision making and everyday practice” Ernest Owusu-Bempah, Lacoste Chaussures Berghaus’ new, more sustainable home We recently refurbished our Berghaus HQ to make better use of natural light and air circulation. It uses motion-sensor switching and efficient bulbs to reduce electricity consumption. rig h t our new berg h aus h q 49 50 Operations 4.2 Using resources responsibly and efficiently Operations Pentland Brands 4.2 Using resources t h e 4 0 % by 2 0 2 0 c h allenge responsibly and efficiently W h at we ’ re aiming to ac h ie v e By 2020, we want to reduce our That means... 24 In 2015, a number of We’re reducing waste Launching Give Me Tap P A P E R usage by . . . our sites sent zero waste In 2015, we worked with the social enterprise to landfill. Why? ‘Give Me Tap’ to give everyone at our London fewer pages eac h wee k HQ a refillable metal water bottle. Using the Our operations use natural resources such as bottle instead of disposable cups saves paper per person water and paper. We have a responsibility to and plastic. Give Me Tap uses the proceeds to preserve them and to use them efficiently and fund clean water projects in Africa. to avoid sending waste materials to landfill, so we’re taking steps to reduce our impact. Waste not, want not We introduced food waste recycling at our What have we achieved? Speedo HQ in September 2015. The waste is taken to an anaerobic digestion facility to be In 2015, a number of our sites did not send any used as compost and a source of energy. w h at we can ac h ie v e waste to landfill. They include our London HQ, Glover distribution centre, Berghaus HQ and JD’s main UK distribution centre, Kingsway. If we make these small changes, we will save • Overall our sites created 367.28 tonnes 6,8 0 0 , 0 0 0 of waste – 64.63 less than last year. • Of this, 85% was either recycled or used to generate energy. pieces of paper 830 trees 51 52 Operations Operations 4.3 Attracting and keeping Nurturing the next generation of creative talent What is a NEWGEN designer? the best people We depend on creative people to design, develop and market great products. So we consistently give opportunities to young Every year the British Fashion Council supports a group of emerging young creative talent talent and we work hard to be a destination called the NEWGEN designers. for creative individuals. Our Design Pool Programme gives young designers work experience across a range of brands. In 2015, six young designers joined the programme. Three were offered full-time roles, and three will continue their contracts into 2016. In 2015, 88% of employees We’re continuing to make said Pentland was a great Pentland an employer of choice Two of our brands collaborated with NEWGEN Launching the Pentland Scholarship place to work. designers in 2015. Kickers unveiled its latest “It was such an inspiring In 2015, we worked with UCL to launch the collaboration at London Fashion Week with Why? Pentland Scholarship – a fully funded Global day at Pentland’s offices. NEWGEN designer Danielle Romeril. And Public Policy masters. The programme will Our business depends on the talent, creativity Red or Dead teamed up with NEWGEN help talented young professionals provide The Pol Roger theme designer Ashley Williams for its Autumn / inspired hundreds to and dedication of our people. We want them public policy leadership in the context of Winter 2016 range. to understand their unique value and how they contemporary governance. It will offer study submit their designs and contribute to our success. at UCL and NYU, followed by a placement there were competitors at Pentland. We aim to attract and keep the best people from all over the world. by letting them develop in a supportive and Each year the scholarship will be awarded to The winners demonstrated stimulating environment. someone from southern hemisphere who Training the leaders of tomorrow incredible awareness of doesn’t have the means to fund their own study We run three programmes for high-potential the objective and will be What have we achieved? but has the potential to improve governance people to maintain a strong pipeline of leaders and make a real difference in their own country. outstanding achievers in Every two years, Pentland Brands asks all its in the business. They are: The first scholarship was provided to a female their careers.” employees to complete a Great Place to Work® civil servant from Ethiopia. • The Future Leaders Programme for people Randolph Churchill Institute survey, which is independently audited. in the early stages of their careers Professor David Coen, Director of the Global In 2015, 88% of employees said Pentland is • The Emerging Leaders Programme for Governance Institute and UCL School of a great place to work – up 4% on 2014. mid-to-senior-level people currently in a Public Policy, met former President Bill Clinton The Churchill Award leadership role at the Clinton Global Initiative commitment We use the results from the survey to keep • The Strategic Leaders Programme for our The Churchill Award is a design competition announcement to celebrate the creation of improving. In 2015, we identified talent most senior leaders open to students and graduates and organised the scholarship. management, reward and communications by Pentland, the International Churchill Society as areas that we need to work on in 2016. 15 people completed the Future Leaders UK and ARTS THREAD. The brief in 2015 was opposite page Programme in 2015. The course provides to design a gift box and label for a magnum t h e future leaders programme opportunities to gain exposure and build strong of Pol Roger Brut Vintage 2006 champagne. networks. It takes place over a year, and The competition saw more international entries t h is page left covers everything from reflecting on your own than ever before – with admissions from Hong k ic k ers x danielle romeril personal style to being a better communicator Kong, Indonesia, the US and the UK. and bringing in learning from the outside world. t h is page rig h t professor da v id coen ( ucl ) wit h former president bill clinton 53 54 Pentland Brands 5 Charity and community We will continue to contribute positively to the communities in which we operate 55 56 Charity and community Pentland Brands 5.1 Global charity partnerships We totally revamped the We set up three global What have we achieved? way we support charities charity partnerships In 2014, we asked a group of our own emerging and local communities. leaders to select three charities across themes Why? that resonate with us as a business: Having a more strategic approach to giving Healthy Living – inspiring people to be means we can do better work, with a more more active; lasting impact. We want our employees to feel proud to work for us, so we gave them H e a l th y Li v ing C ommunit y S uppo r t ENVIRONMENT Community Support – empowering the opportunity to choose our charities. This disadvantaged people; and gives them a real stake in what we do. T h e clean water project E mpowering girls P rotecting t h e J a v an R h ino Environment – helping to preserve our in Kenya wit h t h e B ritis h in I ndia wit h I nternational in I ndonesia wit h W W F environment for future generations. R ed C ross I nspiration Setting up the JD Foundation In 2015, we asked everyone in the business This will give 2,700 people in rural Kenya access International Inspiration encourages people to think There are just 50–60 Javan rhinos left in the to vote for the specific projects they wanted to clean water. Half of all hospital attendances in differently about sport and the role of girls. The project world, all in one habitat in Indonesia. Our work with Over the past three years, JD has raised over the region are caused by illnesses contracted from we’re supporting provides a safe environment for WWF is creating a second habitat, so the species can £600,000 for local charities such as The Christie. to support. 70% voted, and the winning unsafe water. adolescent girls in India to learn life skills through avoid extinction. In 2015, it continued this work and set up the JD projects were: Kabaddi – a traditional Indian game. Foundation to focus on charities relevant to its target consumers. • The clean water project in Kenya with “If we had clean water our “The goal is to create a safe “Their existence as an iconic This year support will be given to: the British Red Cross • The Teenage Cancer Trust • Empowering girls in India with lives would improve so much. environment for girls to ancient animal that has survived • • Factory Zone Once Upon A Smile International Inspiration We wouldn’t get sick anymore.” develop in. In a patriarchal for more than 50,000 years is • The Retail Trust • Protecting the Javan rhino in Indonesia society, options for girls are something that Indonesians are In addition, the Foundation will redistribute with WWF Risper, mother from Bomet River extremely limited.” proud of, and something that the Community, Kenya a percentage of the bag tax to Environment WWF is striving to protect.” charities. We have already donated £278,235 to In 2016, we’ll focus on getting employees Poonam, Head of Programming Mountain Rescue in England, Scotland and Wales, and estimate we will donate another £180,000 involved in fundraising and keeping them at International Inspiration Ridwan, Rhino Monitoring by the end of this financial year. updated on the progress of our projects. Officer for WWF Indonesia See the JD Sports Fashion Annual Report for more information. 57 58 Charity and community Charity and community 5.2 Volunteering and giving back to local communities Our people volunteered We launched employee Helping the hungry in Hong Kong for 29 different charities Give Back days In Hong Kong the team supported Food around the world in 2015. Angel, a programme for turning surplus food Why? into nutritious meals for underprivileged communities. It also helped HK Paws, a rescue When we give employees time off to do centre for abused and abandoned dogs community work, they bond with their teams in a meaningful way. Helping people enjoy the great outdoors Our Lifestyle Division traded in its shiny shoes And, of course, it also helps us forge great for muddy boots volunteering for a day at relationships with local communities. Sweet Tree Farm in London. It gives vulnerable people a chance to enjoy the great outdoors. What have we achieved? Playing ‘soccergolf’ with young refugees In 2015, we launched Give Back Day – a day out of the office to volunteer for a local charity. The German Lacoste and Boxfresh teams Collectively, our people volunteered for 29 played ‘Soccergolf’ (a combination of an local charities around the world. 18-hole golf course and football) with young refugees from Afghanistan, Syria, Somalia We helped a variety of causes. Teams spent and Pakistan. time with people in hospices and orphanages, top left cleared landscapes for the enjoyment of local Supporting a local hospice t h e h ong k ong team communities, cared for animals in sanctuaries at h k paws Several teams volunteered for the North and prepared food for those less fortunate. London Hospice near our global HQ. The top rig h t Executive Team helped to send out their t h e lifestyle di v ision Christmas Appeal fundraising letters, while at sweet tree farm our Legal and IT teams helped spruce up their gardens and decorate inside. bottom L E F T t h e legal team at nort h london h ospice bottom L E F T ‘ soccergolf ’ in germany 59 60 Charity and community Charity and community 5.3 Brand-specific activities Speedo taught 4,370 Our brands support Canterbury also supported the All Schools Programme, which encourages state school children in India good causes children to play rugby union. In 2015, it life-saving swimming donated playing kit to 400 schools in England. skills and Canterbury Why? Speedo’s Swim Generation programme gives donated to 400 schools Many of our brands support causes that align people from disadvantaged backgrounds in England. with their own values. essential swimming skills. Through it: What have we achieved? • We taught 4,370 children in India life-saving swimming skills, and trained 17 people to Berghaus supported the John Muir Trust to keep teach these skills wild places unspoiled, restore damaged natural • We provided 87,400 free swimming lessons habitats and help people reconnect with the in India outdoors. In 2015, Berghaus’ sponsorship helped • We provided over 2,500 free swimming the trust to win an EOCA grant for a major path lessons in Nottingham restoration project in Suilven, Sutherland. Canterbury partnered with Wooden Spoon, the Children’s rugby charity, to provide kit for the Arctic Rugby Challenge 2015. This saw rugby legends trek to the North Pole to play the ‘most northerly rugby match in history’ and raise £300,000 for disadvantaged and disabled children in the UK and Ireland. top left t h e arctic rugby c h allenge top rig h t speedo swim generation bottom C anterbury all sc h ools program 61 62 Charity and community Pentland Brands 5.4 Product donations O ur 2 0 1 5 product donations many of our brands donated Our products can help * * people live healthier, more active lives. The estimated retail v alue of these donations was 1,000 pentland products £394,883 reached refugees, thanks to the generosity of our brands and our close partnership with In Kind Direct 675 We donate products to people The charity (founded in 1996 by HRH The Prince of Wales) redistributes surplus and in need sample products to charities, social enterprises and non-profits in the UK and overseas. Why? Several of our brands have also provided c h arities benefited from donations Donating unused stock reduces waste, and surplus, sample and faulty footwear to Africa made by P entland in 2 0 1 5 can help the people who benefit to live healthier, Shoes at a very low cost. A mong t h em were more active lives. This social enterprise redistributes products to What have we achieved? entrepreneurs in Africa for repair and resale. Children’s charities Youth groups Disability groups Community centres They are then sold to local people who might Pentland Brands has a long-term partnership otherwise not be able to afford them. Women’s support Charities for refugees Homelessness with In Kind Direct, the UK’s leading charities and migrants organisations redistribution charity. * Footwear Licensee 63 64 UN Global Compact: Ten Principles 6.0 UN Global Compact: Ten Principles Human Rights 01 Businesses should support and respect the protection Ethical trade of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Page 33 make sure that they are not complicit in human Operations 02 Page 45 rights abuses. Labour 03 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Ethical trade, Page 33 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 04 the elimination of all forms of forced and Introduction compulsory labour; Page 01 05 the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect 06 of employment and occupation. Environment 07 Businesses should support a precautionary approach Sustainable to environmental challenges; products Page 17 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 08 Operations responsibility; and Page 45 09 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Introduction including extortion and bribery. Page 01 bluesign® is a registered trademark of Bluesign Technologies AG GORE-TEX® is a registered trademark of W L Gore & Associates OEKO-TEX® is a registered trademark of OEKO-TEX® Association Great Place to Work is a registered trademark of Great Place to Work Institute Inc. 65 No Ordinary Shoes Limited is the worldwide Licensee for footwear under licence from Ted Baker plc and No Ordinary Designer Label Limited. Airborne Footwear Limited is the UK Licensee for apparel, footwear and accessories under licence from Kickers International B.V. Pentland Chaussures Limited is the worldwide Licensee for footwear under licence from Lacoste S.A. and its associated companies. BERGHAUS and are registered trade marks of Berghaus Limited. BOXFRESH and are registered trade marks of Boxfresh International Limited. BRASHER and are registered trade marks of The Brasher Boot Company Limited. CANTERBURY and are registered trade marks of Canterbury Limited. ELLESSE and are registered trade marks of Ellesse International S.p.A. KANGAROOS and are registered trade marks of Asco Group Limited. KICKERS is a registered trade mark of and used under licence from Kickers International V.C. LACOSTE and are registered trade marks and used under licence from Lacoste S.A. and its associated companies. MITRE and are registered trade marks of Mitre Sports International Limited. PROSTAR is a registered trade mark of Prostar Sports Limited. RED OR DEAD is a registered trade mark of Red or Dead Limited. SPEEDO and are registered trade marks of Speedo Holdings B.V. TED BAKER is a registered trade mark of and used under licence by Ted Baker plc and No Ordinary Designer Label Limited. PENTLAND is a registered trade mark of Pentland Group plc. Pentland Group plc 8 Manchester Square London W1U 3PH For further information about CR at Pentland Group, contact: corporateresponsibility@pentland.com www.pentland.com © Pentland Group plc 2016. All rights reserved.
