Annual Report 2015 CONTENTS Introduction of K-sure 04. History 06. 2015 highlights The Most 08. Message from the Chairman and President 10. The Role of K-sure in 2015 Trusted Name, 11. 2016 Trade Outlook and the Role of K-sure Major Business Achievements 14. 2015 Business Performance and 2016 Business Plan 18. Business Volume and Outstanding Commitments 20. Short-term Export Credit Program 23. Medium-and Long-term(MLT) Export Credit Program 28. Export Credit Guarantee 30. Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance 32. Claims and Recoveries 36. Credit Research Annual Report 2015 38. Research on Country and Industry 39. Risk Management 41. International Relations K-sure and the Community K-sure 46. Operation Aimed at Customer Satisfaction(CS) 47. CSR Activities 50. Ethical Management Financial Section 53. Auditors’ Report 54. Statement of Financial Position 55. Income Statement 56. Statement on Changes in Capital Organization 57. Organization Chart 58. Management 60. Domestic and Overseas Network Korea Trade Insurance Corporation 14 Jongno, Jongno-Gu, Seoul, 03187, South Korea Tel : 82-2-399-6800 Fax : 82-2-399-6598 http://www.ksure.or.kr The Most Trusted Name, Annual Report 2015 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation (hereinafter referred to as K-sure ) was established in July 1992 pursuant to the Trade Insurance Act. K-sure is MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS an institute providing insurance for trade investment established under the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy (MOTIE). The objective of K-sure is to reinforce the national competitiveness of Korea by promoting trade and overseas investment as well as being responsible for the following roles: We at K-sure believe that a successful penetration of Korean firms into global markets will provide the critical mo• Operation of various trade insurance to guarantee risks arising from the export and import of goods and capital goods, overseas construction works and investment, foreign exchange risk management, export of cultural contents and services and other international transactions mentum needed for the growth of the Korean economy. Thus, we offer tailored trade insurance services for those firms that try to find new markets amid global uncertainty so that they can pursue their business with peace of • Provision of credit information services including credit research management and recover debts including receivables for Korean enterprises mind. • Realization of “a public corporation that Korean citizens trust” with the emphasis on the management of customer satisfaction through ethical management and innovative management such as integrity, transparency, sharing, and communications • Underwriting of trade insurance within the limit of the agreement signed determined by the National Assembly annually based on the government's contribution amount with regards to the ‘Trade Insurance Fund’ and sound operation of the fund under the responsibility of the Corporation K-SURE AND THE COMMUNITY • Expansion in the role of trade insurance that leads the stable trade and overseas investment, reinforces national competitiveness and develops the national economy through trade promotion We focus on inclusive development by promoting communication and expanding sharing with our clients and K-sure endeavors to develop various trade insurance products and high value-added services in order to contribute to Korea’s exports and furtherpeople in our community. We continue to pursue social contributions for community development, knowledge more, to the vitalization of global trade by actively adapting to the changes in the international trade environment. As of the end of December 2015, sharing to help the weak, donations for a stable community economy, regular volunteering and sponsorship acK-sure operates a headquarter, 16 domestic branches and 12 representative offices with 2 overseas representatives in major export focus cities and tivities for those socially marginalized, etc. has 533 employees in total. 4 INTRODUCTION OF K-SURE 5 2015 ANNUAL REPORT History 1900's 1900's 2000's 2010's Dec 1968 The Export Insurance Act enacted and Feb 2000 Export credit insurance underwriting Jul 2010 KEIC newly established as Korea Trade proclaimed. performance exceeded KRW 10 trillion. Insurance Corporation (K-sure), and NEW VISION 2020 proclaimed. Feb 1969 Korean Reinsurance Company engaged in Feb 2000 Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance introduced. export credit insurance agency services. Jan 2012 The Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission Jul 2005 Knowledge Service Export Credit Insurance evaluated K-sure as one of the most transparent Jan 1977 Korea Exim Bank engaged in export credit introduced. institutions in Korea. insurance agency services. Sept 2005 Resource development system under Overseas Dec 2012 Export credit insurance underwriting Jan 1979 The management institution for export credit Investment Insurance introduced. performance exceeded KRW 202 trillion. insurance changed (The Ministry of Finance → The Ministry of Commerce and Industry). Nov 2006 Overseas Resources Development Fund Jan 2013 Awarded with “Global Multilateral of the year Insurance introduced. 2012” designated by Project Finance Jul 1992 Korea Export Insurance Corporation (KEIC) International. established as the management institution for Dec 2006 Overseas Business Financing Insurance export credit insurance. introduced. Mar 2013 SME Plus+ Group Insurance introduced. Nov 1992 Export Credit Guarantee implemented. Dec 2007 Cultural Contents Export Insurance introduced. Sept 2014 The Ship Finance Department renamed as Marine Finance Department and relocated to the Nov 1994 Short-Term Export Credit Insurance, AgroDec 2007 Overseas Marketing Insurance introduced. Marine Finance Center in Busan. Fisheries Export Insurance and Market Development Insurance implemented. Apr 2008 SME Plus+ Insurance introduced. Dec 2014 Bond Insurance for Capital Markets launched. Dec 1996 Member of OECD Export Credit Group (ECG) Jul 2008 Agro-Fisheries Export Package Insurance May 2015 Support Center for Foreign Exchange Risk and Group of Participants (GOP) Committee. introduced. Management established. Sept 2008 Export credit insurance underwriting performance exceeded KRW 100 trillion. Dec 2008 Comprehensive Overseas Resource Development Insurance introduced. Apr 2009 Export Financing Facility (EFF) introduced. 2000's 2010's May 2009 Opening of Customer Service Center. 6 INTRODUCTION OF K-SURE 7 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Reinforcement of bid-winning competitiveness by Supply of financing at the right time with the establishment 2015 Highlights expanding project financing of a platform for the provision of tailored export credit (Yearround) Development of new growth engines for the Korean econoFor a stable provision of export credits for those projects awardmy through preemptive financing support (Year-round) ed to Korean enterprises, completely resolve the funding gap Aggressive support for emerging markets by expressing its inwhich may arise in case of insufficient financial procurement catent on the provision of support for these markets. Ignite new pability of the ordering organization with the signing of a USD 10 growth engine through customized support considering the billion on-lending guarantee agreement with global commercial characteristics and demands per industry after screening the banks. promising industries with regards to future growth industries. To boost the funding capacity of domestic banks for overseas • Support for emerging markets : Expressed its intent for preemptive projects, create an overseas SOC fund worth USD 2.1 billion support on eight projects in Iran in '15 and support has been prepared and expand the participation of Korean banks in K-sure backed to enable the project to be executed immediately upon the lift of sanction. loans to promote the globalization of domestic banks and Reinforcement of capacity for the globalization of Reinforcement of risk management system for sub• Support for new growth engines : Aggressive support for future growth strengthen the contract winning capacity of Korean construction engines including the infrastructure and defense industries including SMEs stantial management USD 90 million support for the construction of subway infrastructure in companies. Turkey and USD 80 million support for the reconstruction of air force base in Iraq and others. Support for SMEs to enter the overseas markets by building Newly established the Credit Underwriting Department and an export safety network (year-round) allocated independent Credit Review Department to Discovered seven new institutions for group insurance including strengthen risk management following large claim cases Main events and awards the Small and Medium Business Administration (SMBA) and the (July) •MOU for trade insurance credit support with Banco Central •MOU with Korea Customs Service for the establishment of Small&Medium Business Corporation (SBC) and expanded the The Credit Underwriting Department, a special evaluation orgade Cuba (BCC) and Exterior de Cuba (BEC) (February 9) the order in trade and currency exchange transactions and base for usage. Relieve coverage eligibility and magnify indemnization, was newly established under the Global Business the support of exporters and importers (July 10) •MOU with Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (KPC) (March 2) nification limits to provide more benefits to more SMEs. Division with regards to new cover and credit increases under •Agreement with 6 domestic banks for SOC funding support • Coverage qualification : exports of USD 5 million or less → USD 50 million or less the short-term financial program with the goal of reinforcing un•M OU with Islamic Corporation for the Insurance of abroad (August 17) Investments and Export Credit (ICIEC) (March 4) • Indemnification limit : USD300,000 → USD500,000 derwriting expertise. •MOU with Efic of Australia (August 25) The Credit Review Team expanded its credit review capacity •Volunteer works under 1 company 1 village with rural sister relationship in the first half of '15 during spring planting sea•MOU with Australian and New Zealand Bank (ANZ) (August 26) Establishment of on-site centered supporting organization and became an independent Credit Review Department, asson (April 9) (July) signed with the independence over its credit review work related •MOU with ING (September 15) •MOU with TVEB of Turkmenistan (April 13) With the establishment of the Credit Underwriting Department, to credit rating, underwriting, and risk management. •MOU with Chungnam Creative Economy and Innovation •MOU with Shinhan Bank of Korea for export promotion of Center for the growth and globalization of SME exporters the functions of domestic branches were channelled into on-site SMEs (April 14) (September 22) centered sales and the departments responsible for on-site Expansion and reorganization of the Credit Underwriting •MOU with Santander Bank of Spain (April 21) •MOU with Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (KPC) worth USD management at the head office were branched to better reflect Department into 2 within each regional headquarter to scale 6 billion (October 12) site opinions on the business plan and objectives. up the subjects of credit reviews (December) •MOU with ABGF of Brazil, the export credit agency (April 23) •MOU with Zurich North America (October 14) The Credit Review Department which conducts docu•MOU with BNDES of Brazil, the development bank (April 24) Newly established a dedicated organization for special supment-based reviews expanded and newly established within •MOU with KOTRA (October 27) •MOU with Industrial Commercial bank (ICBC) of China (May 28) port to export companies with secured export opportunities each regional headquarter to secure neutrality when reviewing •MOU with Eximbanka SR of the Slovak Republic (December 1) •MOU with Credit Agricole of France (June 1) (December) credits. •MOU with Czechinvest of the Czech Republic (December 2) •MOU with Korean Businesswomen’s Association (June 4) With the new establishment of the Special Underwriting Unit, Senior credit reviewers with expertise allocated to this regional •Agreement with Junior Achievement Korea to support youth broke away from the past evaluation focused on export perforheadquarters’ Credit Review Department to foster the training on economy and business (December 15) mance and supported SMEs centered on growth potentials Department as the pivot pooling credit review expertise and such as business performance and technology. know-how. The number of enterprises qualified to receive special underwriting support increased twice and the range of the products used to cover these SMEs expanded from Export Credit Guarantee (Pre-Shipment) to Export Credit Guarantee (Nego), and Export Bond Insurance, completing support equivalent to KRW 50.4 billion. 8 INTRODUCTION OF K-SURE 9 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Message Risk is opportunity: from the Chairman Our energy is focused on building trade insurance capacity and President to develop future export engines in a difficult global environment Dear customers, Focus was also placed on strategic support through the “Export It has also been a year when we established a risk management 2015 has been a meaningful year for Korea. Despite falling globHope Guarantee” product and the “Trade Insurance Special platform through a “sustainable growth” paradigm, going beal exports due to low oil prices, a slowdown deepening in Support” program, introduced to foster domestic SMEs and exyond mere external growth. Credit Underwriting and Review emerging economies, and other challenging conditions, Korea port startups and transform them into global hidden champions. Departments were set up to solely manage risk. The Audit and ranked sixth in global exports and was the world’s eighth largest Moreover, the “K-sure FX Risk Management Center” was set up Inspection Department was also augmented and reorganized trading nation. These achievements were possible thanks to the to help Korean SMEs manage their FX risk systematically, and to for better internal control. In short, these endeavors were taken joint efforts of its people, enterprises, and government. It was alexpand the customer pool using FX risk insurance, as SMEs to eliminate risk factors within the agency that inhibit sustainable so a fruitful year for Korea as it secured growth engines for the faced tougher challenges created by interest rate hikes by the development. Moreover, an MOU was concluded with Korea coming years through the ratification of the Korea-China FTA, U.S. Federal Reserve as well as volatile FX fluctuations. Customs Service to block nefarious trade and foreign exchange the fostering of next-generation industries, and other initiatives. transactions. Secondly, K-sure has been building a network with financial inThe year of 2015 has been significant and challenging for K-sure stitutions and various other market participants to proactively The term “export cliff” has been used to describe the difficult as well. To overcome a tough external climate, we bolstered deal with the aforementioned current mega-trend where financglobal export environment of 2016. As such, we plan to concentrade insurance support for SMEs that “epitomize the future of ing precedes contracts in overseas project bids. Moreover, USD trate our energy on the globalization of SMEs, on proactive supKorea’s exports”. We also made efforts to establish financial 10 billion in “on-guarantee limits” were setup with five global port for emerging and strategic markets, promotion of future innetworks at home and abroad in order to lead the current mecommercial banks that have strong presences in different parts dustries, and customized support for overseas projects. We at ga-trend seen in overseas projects where “financing precedes of the world. Meanwhile, “MOUs to finance overseas SOC projK-sure shall pursue corporate social responsibility and innovacontracts”. Moreover, various measures were implemented to ects” were signed with six domestic banks. Additionally, a tion with the goal of becoming a public corporation that is trustback the development of emerging economies, which are multi-institutional network was constructed through the conclued by the people of Korea and its clients. “next-generation markets” for Korean enterprises. sion of MOUs with a wide array of ECAs and partnerships with major sponsors from the Middle East, Southeast Asia, Latin We ask for your warm encouragement and support. One of the measures we implemented in 2015 to aid these enAmerica, and other regions. Thank you very much. terprises was the promotion of global hidden champions by escalating support for SMEs that stand at the center of the Korean Thirdly, capturing next-generation export engines through the economy. Our SME support increased 8.4% YoY to KRW 41.7 pioneering of new markets is one of the most important mistrillion in 2015, marking the first year that SME support volume sions of K-sure as a policy-based financial institution. We have exceeded KRW 40 trillion. The number of SMEs using trade inbacked Korean firms to seize new markets through strategic surance also jumped to 15,295 companies, an increase of 8.9% coping in volatile global situations. An MOU on the provision of from the previous year. This figure reflects we playing the export credits extending a 60 million euro credit was set up staunch role of a policy-based financial institution, particularly jointly with the central and foreign exchange banks of Cuba in when Korean enterprises faced additional burdens due to falling February 2015, and conditions for supporting Iran’s trade insurexports under a fragile global economy. ance was eased in May in line with the tentative conclusion of Chairman and President nuclear negotiations with Iran. As a result, trade insurance supKorea Trade Insurance Corporation port for Cuba and Iran soared from KRW 5.5 billion in 2014 to KRW 186.2 billion in 2015. Kim Young-hak 10 INTRODUCTION OF K-SURE 11 2015 ANNUAL REPORT The Role of 2016 Trade Outlook K-sure in 2015 and the Role of K-sure 2015 Despite the moderate recoveries of advanced economies, inIn 2016, the global economy is expected to recover slowly, cencluding the U.S., the Eurozone, and Japan, the global economy tering on advanced economies and weak recovery in global experienced low growth in 2015 as China, Brazil, and other matrade. Increasing demand in the U.S. and expansionary fiscal jor emerging markets stagnated. policies by the Eurozone and Japan would boost global trade, which in turn, would have a positive impact on Korea’s exports As for major economies, the U.S. showed a modest recovery as well. thanks to increased domestic consumption with improved employment, notwithstanding a drop in oil price and a strong dollar. Policy effects from expansionary fiscal expenditures, investment Gradual recovery was also seen in the Eurozone as exports expromotion, and the ratification of FTAs with China and Vietnam panded due to the adoption of quantitative easing by the are expected to help boost Korea’s exports by 2.1% YoY with European Central Bank, a weak euro, and an enhanced environUSD 90 billion in trade surplus. ment for consumption under low oil prices. As for Japan, although negative growth rates continued from the second quarNonetheless, downside risks still remain, including fragile export ter into the third, signs of consumption recovery were seen in performance in the petrochemical sector due to continuing low the third quarter as household consumption turned positive. oil prices, a deepening slowdown in emerging countries entailHowever, despite several cuts in interest rates and reserve raing U.S. interest hikes, and other factors. tios, as well as other expansionary macroeconomic policies implemented by its government, growth stagnation continued in Designating job creation as a top policy agenda, the governChina owing to falling exports, a deteriorating manufacturing ment plans to expand growth and investment by fostering sector, and excessive correction in the infrastructure sector. 10,000 SME exporters by 2017, through measures such as the discovery of promising exporters, provision of tailored support In the case of Korea, even though the country could not attain Moreover, the government’s initiatives supporting active SME to SMEs, and active support for export startups that are devel2016 the one trillion-dollar trade mark that had been reached for three development of emerging markets, and the conclusion of FTAs oping overseas markets. consecutive years beginning in 2011, it stood as the world’s with other countries contributed in part to the promotion of sixth largest exporter and the eighth largest trading nation in trade. As of December 2015, Korea ratified 14 FTAs with 51 naIn line with the government’s initiatives, we plan to provide ac2015, thanks to initiatives undertaken by its people, enterprises tions around the world, with 60% of its total trade coming from tive support for emerging market development, to lead the gloand government. these FTAs. The number of SMEs benefitting from these agreebalization of SMEs, and to expand project finance support in the ments has been on the rise through this tailored government plant and shipbuilding sectors, among others, with the goal of Notwithstanding the downturn in emerging economies, and othsupport. fulfilling its role as the export credit agency (ECA) representing er difficult conditions related to global trade, SMEs’ bolstered Korea. competitiveness led exports. This was a result of SMEs’ export structure becoming sound, as export growth was higher in SMEs compared to large enterprises, and of the diversification of the range of SME exports from advanced technology to medicine and food. MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS We at K-sure believe that a successful penetration of Korean firms into global markets will provide the critical momentum needed for the growth of the Korean economy. Thus, we offer tailored trade insurance services for those firms that try to find new markets amid global uncertainty so that they can pursue their business with peace of mind. In short, we duly perform the role of a confident partner to Korean exporters by reflecting what was heard at the actual exporting sites to our operation and provide optimal solutions customized to each individual exporter. 14 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 15 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Business Advancement of the risk management system For a stable operation of the Trade Insurance Fund, we oriented Performance and towards quantitative expansion while pursuing qualitative improvements. After determining the permissible standard of risk, 2016 Business Plan the underwriting target and the underwriting portfolio that the fund could handle were set. The management system of the total amount of risk in domestic enterprises was improved and focus was placed on risk man2015 Business Performance agement on the pretext of assuming the worst case scenarios against predicted losses. Multi-directional efforts were made for risk management such as establishing a system for extracting Trade insurance support amounting to KRW 168.1 trillion window dressing accounts to evaluate credit ratings of different and support performance for SME expanded significantly enterprises in detail, conducting special monitoring on large We provided KRW 168.1 trillion support and among which, KRW transactions and reinforcing site visits. 41.7 trillion was directed to SMEs, the biggest in its history, reinforcing its role as an export safety network for SMEs. Reinforcement of competency for claims and recoveries Cooperation for claim cases was reinforced with Korea TradeBy increasing the group insurance to reinforce export competiInvestment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) to boost the efficiency tiveness of SMEs and establishing an export safety network for in the claims task while mutual cooperation was pursued with small firms, a sum of KRW 12.8 trillion provided as support. Korea Customs Service to filter iniquitous transactions. Moreover, the special support evaluating export startups with high growth potentials and SMEs with soaring exports centered The ambiguous terms and conditions identified during the proon business values was increased by 34 times compared to the cess of settling claims were improved. On-site focused training previous year, considering SMEs facing difficulties in exporting utilizing the “Trade Insurance Academy” was reinforced so that due to the lack of export credit support despite having secured exporters would not suffer disadvantages during claims proexport opportunities. cesses due to the lack of trade insurance-related information. Furthermore, various efforts were made to reinforce the bid winMore recovery cases were consigned with regards to outstandning competitiveness of Korean firms for overseas projects. An ing collection agencies abroad through evaluation by region and on-guarantee agreement worth USD 10 billion was signed with country. Information sharing was reinforced between represenglobal commercial banks and a USD 2.1 billion SOC fund was tative offices and collection agencies to increase the recovery of set up with domestic banks. On the other hand, multi-directional unsettled receivables through the selection of and targeting cooperation beyond private financing and policy-based financspecific accounts. ing were strengthened through joint guarantee system with policy-based financial institutions and joint declaration to eradicate Establishment of a stable business platform through organiunderbidding practices. zational innovation The sales function of domestic branches was strengthened to Moreover, our employees visited new emerging markets with inhelp alleviate export-related difficulties faced by SMEs with the sufficient infrastructure for credit information to continue the opfocus on trade insurance marketing. Moreover, the Credit eration of Mobile K-Office to conduct credit survey and to exUnderwriting Department was set up under each of the two tend credits to local importers through this outreach program. Regional Headquarters to reinforce expertise and neutrality of And with the CEO visiting Iran, Cuba, and other promising marthe underwriting. Simultaneously, the credit underwriting and rekets in person to build a network of cooperation with financial view functions were expanded and restructured for a stable opministries to extend credits, various efforts were put in. eration of the trade insurance business. 16 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 17 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Business Plan Amidst the smooth recovery of economy in advanced countries Moreover, the MLT business volume for the plant, shipbuilding, To advance into the Iranian and Cuban markets that have Fifth, a competent organization centered on efficiency will be centered on USA from the perspective of the 2016 world econoand other medium and long-term project sectors has been set at opened its doors to the world recently with the lifting of internarealized. my, the slowdown in China's growth rate as well as the lagging KRW 14.7 trillion, an increase of KRW 2.9 trillion from KRW 11.8 tional sanctions, cooperative relationships that had been forged growth in important resource-rich countries such as Brazil and trillion in 2015 in order to boost the competitiveness of Korean since last year will be continued to facilitate domestic exporters Efforts will be placed on stabilizing the organization restructured Russia are expected to contribute to the overall growth of apenterprises in winning more projects abroad. On the other hand, to obtain export financing. at the end of last year when the credit underwriting and marketproximately 3.0~3.6%. we will strive to improve the soundness of the Trade Insurance ing businesses were separated to boost work efficiency. The Fund by restructuring the business portfolio while taking into acPromising enterprises in the service, consumer goods, and culwage system based on work and performance will be reorgaAlthough a slow consumption-led recovery is expected in 2016 count risks from each insurance/guarantee product. tural contents sectors will be actively identified to transform nized to reinforce competition within the organization and efforts for the Korean economy such as expansionary macroeconomic them into exporters with the goal of fostering growth engines, will be made to transform K-sure into a competent organization policies, there is also the possibility that the drop in exports folTo examine the major work execution plan of trade insuri.e. future industries. centered on performance remunerations. lowing the global consumption decrease would hinder economance in 2016 in detail, ic recovery. However, there is room for new opportunities such Third, along with infrastructure markets deemed to generate We have duly performed its role of boosting export competitiveas the lift of sanction in Iran, the ratification of Korea-China FTA, First, we will reinforce the exporting capacity of SMEs by fosternew opportunities with the establishment of the AIIB, tailored ness of Korean firms despite the difficulties such as the past and the inauguration of the AIIB. ing global hidden champions. support will be provided continuously for overseas projects inglobal financial crisis. Despite the global faltering demand in cluding in the plant and shipbuilding industries that had been hit 2015 and other negative circumstances around the world, it has The government has prepared and implemented various supThe environment conducive to SMEs for easy access to trade hard by oil glut. achieved a record volume of support to SMEs with KRW 41.7 port measures to cope with the recent export woes, among insurance will be created by actively identifying those SMEs to trillion, helping Korean firms develop overseas markets and conwhich the role of K-sure is becoming highlighted more than bebe protected under SMEs Plus+ Group Insurance. K-sure-backed credit limits will be provided in advance for those tributing to the development of the Korean economy. fore since the trade insurance system is an effective policy tool major sponsors abroad to help Korean contractors to win projfor promoting export. The supply of “Export Hope Insurance (Guarantee)” and “Special ects for the goal of Korean firms regaining contract competitiveFor 2016, corporation-wide efforts will be channelled into export Support” will be drastically increased, in which the former is used to ness in overseas markets. expansion to overcome the difficult global situations while reinOn the other hand, in line with the government’s strong demand create a solid export platform for export startups and domestic forcing business competitiveness through risk management and for boosting efficiencies and social responsibilities of public firms, while the latter is granted upon evaluating the particular comCandidates for overseas investment insurance will be expanded business efficiency in order for our economy regain USD 1 trilagencies after the announcement of the normalization plans for pany’s export growth and business potential. Moreover, on-site to include investment groups such as infrastructure funds to lion of national trade, ultimately reinforcing its role as a reliable state-owned institutions in 2014, we have been striving to sinmanagement will be strengthened by cooperating with other export meet an increasing investment supply in Asian and emerging trade safety network. cerely execute the social responsibilities and expand efficiency related institutions and information related to overseas markets and markets with the formation of the AIIB, in which cooperation will by promoting the soundness of the ‘Trade Insurance Fund’, creprojects will be consolidated to improve the quality of services probe strengthened with domestic pension funds and securities ating jobs through the peak wage system and strengthening vided to Korean exporters. firms seeking new investment destinations. ethical management. One-stop FX risk management services will be continued Fourth, risk management will be given full attention with a larger With “export recovery“ being the top priority for K-sure, we have through the Foreign Exchange Risk Center opened last year, target business volume. escalated its total target business volume to KRW 196 trillion for and tailored one-to-one consulting and various public relations 2016, an increase of KRW 27.9 trillion from the previous year. channels will be diversified to boost accessability to Foreign Special monitoring will be expanded to detect export scams in Exchange Risk Insurance. advance through the development with regards to companies Particularly, the target volume for SME support has been set at with abnormal signs and preemptive risk management such as KRW 46.5 trillion, an increase of KRW 4.8 trillion from KRW 41.7 Second, trade insurance support will be significantly reinforced new development of pre-monitoring indices per insurance prodtrillion in 2015, with the plan to foster SMEs to become leaders toward emerging markets and future industries to overcome uct and the expansion of pre-monitoring targets will be sought in a creative economy. slump in the existing major export markets and industries. to improve the soundness of the Trade Insurance Fund. 18 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 19 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Business Volume and Outstanding Commitments BUSINESS VOLUME OUTSTANDING COMMITMENTS The total exports of Korea at the end of 2015 stood at USD Outstanding commitments at the end of 2015 showed a 4.3% 527.2 billion, a 7.9% fall YoY and due to a weakened global drop YoY at KRW 89.5 trillion. As for outstanding commitments economy and declining trade growth, falling oil and other comby region, they were the highest in Asia, followed by the Middle modity prices, etc. Despite these challenges, we provided acEast and Europe. Notably, a jump in business volume was seen tive support for the globalization of SMEs and the expansion of in Latin America and Africa, but dropped in other regions. exports through “SME Plus Group Insurance”, “Export Hope Guarantee”, and “Export Startup Hope Insurance”, as well as other active measures. Outstanding commitments by Region (as of end of 2015) (Unit: KRW trillion, %) Thanks to these efforts, SME support, which had been climbing Region Outstanding commitments Ratio Rate of change (‘15/‘14) steadily since 2011, also increased in 2015 despite the total Asia 23.2 25.9 ▲6.7 business volume falling 11.6% YoY to KRW 168.1 trillion. Middle East 17.5 19.5 ▲6.3 Europe 16.1 17.9 ▲5.8 North America 7.0 7.8 ▲17.0 Latin America 10.9 12.1 22.1 Africa 4.6 5.1 4.9 Business Volume (Unit: KRW trillion, %) Oceania 6.6 7.4 0.3 210 Others 3.7 4.1 ▲20.2 202.3 203.7 200 Total 89.5 100.0 ▲4.3 192.2 190 190.2 187.4 180 170 160 168.1 150 140 25.9% 17.9% 130 7.8% 120 Europe Asia 110 19.5% North America 100 Middle 90 East 80 Total of 100% 70 5.1 % 41.7 60 12.1% 38.5 Africa 50 35.9 Latin 40 29.5 America 30 24.8 19.0 18.9 20.2 7.4% 17.6 20 14.6 10.1 10.0 Oceania 4.1% 10 0 Others Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Business volume 187.4 192.2 202.3 203.7 190.2 168.1 Business Volume for SMEs 19.0 18.9 29.5 35.9 38.5 41.7 Business Ratio for SMEs 10.1 10.0 14.6 17.6 20.2 24.8 20 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 21 2015 ANNUAL REPORT SHORT-TERM PROGRAM BY FINANCING FUNCTION Short-term Export Credit The short-term program can be divided based on several factors, but the policyholder-based method function, depending on whether Program the particular product has financing or non-financing, (pure-cover) is most commonly used to classify different products under the program. Pure cover(no financing function) Cover on financing Policyholder Exporter Financial institution Cover on Export proceeds, etc. Export receivables, purchasing costs, etc. Most used product ST Export Credit Insurance (Post-Shipment) Export Financing Facility (EEF), ST Export Insurance (Forfeiting) OUTLINE This Short-term Export Credit Insurance program covers losses of exporters or financial institutions that provide export credits but cannot recover their export proceeds from importers (issuing banks in the case of L/C-based transactions) in those export transactions with two year or less repayment periods. The risks covered include commercial risks posed by importers such as export contract cancellation, bankruptcy, payment default, or payment refusal. Political risks in the importing countries including war, revolt, currency inconvertibility, etc., are also covered. Exporters can develop new overseas markets through transactions on credit or discover new buyers since they can be indemnified on SHORT-TERM PROGRAM BY OPERATION METHOD those losses coming from the non-payment risk posed by overseas buyers, and financial institutions can expand trade financing on those high risk transactions using our cover as security. The ST Export Credit Insurance program can also be classified by the operation method. The scheduled cover allows the policyholder to pick and choose specific transactions to be covered; usually those deemed to have high risk. On the other hand, under blanket insurance, the policyholder (the exporter using our insurance) and we jointly set the scope of export transactions to be covered ahead of time including export products and settlement terms. Structure of Short-Term Export Insurance (Post-Shipment) Comparison between blanket and scheduled cover ③ Shipment Blanket insurance Scheduled insurance Exporter Importer ④ Settlement • All transactions that fall under a certain set of scope are • Insurance subscription and underwriting are needed for each Outline ⑤ No settlement covered (transactions with a tenure of 180 days or less) transaction (transactions with a tenure of two years or less) Policyholder • Good for high risk transactions • Selective policy purchase possible for only those high risk (Exporter) • Relatively low premiums transactions ① Subscription Advantages ⑥ Insurance payment Insurer • Good for risk spread • Can refuse to cover those high risk transactions ② Set credit limit (K-sure) Policyholder • Difficulty obtaining cover on high risk transactions • Cover also required for low risk transactions (Exporter) • Higher premium than blanket cover Disadvantages Details ■ Trade parties Insurer • Obligated to cover even those high risk transactions • Risk spread difficult • Korean exporter ↔ Overseas buyer (K-sure) ■ Risks covered • Political risks from importing countries • Commercial risks from importers 22 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 23 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SHORT-TERM PROGRAM BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Medium-and LongST business volume by region and by enterprise size (Unit: KRW 1 tril) term(MLT) Export Credit Program 150 148.0 140 130 120 110 PROGRAM OVERVIEW 100 As for MLT export transactions, the majority is export transactions The MLT products offered by us can be classified into two cate90 of capital industrial facilities and is characterized by large contract gories: the financial and non-financial/pure cover products. The 80 amounts, protracted construction and repayment periods and financial products include MLT Export Credit Insurance, 70 complex financing and transaction structures. In such a case, exOverseas Business Financing Insurance, Export Bond 63.8 porters prefer to secure export proceeds when they produce Insurance, and Interest Rate Risk Insurance. They are used to 60 goods or make shipment in order to reduce financial burden, rathsupport financing needed to export capital goods or investors/ 50 er than receiving export proceeds over a long period of time. contractors to pursue overseas businesses. The second cateFollowing such, buyers generally procure the necessary capital at gory is the non-financing or pure cover products used to cover 40 the discretion of the buyer's credit financing and this is when the risks in export receivables and overseas investments. They in30 22.7 government institution of the exporting country guarantees an exclude Overseas Construction Works Insurance, Overseas 20 20.0 port credit granted by a financial institution to buyers to facilitate Investment Insurance, and Service Credit Insurance. 13.5 12.9 export lending and to boost the stability of loan recovery. 10 9.3 4.9 0.8 0 North Latin Enterprise size Europe Asia Oceania Middle East Africa Other Total America America Structure of Buyer's Credit Insurance Large 17.6 17.0 8.3 55.6 0.4 12.3 4.5 115.7 Medium 3.1 1.5 0.3 4.9 0.3 0.6 0.1 0.1 10.9 Small 2.0 1.5 0.7 3.3 0.1 0.6 0.3 12.9 21.4 Shipment Amount 22.7 20.0 9.3 63.8 0.8 13.5 4.9 12.9 148.0 Exporter Buyer n The total business volume coming from the short-term program dropped 13% YoY to KRW 148 trillion in 2015. The contributing factors Loa ver Co included the global economic slump (due to continuing low oil prices), a flagging Chinese economy, debt crises in southern Europe, and other factors. Korean exports fell, in addition to credit adjustments and other tougher risk management measures taken by falterCash ing Latin American, CIS, and other emerging economies. Nevertheless, the ST volume increased for SMEs to 16% YoY despite these Buyer's cash payment challenging conditions of the export environment. made through the bank By region, ST business volume decreased YoY for North America by 29% (KRW 22.7 trillion) from reduced exports to the U.S. and nt me Canada, Europe by 22% (KRW 20 trillion) due to continued political and economic instabilities in the region, and Asia by 14% (KRW epay R 63.8 trillion) due mainly to the slowdown of the Chinese economy. Bank By industry, the fall in ST business YoY was 26% for machinery, 19% for chemicals, 16% for electrical and electronic goods, and 7% for metal products. Buyer Credit Cover 24 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 25 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Structure of Overseas Business Financing Insurance (OBFI) actively engaging in the contract process from the initial stage, nance in the K-sure covered facility of the said project. With our including the issuance of LOIs to meet the current trend in the active support, not only Korean companies but also domestic global project market where financing precedes contract closure private banks that lacked experiences in overseas projects parBorrower Loan with sponsors securing ECA financing beforehand. ticipated in global financing make this case extremely meaning(Overseas government, financial institution) ful. Notably, we reviewed the requirements and suggestions from domestic and international financial institutions and revised the Beside such projects mentioned above, we also offered trade figeneral terms and conditions of MLT policies in favor of the usnance support for different projects in the LNG, power generaOBFI ers. Specifically, the reasons for the non-payment of insurance tion, shipbuilding sectors and the like, thereby contributed to proceeds were clarified and strengthened the lien rights of Kboosting the competitiveness of Korean firms and banks. Borrower Project with Lender sure by easing the exercise options on security put up by policy(Overseas Corporations) Korean Interests holders. These customer/policyholder-friendly measures is receiving favorable responses from domestic and foreign financial OVERVIEW AND ANALYSIS OF BUSINESS institutions. Moreover, an on-guarantee agreement worth USD PERFORMANCES • Equity 10 billion was signed with 5 global commercial banks and an • Feedstock • Offtake overseas SOC fund equivalent to USD 2.1 billion was created As for the MLT coverage in 2015, the business performances, • EPC. etc. with 6 domestic banks to prepare a platform for Korean firms to based on valid contracts and commitments outstanding, inaccelerate the penetration into the overseas markets. Finally, the creased by approximately 4.4% YoY despite domestic and forSME Project Team was augmented and reorganized to promote eign difficulties such as the drop in oil prices as a result of active overseas market development for SMEs and in order to reinfinancial support for projects. As of the end of 2015, out of KRW force the function of evaluation on the project environment of 61.7 trillion in total commitments outstanding under the MLT prowhich the importance is gradually being highlighted, the sucgram, MLT Export Credit Insurance recorded KRW 38.5 trillion cessful operation of the newly established Technology and and KRW 11.3 trillion for Overseas Business Financing Insurance, Environment Team is also being considered to be significant. indicating increases of 14.3% and 2.8%, respectively, YoY. With MLT Export Credit Insurance and Overseas Business CURRENT STATUS OF OPERATION IN 2015 Financing Insurance being the two flagship products of K-sure, AND THE SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT When examined by sector, the plant sector recorded KRW 29.5 the former is used to cover the non-payment risk of principal MAJOR CASE STUDIES OF SUPPORT trillion, responsible for 48% of KRW 61.7 trillion in total. This and interest for those financial contracts with two years or lonThe MLT financial market in 2015 was daunted with the drop in sector siphons the largest portion each year as the flagship field ger tenures, while the latter also covers the same risk but for contract orders following the plunge of oil prices, instability in The two K-sure supported projects that epitomized the MLT line of K-sure. Furthermore, this volume was the fruition of an inKorean investments abroad. the Middle East and staggering growth in the global economy. in 2015 were the mobile communications network building projcreased support to Asian, Latin American, and other emerging The domestic EPC contractors selectively participating in project by Reliance Jio of India and the refinery plant modernization markets as well as the granting of support to those projects that These are the two pillars of the MLT program that complements ects after witnessing the profitability drop caused by intensifying project of Turkmenistan. had been delayed in the past. financing from international financial markets to eventually procompetition among rival countries due to weak Yen and Euro, in mote the exportation of capital goods for the building of vessels addition to the excessive competition strategy and others at The Reliance Jio’s project involved the establishment of a naand overseas plants and to support Korean firms develop marboth home and abroad might have caused an influence. From tion-wide 4G LTE network grid for the first time in India in which kets and resources abroad. the regional perspective, the total amount of contracts from the two Korean enterprises were awarded with the project of providMiddle East plummeted as projects were delayed or cancelled ing the necessary hardwares, softwares and the commissioning Korean firms are expanding their presence abroad based on as a spillover effect of low oil prices; however, the number of services. we partook actively in this USD 12.4 billion project from their accumulated business know-how and improved technocontracts rose from Asia with an increasing demand for infrathe initial stage, assisting the Korean firms to win the project by logical competitiveness. The globalization of Korean enterprises structure development. offering USD 750 million in ECA financing against the principal. is expected to be accelerated with an increasing demand for infrastructure in Asian, Latin American, and other emerging reThe demand for ECA financing has risen with the attitude of On the other hand, the objective of the modernization project of gions along with the penetration of overseas markets by more commercial banks averting risk in new projects under global unthe refinery plant in Turkmenistan is to produce high-quality peKorean construction firms. Thus, the demand of ECA covered certainties and fear of global slump initiated from China. To meet troleum products by advancing the existing refinery plant locatloans will continue to increase with a more emphasis on the MLT this demand, we focused on MLT support to ensure project fied in the coast of the Caspian Sea, equivalent to USD 940 milprogram of K-sure. nancing wasn't hindered in order to satisfy the demand of ECA lion. A consortium of Korean firms was formed to execute the financial support amid global recession and strived to improve EPC, K-sure and KEXIM in Korea provided ECA export financthe system by reflecting the market demands. Moreover, we ening. The significance of the project lies in the fact that domestic sured that Korean EPC contractors would win project bids by private commercial banks participated as leading providers of fi26 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 27 2015 ANNUAL REPORT MLT commitments outstanding by product (Unit : KRW 1 billion) When examined by region, the largest portion of coverage was gions which also showed noticeable increases. The volume 61,723 60,000 59,100 recorded by the Middle East with KRW 14.6 trillion which was a combined from the Middle East, Europe, and Asia took up 54,713 9.7% drop from the previous year but still managed to maintain 65.2% of the total commitments. However, this portion contin50,000 first place. Following Middle East, Asia displayed a 16.5% inued to decrease for the three consecutive years, suggesting al40,000 crease followed by Latin America, Africa and other emerging releviation of coverage concentrated regionally. 30,000 20,000 MLT commitments outstanding by region (Unit: KRW 1 billion) 10,000 Region 2013 2014 2015 Rate of change(‘15/‘14) 0 Asia 10,886 11,435 13,317 16.5% Product 2013 2014 2015 Rate of change(‘15/‘14) Middle East 15,146 16,216 14,639 △ 9.7% MLT Export Credit Insurance 29,966 33,647 38,460 14.3% Europe 11,997 12,399 12,301 △ 0.8% Overseas Business Financing Insurance 11,106 10,982 11,288 2.8% North America 2,842 2,631 2,780 5.7% Export Bond Insurance 11,277 12,092 10,088 △ 16.6% Latin America 7,540 6,754 8,710 29.0% Others 2,364 2,379 1,887 △ 20.7% Africa 1,712 3,231 3,487 7.9% Subtotal 54,713 59,100 61,723 4.4% Oceania 4,590 6,434 6,489 0.9% Total 54,713 59,100 61,723 4.4% The commitments outstanding in the shipbuilding sector On the other hand, coverage for resource development stalled amounted to KRW 22.5 trillion, taking up 36% of the total. It was with the slump in the resource development sector from drop in an 9.7% increase YoY amid the drop in shipbuilding contracts oil and other commodity prices. world-wide. 2016 BUSINESS PLANS In 2016, we plan to pioneer the expansion of trade and overseas investment of Korea by expanding coverage for Latin America, Africa and other emerging markets. While channelling support MLT commitments outstanding by sector (Unit : KRW 1 billion) for Korean companies to dominate the strategic markets in ad63,738 vance centered on plant, shipbuilding, and SOC sectors which 61,114 60,000 contribute to creating high added value and high quality jobs, it 54,713 plans to provide financial supports for SMEs to advance into the 50,000 overseas projects in order to transform them into global hidden 40,000 champions. 30,000 Furthermore, it plans to establish differentiated support strategy 20,000 per power generation and to focus on developing alternative 10,000 markets to cope with the tentative limitation in the provision of officially supported export credits after 2017 in line with the out0 Sector 2013 2014 2015 Rate of change(‘15/‘14) come from the OECD’s Export Credit Group negotiations. Simultaneously, to deal with increased MLT coverage and lossPlant 25,145 27,880 29,486 5.8% es due to global difficulties, the efforts will be placed to fortify Shipbuilding 18,443 20,520 22,507 9.7% risk management and monitoring and to form a stable portfolio. Natural Resource 5,439 4,632 4,683 1.1% Amid increasing global uncertainties, we will strive to lead a Others 5,686 6,068 5,047 △ 16.8% sound growth of the Korean economy and to become one of the Subtotal 54,713 61,114 63,738 4.3% leading ECAs in the world. 28 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 29 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Export Credit Guarantee OVERVIEW BENEFITS OF EXPORT CREDIT OVERVIEW AND ANALYSIS OF BUSINESS GUARANTEE VOLUME FOR EXPORT CREDIT Export Credit Guarantee comes in the form of pre-shipment and GUARANTEE post-shipment products. Export Credit Guarantee (Pre-shipment) Upon the conclusion of an export transaction, the exporter seThe business volume of Export Credit Guarantee (Pre-Shipment) Export Credit Guarantee (Pre-shipment) cures trade finance needed for procuring raw materials or manhas shown a downward trend since 2013 at KRW 3.3 trillion, folThe pre-shipment program is a type of joint guarantee scheme ufacturing goods from commercial banks. However, banks typilowed by KRW 3.0 trillion in 2014 and KRW 2.7 in 2015. However, that we provide for debt/financing needed to manufacture and cally require security from exporters such that SMEs face diffiExport Credit Guarantee support has continued with the goal of process exports or procure materials for exporters. The foreign culty securing trade finance because they usually lack security. globalizing SMEs through such special products as the “Export exchange bank or financial institution providing export financing Hope Guarantee”, “Export Startup Hope Guarantee”, and a special for the exporter via extending loans or issuing a payment guarAs such, to facilitate exportation we extend export credit guarsupport program for rising industries. antee does so based on our guarantee. antees for exporters based on their financial conditions, export performance, and ability to carry out exporting. The business volume of Export Credit Guarantee (Post-Shipment) Export Credit Guarantee (Post-shipment) stood at KRW 3.0 in 2015, a 15.1% drop YoY. This low volume was The post-shipment program is a type of joint guarantee that we If the exporter obtains export finance/loans based an export due to decreased exports and a strengthened review process adprovide against export financing for the exporter by a foreign excredit guarantee, it enjoys the “guarantee leverage” effect by seopted by us for risk management. However, we will continue to ofchange bank to extend a loan to the exporter against our guarcuring additional funds (when compared to obtaining regular fer SMEs support through measures such as strengthening coopantee. The exporter can secure export proceeds from the forcredits) and can lower its financial costs as a result. eration with commercial banks. eign exchange bank upon shipment of the goods to the importer abroad by submitting bills of exchange and other shipping Banks, on the other hand, can actively expand their corporate documents. This program is used to cover the foreign exchange lending while minimizing the non-payment risk, thereby experiExport Credit Guarantee (Pre-Shipment and Post-Shipment) Volume by Year (Unit: KRW trillion) bank when it cannot recover the export proceeds from the imencing an uptick in their BIS ratios. porter (including the L/C issuing bank) at the time of maturity of 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 the export financing extended on credit to the exporter. Export Credit Guarantee (Post-shipment) Credit guarantee (Pre-shipment) 4.4 3.3 2.8 3.3 3.0 2.7 Exporters can receive export proceeds immediately upon shipCredit guarantee (Post-shipment) 1.8 2.6 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.0 This program is operated in conjunction with Short-Term Export ment using their bills of exchange and other shipping docuTotal 6.2 5.9 6.1 6.7 6.5 5.7 Insurance so that the exporter has no recourse obligations, i.e., ments. However, foreign exchange banks are required to pay the exporter is not required to pay us, as we offset the debt to export proceeds with their own funds and as a result typically be paid through its guarantee using the insurance proceeds, require some sort of security, which our export credit guarantee provided that the exporter conducted the applicable export functions as. In other words, the bank that pre-paid the exporter transaction accordingly with no fault of its own. At the same based on our guarantee can recover its loan from us in case it time, we have the Export Credit Guarantee (Nego) program cannot secure the loan from the importer after shipment. where the exporter can only purchase the guarantee without a linked insurance product, in case the exporter does not want extra coverage with the non-payment risk from the importer. 30 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 31 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance OVERVIEW IMPROVEMENTS IN THE MAIN SYSTEM BUSINESS VOLUME “Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance” hedges against losses from In other words, exporters and foreign investors can secure staWe have continued its efforts to improve this program to manIn 2015, the business volume from Foreign Exchange Risk exchange rate differences by eliminating the profit and loss of ble profits and eliminate the currency risk by fixing future cash age the foreign exchange risk for SMEs and the following reviInsurance dropped 18.8% YoY to KRW 1,226 billion with imforeign exchange which may occur following the changes in the flow in the Korean won in advance when subscribed to the forsions had been made in 2015. proved confidence over rate increases by the U.S. Fed. The foreign exchange rate in the process of securing or paying foreign exchange risk insurance. number of users also fell 16% to 421 enterprises. eign currencies during the course of international trading and First, the portal site “K-sure Foreign Exchange Risk Management overseas investment transactions. Moreover, exporters may hedge the foreign exchange risk for a Center” was opened to help SME exporters manage their foreign maximum period of up to five years and overseas investors, up exchange risks. The product works similar to forward foreign exchange transacto 15 years with the long-term nature of overseas investments. tions at financial institutions where K-sure compensates losses of Second, special premium discounts were granted to those polipolicyholders for their foreign exchange losses or clawback forThe four currencies covered under this program are the US cyholders using Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance for their Yen eign exchange gains, taking into account foreign exchange rate Dollar (USD), European Euro (EUR), Japanese Yen (JPY), and and Euro-based transactions, while the premium support projdifferences between a specific point in time (guaranteed rate) and Chinese Yuan (CNY). ects were pursued jointly with related institutions to reduce preat the point of the settlement of export proceeds (settlement rate). mium burdens for SME exporters. Third, one-to-one on-line consulting was provided and visits to individual exporters were made to provide marketing services to boost the capacity of Korean enterprises managing foreign exStructure of Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance change related risks. ① Shipment Exporter Buyer ③ Settlement of export receivables Business volume for the past five years (Unit: KRW 1 billion) ② Guaranteed rate ④ Settlement rate 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Business volume 1,829 1,147 1,720 1,510 1,226 User companies 536 368 518 500 421 * Excluding the business volumes and users of terminated programs 32 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 33 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Claims and Recoveries Claims paid per country (excluding for-domestic and derivative products) Claims paid to Russia, Brazil and other emerging countries escalated amid drop in oil prices and other commodities prices as well as low currencies, while the portion of claims paid to Liberia and Iran for the MLT program took up a huge portion. Claims paid per country (Unit : KRW 1 billion) 2014 2015 Rank Country Claims paid Ratio Country Claims paid Ratio 1 Iran 36.6 15.2% Russia 51.4 18.7% 2 Russia 24.9 10.3% Liberia 37.6 13.6% CLAIM 3 Mongolia 14.4 6.0% Iran 32.1 11.7% Overview 4 U.S. 14.4 6.0% Brazil 27.3 9.9% In 2015, the total amount of claims paid was KRW 510 billion, a 33.7% drop compared to KRW 769.7 billion in 2014. 5 China 14.0 5.8% U.S. 14.9 5.4% Overseas claims amounted to KRW 275.4 billion, a 14.2% increase compared to KRW 241.1 billion in 2014. 6 Brazil 10.2 4.2% China 13.2 4.8% On the other hand, domestic claims were equivalent to KRW 234.7 billion, a 55.6% drop compared to KRW 528.6 billion in 2014. 7 UAE 9.9 4.1% Malaysia 9.6 3.5% 8 Argentina 8.6 3.6% Indonesia 7.8 2.8% 9 Germany 8.6 3.6% UAE 6.4 2.3% Overview on claims paid (Unit : KRW 1 billion) 10 U.K. 8.2 3.4% Spain 6.1 2.2% Subtotal 149.8 62.1% 206.4 74.9% 2014 2015 Changes Rate of change Others 91.3 37.9% 69.0 25.1% Claims paid overseas 241.1 275.4 34.3 14.2% Total 241.1 100% 275.4 100% Claims paid domestically 528.6 234.7 △293.9 △55.6% Note) For-domestic (export bond guarantee, export credit insurance (pre-shipment, NEGO, etc.) and derivative products (foreign exchange risk insurance, interest rate risk insurance, etc.) are excluded. Total 769.7 510.0 ▵259.6 ▵33.7% Claims paid per program As for the short-term program in 2015, the total amount of claims paid was KRW 376.6 billion. a 35.8% drop compared to KRW 586.8 billion in 2014. For the medium and long-term program, it was KRW 133.5 billion, a 27.0% drop compared to KRW 183.0 billion in 2014. LOSS, REAL LOSS AND CLAIMS RATIOS Claims paid per program (Unit : KRW 1 billion) In 2015, the loss ratio excluding that from the derivative products was 74.1%, a 50.4%p drop compared to 124.5% in 2014, due to a lower claims paid (33.7%↓). Claims paid With a 50.4%p fall in loss ratio, the real loss ratio also plummeted 35.8%p compared to 94.4% in 2014. 2014 2015 Changes Rate of change The claims ratio is the ratio of total business volume to claims paid, in which it dropped from 0.41% in 2014 to 0.31% in 2015. ST export insurance 170.6 192.5 21.9 12.8% Export credit guarantee 383.7 161.3 △222.4 △58.0% STnote) Loss·real loss·claims ratios Import insurance 32.5 22.8 △9.7 △29.8% ST total 586.8 376.6 △210.2 △35.8% 2014 2015 Changes MLT export insurance 39.7 69.7 30.0 75.6% Loss ratio 124.5% 74.1% △50.4%p Export bond insurance 139.3 54.8 △84.5 △60.7% MLT Real loss ratio 94.4% 58.6% △35.8%p Overseas business financing insurance 4.0 9.0 5.0 125.0% Claim ratio 0.41% 0.31% △0.10%p MLT total 183.0 133.5 △49.5 △27.0% Note) Derivative products (foreign exchange risk insurance, interest rate risk insurance, etc.) are excluded. Total 769.7 510.0 ▵259.7 ▵33.7% Note) Short-term export credit insurance products include agro-fisheries export insurance, overseas marketing insurance, and reliability insurance Export credit guarantee includes cultural contents export insurance Derivative products (foreign exchange risk insurance and interest rate risk insurance) are excluded. 34 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 35 2015 ANNUAL REPORT RECOVERY Recoveries per country (excluding for-domestic and derivative products) Recoveries from the top 10 countries including Pakistan, Iran, the U.S., the U.K., and Iraq were KRW 74.1 billion, accounting 83.2% of Overview the total recoveries. In 2015, the total amount of recoveries was KRW 181.5 billion, a 8.1% drop compared to KRW 197.6 billion in 2014. The recoveries from abroad amounted to KRW 89.0 billion, showing a 1.8% increase compared to KRW 87.4 billion in 2014. From this amount, domestic recoveries accounted for KRW 92.5 billion, showing a 16.0% drop compared to KRW 110.1 billion in Recoveries per country (Unit : KRW 1 billion) 2014. 2014 2015 Rank Recoveries (Unit : KRW 1 billion) Country Recoveries Ratio Country Recoveries Ratio 1 Iran 29.9 34.2% Pakistan 22.6 25.4% 2014 2015 Changes Rate of change 2 Pakistan 19.0 21.8% Iran 16.5 18.5% Overseas 87.4 89.0 1.6 1.8% 3 U.S. 4.5 5.2% U.S. 15.8 17.8% Domestic 110.1 92.5 △17.6 △16.0% 4 Russia 3.7 4.2% U.K, 4.2 4.7% Total 197.6 181.5 ▵16.1 ▵8.1% 5 Argentina 3.6 4.1% Iraq 3.7 4.1% Note) Derivative products (foreign exchange risk insurance, interest rate risk insurance, etc.) are excluded. 6 Iraq 3.4 3.9% Russia 3.1 3.4% 7 Venezuela 3.1 3.6% Argentina 2.5 2.9% 8 Brazil 3.1 3.5% UAE 2.1 2.3% 9 Singapore 2.6 3.0% Turkey 1.9 2.2% Recoveries per program 10 UAE 2.2 2.5% China 1.7 1.9% In 2015, the total amount of recoveries from the short-term program stood at KRW 91.7 billion, a 15.5% fall compared to KRW 108.5 Subtotal 75.1 86.0% 74.1 83.2% billion in 2014. As for the medium and long-term program, it was KRW 89.8 billion, showing a 0.8% increase compared to KRW 89.1 Others 12.3 14.0% 14.9 16.8% billion in 2014. Total 87.4 100.0% 89.0 100.0% Note) For-domestic (export bond guarantee, export credit insurance (pre-shipment, NEGO, etc.) and derivative products (foreign exchange risk insurance, interest rate risk insurnace, etc.) are excluded. Recoveries per program (Unit : KRW 1 billion) Recoveries 2014 2015 Changes Rate of change ST export insurance 48.9 47.9 △1.0 △2.0% Export credit guarantee 56.1 41.7 △14.4 △25.6% STnote) Others 3.5 2.1 △1.4 △40.0% ST total 108.5 91.7 △16.8 △15.5% MLT export insurance 18.0 18.7 0.7 3.9% Export bond insurance 54.0 50.4 △3.6 △6.7% MLT Overseas construction works insurance 17.1 20.3 3.2 18.7% Overseas business financing insurance 0.4 0.4 MLT total 89.1 89.8 0.7 0.8% Total 197.6 181.5 ▵16.1 ▵8.1% Note) Short-term export credit insurance products include agro-fisheries export insurance, overseas marketing insurance, reliability insurance Export credit guarantee includes cultural contents export insurance Others include import insurance Derivative products (foreign exchange risk insurance and interest rate risk insurance) are excluded. 36 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 37 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Credit Research CURRENT STATUS OF CREDIT RESEARCH FOCUSED AGENDA OF 2015 FUTURE PLANS ON OVERSEAS ENTERPRISES In 2015, K-sure reinforced more expert personnel including certiUnderwriting based on risk assessment through credit informaK-sure implements a “credit research service on overseas buyfied public accountants and established the Credit Assessment tion and credit ratings is a critical step in the provision of trade ers” by gathering credit information on overseas companies and Team with the objective to provide more accurate and reasonable insurance and toward a stable operation of the Trade Insurance providing it to domestic companies and this service is made credit information. Moreover, the diagnosis and improvement Fund. Moreover, it is expected to play the role of leading the available with the close cooperation with our overseas organizaworks on the credit assessment models and credit ratings system economic growth by supporting Korean firms with insufficient tion network by utilizing 83 credit research firms in 44 different which have continued from 2014 were completed and in February information on overseas markets and buyers to advance into countries that have signed MOUs with us. 2015, a new credit assessment model reflecting new credit asoverseas markets. sessment methods, procedures, and ratings system was introAs of the end of 2015, we hold credit information on some duced. Following such, as for Korean companies, the existing exFor such, K-sure will strive to offer quick and accurate credit re419,000 overseas buyers. The number of credit research cases ternal audit models were further segmented into 14 models and search services by supporting reviews and enhancing customer has continued to increase each year, with 51,659 in 2015, as for the foreign companies, evaluation was conducted accordsatisfaction at both home and abroad. In detail, to provide more a 0.5% rise from 51,394 cases in 2014. ing to the standard in which the existing 4 models were segmenteffective credit information, consulting is being sought to imYear Number of credit research cases on overseas buyers ed into 11 models, based on country ratings, company sizes, prove the process of the research and assessment of credits. It 2012 50,230 business, and other factors. is expected to strengthen the assessment of domestic and foreign companies as well as regular monitoring with regards to the 2013 51,035 Moreover, the efforts were put into discovering new overseas current status of default rates between credit category, stability 2014 51,394 credit research agencies and diversifying the channels of credit and assessment power of the assessment models and items by 2015 51,659 information collection per country to support the development establishing permanent monitoring system of assessment modof emerging markets by linking with the medium and long-term els. When examined per continent, the number of credit research development strategies. As a result, new work relationships cases was the highest in Asia with 36.3%, followed by Europe have been forged with local credit research firms and financial Going beyond export support, continuous efforts will be made (22.4%), Latin America (15.0%), North America (11.0%), Middle institutions in Zimbabwe, Uganda, Iran, and other emerging to expand the credit information database, build the credit reEast (8.3%), Africa (5.1%), and Oceania (1.9%). By country, it economies in the Middle East and Africa. Thus, the function of search capacity, and improve research and assessment prowas the highest from China (10.5%), followed by the U.S. credit research is expected to strengthen in the future. cesses with the understanding that the credit information busi(9.7%), Brazil (5.6%), India (4.0%), Japan (3.7%), Germany ness is a growth engine of K-sure. (3.4%), and Turkey (3.1%). At the same time, the Customer Service Center was opened to promote customer satisfaction with the goal to provide one-stop The number of credit research reports on domestic firms, which service through which a range of service from fulfilling credit reare required at the initial stage of trade insurance usage, continsearch request to post management after the provision of credit ued to increase, in which we now holds credit information from information will be offered at the center at once. Furthermore, some 61,000 domestic enterprises at the end of 2015. monitoring utilizing credit research costs, research periods, and Year Number of credit research cases on Korean firms substance of report were conducted regularly to reduce credit 2012 10,295 research costs by encouraging competition between credit research companies and efforts were made to prepare a platform 2013 10,901 for improving the contents of credit research reports. 2014 11,475 2015 14,072 38 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 39 39 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Research Risk on Country Management and Industry K-sure proposes underwriting directions and pursues risk manDaily monitoring reports were prepared for Venezuela, Ukraine K-sure appointed Chief Risk Officers (CROs), and runs the Risk We set a total risk ceiling each year to maintain the stability of agement by analyzing the trends of countries and industries and other highly risky emerging countries, while quarterly moniand Recoveries Division to manage overall risk that can arise the trade insurance business. Specifically, the annual limit is set promptly and accurately in order to support the trade transactoring was conducted on those countries with significantly high during the operation of trade insurance. The division is made up according to unexpected losses based on the size of the Trade tions of Korean exporters in various industries throughout the political risk. of several departments, including the Risk Management Insurance Fund and is divided and distributed to each risk (unworld. Department and the Credit Review Department, in which the derwriting, financial and operational). Each risk is controlled to Short-term underwriting guidelines per country were modified former oversees overall risk management affairs and is responstay at an optimum level at which the integrated risk is calibratWhen underwriting, an accurate analysis of political and ecoby analyzing the increasing threat through constant monitoring. sible for various programs and systems related to risk manageed, and computer systems are mobilized to monitor the amount nomic situations in importing countries is critical in addition to With regards to countries with increasing threats such as ment. of total and daily risk use of each. the assessment of political risks including the payment ability of Venezuela, Libya and Greece, underwriting guideline per counthe country. As such, the country report is published regularly, try was reinforced for risk management and with regards to We used the concept of “integrated risk” to cover all the risks The underwriting risk, which makes up more than 80% of the covering a wide scope of areas including various economic indicountries with low threats, they were converted using Open arising during operation. Integrated risk is comprised of undertotal risk, is monitored by measuring risk-posing agents includces, political-social stability, account settlement ability, assessCover method, flexibly operating the underwriting guideline per writing, financial, and operational risks. By definition, the undering exporters, importers, exposure at default by each country, ment by international markets, transaction records with us etc. country to support Korean exporters actively. writing risk comes from the operation of the trade insurance probability of default, and loss given default. Based on the rebusiness, the financial risk arises during the operation of the sulting data, the value at risk (VaR) index and risk concentration We offer in-depth seminars and external exports publish related We participate in the OECD's Country Risk Expert (CRE) meetTrade Insurance Fund and of K-sure’s assets, and the operationin each insurance product are measured and reported for sysreports to provide helpful information to our clients for an accuing regularly, held three times a year with the goal to reflect acal risk is related to accidents occurring during work, due to systematic risk management. To manage risk from losses related to rate analysis of the target industry or target company as they are curate country ratings. In 2015, a total of 142 countries were astem errors, etc. fluctuations in interest rates and stocks, the amount of financial becoming increasingly important amid a tumultuous external sessed by participating in OECD CRE. For those countries risk is monitored each day. The key risk index (KRI) is monitored environment. whose country risks are not assessed through these CRE meetIn greater detail, the underwriting risk can be subdivided into for the measurement and management of operational risk. ings, country risks rates based on internal guidelines were used. credit and currency exchange risk, in which the former comes In 2015, we published reports on political and economic trends As of December 2015, K-sure had country ratings on a total of from losses due to defaults of importers or importing countries, On top of the management of integrated risk, the risk from each with regards to countries that we had supported medium and 260 countries. whereas the latter, from losses owing to exchange rate fluctuaof the covered transactions is monitored both at the time credit long-term projects of large amounts or with regards to countries tions. The financial risk is subdivided into credit, market and liis given, and after, while the total amount of risk is managed at that faced increasing threats, providing information on indusquidity risk, in which the credit risk mainly originates from bankthe same time. try-related information, mostly in the IT, shipbuilding and other ruptcy of depository institutions, debt issuing organizations, etc. major export industries. The “Handbook on Countries” was The market risk arises from price volatility in assets invested. For those large transactions, pre-cover and risk reviews are perpublished to provide country information to SME exporters. The liquidity risk results from losses related to not being able to formed. Moreover, post-cover monitoring is conducted regularly cope with unexpected asset spending. (monthly, quarterly, and semi-annually) on credit rating changes Risk was also monitored through a regular publication of “Spot in countries, industries, and domestic and overseas enterprises. News“ through which various issues or changing circumstances If abnormal signs are detected, risk management is pursued were analyzed for quick decision making in time of a crisis. pre-emptively through credit reduction, implementation of risk mitigation measures, etc. 40 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 41 41 2015 ANNUAL REPORT International Finally, we operate various committees to secure expertise and objectivity in risk management. The Risk Management and Risk external experts, the Risk Management Committee reviews the ceiling for integrated risk, the ceiling for each risk, etc. The Relations Management Working-Level Committees review important Underwriting Review and Expert Review Committees are comrisk-related policies. The Underwriting Review and Expert posed of working-level knowledge experts with abundant expeReview Committees assess those individual transactions under rience who review and decide on the coverage of large transacconsideration. With more than half of its members comprised of tions. Risk management infrastructure of K-sure STRENGTHENING TIES WITH GLOBAL PROACTIVE ENGAGEMENT IN THE REVISION ECAS THROUGH THE BERNE UNION OF THE OECD EXPORT CREDIT GUIDELINES Continuing from previous years, K-sure also played a leading K-sure was deeply involved in OECD activities as a participant Management role in the Berne Union in 2015 by actively engaging in the seto the “Arrangement on Officially Supported Export Credits” and Committee lection of meeting agendas and in decision-making processes. a member of Korean delegations to the “Working Party on Auditor Export Credits and Credit Guarantees” and the “Country Risk Established in 1934, the Berne Union, also known as the Experts Meeting”. In short, we took an active role in deliberaUnderwriting Review International Union of Credit and Investment Insurers, is an astions and the creation of various international norms related to Risk Management Committee Audit Office Committee sociation formed by 50 member ECAs from 40 different counthe provision of export credits. tries from around the world that exchange related information Review the Risk Management Policy, etc. Review Large Underwriting Cases Audit Operation and closely cooperate on compliance with international norms With the establishment of the “Sector Understanding on Export in trade. Credits for Coal-Fired Electricity Generation Projects” in 2015, Risk Management Working-Level Committee Expert Review Committee We took part in the establishment of international norms while We regularly participate in its Spring Meeting and the Annual aiming to represent the interests of the environment and indusReview Cases Approved by the Preview and Review Delegated Items General Meeting (AGM) in autumn, at which the agency contry at the same time. Moreover, We met with international counManagement tributes to a smooth flow of information between the BU memterparts to discuss matters related to export credits including bers, through such efforts as the introduction of the agency’s the official support of export credits, premium rates, interest Service Export Credit Insurance through the Innovative MLT rates, etc. Risk & Recoveries Product Session at the 2015 AGM. Division Notably, the 2015 AGM drew active engagement from the Underwriting Department member ECAs for mutual cooperation through lively discusReview Underwriting sions on the outlook of global trade and the economy, China’s (Underwriting Risk) One Belt, One Road Initiative, climate finance, and measures Risk Management Department Credit Review Department to deal with Iran after the lifting of sanctions against the counManagement of integrated risk Preview before underwriting Treasury Department try’s nuclear program. (Underwriting, financial, operation Post review of underwriting risks) Review risks Manage and Operate the Trade Premium rates Insurance Fund(Financial Risk) Monitoring for underwriting 42 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 43 2015 ANNUAL REPORT EXCHANGES AND COOPERATION WITH OTHER ECAS AND RELATED INSTITUTIONS We sought to boost mutual capacity building through the expansion As part of the national agenda of building economic cooperation caof information interchange channels of communication with other pacity, we actively partook in several economic delegations orgaECAs. nized by the Korean government. In 2015, cross-agency training of employees was conducted for As part of the delegations’ activities, we concluded a total of 3 more effective and direct information exchanges with the goal of MOUs, including one project financing agreement, one MOU on strengthening mutual cooperation. reinsurance, and one MOU on joint support for overseas investments. These agreements will be part of an expanding strategic Meanwhile, the training program for overseas institutions also conplatform of cooperation with other organizations. tinued in 2015 with the goal of transferring trade insurance knowledge to emerging countries. Through this Knowledge Sharing In 2015, we concluded a financial support agreement with KPC Program, we invited officials from the Dominican Republic Export (The Kuwait Petroleum Corporation), a reinsurance agreement with and Investment Center and state officials from Mexico to introduce ICIEC (The Islamic Corporation for the Insurance of Investment them to the trade insurance system of Korea. Training was also ofand Export Credit), an overseas investment agreement with fered to officials from Indonesia Eximbank. Czechinvest of the Czech Republic, and export credit support agreements with ABGF of Brazil, Zurich of North America, and Eximbanka SR of the Slovak Republic. DISCUSSIONS AT THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDING OF A SOLID FRAMEWORK OF WORKING GROUP ON EXPORT CREDITS INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION (IWG) THROUGH BILATERAL MEETINGS Led by China and the U.S., the International Working Group on We successfully wrapped up four bilateral meetings in 2015 to Export Credits (IWG) was inaugurated in November 2012 with solidify strategic partnerships with several countries, including the aim of setting a new international norm on export credits to Japan, China, Germany, France, and Italy, by deliberating on reduce the gap between the OECD member and non-member trade insurance policies and expanding information exchanges. countries in the provision of export credits. There are 15 participating countries at the IWG including Korea, the U.S., the EU, The bilateral meetings held in 2015 included one with Euler Japan, China, Brazil, and Russia. Hermes of Germany in February in Seoul, Korea; Sinosure of China in April in Guiyang, China; NEXI of Japan in September As part of the Korean delegation to the IWG, we engaged in the in Kyoto, Japan; Coface of France in September in Annecy, talks on behalf of Korea’s greatest interests, including its strong France; and SACE of Italy in October in Rome, Italy. The parshipbuilding industry. ticipating agencies held in-depth discussions on ways to expand the joint provision of export credits. Notably, the bilateral meeting with SACE of Italy was held for the first time, where a timely agenda was adopted and deliberated on while expanding the framework of cooperation between the two agencies. 44 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 45 2015 ANNUAL REPORT K-SURE AND THE COMMUNITY We focus on inclusive development by promoting communication and expanding sharing with our clients and people in our community. We continue to pursue social contributions for community development, knowledge sharing to help the weak, donations for a stable community economy, regular volunteering and sponsorship activities for those socially marginalized, etc. All these efforts do not stop as one-time good-will gestures but are part of our endeavor to fulfill our corporate social responsibility as a responsible corporate citizen. 46 K-SURE AND THE COMMUNITY 47 47 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Operation Aimed at CSR Activities Customer Satisfaction (CS) CSR K-sure aims its operation based on customer satisfaction Mobile web-site operation The corporate social responsibility (CSR) slogan of K-sure is through such efforts as the operation of customer panels, inteTo meet the needs of the digital age, we run a mobile web-site “Exports for Exporters, Warmth to Neighbours”, and it refers to grated management of customer opinions, and capacity buildwhere the contents on country information, trends related to our pursuit of coexistence by expanding sharing and communiing for its employees toward CS. trade, currency information, etc. are provided to its customers cations among all of our clients, including Korean exporters and and the general public. our community. CS capacity building of K-sure employees The results from customer satisfaction surveys, happy calls, Posting of K-sure News Letter The public corporation that shares and communicates with voices from customers (complaints, suggestions, praises, etc.) With the goal of strengthening communication with customers, the local community are shared company-wide to utilize these data in improving our we post and send K-sure News Letter and other notices to its We maintain historical sites and pursue other CSR activities programs and services. customers via e-mail and other methods throughout the year aimed at interacting with local people in the Jongno-gu region through which customers are notified on program changes, where our head office is located. Major cases registered through the Customer Center (the Call country attitudes, etc. Center) are shared company-wide to provide training to employTo promote urban-rural exchanges, we forged a sisterhood relaees on how to answer calls and make visits to customers. tionship with Gaekhyeun-ri Paju-si Gyeonggi-do and help out this rural area in busy farming seasons as well as sponsor variOperation of K-sure customer advisory board ous local activities. In order to pursue operation based on customer engagement utilizing customers’ ideas and suggestions, regular meetings are held with the customer advisory board to reflect customers’ opinions on our programs. Expansion of the Trade Academy Main Activity Highlights We have been running the Trade Academy since 2009 with the goal to promote the understanding on trade insurance by ex· Tended the cultural Confucian shrine (Sungkyunkwan, Myeongnyun-dong, Jongno-gu) porters and foster trade-related experts from SME exporters. · Cleaned streets of Jongno (Changshin-dong, Jongno-gu) In 2015, 38 sessions of the Trade Academy were offered where · Re-created an independence movement march for the Independence Day event sponsored by the Jongno-gu district office training was offered on the trade insurance system, indemnifica· Cleaned areas surrounding small streams in Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu tion cases, actual affairs involved in trading, etc. to people from · Helped Gaekhyeun-ri farmers during busy seasons export companies, financial institutions, and general public (college students). A total of 1,105 trainees completed the courses offered. 48 K-SURE AND THE COMMUNITY 49 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Contribution to the Korean economy by stabilizing the lives Main Activity Highlights of ordinary people We forged a sisterhood relationship with Inwang Market, located · Shopped at the traditional market for the New Year and in Hongje-dong, to boost local markets suffering from an ecoChuseok holidays nomic slump. Various our marketing products and food supplies · Sponsored the replacement of old vending facilities at the came from this market. Sponsorship is also offered through emmarket ployees of us actually shopping at the market for the New Year and Chuseok (Thanksgiving) holidays. Regular volunteering and sponsorships for marginalized people to build social trust Main Activity Highlights We continued our regular volunteering and sponsorships within · Helped the Seoul Elderly Welfare Center with their free meal the community at social welfare and other facilities to share program warmth with marginalized people. · Volunteered at Raphael’s House (home for the disabled) and Theresa’s House (an orphanage) · Prepared winter kimchi for a homeless shelter · Helped with an annual fundraising fair hosted by Korean Red Cross · Participated in bread making for disadvantaged people hosted by Korean Red Cross · Delivered coal for winter fuel to marginalized people · Sponsored regional and rural social welfare facilities 50 K-SURE AND THE COMMUNITY 51 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Ethical Management Under the ethical management vision of a “Clean K-sure, trusted by the people of Korea and its customers”, and as a public corporation, We strive to create a culture of anti-corruption and transparency and fulfill corporate social responsibility. To achieve this vision, the president of K-sure leads the Ethical Management Committee toward the achievement of ethical management. The Integrity Ombudsman Committee, composed of external experts, strengthens external monitoring and checks in this same pursuit. Our customers are encouraged to report direct and indirect corruption and other unreasonable conduct by our employees during the course of their use of trade insurance, such that they also participate in our ethical management, functioning as another external monitoring body. To remove any possibility of collusion with customers using trade insurance products, the Credit Underwriting Department (independent of those departments involved in the actual underwriting business) was set up through which credit review personnel are given a greater degree of responsibility for transparency. To prevent the occurrence of corruption and to toughen made by each executive in the pursuit of ethical management trainees actually experienced a variety of situations by impleAs an official export credit agency, we also comply with internapunishment at the time of discovery, the “Red Whistle” system was assessed during their performance evaluation, while the sementing role-plays in classes, improving training outcomes. tional norms and regulations. For instance, we observe the was adopted. The actual operation of the system was connior directors were required to sign the ethical management Trainee feedback was also obtained for the classes. In short, OECD Recommendation of the Council on Common signed to an external organization that was specifically designed contract, in addition to the executives who had been the only continued efforts have been placed on improving training outApproaches for Officially Supported Export Credits and to anonymously report any corrupt conduct by K-sure employgroup to sign the contract previously. In short, various efforts comes. The Integrity Club formed voluntarily by K-sure employEnvironmental and Social Due Diligence (“The Common ees and executives. This external monitoring complements the were made toward establishing a lead-by-example system for ees uses its regular workshops to share ethical management Approaches”) and the OECD Recommendation on Bribery and existing whistle-blower protection and compensation system ethical management. practices through on the discussion of current trends and isOfficially Supported Export Credits. As a result, we contribute to related to the “punishment of violators” and “protection of whissues. creating a level-playing field in the international trade arena. tle-blowers from repercussions” clauses. To eliminate compasTo spread the culture of ethical management, all K-sure employsionate punishment practices when corruption is discovered, ees took the Clean K-sure oath, proclaiming a commitment of Abiding by the government’s guidelines, we voluntarily disclose the “one-strike out” system is being implemented, realistically pursuing transparency. Ideas related to anti-corruption were information related to our operation, and thereby protect the establishing the principle of zero tolerance. gathered company-wide and K-sure employees who submitted people’s right to know beforehand. Our internal guidelines, excellent suggestions for improving transparency and integrity closely related to the lives of people, are also open to the public In order for executives to remain ethical and lead by example, were given prizes. The integrity mileage system was introduced, to boost fairness and responsibility when it comes to our work. the management (including the president) was sent to the through which those who accumulated the highest mileages Information about optional contract deals and our executives’ Integrity Training Center to receive anti-corruption education. were awarded, guidelines were set on integrity, and integrity inbusiness expenses are also disclosed regularly. In short, we Integrity education was provided to senior directors and chiefs frastructure was strengthened. At the same time, methods of incontinue our pursuit of transparent operation. who took the integrity oath. Furthermore, the degree of effort tegrity training were improved over previous lectures, whereby 52 MAJOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENTS 53 53 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Auditors’ Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT To the Board of Directors of K-sure February 12, 2016 Report on financial statements: We, Samjung KPMG LLC have audited the financial statements of the Trade Fund (hereinafter referred to as the “Fund”). The financial statements are comprised of the Income Statement, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Cash Flow Statement, and a summary on significant accounting practices and policies and notes on the accounts as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014. Responsibilities of the Directors of K-sure with regards to the financial statements: The Directors of K-sure are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements as well as for the internal control decisions deemed necessary for the purpose of ensuring that the financial statements are free from any material misstatements, whether caused by fraud or error. Responsibilities of the auditors: The auditors’ responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with the audit that we the auditors conducted. Our audit was conducted in accordance with the auditing standards by the Korea Institute of Certified Public Accountants. These standards require us to comply with ethical standards and to plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance regardFINANCIAL ing whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Choice on the audit procedure differs depending on the auditor’s judgement in regard to the assessment, etc. of the risk on the representation of material misstatement, SECTION whether caused by fraud or error. When assessing this risk, the auditor takes into account the internal control measures related to the preparation of financial statements and adequate disclosure to design a reasonable audit procedure consistent with circumstances. An audit, however, does not to express an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control. Furthermore, an audit also includes the assesment of the appropriateness of the accounting policies that the Directors applied to prepare the financial statements and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors. We believe that the evidence for the audit we gathered is sufficient and reasonable to give our opinion. 53 Auditors' Report 54 Statement of Financial Position In our opinion, the financial statements of the Fund as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 give a fair view from a significant 55 Income Statement perspective of operation, changes in equity, and cash flow in conformity with accounting regulations of the Fund. 56 Statement on Changes in Capital Kim Kyo-tae CEO Samjung KPMG LLC 54 FINANCIAL SECTION 55 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Financial Statements 1. Statement of Financial Position 2. Income Statement The 47th term as of December 31, 2015 The 47th term from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 The 46th term as of December 31, 2014 The 46th term from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 • Trade Insurance Fund (Unit : KRW) • Trade Insurance Fund (Unit : KRW) The 47th (current) term The 46th (previous) term The 47th (current) term The 46th (previous) term Account Account Amount Amount Amount Amount Assets Ⅰ. Income from operation 3,184,336,467,908 3,260,126,001,318 Ⅰ. Cash and dues from banks 1,068,414,968,040 851,964,824,284 1. Premium income 690,328,060,660 620,206,961,280 Ⅱ. Securities 1,928,775,774,284 1,708,344,665,291 2. Recovery income 225,448,289,634 216,388,407,541 1. Trading securities 1,748,775,774,284 1,518,344,665,291 3. Reinsurance income 2,392,584,360 20,823,712,820 2. Avaliable for sale securities 180,000,000,000 190,000,000,000 4. Other income from operation 2,266,167,533,254 2,402,706,919,677 Ⅲ. Tangible assets 88,065,941,528 75,982,777,097 1) Interest income 81,204,289,637 65,757,248,033 Ⅳ. Investment properties 15,291,413,743 27,400,859,665 2) Gain on valuation and sale of securities 6,356,648,229 9,336,173,808 Ⅴ. Intangible assets 6,808,842,779 9,164,542,679 Gain on sale of trading securities 6,356,648,229 9,336,173,808 Ⅵ. Other assets 786,037,452,784 1,052,918,476,133 3) Income from commissions 1,541,284,373 1,526,247,554 1. Premium receivables 341,520,993,273 583,538,121,791 4) Income from subrogation 66,362,141,892 Reserve for bad debts (11,734,540) (11,734,540) 5) Reversal of unearned premium reserves 1,311,188,062,874 1,198,054,188,636 2. Account receivables 13,739,672,866 13,739,677,287 6) Reversal of reserves for onstanding claims 779,052,904,166 897,417,081,578 3. Accrued income from account receivables 25,915,195,612 26,175,596,977 7) Gain on derivative transactions 17,126,699,395 56,159,332,672 4. Corporate tax receivables for the current term 1,998,116,929 2,168,900,639 8) Gain on valuation of derivatives 14,473,550,060 21,123,035,264 5. Receivables from subrogation 328,639,932,163 343,721,841,182 9) Gain on FX risk insurance transactions 6,309,612,099 18,871,108,619 6. Leasehold deposits 27,053,060,330 24,906,280,604 10) Gain on valuation of FX risk insurance 9,518,999,880 16,499,005,893 7. Deposits 2,348,954,178 2,325,344,178 11) Gain on valuation of interest rate risk insurance 8. Long-term loans to employees 1,083,310,258 1,548,548,930 12) Gain on foreign currency conversion 26,271,140,919 42,781,299,627 9. Derivative assets 27,373,668,786 46,259,554,355 FX gain 19,589,012,659 8,853,736,800 10. Others 16,376,282,929 8,546,344,730 Gain on foreign currency conversion 6,682,128,260 33,927,562,827 Total assets 3,893,394,393,158 3,725,776,145,149 13) Reversal on allowance for bad debts 35,114,979 Liabilities 14) Others 13,124,341,622 8,784,941,122 Ⅰ. Contingency reserve 2,477,416,225,417 2,090,240,967,040 Ⅱ. Operating expenses 3,388,590,274,254 3,221,651,505,253 1. Premiums reserved for unexpired policies 1,393,066,547,805 1,311,188,062,874 1. Claims paid expenses 527,987,932,902 801,634,835,132 2. Reserves for payable 1,084,349,677,612 779,052,904,166 2. Returns of premium income expenses 126,031,057,750 85,275,717,380 Ⅱ. Other liabilities 76,843,264,698 259,465,719,404 3. Subrogation receivables deductions 30,743,818,724 1. Payable accounts 224,320,584 6,944,229,858 4. Reinsurance expenses 18,945,515,726 2. Payable expenses 220,261,784 1,180,335,526 5. Other operating expenses 2,606,398,922,852 2,222,979,298,269 3. Reserve payable for employee retirement 25,854,092,056 21,104,005,919 1) Loss on valuation and sale of securities 24,607,345,966 9,657,653,112 4. Prepaid premiums 7,436,025,601 153,349,705,363 Loss on sale of available-for-sale securities 2,123,882,593 9,657,653,112 5. Deposits 1,356,459,450 976,482,218 Net unrealized gains and losses on avaliable6. Liabilities from derivatives 19,412,482,541 39,800,272,849 22,483,463,373 for-sale securities 7. Leasehold deposits 1,113,554,500 1,138,422,125 2) Fees paid 690,573,494 380,380,812 8. Trusts 9,775,353,454 17,366,406,269 3) Contribution to unearned premium reserves 1,393,066,547,805 1,311,188,062,874 9. Others 11,219,971,928 17,605,859,277 4) Contribution to reserve for outstanding 1,084,349,677,612 779,052,904,166 claims Total liabilities 2,554,028,747,315 2,349,706,686,444 5) Loss on sale of derivatives 39,360,919,692 63,952,663,291 Capital 6) Loss on valuation of derivatives 12,920,414,656 24,039,258,741 Ⅰ. Contributions 2,550,824,481,888 2,540,824,481,888 7) Loss on FX insurance transactions 16,010,615,039 431,424,240 1. Government contributions 2,314,824,481,888 2,314,824,481,888 8) Loss on valuation of FX risk insurance 1,904,182,363 7,289,754,146 2. Other contributions 236,000,000,000 226,000,000,000 9) Loss on valuation of interest rate insurance 3,560,065,938 4,877,550,131 Ⅱ. Other contributions total 7,571,107,149 3,374,823,858 10) Loss on foreign currency transactions 8,583,574,116 10,403,587,280 1. Gain on valuation of available-for-sale 7,571,107,149 3,374,823,858 securities (loss) FX loss 8,583,574,116 10,227,662,582 Ⅲ. Deficit (1,219,029,943,194) (1,168,129,847,041) Loss on foreign currency conversion 175,924,698 1. Retained earnings before appropriation (1,219,029,943,194) (1,168,129,847,041) 11) Debt recovery expenses 11,615,961,229 9,905,516,312 Total capital 1,339,365,645,843 1,376,069,458,705 12) Bad debt expenses 84,924,207 Total liabilities and capital 3,893,394,393,158 3,725,776,145,149 13) Other operating expenses 9,644,120,735 1,800,543,164 56 FINANCIAL SECTION 57 57 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Organization Chart 2. Income Statement The 47th term from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 The 46th term from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 • Trade Insurance Fund (Unit : KRW) The 47th (current) term The 46th (previous) term Account Management Board of Amount Amount Committee President Directors 6. Expenses for administration 97,428,542,026 92,816,138,746 1) Personnel expenses 48,092,884,557 46,061,299,494 2) Overhead expenses 35,922,828,908 35,331,856,467 3) Severance benefit expenses 5,895,347,077 4,301,166,420 4) Depreciations 5,161,781,584 4,766,116,465 5) Intangible asset depreciations 2,355,699,900 2,355,699,900 Ⅲ. Income from operation (loss) (204,253,806,346) 38,474,496,065 Audit and Ⅳ. Income excluding operation 9,604,854,641 7,507,789,415 Secretarial Auditor Inspection Team Department 1. Gain on disposal of tangible assets 17,358,925 400,765,228 2. Rental income 1,735,002,177 3,709,735,829 3. Others 7,852,493,539 3,397,288,358 Ⅴ. Non-operating expenses 1,251,144,448 2,306,750,500 1. Loss from disposal of tangible assets 309,675 1,560,441 2. Others 1,250,834,773 2,305,190,059 Ⅵ. Net gain before corporate tax expenses (loss) (195,900,096,153) 43,675,534,980 Ⅶ. Corporate tax expenses SMEs SMEs Strategic Global Investment & Risk & Ⅷ. Net gain during the term (loss) (195,900,096,153) 43,675,534,980 Business Business Management Business Finance Recoveries Central South Division Division Division Division Division Division · Strategic Planning · Short-Term Business · Investment & · Risk Management · Business Coordination · Maritime Finance Department Department Finance Department Department Department · Administrative · Research Coordination · Claims & Recoveries · Central Underwriting · South Underwriting Department Department Department Department Department Department 3. Statement on Changes in Capital · Treasury Department · Informatization · Project Finance · Domestic Claims & · Central Branch · Busan Branch Department Department Ⅰ Recoveries The 47 term from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 th · Management · Gangnam Branch · Daegu-Gyeongbuk Evaluation · Project Finance Department Branch The 46 term from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 th Department Ⅱ · Guro Digital Branch Department · Corporate · Ulsan Branch · Overseas Investment Restructuring · Gyeonggi Branch · Public Relations · Gyeongnam Branch • Trade Insurance Fund (Unit : KRW) Department Finance Department Department · Northern Gyeonggi · International · Legal Department Branch · Jeju Branch Other comprehensive income/ Account Contributions Retained earnings (deficits) Total loss total Relations Team · Credit Review · Incheon Branch January 1, 2014(beginning of the previous year) 2,492,824,481,888 (10,776,930,632) (1,351,805,382,021) 1,130,242,169,235 Department · Daejeon-SejongContributions 188,000,000,000 188,000,000,000 Chungnam Branch Loss protection (140,000,000,000) (140,000,000,000) · Chungbuk Branch Gain and loss on valuation of available-for-sale · Gangwon Branch 14,151,754,490 14,151,754,490 securities · Gwangju-Jeonnam Net gain during the current term 43,675,534,980 43,675,534,980 Branch December 31, 2014 (end of the previous year) 2,540,824,481,888 3,374,823,858 (1,168,129,847,041) 1,376,069,458,705 · Jeonbuk Branch January 1, 2015 (beginning of the current year) 2,540,824,481,888 3,374,823,858 (1,168,129,847,041) 1,376,069,458,705 Contributions 155,000,000,000 155,000,000,000 Loss protection (144,000,000,000) (145,000,000,000) · LA Representative Office · Shanghai Representative Office · Tokyo Representative Office Gain and loss on valuation of available-for-sale 4,196,283,291 4,196,283,291 securities · Beijing Representative Office · New York Representative Office · Moscow Representative Office Overseas Net gain during the current term (195,900,096,153) (195,900,096,153) · Sao Paulo Representative Office · Jakarta Representative Office · Johannesburg (KOTRA KBC Detached Service) Representative December 1, 2015 (end of the current year) 2,550,824,481,888 7,571,107,149 (1,219,029,943,194) 1,339,365,645,843 Offices · Paris Representative Office · New Delhi Representative Office · Almaty (KOTRA KBC Detached Service) · Ho Chi Minh City Representative Office · Panama Representative Office 58 ORGANIZATION 59 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Management K-sure management is dedicated to support trade. Each member of the management at K-sure gives the best to extend solid support to Korean enterprises striving for success. Yoo Jae-nam Lim Yang-hyun Executive Director Executive Director Kim Young-hak Lee Dae-yong Hyung Nam-doo Lee Mi-young Kim Sook Chairman & President Auditor Executive Director Executive Director Non-Executive Director Cho Nam-yong Kang Byung-tae Oh Kwang-hee Park Young-ok Lee Kyu-min Deputy President Deputy President Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 60 ORGANIZATION 61 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Domestic and Guro Digital Branch Overseas Network 14th Floor, KICOX Venture Center, Guro Digital 32-gil 29, Guro-gu, Seoul, 08379, South Korea Tel: (82-2) 6300-6300, 6302~6 Gangnam Branch Fax: (82-2) 6300-6311 Guro Digital Branch Northern Gyeonggi Branch Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Incheon Branch Gyeonggi Branch Central Branch Jeju Branch Gangwon Branch 4th Floor, Economic and Trade Promotion Center, Chungbuk Branch 473 Yeonsam-ro, Jeju-si, Jeju Special SelfDaejeon-Chungnam Branch Governing Province, 63217, South Korea Daegu-Gyeongbuk Branch Tel: (82-64) 751-6601~2 Jeonbuk Branch Ulsan Branch Fax: (82-64) 751-6603 Gyeongnam Branch Busan Branch Gwangju-Jeonnam Branch New York OVERSEAS REPRESENTATIVE Paris OFFICES Moscow Los Angeles Representative Office Los Angeles Almathy Beijing Jeju Branch 915 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 1640, Los Angeles, CA Tokyo 90017, USA Shanghai Tel : 1-213)622-4314~5, 4330 Panama New Delhi Fax : 1-213)622-5316 Beijing Representative Office Ho Chi Minh Gyeonggi Branch Room 2902, A Layer 29, Hongtai East Puxiang 8th Floor, Gyeonggi Small&Medium business supCenter, Wangjing, Science Technology Business Sao Paulo port Center, 107 Gwanggyo-ro, Yeongtong-gu, Park, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100012, China Jakarta Suwon-si, 16229 Gyeonggi-do, South Korea Tel : 86-10)6410-6437~9 Tel: (82-31) 259-7600, 3~6 Internet phone: 070-8611-1701 Fax: (82-31) 259-7607 Fax : 86-10)6410-6440 Johannesburg Northern Gyeonggi Branch Sao Paulo Representative Office 8th Floor, Kyobo Life Insurance Bldg, 1181 Alameda Santos, 880, 5°Andar Conj. 52/53 Jungang-ro, Ilsandong-gu, CEP:01418-100-Cerqueira Cesar, Sao Paulo SP, Goyang-si, 10414, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea Brasil Tel: (82-31) 932-3501~6 Tel : 55-11)3284-1105, 3285-1951 Fax: (82-31) 932-3507 Internet phone: 070-8611-1702 Fax : 55-11)3284-4081 Jakarta Representative Office HEAD OFFICE Daegu-Gyeongbuk Branch Gangwon Branch Wisma GKBI 21st. Fl., Suite 2104, Jl. Jendral 10th Floor, Daegu Trade Center, 489 Dongdaegu6th Floor, Samsung Life Insurance Bldg, 2 Wonil-ro, Paris Representative Office Sudirman Kav.28, Jakarta, 10210, Indonesia Korea Trade Insurance Corporation ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, 41256, South Korea Wonju-si, 26429, Gangwon-do, South Korea 13 rue Camille Desmoulins, 92441, Issy-LesTel : 62-21)570-5565 Moscow Representative Office 14 Jongno, Jongno-Gu, Seoul, 03187, South Korea Tel: (82-53) 252-4932~4 Tel: (82-33) 765-1060~4 Moulineaux Cedex, France Internet phone: 070-8611-1707 123610, Moscow, Krasnopresnenskaya nab., 12 Tel : (82-2)399-6800 Fax: (82-53) 256-2684 Fax: (82-33) 765-1065 Tel : 33-1)5804-2674 Fax : 62-21)574-1470 Mezhdunarodnaya-2, office 948 Fax : (82-2)399-7439 Internet phone: 070-8611-1724 Tel : 7-495)258-1539~41 Incheon Branch Chungbuk Branch Fax : 33-1)5804-2673 New Delhi Representative Office Internet phone: 070-7001-0849 DOMESTIC BRANCHES 13th Floor, Michuhol Tower. 12 Gaetbeol-ro, 4th Floor, Chungbuk Business Agency, 50 Unit No. 306, Rectangle-1, D-4, Saket, Fax : 7-495)258-1542 Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, 21999, South Korea Pungsan-ro, Heungdeok-gu Cheongju-si, 28399, Shanghai Representative Office New Delhi-110017, India Central Branch Tel: (82-32) 422-2713~7 South Korea Room 2210, Maxdo Center, No 8, Xingyi Road, Tel : 91-11)4057-5045, 5047 SECONDEES 14 Jongno, Jongno-Gu, Seoul, 03187, South Korea Fax: (82-32) 422-2718 Tel: (82-43) 236-1301~4 Shanghai, 200336, China Internet phone: 070-8611-1708 Tel : (82-2)399-6596, 6964, 7056 Fax: (82-43) 236-1305 Tel : 86-021)5208-1181~2 Fax : 91-11)4057-5046 Johannesburg, South Africa (Secondee to Fax : (82-2)399-6131 Gwangju-Jeonnam Branch Internet phone: 070-8611-1739 KOTRA South Korea Business Center) 10th Floor, Kwangju Bank. 225 Jebong-ro, DongJeonbuk Branch Fax : 86-021)5208-1186 Panama Representative Office 18th Floor, Sandton City Office Tower, Cnr. Rivonia Gangnam Branch gu, Gwangju, 61470, South Korea 5th Floor, Korean Teachers Credit Union Bldg, 1 KSURE Panama Corp. Calle 50, Torre Global Bank, Road & 5th Street, Sandton, PO Box 786703, Trade Tower Room # 1304, 511 Yeongdong-daero, Tel: (82-62) 226-4820~2 Ongoeul-ro, Wansan-gu, Jeonju-si, 54949, South Ho Chi Minh City Representative Office Piso 33, Officina 3304, Panama City, Panama Sandton City 2146, South Africa Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 06164, South Korea Fax: (82-62) 226-4824 Korea Diamond Plaza #1207, 34 Le Duan St., Dist.1, Tel : 507)394-9170~1 Tel : 27-11)784-0607 Tel: (82-2) 551-0471~2 Tel: (82-63) 276-2360~5 Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Internet phone: 070-8611-1709 Fax : 27-495)784-0623 Fax: (82-2) 551-0487 Daejeon-Sejong-Chungnam Branch Fax: (82-63) 276-2364 Tel : 84-8)3824-6844~5 Fax : 507)394-9173 8th Floor, Daejeon Trade Center. 136 Cheongsa-ro, Internet phone: 070-8611-1705 Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan (Secondee to Busan Branch Seo-gu, Daejeon, 35220, South Korea Gyeongnam Branch Fax : 84-8)3824-6846 Tokyo Representative Office KOTRA South Korea Business Center) 3rd Floor, BEXCO Exhibition Center 2, 30 APEC-ro, Tel: (82-42) 526-3291~4 5th Floor, Gyeongnam Trade Center, 257 JungangRoom 1056, South Tower 10th Floor, Yurakucho 3rd floor, Pavilion 15, 42 Timiyazev Str, Almaty, Haeundae-gu, Busan, 48060. South Korea Fax: (82-42) 526-3295 daero, Uichang-gu, Changwon-si, 51430, New York Representative Office Denki Bldg. 7-1, Yurakucho 1-chome, Chiyoda-Ku, Kazakhstan Tel: (82-51) 245-3981~2 Gyeongsangnam-do, South Korea 460 Park Avenue, 21st Floor, New York, NY 10022, Tokyo, Japan Tel : 7-727)245-9493 Fax: (82-51) 246-9833 Ulsan Branch Tel: (82-55) 286-9394~6 USA Tel : 81-3)3216-0601, 0677 Internet phone: 070-8611-1710 10th Floor, Yuanta Securities Bldg. 197 Samsan-ro, Fax: (82-55) 286-9399 Tel : 1-212)355-2505 Internet phone: 070-8611-1711 Fax : 7-727)311-0637 Nam-gu, Ulsan, 44703, South Korea Internet phone: 070-8611-1706 Fax : 81-3)3216-0602 Tel: (82-52) 261-1833 Fax : 1-212)355-6231 Fax: (82-52) 261-1837
