MANILA DOCTORS HOSPITAL UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Office 8/31/2016 This is the Communication on Progress Report of the Manila Doctors Hospital for the year 2015. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT IN 2015 September 2015 saw the shift from the eight (8) Millennium Development Goals to the seventeen (17) Sustainable Development Goals which are expected to be realized within the next fifteen years. Government all over the world are expected to integrate these seventeen (17) goals in their national plans. One thing is clear though, the Business sector has a crucial role to play that we can no longer ignore if we are to “LEAVE NO ONE BEHIND” and “ACHIEVE THE WORLD WE WANT” by 2030 Manila Doctors Hospital (MDH) has been actively participating in sharing technical inputs leading to the finalization of the 17 SDGs and made an open declaration coupled with decisive actions to ensure that we contribute actively in delivering on the goals which are aligned with our Social Vision: We are a health institution providing holistic care that exceeds industry standards and that anticipates and responds to the needs of the patients, their families and relevant communities. Driven by our determination to make healthcare accessible to the marginalized and the underserved, we consider it our ardent commitment to provide service that is guided by ethical standards and improve the healthcare delivery system with pronounced social impact. These establish Manila Doctors Hospital as a vital partner of the Department of Health, local government units and other like-minded institutions in empowering the communities and the public we serve to sustain health and wellness. We are engaged in heightening the consciousness and the participation of the public in targeted health and environment issues in the global community. MANILA DOCTORS HOSPITAL (MDH) is committed in supporting Good Health and Well Being, Gender Equality and Climate Action. Our commitments are manifested through our governance, business practice and corporate social responsibility endeavors. As a responsible corporate citizen, we respond to societal developmental needs and are considered as a moral obligation of MDH. Our business priorities take into consideration the communities around us and our business policies are formulated and defined by our core values. Triple bottom line is ingrained in our culture that CSR is part of our Corporate Balanced Scorecard. Our aim is to secure consistent profitability that will both support the expansion of our business and our contributions to society in the areas of health, gender and environment. As we celebrate our sixtieth (60th) year of providing world-class care at an affordable cost, we are now laying down the groundwork to provide the healthcare that is responsive to the needs of the next generation and take the necessary steps to ensure inclusivity. The integration of the Ten (10) UNGC Principles in our governance, supply chain process, human resource trainings and CSR programs establishes our focus on responsible business practices. In this Communication on Progress Report we share our journey in utilizing the UNGC principles as a tool for a sustainable and responsible business organization. We would welcome any comments and suggestions. HIAN HO N. KUA, MD. First Vice-President/Hospital Director 1 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 CONTENTS 02 I CEO statement of continued support in 2015 INTRODUCTION 03 About Manila Doctors Hospital 05 The MDH Business Model UN GLOBAL COMPCTCOMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Part 1: 06 Human Rights: Principles 1-2 Part 2: 10 Labor: Principles 3-6 Part 3: 12 Environment: Principles 7-9 Part 4: 14 Anti-Corruption: Principle 10 FRAMEWORK FOR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Principles 2 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 About Manila Doctors Hospital Manila Doctors Hospital (MDH) started operations in 1956. MDH is owned and governed by the Manila Medical Services, Inc. (MMSI), which was incorporated by 14 physicians in 1953 as a prelude to establishing MDH in United Nations Avenue, Ermita, Manila. On February 27, 1979, the Metrobank Foundation, Inc. (MBFI), the corporate social responsibility arm of the Metrobank Group became the majority stockholder of MMSI. MDH has been envisioned by MBFI to be its major corporate social responsibility project in health. In May 2003, the term of existence of MMSI has been extended to another 50 years (2053). Since its beginning, Manila Doctors Hospital has been a private tertiary hospital with an authorized bed-capacity of 300. Over the years, it has continually developed its entire medical and support departments to become one of the top five and top-of-mind hospitals in Metro Manila. Vision Leading Center of Excellence and Wellness in the Philippines, providing holistic quality and safe patient care. Mission  To provide world class care  To undertake training and research programs to continually improve quality and safe patient care.  To provide relevant corporate social responsibility programs. Core Values Quality Professionalism Accountability Respect Innovativeness Integrity Social Responsibility Compassion Teamwork Excellence Goal To provide holistic quality and safe patient care for all Filipino and International Clients Quality Policy We at Manila Doctors Hospital commit ourselves to meet our stakeholders’ expectations by providing:  Excellent performance in all services and authorized functions  Effective and efficient health services, training and research  Patient centered personnel and 3 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015  Continual improvement of services so as to achieve excellence in quality and safe patient care. Corporate Objectives 1. To provide health care services that exceed the needs of Manila Doctors Hospital’s clients or customers; all pertinent statutory and regulatory requirements; and the expectations of MDH Top Management 2. To conduct training programs that will continually improve services. 3. To conduct researches that will continually improve services. 4. To provide corporate social responsibility services for the underprivileged and underserved in the community. Quality as a way of life In December 2005 MDH obtained its ISO 9001:2000 certification and in the same year became the first hospital in Asia to be accredited by Accreditation Canada International. (ACI) The Hospital was also named as Center of Excellence by PhilHealth 1in 2010. MDH is also constantly challenging itself with its annual internal Continual Improvement Project (CIP) and measures itself against the best in the country by consistently winning in the Philippine Society for Quality in Healthcare (PsQUA) competition. To further measure our competitiveness in providing quality healthcare, MDH annually joins the Hospital Management Awards Asia and is able to gain recognition annually. Our international Healthcare has seen substantial growth in the past three (3) years. MDH now has 10 accredited medical specialty residency and fellowship programs. Its residency programs in the fields of Emergency Medicine, Family and Community Medicine, Internal Medicine, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ophthalmology, Otorhinolarynogology, Pediatrics, Radiology, and Surgery. It also has fellowship programs in Cardiology, Gastroenterology, Pain Management, and Pulmonology. Looking Ahead The year 2017 will be a witness to the biggest expansion that MDH has ever undertaken in its 60 year history. The new nineteen (19) storey building which will offer new specialty services supported by state of the art technology and an additional 200 bed capacity will increase the capacity of the hospital to offer world class care that is within the means of the families that we cater to in terms of wellness. However, our biggest and pride are our people who are both locally and internationally trained. This makes Manila Doctors Hospital poised to serve the next 1 The National Health Insurance Program was established to provide health insurance coverage and ensure affordable, acceptable, available and accessible health care services for all citizens of the Philippines. It shall serve as the means for the healthy to help pay for the care of the sick and for those who can afford medical care to subsidize those who cannot. PhilHealth website, 2016. 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 generation of Filipinos and international patients who prefers to be treated as partners in making decisions for their healthcare along with the assurance that they have the best access to latest medical technology. “World class care within your reach, delivered in unparalleled warmth and caring manner that only the Filipino Health care professionals are known for globally” MANILA DOCTORS HOSPITAL BUSINESS MODEL 5 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PART 1: HUMAN RIGHTS: PRINCIPLES 1-2 ___________________________________________________________________ 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence. 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. SCOPE RIGHT TO HEALTH MANILA DOCTORS HOSPITAL (MDH) fully recognizes the basic human right of RIGHT TO HEALTH and its six (6) normative elements which we consider as a roadmap in delivering healthcare: 1. Availability of health services 2. Financial accessibility of health services 3. Geographic accessibility of health services. 4. Cultural sensitivity/accessibility of health services. 5. Quality of Health Services. 6. Equality in access to available health services. COMMITMENTS AND ACTIONS Providing protection against the financial risk of high out-of-pocket health spending is one of the main goals of the Philippines’ health strategy. Yet, data shows from the Family Income and Expenditure Surveys that health spending increased by 150 percent (real) from 2000 to 2013, with the sharpest increases occurring in recent years. The main driver of health spending is medicines, accounting for almost two-thirds of total health spending, and as much as threequarters among the poor. The incidence of catastrophic payments has tripled since 2000, from 2.5 to 7.7 percent. The percentage of people impoverished by health spending has also increased and, in 2012, out-of-pocket spending on health added 1.5 percent-age points to the poverty rate. In light of these findings, recent policies to enhance financial risk protection—such as the expansion of government-subsidized health insurance for the poor, a deepening of the benefit package, and provider payment reform aimed at cost-containment—are to be applauded. Between 2008 and 2013, self-reported health insurance coverage increased across all quintiles and its distribution became more pro-poor. As the first and only hospital in the country to declare a Social Vision, we have always endeavored to extend services to the economically disadvantaged. Although MDH is a private hospital it has been implementing nine (9) health programs specifically designed for those who are not able to afford the regular cost of accessing healthcare in Manila Doctors Hospital (MDH) like the majority of our private patients but would still prefer to seek healthcare intervention in (MDH). It is for this reason that we have been implementing for the past fifteen (15) years the following programs: 6 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 In House Surgical Programs 1. Share the Gift of Vision (STGOV) free removal of cataracts with free intraocular lens. 2. Bridging the Gap (BTG) free cleft lip and palate repair. 3. Goiter Ends Today (BTG) free thyroid surgery. 4. Women Empowerment through Surgical Help on O varian and Uterine Tumors (WE SHOUT) – free surgical intervention on ovarian and uterine tumors. Patients are screened by Licensed Social Workers under the MDH Corporate Social Responsibility Office (CSRO) using the National Poverty Index. Those who qualify are only required to shoulder the cost of laboratory procedures and are extended to them at 50 to 70 percent discounted rate to make it more affordable for them. Patients from underserved areas are brought to MDH by partner non-profit organizations, local government units and corporate foundation partners. By synergizing our resources with others, MDH is able to serve not just those within the Metro Manila but patients who have no access to medical facilities and lacks the financial capacity to travel to Manila. In-Patient Support Social Service Patients of MDH enjoys partial subsidy to their hospital bi ll should there be a need for confinement depending on the assessment of the CSRO Social Workers. The MDH CSR Office in partnership with the Metrobank Foundation, its major stockholder provides the subsidy. Through the various networks of the MDH CSR other financial support for maintenance medicines and medical implants are being provided. However, each Social Service patient is also encouraged to enroll in the National Insurance Health Program of the government. Out-Patient Services for the Economically Disadvantaged Patients: Healthcare undoubtedly can be debilitating in the Philippines. The cost of regular consultations alone can take its toll on a family’s finances. Hence, in agreement with the seven (7) medical departments of the Manila Doctors Hospital, economically disadvantaged patien ts are able to access consultations for a fraction of the regular cost. Each qualified social service patient is issued a blue card valid for one (1) year except for senior citizens and persons with disabilities who are issued by a blue card with two (2) years validity. Medical consultation is being extended at two dollars ($2) 7 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 In partnership with various non-profit organizations, we deploy our Social Workers in urban and suburban poor areas with high number of population to conduct screening and issuance of blue cards on site. This assures families that they can access quality healthcare at an affordable cost. For the year 2015 MDH CSR was able to issue a total of 5, 096 to new blue card holders and MDH together with its partners was able to serve 18,566 economically disadvantaged patients. School Health Adoption Program (School Health Advancement as a Response to Education Development – SHARED) Manila Doctors Hospital believes in investing for the future hence part of its Corporate Sustainability is adopting a public school – grade school level to ensure the health and wellness of the students, faculty and parents. It has been shown that ailments amongst grade school students severely affect the chance of them finishing high-school on time. S.H.A.R.E.D. is composed of seven (7) elements: 1. Health Education 2. Physical Education 3. Health Services 4. Coaching, Counselling, & Life Skills Services 5. Healthy School Environment 6. Health Promotion and Staff Training 7. Parents and Teachers Association (PTA) Involvement Each school day, MDH deploys a Pediatrician in our adopted school. At the moment we have adopted the Rafael Palma Elementary School (RPES). Three Thousand Four Hundred Thirty Two (3,432) grade school students are currently enrolled in RPES and ninety percent (90%) belongs to financially margibalized families. A school is adopted for three years wherein they benefit from the implementation of the S.H.A.R.E.D. seven elements. Ensuring that these more than three thousand students are healthy involves the participation of the whole internal community along with our partner organizations. Just like in the past schools that we have adopted, we expect zero impacted cerumen, all students are vaccinated, healthy gums and teeth, better nutrition, high level of consciousness on the importance of W.A.S.H. (Water, Sanitation and Hygiene), recycling as a way of life, high level of appreciation for physical sports and respect for the environment. The Philippines Department of Education in 2014 recognized the S.H.A.R.E.D. program as one of the ideal model for school health adoption in the country. Community Health Adoption Program (Fostering Oneness Responsibility Growth & Empowerment – F.O.R.G.E) is composed of seven elements: 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 1. Building, connecting, mobilizing neighborhood 2. Preventing Chronic Diseases (non-communicable diseases) 3. Promote a Healthy and Safe Environment 4. Promote Healthy Women, Infants and Children 5. Promote Mental Health & Prevent Substance Abuse 6. Prevent HIV, STI, Vaccine Preventable Diseases and Infections 7. Community Productivity and Sustainability In the Philippines six (6) of the top ten (10) causes of mortality are due to non-communicable diseases. Diseases of the heart and vascular system are the leading causes of mortality, comprising nearly one third (31%) of all deaths. Other leading non-communicable diseases include malignant neoplasms chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), diabetes mellitus, and kidney diseases. In the Philippines, 13 mothers die every day from pregnancy-related complications. An estimated 5,000 maternal deaths occur annually – and is on the rise. The most recent health survey indicated that the maternal mortality ratio has increased from 162 per 100,000 live births in 2006 to 221 according to recent data. This translates to more than 4,000 Filipino women dying per year during or shortly after childbirth. Based on the National Demographic and Health Surveys, the Philippines failed to achieve the MDG target of 52 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births by 2015. By adopting and training families in our adopted community to take responsibility on their health, make choices that are focus on preventive instead of curative actions, resources are being saved and are resulting into healthier communities. MDH believes that when communities are healthy, businesses thrives. And so for the past sixty (60) years we have been helping communities gain better health by deploying Doctors from our Family and Community Medicine everyday to our adopted community. Each community is adopted through the MDH CSR for a total of three years. We have seen people taking the step in ensuring that they break the cycle of diabetes, cardiovascular disease and obesity in their family. A considerable drop in dengue cases is also another indicator of success along with zero rabies. Engaging our community has also resulted into a regular joint physical activity by community residents and our internal MDH community. Safe food handling in each household is part of the whole training package given to the community along with nutrition in times of disaster that forms part of their disaster preparedness response. Capacitating the Community Health Workers is considered a crucial part of the community health adoption program. This is to enhance the goal of early detection of diseases. Each 9 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Community Health Worker is assigned a number of household to monitor and share information from the prevention of NCDs, firecracker accidents, dangers of smoking, to correcting misinformation on certain health issues, Community Health Workers are important allies in attaining identified health outcomes in the community. Sustainability and productivity is an important element hence we have been helping our adopted community in producing marketable product made from recycled materials. The effect is less amount of garbage, higher productivity especially amongst women residents and increase income for the families of those involved in the livelihood program. In partnership with the Stanford Hospital, MDH has conducted a community based research on noncommunicable diseases with special focus on the relational effects of lifestyle with cardiovascular disease amongst adults in their late 40s. Responsive and Efficient Health Disaster Response (REHDI) Given the increasing effect of climate change and the country is prone to natural calamities, MDH responds accordingly by sending volunteer doctors, nurses, pharmacists, and technical personnel to provide medical services. But REHDI is not only limited to disaster response, we actively go to underserved areas in the country where the cost of healthcare is debilitating specifically for the financially marginalized. We work with a number of partners on the ground in conducting surgical missions or multi-specialist medical missions. In 2015 alone, REHDI responded and served more than three thousand (3,000) patients in the Typhoon Lando affected communities in the area of Gabaldon, Nueva Ecija. PART 2: LABOR RIGHTS: PRINCIPLES 3-6 ______________________________________________________________________________ 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6. Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SCOPE 1. Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of em ployment, to just and favorable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment. 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 2. Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work. 3. Everyone who works has the right to just and favorable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social protection. 4. Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests. COMMITMENTS AND ACTIONS Manila Doctors Hospital (MDH) takes pride in the fact that that seventy five percent (75%) of its leadership positions are held by Women. Members of the LGBTQ community are openly a hired base on their technical qualifications and expertise. The Hospital strongly implements “zero tolerance on sexual harassment” in the workplace and has put in place check and balance measures to properly and immediately react to possible cases and actual complaints. Policy for investigation ensures that the rights of both parties (complainant/s and accused) are protected and respected. MDH in 2015 launched an awareness campaign and resource generation program called Men Caring for Women or MCW. In the community level, the main focus is to generate resources in the fight against cervical cancer and for the training of volunteer lawyers, court social workers and other front liners in pursuing VAWC (violence against women and children) and human trafficking cases and provide financially challenged complainants support in pursuing their cases in court. In the industry level, MCW aims to show other businesses that when you allow Women to prosper, to thrive, when you give them equal opportunity for training and development can and will exceed your expectations and that is always good for business. MDH would like to use itself as an example that there should be competition or hostility between genders has no place in a rights based workplace. Led by the male executives and officers of MDH, MCW is a program that challenges the norms of other businesses. It hopes to encourage others to use as an example the non-discriminatory hiring approach of its Human Resource Division (HRD) as model for hiring and developing people. In sixty (60) years of its operation, MDH has continuously respected and supported the right of its employees specially the internal non-supervisory community to exercise their freedom of association and every two years the MDH Management and officers of the MDH Union would sit down together and amicably iron out the terms and conditions of a collective bargaining agreement. As part of its supply chain audit, MDH as a policy does not conduct business with suppliers and other business entities who violates the prohibitions on employing underage laborers. MDH through its HRD conducts due diligence on the manpower agencies that it partners with in 11 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 outsourcing some of its personnel requirements to make sure that all legally mandated benefits are being provided for and followed. PART 3: ENVIRONMENT: PRINCIPLES 7-9 ______________________________________________________________________________ 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SCOPE 1. Business commitments in Rio+20 2. COP 21 COMMITMENTS AND ACTIONS Manila Doctors Hospital (MDH) has a strong record on environment stewardship that it has already become a norm to include environmental protection as part of its business indicator. Through the stewardship of the MDH Environment Committee (ENVICOM) it was able to foster a culture of environment consciousness that has become a part of life inside the hospital. a. The recyclables program or Eco-Savers: Every employee, irregardless of rank or title is expected to segregate his/her waste materials properly. Each unit, office, department, division and directorates are to consolidate their waste materials considered to be recyclables. These are to be properly tagged, recorded and surrendered to the Committee on Non-Hazardous Waste and our program partner United Recyclers Organization of the Philippines (UROP) collects the recyclables at MDH to be used for various purpose. The collected recyclables have a corresponding monetary value. In the last two years alone MDH was able to earn One Million Seven Hundred Thirty Six, Four Hundred Thirty Eight and Fifty Nine Cents. (Php1,736,438.59) Money earned from the recyclables program of the hospital is utilized for the various CSR programs of MDH. One solid example is the multi-specialist medical mission for the underserved Dumagat Tribe an Indigenous People group residing in the mountainous area in the northern part of the country. The undertaking was ninety percent (90%) funded by the proceeds from the recyclables of 2015 with additional support from a partner organization. The area was chosen due to the lack of medical facilities. There is only one Doctor and Nurse in the area serving a population of 35,000. MDH was able to serve 2,275 patients with provisions for medicine and minor surgery procedures were also provided. b. The Eco-Savers program is also replicated in our adopted community and school. In the school setting, for the recyclables collected and segregated by the students, school supplies are given in exchange. The community eco-savers undertaking provides additional earnings for the families. 12 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 c. For the past ten (10) years, MDH through its ENVICOM have worked hand in hand with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) in order to raise funds for its various special projects. In 2015 the MDH ENVICOM in partnership with the MDH CSRO went farther with its efforts in raising resources in order to help one hundred (100) fisher folk families affected by climate change in the Province of Bohol located in the southern part of the country. d. In expanding the environmental commitment of MDH, The Green Rebellion (Generating Resources & Engagement for the Environment and Nature) was launched in 2015 specifically to answer the challenge of (1) creating clean and green spaces and (2) preserve the last forest park in the City of Manila. (Arroceros Forest Park) Vertical gardening in both the MDH adopted community and schools are also being undertaken. In order to better secure the Aroceros Forest Park for the next generation, MDH engaged various partners to join the efforts of preserving the area that dates back in the Spanish occupation. e. The most crucial role that the ENVICOM plays in the hospital is ensuring that the journey of MDH towards being a green organization does not falter. Solid manifestations includes using only LED lights in the whole hospital, initiating the use of solar power to build the foundation for renewable energy and consistently observe the responsible use of energy in every section of the hospital to reduce our carbon footprint. The MDH Committee on Purchasing, Investment and Contract (COPIC) works with the ENVICOM in meticulously screening if all the equipment and supplies being acquired by the hospital are compliant with the global agreement under Rio+20 and now the COP 21 agreements that enjoins all sectors to contribute in the reduction of carbon footprint and greenhouse gasses. We are also conscious of our water utilization and the effects of any cleaning solutions that we use in the course of our everyday operations. f. In the construction of our new building as part of the MDH business expansion, our Facilities Management Department through the office of the Civil Works and Operations is working closely with the contractor to ensure that we come up with an energy efficient structure. All the materials being used are products of companies that observe strict environmental guidelines in their production process. Example: cement being utilize is being produced by a company that does not use coal. Though in some instances, materials and supplies that are produced in environmentally conscious process, we consider cost secondary to environmental protection. 13 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PART 4: ANTI-CORRUPTION: PRINCIPLE 10 ______________________________________________________________________________ 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. SCOPE 1. UNOCD Anti-corruption ethics and compliance handbook for business COMMITMENTS AND ACTIONS We take pride in consciously pursuing accountability and integrity, these being part of our core values. Through our Quality Management (QM), Internal Audit and Board of Directors (BOD), anti-corruption is a priority in our governance standards. Convergence of Statutory and Quality Standards MDH as an organization follows all the statutory requirements of the Department of Health (DOH), National Health Insurance (PhilHealth), Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR), Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) and the Department of Social Work and Development (DSWD). We also take into account the ethical standards of Accreditation Canada International (ACI) and the AJA-ISO 9001-2000. Making Transparency A Commitment Our Committee on Purchasing, Investment and Contract (COPIC) ensures the process for bidding and acquiring follows the transparency guidelines. MDH is also conscious in dealing with suppliers, specifically pharmaceutical companies. Led by the Hospital Director, we avoid the unnecessary benefits being offered or extended by suppliers even from those who have already obtained contracts. MDH instead redirects whatever gifts being offered to those who are in need in our adopted school, community or sponsor specific needs of social service/charity patients. It’s a must that no unwanted benefit be extended to any member of the internal community to avoid conflict of interest. The procurement policy is constantly being reviewed by COPIC, BOD and checked by QM. As we shift our policies to put more emphasis on risk management, MDH will strengthen even more its business ethics training, third party due diligence, transparency both internally and in dealing with regulatory bodies. The Human Resource Division along with Quality Management Office and the Corporate Social Responsibility Office are now working on a comprehensive Whistle Blower Policy. Financial Statements of the hospital can be easily accessed by the public. 14 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PART 5: OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Corporate Social Responsibility actions are guided by these five tenets: 1. Rights based 2. Inclusive 3. Volunteerism 4. Programmatic and 5. Developmental MDH made sure that its CSR program principle is simple and can be easily understood by all its partners. Using Results Based Management (RBM) with Logical Framework Approach, the MDH CSRO is able to efficiently plan and monitor multiple programs. Since inclusivity is one of our tenets, Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation (PM&E) is part of the program process. The lifeblood of our various CSR programs is untiring participation of the volunteers and the full support of our partners. In the last three years the number of our partners has grown dramatically, hence the need to organize them formally into the MDH CSRO Circle of Partners. It is understood that once you enter this circle of development and humanitarian organizations, each organization call refer or call for possible support when the need arises. It is also an admission that none of us can do everything and therefore the importance of harmonizing resources and technical skills are crucial in securing program impact. Some of our partners are the following: 1. Good Neighbors International-Philippines 2. iCare Compassion Ministries 3. Operation Blessing International-Philippines 4. Metrobank Foundation 5. George Ty Foundation 6. International Organization for Migration 7. Child Justice League 8. International Care Ministries 9. Development and Accessibility Fund for the Deaf 10. International Container and Terminal Services, Inc. Foundation 11. ICCP Group Foundation, Inc. 12. World Wildlife Fund 15 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 13. Winner Foundation 14. Stanford Hospital & Clinics 15. Office of Senator Sherwin Gatchalian 16. PSBank 17. Kanlungan Sa Er-Ma 18. ABCs for Health 19. HelpAge International-COSE Through these partnerships we are able to reach underserved communities and undertake endeavors with the potential of making lasting impact. One solid example is the collaboration between Cinemedical, ABCs for Health, Stanford Hospital and Clinics and MDH in producing a documentary after the devastation of Typhoon Yolanda (Haiyan) in the southern region of the Philippines. Featuring the deaf and mute community, medical students who might not be able to finish their medical studies due to the decimation of family livelihood most of which are agriculture and stories of fathers who were left wondering how to provide for their family when almost everything that they depend on for livelihood were gone. Launched first in the Philippines, it is now being shown in various forums in California. The three short documentaries emphasize the importance of disaster preparedness and mitigation programs especially for those who are highly vulnerable. This is just but one example of how through partnerships we are able to reach beyond our immediate community and contribute to developmental goals. For any inquiries on this report you may get in touch with Ms. Jill S. Alvarez, Head Corporate Social Responsibility Office through email: jsalvarez@maniladoctors.com.ph or csro.mdh@gmail.com 16
