PICK N PAY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ON THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2016 As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, Pick n Pay remains committed to uphold and promote corporate responsibility with respect to human rights, labour relations, environment and anticorruption. This COP provides a brief overview of our implementation of the ten principles. From 2017 we will be reporting on our alignment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals SDG’s. The current report covers our activities for the Financial Year ending in February 2016 and references the Pick n Pay Integrated Annual Report 2016 and the Pick n Pay Sustainable Living Report Update 2016, which seeks to provide a comprehensive view of how our business is responding to social and environmental challenges. Please refer to these reports for further information. The reports are available on our company websites (www.picknpay.co.za and www.picknpay-ir.co.za ) Implementing the ten principles into strategies and operations The Pick n Pay Group remains committed to upholding the highest standards of ethics, transparency and good governance, while pursuing sustainable and profitable growth. Our Board takes overall responsibility for the performance of the Group. The Board is supported by the audit and risk, corporate finance, corporate governance, nominations, remuneration and social and ethics committees to carry out its oversight role of ensuring that the activities of the Group are managed in a manner that is consistent with the values of the Group. The Social and Ethics Committee oversees the monitoring, assessment and measurement of the Group’s activities in relation to ethics and code of conduct compliance; environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues (including human rights, corruption, employment equity and transformation); and social and economic development. The committee relies on management for the implementation of strategies and initiatives. (For more information, please refer to our Sustainable Living Report pg 17). Our process of identifying and reviewing our material sustainability issues involves an internal risk management process and considers the interests and concerns of our stakeholders. We see our sustainable living strategy as inextricably linked to our business strategy, shaping our thinking and actions in two broad areas:  Ensuring that we become a more resilient business in the face of increasing environmental and related pressures both in the short term (e.g. fuel and electricity price increases) and in the longer term (e.g. food and water security linked to climate change).  Seeking to add more value to society by helping our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders meet sustainability challenges and opportunities. CEO statement of commitment Dear Stakeholder, We are pleased to reaffirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact. Pick n Pay continues to uphold its legacy of leadership on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. As one of the biggest food retailers in a country facing real poverty, inequality and unemployment challenges, we take significant steps to provide affordable food, while also providing employment, economic opportunities and enterprise development throughout the value chain. In the year under review we made further progress in implementing our sustainability strategy, deepening its impact within the Group and ensuring that it adds value for our customers, our business and broader society. An overview of our progress in implementing the principles of the UN Global Compact is contained within our Communication on Progress. From 2017 our reporting will change to reflect alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals SDG’s. Kind Regards Richard Brasher Chief Executive Officer 1 Summary of PnP activities with respect to the Global Compact Ten Principles Global Compact Brief COP Statement Reference in PnP Principle Sustainable Living Report Update 2016* (SLR) or Integrated Annual Report 2016** (IR) 1. Support and Pick n Pay’s commitment to upholding human rights Company Code of respect the principles is supported by our Code of Ethics which Ethics *** protection of encompasses elements of the South African Constitution international as well as the principles of the Universal Declaration on SLR – Employee human rights Human Rights. opportunity and within their diversity – pg 12 sphere of Human rights principles are embedded in our core values – influence. which are premised on customer sovereignty, our SLR – Doing good in employees and supporting the communities we serve – and the local community are incorporated in: our labour relations policies; health, – pg 14 safety and environmental policies; and corporate social responsibility policies. We comply with all labour laws and regulations in South Africa and ensure that our employees are treated fairly. Our Code of Ethics and internal code of conduct policy stipulates that we do not support discrimination in any form. Pick n Pay remains committed to playing a key role in the economic empowerment of historically disadvantaged South Africans throughout our value chain. This includes developing and mentoring small enterprises and supporting small suppliers. We also ensure our suppliers comply with human rights requirements, such as basic conditions of employment, environmental and fair labour practices. We continue our support for initiatives that promote food security, paying particular attention to providing those most in need with easier access to affordable, healthy food and clothing. During the year we donated more than R100 million worth of food to the food redisitrubiton agency FoodBank SA. We have also established more than 267 community gardens to date increase community food security and started the implementation of a Water security programme within these communities, which includes the provision of education, boreholes and water tanks to at risk communities 2. Make sure their We comply with all applicable legislation with respect to IR – Business own corporations human rights. Beyond complying with legal requirements, acceleration pillar: A are not complicit Pick n Pay’s Diversity Management Programme helps winning team– pg 25 in human rights employees engage skilfully on issues of inclusiveness. We abuses. view diversity in terms of age, gender, race and physical SLR Employee ability. This is further supported by our internal policies on opportunity and Diversity and Employment equity and Transformation. diversity – pg 12 To manage human rights and ethical risks in our supply SLR Supporting chain, we continue to drive our local supplier engagement local and ethical programme. Pick n Pay suppliers, as part of their supplier suppliers – pg 6 agreements, are required to ensure workers’ health, safety and welfare. We also promote ethical supplier practices by sourcing and selling specific ethical product lines from third party certified producers such as Fairtrade and are the biggest stockist of Fairtrade products in South Africa 3. Freedom of We recognise the right of employees to collective IR – Business association and bargaining and freedom of association in accordance with acceleration pillar: A the effective all relevant local labour legislation. winning team– pg 25 recognition of the 2 right to collective We maintain constructive relationships with all SLR Employee bargaining. representative unions. Appointed shop stewards and opportunity and company managers hold regular meeting to discuss diversity – pg 12 employee related issues. Our employee relations’ policies are maintained in line with business and legislative requirements, to promote healthy employee relations. 4. The elimination All employment is aligned to national legal requirements, IR – Business of all forms of and we firmly oppose all forms of forced and compulsory acceleration pillar: A forced and labour. winning team– pg 25 compulsory labour. Our employees are provided with labour contracts in SLR Employee accordance with relevant labour legislation, and are free to opportunity and resign at any time. All complaints and labour disputes are diversity – pg 12 handled in accordance with legal requirements, and are managed by the Human Resources management. SLR Supporting local and ethical This principle is supported in our supplier agreements, as suppliers – pg 6 well as through auditing standards such as the GLOBALG.A.P and others used by our suppliers. 5. The effective We strongly oppose the use of child labour, as defined by Company Code of abolition of child the International Labour Organization (ILO). This Ethics *** labour. commitment is stipulated in our Code of Ethics. As part of our commitment to supporting national SLR Supporting employment objectives, we train and provide opportunities local and ethical for school leavers and graduates. All training and suppliers – pg 6 employment opportunities are provided in accordance with within ILO requirements. Compliance with all national legal requirements regarding employee age is continually monitored and is the responsibility of the Director of Human Resources. 6. The elimination We are committed to embracing a culture of inclusion and IR – Business of discrimination to pursuing South Africa’s national goal of a nonacceleration pillar: A in respect of discriminatory society. Our Organisational Development winning team– pg 25 employment and department coordinates and facilitates relevant occupation. programmes, including affirmative action interventions and SLR Employee diversity awareness and management programmes, to opportunity and address the inequalities of the country’s past. These diversity – pg 6 highlight the importance of accepting that no culture, race, ethnicity, religion or gender is superior or inferior to the other. We also continue to increase the number of people with disabilities that we employ. We do not tolerate discrimination on the basis of race, culture, gender, disability or any similar basis. Our labour relations policies have no tolerance to discriminatory offences within our workforce. Pick n Pay is committed to fostering a diverse and representative workforce. We have incorporated these considerations in our recruitment and procurement processes, as well as training offerings. 7. Support a We follow the precautionary approach to environmental SLR Being precautionary management across several areas (energy and carbon environmentally approach to reduction, waste management). This approach also applies responsible pg 9 environmental to ensuring the environmental health and safety of our challenges. foods, which is a key strategic priority. We have audits in SLR Supporting place to monitor this area and our technical department local and ethical engages continually with suppliers on these issues. suppliers – pg 6 8. Undertake As a leading retailer, we are committed to reducing our SLR Supporting initiatives to impact on the environment and encouraging our suppliers local and ethical promote greater and others to do so as well. We have identified our key suppliers – pg 6 3 environmental environmental impacts and our efforts are guided by a responsibility. climate change and food security strategy. Our approach SLR Being focuses on improving energy efficiency and reducing our environmentally carbon footprint, reducing the amount of waste we produce, responsible pg 9 recycling as much as possible, and being water-wise. We continue to work towards our targets to be achieved by SLR – War on waste 2020: a further 20% reduction in energy use per square – pg 16 metre, bringing our total reduction to 50% since 2008; a reduction of 20% in food waste; and 20 new jobs to be created each weekday in South Africa. Our climate change strategy are recognised through our SLR – Key inclusion in the Socially Responsible Investment Index of performance data – the JSE and our continued leadership position in the CDP pg 18 Carbon Disclosure Project Beyond our operations, we work to drive awareness of SLR Supporting relevant environmental issues throughout our network of local and ethical influence. This encompasses sourcing, in-store practices suppliers – pg 7 and some post-consumer initiatives such as recycling and community clean up campaigns. Since 2010 we have invested more than R15 million in the World Wide Fund for Nature’s Sustainable Fisheries Programme. 9. Encourage the Pick n Pay has publically committed to promoting SLR Supporting development and environmental and social innovation across all our local and ethical diffusion of operations and engagements. suppliers – pg 6 environmentally friendly We work with our suppliers, logistics network, waste SLR Being technologies. management partners, and industry bodies to encourage environmentally the development and uptake of environmentally responsible pg 9 responsible technologies and practices. Pick n Pay also strives to make it easier for our customers to be ethical and eco-friendly. Our facilities: We have implemented energy efficiency SLR Being measures throughout our operations, and installed online environmentally metering in all our corporate stores to manage responsible pg 10 consumption levels. Our packaging technologists work with packaging suppliers to reduce packaging and/or increase levels of recycled content where possible. We are exploring a range of solutions to divert waste from landfill disposal. Addressing industry issues: Through industry bodies, such as the Consumer Goods Forum, which is co-chaired by Pick n Pay’s Chairman, Gareth Ackerman, we seek collaborative solutions to issues requiring collective action, such as sustainable sourcing and traceability of ingredients. Pick n Pay is one of the founding members of the South African National Biodiversity and Business Network, which aims to facilitate engagement with business sectors, industries and other stakeholders to promote the integration of biodiversity considerations into business. 4 10. Work against Pick n Pay is committed to upholding effective good IR – Our Corporate corruption in all its governance practices throughout our organisation. Our Governance pg 62 forms, including Board of Directors holds formal accountability for ethical extortion and leadership, sustainability and good corporate citizenship. Code of Ethics*** bribery. The Group’s commitment to good corporate governance is SLR About this woven through every aspect of the management structure. report – pg 17 We remain committed to complying in all material respects with the principles contained in the King Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct (King III), as well as to the additional requirements for good corporate governance stipulated in the FTSE/JSE collaboration, which introduced a new chapter for listed companies and sustainability SRI Index, from June 2015. *SLR is used as an abbreviation for our Sustainability Report. The Pick n Pay Sustainable Living Report Update 2016 is available online at: www.picknpay-ir.co.za/sustainability-reports.php We publish a full Sustainability Report every 2 years and provide an Update to the Report in the interim years. **IR is used as an abbreviation for our Pick n Pay Integrated Annual Report for 2016 which is available online at: www.picknpay-ir.co.za/downloads/2016/PnP_IAR_2016.pdf ***Code of Ethics http://www.picknpayinvestor.co.za/code_of_ethics.php 5
