Zurich Insurance Group United Nations Global Compact Living up to our commitment Mario Greco Group Chief Executive Officer, Zurich Insurance Group Statement of Our progress 2015–2016 We are working with the IFRC to establish flood programs in 21 communities in the state continuing support Our flood resilience program of Tabasco, Mexico. We are also working with the Indonesian Red Cross (PMI) to help 21 In 2015, the Zurich flood resilience program communities in West and Central Java develop Zurich became a signatory of the United received the Special Climate Prize at the solutions to recurring flooding. Nations Global Compact in July 2011 Convergences World Forum. This award because we believe that being a responsible recognizes our model based on collaboration company is fundamental to our long-term Along with another alliance member, Practical between humanitarian, academic and private sustainability. Action, similar programs are underway in 74 sectors, and our unique approach to improving communities in Nepal, 15 communities in Peru, flood resilience. The Prize was created in 2015 As a signatory, we are committed to and 15 communities in Bangladesh, where to recognize innovative and relevant initiatives aligning our strategy, culture and day-to-day access to efficient early warning systems, to address climate change. Zurich’s flood operations with the Global Compact’s 10 alternative livelihoods and strengthened resilience program employs a new, cross-sector universally-accepted principles in the areas collaboration with local decision makers collaboration model based on an alliance that of human rights, labor, environment and are key to enhancing resilience. includes the International Federation of Red anti-corruption. The principles of the Global Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), the Compact complement Zurich Basics, our international non-governmental organization Together with two other members of our basic values and code of conduct, and all (NGO) Practical Action, and two research alliance, the International Institute for Applied Zurich employees are expected to live up institutes – the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA) and the Wharton to both. Systems Analysis (IIASA), and the Wharton Risk Business School’s Risk Management and Management and Decision Processes Center. Decision Processes Center (Wharton), we have Our continued commitment to the United developed processes and tools that can be Nations Global Compact’s principles on applied to increase flood resilience at the By linking research, community-based programs human and labor rights, the environment community level, including a flood resilience and risk expertise, we seek to demonstrate and anti-corruption is expressed in this measurement framework. Our ‘post-event the benefits of pre-event risk reduction over report. We are committed to embracing, review capability’ or ‘PERC’ methodology also post-event disaster relief. Together we also supporting and enacting these principles aims to address flood risks through in-depth work to facilitate public dialogue around flood within our sphere of influence, and we will studies of past flood events. resilience. Zurich works within this alliance regularly communicate on our progress. to ensure that the knowledge and ideas it generates fit the needs of local communities, and that the ideas can be put into practice. Zurich Insurance Group | United Nations Global Compact – Communication on progress 2015/2016 1 Our progress 2015–2016 continued As part of an employee secondment plan, Working with our customers to manage We are developing highly energy-efficient office in 2015, seven Zurich employees were given corporate responsibility risks buildings and installing technology to produce the opportunity to use their skills in projects, Zurich uses a three-step approach that energy for our company’s own use. SkyKey in together with members of our alliance, helping systematically detects, assesses, and mitigates Zurich, our new headquarters for the Swiss to make a difference in communities. Beyond major environmental, social and ethical risks market, provides a sustainable workplace for this type of direct involvement, contributions inherent in specific business transactions. around 2,500 people. It received the highest included providing project management support We have now implemented a system to track ‘platinum’ ranking under the Leadership in to put our flood resilience measurement tool CR-related issues in business transactions. Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) to use, helping communities to develop certification system. communication skills in a month-long project We introduced an overarching human rights with Practical Action in Nepal, and supporting position in our approach to managing corporate Zurich has recently joined the RE100 (Renewable a digital media strategy over two months for responsibility risks in business transactions. Energy 100) initiative and is committed to using Practical Action in Peru. 100-percent renewable power in all of its office We developed a refresher program consisting buildings and data centers worldwide by 2020. In August 2015 we also announced that we of a new e-learning package and a series of Currently, more than 40 percent of Zurich’s are investing USD 10 million in a grant-based new supporting documents and videos for power already comes from renewable sources. competition called the Water Window, an all employees. initiative led by the international Global In 2015 Zurich achieved a score of 100B and Resilience Partnership. The Water Window Anti-bribery and anti-corruption again achieved a place in the Climate Disclosure aims to identify, encourage and scale up local Zurich is committed to fair and responsible Leadership Index (CDLI) 2015 for the DACH innovations to address challenges related business and prohibits all forms of bribery or region (Germany, Austria and Switzerland). to water, including floods. Zurich is the first corruption, and any business conduct that could private-sector member of the Partnership. create the appearance of improper influence. Focus on our people In November 2015 we became the first Responsible investment Zurich’s anti-bribery and anti-corruption Group global company in the insurance industry to Our impact investing portfolio topped policy sets out our global framework addressing be certified by ‘EDGE’ (Economic Dividends for USD 1 billion for the first time in 2015, an the common areas of risk and includes the Gender Equality) in six key markets: Germany, increase of 54 percent from 2014. This included requirement for local compliance functions Hong Kong, Italy, Spain, Switzerland and the USD 870 million invested in ‘green’ bonds that to appoint an anti-bribery and anti-corruption UK. EDGE provides assessment methodology finance renewable energy or similar projects; officer; complete a focused anti-bribery and and a business certification standard for gender we have committed to invest, in total, up to anti-corruption risk assessment; identify and equality. This certification demonstrates Zurich’s USD 2 billion in these instruments. We also have record appropriate mitigating processes commitment to be the employer of choice in committed USD 105 million to impact private within the business; and embed appropriate the insurance industry. Our inclusive culture equity funds, as part of our plan to allocate up management information, key performance and development opportunities support to 10 percent of our private equity investments indicators, reporting and monitoring processes. learning through all phases of a career. to such funds. In addition, we have increased This policy was revised in April 2016. We are also helping to develop new talent. our investment in ‘sustainability’ bonds to USD 55 million. These bonds provide funding Environmental performance In summary for projects that benefit social welfare. Zurich uses a Group-wide environmental Insurance creates value for society. It allows management system to measure and improve people and businesses to protect themselves Responsible investment forms an integral part our environmental footprint across all countries from risk and helps them become prosperous of Zurich’s investment philosophy and approach. in which we operate. This system helps us to and resilient. Risks are becoming more complex We have been a signatory of the Principles for reduce our global carbon footprint and address as a result of climate change, globalization, Responsible Investment (PRI) since 2012 and other types of environmental impact from our urbanization and technological development. are pursuing a robust strategy for responsible offices, such as paper use, waste generation Insurers are increasingly expected to use their investment. Our third PRI Transparency Report and water consumption. In Switzerland we core skills to help communities and society for the 2015 – 2016 reporting cycle was have again received ISO 14001 certification for become more resilient to interconnected risks, published on our website in July 2016. all Zurich in-house business operations and the including natural hazards. The premiums we activities of Zurich’s headquarters and the Zurich invest in capital markets also help to finance We are also updating our proxy voting strategy Switzerland business unit. businesses and projects that are important for to take a more active role as a shareholder in society. Corporate responsibility is an integral companies in which we invest. The new approach We aim to reduce carbon emissions generated part of Zurich’s strategy. By acting responsibly introduces active execution of voting rights for by our office buildings and business travel by 50 in everything we do, we aim to create the majority of all internally-managed assets and percent per employee, and energy consumption sustainable value for all our stakeholders. a formal requirement for external asset managers per employee by 40 percent by 2020, compared to execute votes on Zurich’s behalf. with a 2007 baseline. At the end of 2015, we had already achieved a 43 percent reduction in In collaboration with PSI, a large global health carbon emissions per employee and a 33 organization, we developed a unique framework percent reduction in energy consumption per to facilitate use of investor capital as a source employee. We are continuing to purchase of flexible and scalable funding for noncarbon credits since becoming carbon neutral at governmental organizations (NGOs). We are the end of 2014. These credits offset emissions Mario Greco now working with PSI and an interested donor we cannot eliminate through a forestry project Group Chief Executive Officer organization on a framework to allow a in Indonesia, which also complements our flood development bond instrument to be tested. resilience program. Zurich Insurance Group | United Nations Global Compact – Communication on progress 2015/2016 2 Our progress 2015–2016 continued The Group is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland where it was founded in 1872. Our Group Further information about Zurich is available at www.zurich.com/en/about-us Corporate Corporate responsibility at Zurich responsibility Corporate responsibility highlights 2015 and our business Living up to the Zurich Commitment strategy Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Links to the relevant page Our commitment on our website: Respecting human rights Corporate responsibility in business transactions Z Zurich Foundation Annual Report 2015 Global Risks Report 2016 Zurich’s role in emerging markets Sustainable products and solutions Employees speaking up and reporting concerns (Zurich Basics pages 6 and 11) Suppliers Health and safety management Zurich Insurance Group | United Nations Global Compact – Communication on progress 2015/2016 3 Our progress 2015–2016 continued Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Links to the relevant page Our commitment on our website: The Zurich Commitment Our people Employee development and diversity & inclusion (including key performance indicators) Board composition Employee engagement Developing our people Employees speaking up and reporting concerns (Zurich Basics page 11) Health and safety management Suppliers Zurich Insurance Group | United Nations Global Compact – Communication on progress 2015/2016 4 Our progress 2015–2016 continued Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Links to the relevant page Our commitment (Zurich Basics page 12) on our website: Group environmental policy Environmental performance Assurance statement Flood resilience program Climate change: Zurich’s position Carbon neutral Responsible investment Understanding catastrophe risk Sustainable products and services Corporate responsibility in business transactions Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Links to the relevant page Our commitment on our website: Employees speaking up and reporting concerns (Zurich Basics pages 6 and 11) Anti-bribery and anti-corruption Corporate responsibility in business transactions Respecting human rights Zurich, July 12, 2016 Zurich Insurance Group | United Nations Global Compact – Communication on progress 2015/2016 5
